Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Oxford Brookes University

 Unit of Assessment: 19 - Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1: Introduction and context

 Politics and International Studies at Oxford Brookes combines research excellence with
 engagement with international partners and key stakeholders. It features renowned expertise in
 international political theory alongside specialisms in culture and identities, critical security studies
 and state/society relations, with established capabilities in interpretive, qualitative modes of
 enquiry complemented with quantitative expertise. Through strategic investment and student
 recruitment, the unit has seen continual growth over successive research assessment periods; 5
 FTE were returned in the 2001RAE, 10.5 in 2008, 14.6 in REF2014 and 26 are returned for
 REF2021. This expansion has been managed strategically to consolidate key areas of strength,
 particularly Political Theory, whilst developing a limited number of newer areas of specialism, such
 as Critical Security Studies. The majority of members of the unit are in the School of Social
 Sciences, but members are drawn from other disciplines across the University, including
 Philosophy, Law, and Modern Languages.

 With this growth has come a more than doubling of monographs and research income since
 REF2014, alongside recognition from external prize committees for the unit’s research grants,
 monographs and articles. These indices all demonstrate the unit’s vitality and future sustainability.
 These developments have occurred within a collegial and supportive environment where the
 contributions of all are valued and supported. Our impact strategy focuses particularly on
 generating policy relevant research, which shapes policy debates and practices at international,
 national and local levels.

 1.2 Research Centres and Groups

 The Centre for Global Politics, Economy and Society was established in 2012 and is the focal
 point for research in Politics and International Studies at Oxford Brookes. Its activities enable
 dialogue and exchanges of cutting-edge work from colleagues within the university and the wider
 profession. Following a review in early 2017, four new research groups were formed within the
 Centre in response to a changing staff profile - International Political Theory; Critical Security
 Studies; Culture, Identities and Divisions; and State and Society. Led by a convenor from within
 the unit, these groups provide a rich, interdisciplinary, environment for research to flourish. All staff
 and research students are expected to join at least one of the Centre’s research groups.
 Resources are made available to the groups, from QR funding, to support research activities such
 as workshops and conferences. Membership of these groups is fluid and events run by the
 research groups are open and advertised across the University, to develop connections and
 collaborations. ICS and wider impact activities are spread across the research groups, with a focus
 on influencing policy debates and outcomes at international and national levels, although some
 impact work, such as within Culture, Identities and Divisions has also focused on engaging more
 local users of research (e.g. Barber’s engagement with diaspora communities).

 International Political Theory is a core area of strength. This group puts classical and
 contemporary political theory into dialogue with key theoretical debates in International Relations
 and International Political Economy. The group coheres around a critical and interdisciplinary
 focus. Members of this group have produced 11 major monographs in this REF cycle; Browning’s
 A History of Modern Political Thought (Oxford University Press, 2016) and Why Iris Murdoch
 Matters (Bloomsbury, 2018), Browne’s Feminism, Time, and Nonlinear History (Palgrave, 2014),
 Clack’s How to be a Failure and Still Live Well: A Philosophy (Bloomsbury, 2020), De Medeiros’
 Conspiracy Theory in Turkey: Politics and Protest in the Age of 'Post-Truth' (Bloomsbury 2018),
 Hesketh’s Spaces of Capital/Spaces of Resistance (Georgia University Press, 2017), Mills’

                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dance and Politics: Moving Beyond Boundaries (Manchester University Press 2016), Pal’s
 Jurisdictional Accumulation (Cambridge University Press, 2020), Rosenow’s Un-making
 environmental activism: Beyond Modern/Colonial Binaries in the GMO Controversy (Routledge,
 2018), Sutton’s The Political Economy of Imperial Relations (Palgrave, 2015) and Wellburn’s
 Rawls and the Environmental Crisis (Routledge, 2017). Other work has included Bardin’s
 research on Hobbes, science and his pioneering work on the philosophy of Simondon, Cochran’s
 analysis of ethics in international relations, Hurt’s exploration of social and economic justice and
 Ford’s research on global political ecology and growth/degrowth. In addition, members of the
 group (Browne & Rosenow) secured British Academy funding to organise the interdisciplinary
 Vulnerability and the Politics of Care: Cross-Disciplinary Dialogues conference in February 2017.
 This brought together a range of world leading scholars such as Judith Butler, from North America,
 Europe and the Middle East across the academic disciplines of Anthropology, International
 Relations, Life Sciences, Medicine, Philosophy and Politics. A key outcome resulting from this
 collaboration is an edited collection published by Oxford University Press (2020). Hurt’s ICS is
 one example of the ways in which impact has been achieved by this group (see sections 1.4 and
 4.2).

 The Cultures, Identities and Divisions research group brings together colleagues who focus on
 the intersections of identities, structural factors (including gender) and societal and political
 interactions. The ways in which political contexts – and policies – shape practices of agency is a
 particular focus shared in the group. Miller’s Making Sense of Parenthood : Caring, Gender and
 Family Lives (2017), her third book on parenting with Cambridge University Press, sits alongside
 Karademir Hazir’s work on class and culture, Barber’s Oriental Identities in Super-Diverse Britain
 (Palgrave, 2015) and Galam’s Women Who Stay: Seafaring and Subjectification in an Ilocos Town
 (Ateneo De Manila University Press, 2018). The group has developed linkages with scholars
 across the University, such as for the Migration and Hospitality: Space, Precarity and Belonging
 (2018) conference which brought together colleagues from the Business School and the University
 of Sussex. Miller’s ICS and Barber’s engagement with artists, playwrights and community groups
 is emblematic of the group’s approach to impact.

 The Critical Security Studies group engages with the agenda to broaden the scope of security
 studies, both empirically (in terms of analysing non-traditional security politics) and conceptually.
 Lister’ Anti-Terrorism, Citizenship and Security (Manchester University Press, 2015) and
 Steenkamp’s Violent Societies: Networks of Violence in Civil War and Peace (Palgrave, 2014)
 both represent this tendency as does Bulley’s Migration, Ethics and Power: Spaces of Hospitality
 in International Politics (Sage, 2017) and Managhan’s Un-knowing the War on Terror: The
 Pleasures of Risk (Routledge, 2020). The group’s broader activities are seen in its hosting of the
 BISA Critical Studies on Terrorism Annual Conference (co-convened by Lister), at Oxford
 Brookes in September 2019. Lister’s contributions to government and police on counter terrorism
 issues exemplify its approach to impact.

 State and Society orientates around a concern with the ways in which state structures shape the
 experiences of citizens and non-citizens. Work here has included Wheatley’s The changing shape
 of politics: Rethinking left and right in a new Britain (Palgrave, 2019), as well as Bee’s Active
 Citizenship in Europe: Practices and Demands in the EU, Italy, Turkey and the UK (Palgrave,
 2017). Whitmore’s research on the dynamics of protest within the Ukrainian Parliament, along
 with Isaac’s (member of the unit until 2019) explorations of nation building and identity in post-
 Soviet states establishes, with Wheatley, a distinct post-Soviet expertise within this group, which
 has led to the establishment of an EU-funded training network (see section 2.2 below). In addition,
 the group has worked with colleagues in History, and stakeholders from the Electoral Reform
 Society, IPSOS-Mori and Open Democracy, staging two events on populism and digital
 democracy. Edge’s ICS on Manx constitutional frameworks, as well as Wheatley’s work on voting
 preferences attest to the impact of research in this area.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Research and Impact Strategy

 The expansion in Politics and International Studies at Oxford Brookes has enabled the
 development of “critical mass” in certain research areas (notably International Political Theory) as
 well as the creation of new areas of excellence. It has been conducted in line with the University
 Research & Knowledge Exchange Strategy (see IES section 2) to deliver high quality research
 and impact. Due to the strategy and support structures identified above, the five objectives which
 were identified REF2014, have been fully delivered:

    ●   staff retention and development,
    ●   enhanced impact of research groupings,
    ●   development of career opportunities for early career staff,
    ●   enhanced research linkages and research funding and
    ●   development of high quality research outputs, such as monographs.

 Firstly, overall staff levels for the UoA have increased; 11 of the 15 staff submitted in REF2014
 are returned in REF2021 and colleagues who have retired during this REF cycle, such as Axford,
 continue in Emeritus positions. This core has been supplemented with additional staff in areas
 identified as strategically important, such as Political Theory. Secondly, the reorganization of
 research groups has produced a vibrant series of research activities, as noted in section 1.2.
 These have also provided opportunities for early career staff (Lecturer or Senior Lecturer) to take
 on research leadership roles, as convenors of the groups, supported through the allocation of
 workload hours. As noted, the impacts of these groups have extended across disciplinary,
 institutional and geographical boundaries. A particular emphasis has been placed on focusing
 impact activities on effecting public policy change. The unit’s ICS (as well as broader impact
 activities) attest to the reach and significance of the unit’s research, engaging with a range of
 governmental and public bodies such as World Health Organisation policies on childbirth, UK
 government parental leave policies, UK government trade policies, and Manx constitutional and
 policy reforms. As evidenced in section 3, total grant income has more than doubled between
 REF2014 and REF2021. Finally, supported by the introduction of a sabbatical scheme, the UoA
 has more than doubled its total number of monographs submitted: from 8 in REF2014 (19% of the
 outputs) to 21 in REF2021 (32-50% of the outputs, depending on double weighting).

 1.4 Enabling Impact

 The unit’s approach to impact is directed primarily towards shaping public policy at the
 international, national and sub-national levels. A secondary focus has been to inform and shape
 the practices and behaviours of stakeholders and communities. To achieve this, colleagues across
 the unit have fostered and developed engagements with multiple stakeholders, from international
 organisations, to governments and other public bodies, and community groups. This approach to
 impact has had a twin track approach, informed by Gauntlett’s Stairway to Impact model. Here, a
 necessary precondition to research effecting changes on policy or practice is widespread
 communication and dissemination of research. Therefore, one element of the strategy has been
 to broaden and deepen the unit’s approach to engagement beyond the academy. This has led to
 a diversification of impact activities, with around half the UoA engaging in impact-related activities
 during the current REF cycle (see section 4.2 for further details). The second element of the
 strategy has been to develop and support “Impact Champions” whose work forms the basis of the
 ICS returned by the unit.

 Investment and support from University, Faculty and School sources has promoted and
 encouraged the development of impact at all levels. For example, Wheatley’s work on voter
 engagement and Karademir Hazir’s Think Human event on ‘Feeding Families’ were supported
 by the Faculty Impact Fund. Similarly, Hurt’s Central Research Fund (CRF) Research Excellence
 and Impact Award led to the organisation of a parliamentary symposium on ‘UK-Africa Trade and
 Brexit’ with UK government ministers and officials, held in January 2020 (see section 4.2 below).



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact activities are coordinated with the Faculty Impact Lead (Goody) and supported by the
 university’s Research Impact Steering Group and Research Impact Officers. Working together,
 the impact team provide training and support for planning, delivering and recording impact activity.
 Those identified as “Impact Champions” have also been instrumental in communicating their
 experience and advice to a broader range of colleagues. This feeds into faculty and school events,
 which emphasise that there are a range of pathways into impact, open to all career stages and
 areas of research. Staff at all levels are encouraged to develop engagement strategies for their
 research and are required to detail their public engagement and impact activities in their annual
 personal research plan. Furthermore, impact is taken into consideration in workload allocations
 and applications for promotion.

 The Centre for Global Politics, Economy and Society has also been an important point for
 engaging wider audiences and has undertaken a range of initiatives to broaden its audience and
 engagement with stakeholders. The Centre has a Director, Bulley and a management board,
 comprising the research group convenors. In 2019, George Monbiot gave the Centre’s inaugural
 annual lecture. This attracted researchers across the University, but also academics beyond the
 university and members of the public (the 2020 lecture with Kate Raworth had to be cancelled due
 to the pandemic). The Centre also uses social media to publicise, and where possible, live stream
 activities such as its seminar series.

 The UoA’s engagement and participation with the Faculty-wide Think Human festival (held in 2018
 and 2020) in Oxford is further evidence of this embedding of impact within the research culture.
 The festival seeks to engage with communities - local, regional, national or global, including our
 staff and students. Miller and a playwright explored her work and staged excerpts of a play relating
 to Making Sense of Motherhood in a community centre in East Oxford, Browning staged
 Murdoch’s dialogue, Art and Eros and put on a panel discussion on art and politics in Murdoch.
 Edge (outputs returned to UoA18) organised an event which dealt with constitutions and poetry
 and Mills staged a performance on dance and human rights.

 1.5 Interdisciplinary Research

 Interdisciplinary collaborations both across the University and with external partners have been
 identified as a strategic priority. An interdisciplinary approach is built into the Centre for Global
 Politics, Economy and Society and its component research groups which span a range of social
 science disciplines. Results of our commitment to interdisciplinarity can be seen in the
 monographs of Browning (Why Iris Murdoch Matters, Philosophy, English Literature), Pal
 (Jurisdictional Accumulation, Law) and Mills (Dance and Politics, Dance). (The last of these has
 been marked for interdisciplinary review; for remaining outputs, the unit has confidence in the
 abilities of the panel for UoA 19 to assess appropriately). Members of the unit also hold key
 positions on the new University Research Networks which have been established to specifically
 promote interdisciplinary research across the University. Barber is network lead for Migration and
 Refugees and Clack is on the steering committee of Inclusion, Diversity and Gender.

 A number of research events organised by the unit further demonstrate the commitment to engage
 across disciplinary boundaries, such as the above-mentioned British Academy funded
 Vulnerability and the Politics of Care: Cross‐Disciplinary Dialogues. In addition to this, a workshop
 on “The ethics and politics of non-Indigenous scholars engaging Indigenous thought” was jointly
 held in 2019 by the International Political Theory and Cultures, Identities and Divisions research
 groups, with colleagues from History, Geography, and the University of Hertfordshire. The
 collaboration continues with energy, feeding into further panels at EISA (2019), Millennium (2019)
 and ISA (2020). In May 2020, Barber, Ford and Managhan organised a symposium ‘Mapping
 precarity in the contemporary global context’ with colleagues from Anthropology, Geography and
 Film and Media Studies.

 This commitment to interdisciplinarity extends beyond the University. Browning’s work on Iris
 Murdoch has involved engagement with philosophers Sophie Grace Chappell, Sabina Lovibond
 and Niklas Forsberg and the literary scholar and Murdoch biographer Anne Rowe. Bully has

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborated with Nadine El Nany, School of Law, Birkbeck on the book After Grenfell Violence,
 Resistance and Response. Pal has collaborated with legal scholars Daniel Margolies, Umut Özsu,
 and Ntina Tzouvalaon for her recently edited collection The Extraterritoriality of Law. Colleagues
 have also been successful in securing external funding to support interdisciplinary research.
 Barber’s collaboration with economist Phuc Nguyen from Trung Vuong University on Vietnamese
 migration was supported through a British Academy Newton Mobility Grant and the Global
 Challenges Research Fund (GCRF). Steenkamp’s collaboration with Mayyada Wazaify from the
 University of Jordan’s Department of Pharmacy Practice, has led to a British Academy Tackling
 Global Challenges grant (commencing in January 2021).

 1.6: Open research environment and ethics

 The unit shares the University’s commitment to an open research environment (see IES section
 2), exceeding the basic requirements of REF2021, to extend and expand the ways in which the
 unit makes its research available to as wide an audience as possible. Therefore in addition to
 satisfying the basic requirements of REF2021, the unit has made available as open access
 (through RADAR, the university’s institutional research repository), in part or whole, 12
 monographs and book chapters, thus significantly increasing the proportion of the unit’s submitted
 outputs which are available open access. In addition, Lister’s analysis and coding of Hansard
 debates is an open data set on RADAR. Browning has also made accessible an annotated guide
 to Iris Murdoch’s unpublished writings, including her manuscript on Heidegger, her letters, and her
 journals.

 University’s Research Ethics Committee, which comprises staff and students from across the
 University and members external to the University, has overall responsibility for the ethical conduct
 of research by the unit. All research projects, including PhD research, involving human participants
 must be considered and approved by the committee. Whitmore, as Faculty Research Ethics
 Officer, leads the unit’s engagement with the committee, offering guidance and advice to
 colleagues on framing their research in accordance with ethical guidelines and maintaining good
 practice concerning data protection and privacy. In addition to this, questions of how to conduct
 ethical research are the subject of continuing debate and conversations within the unit and its
 constituent research groups. Rosenow’s above mentioned workshop on the ethics of engaging
 with indigenous thought and scholars is one such example.

 1.7 Future Strategy

 The unit’s fundamental priorities remain those which have informed strategic planning since
 2014. The unit looks to continue to produce research of the highest quality, to further build on
 the increases in grant income in this cycle and to develop and maintain core staff. The Centre
 and the research groups remain central to the achievement of these goals. In addition, two
 further goals have been identified. The first is to maximise the interdisciplinary reach and
 engagement of our research. The University’s recently announced interdisciplinary networks
 offer a particular opportunity to further develop our existing expertise, especially as members of
 the unit, such as Barber and Clack, occupy key roles within these networks (see 1.5 and 4.1).
 The second goal is to further develop and embed impact and engagement activities. Our
 strategy thus far has been to focus on policy impact, as seen in the ICS, whilst also encouraging
 and supporting other forms of impact. Moving forward, the unit seeks to consolidate our existing
 strengths in policy related impact but also to foster and develop impact in other areas where the
 unit produces excellent research, such as political theory. Browne, for instance, has been
 involved in a theatrical project supported by the National Theatre Studios on the life of Mary
 Wollstonecraft (‘Hyenas in Petticoats’). She will be involved in later stages of the project as it
 develops towards a finished play (currently the project is on hold due to the Covid-19 pandemic).
 Miller, through appointment to a University level role to embed impact, will provide leadership in
 this area.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1: Staffing strategy, support and development

 The University made a strategic decision in 2014 to invest in and support research in Politics and
 International Studies, partly as a result of success in student recruitment. This investment has
 taken two forms. The first is investing in new, growth appointments at both senior (Bulley, Reader,
 appointed 2017) and early career levels (Pal, Lecturer, 2014). This growth has been undertaken
 in a strategic fashion to support the development of the four research groups identified in section
 1.2. Bulley was recruited to provide research leadership, especially in Critical Security Studies.
 Additional recruitment to permanent posts at more junior levels was designed to build in long term
 sustainability in these areas: Bee, appointed 2017 & Wheatley, 2016 (State and Society); Bardin,
 2017 and Pal, 2014 (International Political Theory); Karademir Hazir, 2016 and Galam, 2018
 (Culture, Identities and Divisions). Similarly, de Medeiros and Mills (both 2019), in fixed term
 positions, have been recruited to support and extend research in International Political Theory.

 The second way the University has supported the unit is through rewarding the successes of
 existing staff with promotions. This has helped to retain the core of the REF2014 staff, providing
 continuity alongside the expansion of the unit. Twelve members have achieved promotion in this
 cycle. Two (Cochran and Hurt) were from Senior Lecturer (SL) to Reader and 10 were from
 Lecturer to SL (Hesketh, Rosenow, Steenkamp, Karademir-Hazir, Pal, Wheatley, Bardin, Bee,
 Galam and Sutton). Browne, who joined Brookes as an ECR in 2013, has since moved from
 Lecturer through to SL in this cycle. This, and the other promotions attest to the positive staff
 development within the unit. All Category A staff hold permanent contracts, with the exception of
 two maternity/research grant replacement posts (Mills and De Medeiros).

 The UoA displays a numerical gender balance (13 of 26 FTE are women) and women hold key
 roles within the UoA – Miller is Research Lead (RL), for example. The unit also draws on talents
 and abilities from a diverse array of countries, with colleagues from Canada, Germany, Italy,
 Philippines, Turkey and USA.

 Overall management of research within the unit takes place under the auspices of the School of
 Social Science’s RL (Miller) and the School’s Research Committee, which includes the
 Postgraduate Research Tutor (PGRT) in order to foster close connections and information sharing
 with the PhD community. This committee itself sits within the context of a Faculty Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Committee chaired by Browning (Associate Dean for Research and
 Knowledge Exchange in the Faculty) and a University Committee chaired by the Pro Vice-
 Chancellor for Research and Global Partnerships. The RL has overall responsibility for the
 management of research within the unit and reports to monthly School Executive meetings.
 Specific support on impact related issues comes through the Faculty’s Impact Co-ordinator and
 the Research Impact Officer, working within the University’s Research and Business Development
 Office.

 All research active staff benefit from ongoing personal development review, where each colleague
 is assigned to a senior member of staff who provides advice to support professional career
 development. In addition, research active staff produce annual research plans, which inform the
 allocation of research hours to that individuals’ workload. Staff are encouraged to outline their
 immediate research goals, as well as their three-year rolling research plan, including planned
 research funding applications and impact activities. Research tariffs (which equate to SRR) are
 allocated in accordance with the university’s well-established workload planning framework. At
 every stage, EDI issues are taken flexibly into account.

 All research active staff who are within the first three years of their first academic position benefit
 from the University’s Your First Three Years scheme. This supports ECRs through a combination
 of funding, mentoring and training activities and has positively impacted research within the unit.
 For example, Hesketh was able to fund language training, an overseas conference and fieldwork
 in Mexico. These supported successful application to the ISRF Political Economy fellowship

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scheme. Rosenow’s participation in the scheme supported teaching relief which enabled her to
 develop her monograph, Un-making environmental activism (Routledge, 2018) and to successfully
 apply to the British Academy for the 'Vulnerability and the Politics of Care’ workshop (see section
 1.2). Wheatley used the funds to support his participation in the WhoGetsMyVoteUK Voting
 Advice Application in the 2017 UK general election and 2019 European elections. The datasets
 generated are central to his impact work and were an essential source of data for his monograph
 The Changing Shape of Politics (Palgrave).

 The establishment of a School level sabbatical scheme was identified as a strategic priority to
 support research in general, but particularly to increase the number of monographs. Introduced in
 2015, the scheme is open to all staff with allocated research hours including those on fixed term
 and fractional appointments, demonstrating the unit’s commitment to an inclusive research
 environment. £45,000 of QR funding has been committed to the sabbatical scheme, which has so
 far supported 10 colleagues. The scheme has been instrumental in allowing staff time away from
 teaching responsibilities to focus on specific research or knowledge exchange activities. Hurt and
 Miller, two of the unit’s “impact champions” and authors of ICS, have been awarded sabbaticals
 which have been important for the development of their impact work. Sabbaticals have also been
 instrumental in aiding colleagues delivering substantial research outputs. Managhan, Pal,
 Rosenow were all able to submit monograph manuscripts following periods of sabbatical leave.
 It has also enabled the development of successful grant applications (Hesketh). Further, the
 scheme has benefited those who have had periods of maternity leave (Steenkamp, Barber) and
 illness (Whitmore) to support their research development.

 At University level, staff can apply for CRF Research Excellence awards, to which Miller
 successfully applied in 2016. Browning was also awarded a Senior Staff award which facilitated
 the completion of his Murdoch monograph. The Staff Development and Research Fund is
 available to support travel, national and international conference attendance and other research
 related expenses. Funding is distributed through open calls twice per year, to which all research-
 active staff are invited to apply. Additional funds are available from the Faculty to assist those
 seeking timely support for one-off projects such as events and conferences (this supported
 Rosenow’s workshop on indigenous thought). The RL provides tailored support and mentoring
 for staff bidding to all of these schemes.

 2.2 Research Students

 The number of PhD completions has increased to 11 (from 9 in REF2014) with two additional
 students having completed a PhD by published work. This UoA does not have a Professional
 Doctorate programme. There are also 6 continuing students, which points to the continuing health
 and vitality of the programme. The graduated PhD cohort exhibits a gender balance of 7 female
 students and 4 male students. Recruitment of doctoral students for the UoA is handled through
 the School of Social Science’s PGRT. A supervisory team, comprising a Director of Studies and
 one, or sometimes two, other supervisor(s), is assembled and will interview the candidate. All
 supervisors are required to undertake the University’s training course before they start supervising
 research students. The PGRT remains in regular contact with both the student and the supervisors
 and oversees, along with the supervisory team, the key transitions; registration and transfer. The
 student formally registers their project 3-6 months after enrolling. For most students, they are
 registered onto the MPhil programme and later transfer to the PhD programme once they have
 satisfied the supervisory team, an external reviewer and the University Research Degrees
 Committee, that substantial progress has been made on the project. PhD students have been
 supported through a range of different sources, including the EU Marie Sklodowska-Curie and
 Global Challenges funds.

 PhD students are fully integrated into the research life of the unit. They are encouraged to attend
 the Centre’s research seminar series which, during semester time, hosts a weekly programme of
 external visiting speakers. They are also expected to join at least one of the Centre’s research
 groups which supports their academic development by providing them with contacts and inputs
 from beyond their supervisory team. They also attend and present work in progress papers, and

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in some instances, help to shape the activities of the groups. For example, Jasmin Dall'Agnola, a
 current PhD student, worked with Whitmore, under the auspices of the State and Society research
 group, to host the first Eurasian, East and Central European Studies Women’s Academics Forum
 (EECES Women’s Academics Forum), at Oxford Brookes in September 2018. A centrepiece for
 the postgraduate research community within the School of Social Sciences is the annual
 Postgraduate Research Day, which includes a guest lecture by a prominent external speaker
 (recent speakers include Cynthia Weber, Andreas Bieler and Lee Jarvis), followed by
 presentations from current research students.

 As well as these activities, PhD students are automatically members of the Faculty of Humanities
 and Social Sciences Doctoral Training Programme (DTP). Established in 2018, the DTP brings
 together 80 PGR students across the Faculty. It organises two types or levels of event: Faculty-
 wide events and workshops, pitched at all PGR students and events which are more discipline
 specific, but which are advertised to and open to all students. These events cover issues such as
 planning a research project, viva preparation as well as training on specific research methods and
 techniques. The training events are led by a combination of existing members of staff and external
 experts. Recent events have included training on “scraping” Twitter (Robert Chestnut, Dublin City
 University), Discourse Analysis (Rosenow) and interviewing (Hurt).

 The unit has also contributed specific capacity enhancing training for the wider discipline. Two
 members of the unit, Whitmore and Isaacs (who left in 2019), were key members of the EU Marie
 Sklodowska-Curie project Around the Caspian: a Doctoral Training for Future Experts in
 Development and Cooperation with Focus on the Caspian Region, with colleagues from Dublin
 City University, Ghent University, Tallin University of Technology, University of Bremen, University
 of Coimbra and University of St Andrews. The project trains the next generation of experts on the
 Caspian region. As well as directly funding the training of PhD students (Du Boulay) within
 Brookes, members of the unit contributed to the wider programme of training and development
 activities. A key part of this was a summer school, organised by the unit and hosted in Tbilisi in
 May 2018, where staff (Browning, Wheatley and Whitmore) provided training sessions to PhD
 students from institutions across the programme.

 The unit delivers a PhD programme which produces excellent researchers who have contributed
 to the discipline and sectors beyond academia. The work of the unit’s PhD students has been
 internationally recognised, with Hughes the 2014 recipient of the International Studies
 Association’s Robert W. and Jesse Cox Award for the best graduate student paper of critical
 inquiry into international relations. Students on the programme have also been successful in
 publishing single authored articles in respected journals (e.g. Hughes’ article in International
 Studies Review; Donoghue’s in British Politics and Cousen’s in Studies in Social and Political
 Thought). A number of the PhD students who graduated in this period have gone on to academic
 jobs at institutions such as University College Dublin (Donoghue), University of Lincoln (Hughes)
 and Sheffield Hallam University (Hurley), whilst others have moved to research positions within
 government (Pitt). A number of those who have not continued in research careers make broader
 contributions through careers such as psychotherapy (Shallan).

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 The unit is committed to advancing equality of opportunity for all in its research activity and a
 concern for equality and diversity is embedded in our structures. These are mindful towards the
 ‘protected characteristics’ of age, disability, ethnicity, gender, pregnancy, parenthood, religion and
 belief, and sexual orientation. As section 2.1 states, all staff – permanent or fixed term, full time
 or fractional – are eligible for the School’s sabbatical scheme. This scheme has been used to
 support the research careers of female colleagues returning from maternity leave and colleagues
 who have been renewing their research careers after long term illness. Eight of the ten sabbaticals
 awarded have been to women. Flexible working options are also available to staff with caring
 responsibilities. For example, the university teaching constraints scheme enables staff to organise
 their teaching week to fit around caring responsibilities. Five of the staff returned to REF2021 have


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 had some form of maternity, paternity or caring leave during the present REF cycle, as well as a
 staff member who has had two periods of leave linked to illness.

 During the process of developing the UoA’s submission, the unit has been fully compliant with
 Oxford Brookes Code of Practice for REF2021. Of the 28 staff eligible for REF2021, 93% have
 significant responsibility for research (SRR) with no bias for any of protected characteristics
 including gender or ethnicity. During preparatory audits, equality impact assessments have been
 undertaken, and action taken to monitor the distribution of research outputs submitted. For
 example, in deciding which outputs to submit, the unit has undertaken a review to ensure a spread
 of work from early career and more established researchers and to ensure a spread across
 gender. Moreover, the research committee which advised on the choice of outputs for submission
 contained a gender balance. Average outputs for BAME staff are lower than for white staff. An
 initial assessment indicates that this relates to the small number of BAME staff within the unit
 combined with selection of outputs being determined by fit with the UoA. It is, though, an area that
 will be monitored moving forwards.

 Further evidence of the unit’s commitment to EDI can be found in other activities of staff. Miller
 was invited to present the University’s International Women’s Day and Athena Swan lecture on
 Work/Family Balance (March 2020) and several members of the unit have been part of the
 successful application to Athena Swan, which resulted in a Bronze award in May 2020.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Increasing external grant income was identified as a strategic priority. This was to be achieved by
 placing greater emphasis on grant applications through the annual research planning process and
 by engaging with the mentoring and training activities provided by the Faculty Grants team. The
 success of this strategy can be seen in that during the assessment period for REF2021, external
 grant income has more than doubled, rising from £199,886 in REF2014 to £420,132 in REF2021.
 This increase is not solely down to the increase in the size of the unit, as grant income per FTE
 has also increased by almost 20%. The success rate of applications in this cycle was 1 in 4.

 As well as this increase in income, four other factors point to the increased sustainability and
 vitality of research grant culture within the UoA. Firstly, the increase in total grant income has gone
 alongside a near doubling in the number of people securing external grant funding, from 6 in
 REF2014 to 11 in REF2021. Secondly, there is greater diversity in the funding bodies from which
 funding has been secured – from four in REF2014 to six in this cycle. Thirdly, this increased grant
 income has been spread across all the research clusters noted above – Critical Security Studies
 (Lister); International Political Theory (Hurt, Browne, Hesketh); State and Society (Bee,
 Whitmore) and Cultures, Identities and Divisions (Barber, Karademir Hazir, Miller, Galam). This
 means that the research specialisms that the unit is developing have sustainable roots through a
 track record of attracting external funding to support them. Finally, that a number of these grants
 have been secured by staff at more junior stages of their careers (e.g. Barber, Browne,
 Karademir Hazir), and that some grants (Whitmore, Steenkamp, Bee) are ongoing into 2021,
 further emphasise the future vitality and sustainability of the research grant culture.

 This success in grant applications has been fostered by the Faculty Research Grants Panel.
 Chaired by Edge, the panel pairs applicants with experienced and successful grant writers as
 mentors. Mentors read and provide advice on early drafts of bids, and final versions are reviewed
 by an additional member of the grants panel. ECRs are provided with intensive mentoring. In
 addition to this process, the Grants Panel Chair and research grants officers arrange training
 opportunities, such as research grant writing training for PhD students and early career
 researchers, workshops on seeking external fellowships led by those with experience of
 successful applications, and workshops on planning proposals and managing resubmissions.



                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 The University invested c.£100,000,000 in the new John Henry Brookes building which has
 created a significantly enhanced physical environment for research events. The building hosts the
 Centre for Global Politics, Economy and Society’s research seminar series and other events
 organised by the unit, such as the Eurasian, East and Central European Studies Women’s
 Academics Forum in 2018, the BISA Critical Studies on Terrorism Working Group Annual
 Conference in 2019 and the Faculty’s Think Human festivals in 2018 and 2020. The new library
 has substantial holdings, and electronic subscriptions, to primary and secondary sources relevant
 to research in politics and cognate areas. Research staff, including PhD students and academic
 visitors, further benefit from access to the Bodleian Libraries, which provide world-class library
 resources as well as unique holdings.

 The University has invested in the development of six areas of cross university interdisciplinary
 strength, which are aligned to key funding streams, such as Inclusion, Diversity and Gender;
 Migration and Refugees; and Healthy Ageing and Care. As noted above (section 1.5) members
 of the unit hold key positions within these networks. All academic staff have individual offices, with
 hot desk arrangements for visiting researchers and PhD students. All staff members can apply to
 the Staff Development and Research fund. A mixture of University funding and QR, the fund not
 only facilitates the dissemination of research through the funding of national and international
 conference attendance, but it also supports the research process more broadly. For example,
 Steenkamp funded language training to facilitate her partnership with colleagues in Jordan (see
 section 1.5) which resulted in a successful BA grant application. Wheatley also received funds for
 the Preference Matcher Consortium’s voting advice applications, which have supported his
 research and impact activities around elections and voting. The Faculty Events fund supports
 colleagues wishing to host research events at Brookes; the scheme is supporting Miller’s
 application for an international PhD workshop for researchers working on families and fatherhood.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Fostering collaborations and partnerships across the institution and with external partners
 nationally and internationally, in order to maximise the reach and scope of our research culture,
 has been a key priority. Success in this goal is evidenced by collaborations which have a truly
 global reach and scope, with partners in 13 different countries on six different continents. These
 have been facilitated through a combination of encouraging colleagues to secure external funding
 and through internal support.

 Whitmore and Isaac’s EU Marie Sklodowska-Curie project Around the Caspian and Rosenow,
 Managhan and Browne’s British Academy event Vulnerability and the Politics of Care: Cross-
 Disciplinary Dialogues (see section 1.5) are two important examples of externally supported
 research collaborations. Other examples include Miller’s British Academy funded project Being a
 father and a refugee. The project, nominated for the Research Project of the Year in the Times
 Higher Education Awards 2019, has been conducted in conjunction with Therése Wissö
 (Gothenburg University) and Esther Dermott (University of Bristol). Hurt was a co-convenor of the
 ESRC-sponsored seminar series “British Africa Policy after Labour”, with Danielle Beswick and
 Jonathan Fisher (both University of Birmingham), which included colleagues from a range of UK
 Universities and think tanks based in the UK and Nairobi, Kenya. Hurt also organised with William
 Brown (Open University) the BISA funded seminar ‘African National Development Plans’. Bee
 retains connections with Ayhan Kaya (Istanbul Bilgi University) from his prior Marie Curie funded
 project on The Europeanisation of Organised Civil Society in Turkey. Karademir Hazir is currently
 working as an overseas researcher on a Scientific and Technological Council of Turkey project
 ‘The Transformation of the Fields of Art in Turkey’. Barber’s research network around Vietnamese
 migration, with Phuc Nguyen from Trung Vuong University was supported with a BA Newton
 Mobility Grant and her British Academy grant ‘Becoming East and Southeast Asian: Youth Politics
 of Belonging’ has been conducted with Diana Yeh (London City University). Whitmore is currently

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working on a British Academy Small Grant with Bettina Renz (University of Nottingham) on
 Ukrainian military reforms.

 Collaborative research at national and international levels has also been supported by internal
 funds. Wheatley’s work as a founder member of the Preference Matcher consortium has received
 support to work with colleagues from the University of Zurich, University of Twente and Cyprus
 University of Technology to develop voter advice applications. Steenkamp’s collaboration with
 Professor Mayyada Wazaify (University of Jordan) was supported by the sabbatical scheme.
 Barber and Miller have received support from the University’s International Collaborative
 Research and Travel Awards.

 Members of the unit have extensive networks. Bardin is a founder member of CIDES (Centre
 International des études Simondoniennes), based in Paris and is a member of a Latin American
 network devoted to the study of Simondon, with Pablo Rodriguez (University of Buenos Aires);
 Mario Spezzapria (University of Sao Paulo); Fernanda Bruno (Federal University of Rio de
 Janeiro); Lina Marcela Gil (University of Medellin). Ford has an ongoing collaboration with
 Gabriela Kuetting, Rutgers University. Pal’s recent volume The Extraterritoriality of Law
 (Routledge, 2019) was co-edited with Daniel S. Margolies (Virginia Wesleyan University), Umut
 Özsu (Carleton University) and Ntina Tzouvala (Melbourne Law School). Galam was a visiting
 scholar at Freie Universitaet Berlin in 2019 and continues to collaborate with colleagues at the
 Institute of Social and Cultural Anthropology. Harris is part of an international network on critical
 theory, which includes Michael J Thompson (William Paterson, NJ) and Gerard Delanty (Sussex,
 UK).

 As well as these international partnerships, members of the unit work extensively with colleagues
 in the UK. Rosenow has established collaborations with Lara Coleman (University of Sussex) and
 Elissa Randazzo (University of Hertfordshire). Lister’s collaboration with Lee Jarvis (University of
 East Anglia), underpinned by an earlier ESRC grant, led to the publication of two books and six
 journal articles, as well as a range of impact activities. Sutton has worked with Pinar Donmez
 (University of West England), James Brassett (Warwick University) and Kate Law (University of
 Nottingham). Bulley’s book project on the Grenfell Tower disaster was in conjunction with Jenny
 Edkins (University of Manchester) and Nadine El-Enany (Birkbeck University). Bardin, Browne,
 Browning and Rosenow have collaborated with Brunel University’s political theorists in a Political
 Thought Cluster, run a workshop ‘Interventions in Political Thought’ at Oxford Brookes in 2018
 and have staged workshops, developed ideas and gained funding support from the Political
 Thought group of the PSA.

 4.2 Contribution to the economy and society

 Research from the unit has informed and changed policy, institutions and behaviours in a wide
 range of contexts with stakeholders at local, national and international levels. The breadth and
 range of these attest to the reach and significance of the unit’s research and impact at this point
 in time, but also point to the sustainability of this into the next REF cycle.

 Miller’s research has helped to shape national and international equality policies and service-
 delivery guidelines on gender equality and parental leave and well-being with the UK government,
 EU and the World Health Organisation (ICS#1). Miller’s research was cited to support a key
 recommendation in the Parliamentary Women and Equalities Committee’s 2018 report ‘Fathers in
 the workplace’ and an EU report on paternal involvement in caring. Her ongoing relationship with
 the Government Equalities Office and the dissemination of her research around parental leave is
 described by the GEO as having “substantial impact” on their work. Through her appointments to
 the WHO Guideline Development Group (2014) and Advisory committee on Midwifery Education
 (2018), Miller’s research findings on care, family transitions and gender equality have contributed
 to WHO recommendations and guidelines on maternity practices in relation to service provision
 at time of birth and the use of traditional birth attendants.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hurt’s research expertise on the EU’s trade and development relationship with African, Caribbean
 and Pacific (ACP) states has direct impacted contemporary debates on ensuring post-Brexit UK-
 Africa trade policy is mutually beneficial (ICS#2). As the UK prepares to negotiate new trade
 agreements, Hurt has been a key expert and contributor at national and international levels with
 policymakers and important civil society organisations. His research shaped the terms of the All
 Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) for Africa’s enquiry into Economic Partnership Agreements in
 2017. The subsequent report, to which Hurt contributed, has been widely discussed in Parliament,
 shaping the terms of the debate around post-Brexit trade with ACP states. In 2017, Hurt
 responded to the UK government’s white paper ‘Preparing for our future UK trade policy’, and was
 subsequently invited to give evidence to the Department of International Trade. These
 interventions, around trade and poverty reduction, led the Department to attest that Hurt’s
 research “will inform our future policy”. Early in 2020, Hurt organised a parliamentary symposium
 together with the APPG for Africa and the APPG for Trade Justice on trade with Africa. In late
 2020, he produced a policy briefing for the APPG for Africa outlining the challenges and
 opportunities that Brexit affords UK trade policy with respect to Africa.

 Edge’s unique knowledge of the Isle of Man’s legal system has been decisive in shaping
 fundamental elements of two issues (ICS#3). The first relates to the functioning of the Manx
 Parliament (the Tynwald) and the second, the state of Emergency under which the Isle of Man
 was governed during the first phase of the COVID-19 pandemic, between March and June 2020.
 His work led to identifiable changes in primary and secondary legislation. The contemporary
 legislative and public debate over the future of the Legislative Council of Tynwald, and in particular
 the role of the Lord Bishop of Sodor and Man in that Council, has been fundamentally structured
 by Edge’s work as evidenced through explicit citation of his research by legislators during key
 debates on constitutional change. Through a real-time critique of the Emergency Powers
 Regulations (EPRs), Edge’s expertise was also a unique asset to members of Tynwald and the
 Council of Ministers, as well as the Manx community as it responded to the global crisis –
 improving legislation governing every facet of the day to day lives of Manx residents during the
 2020 pandemic.

 Beyond the ICS, research across the unit produces impact and sustains relationships with key
 audiences and users of research. Wheatley’s work as part of the Preference Matcher Consortium,
 in creating Voting Advice Applications (VAA) has generated significant engagement with voters
 across Europe, with the 2014 version used for the European Parliamentary Elections being
 accessed by a million voters in 28 different EU countries. A UK version, WhoGetsMyVoteUK,
 created for the 2017 General Election, was accessed 100,000 times. Moreover, evidence
 gathered by Wheatley and fellow researchers suggests that VAA use has had an impact on the
 voting preferences of users. Having completed the VAA, voters were found to be more likely to
 vote in a way that reflected their policy preferences. Other scholars find that VAA use has a
 positive effect on turnout. Lister’s research on the impact of counter terrorism policies on
 communities in the UK has shaped the thinking of the Home Office (as an invited keynote to a
 seminar on the review of the CONTEST strategy in April 2016 and another as part of a September
 2020 CREST workshop on Public Experiences of the UK Counter Terrorism System) and police
 officers (at an event in 2014, one third of the officers who attended said it would lead to changes
 in their practice).

 Steenkamp, in 2018 was invited by NATO Allied Command Transformation to participate in a
 workshop on counterterrorism policies in the Middle East. It was attended by high level military
 commanders, including generals from the US army, as well as representatives from EU. The
 discussions at the workshop were used to directly inform policymaking in NATO. Following the
 2014 revolution in Ukraine, Whitmore was invited to lead a series of briefings to the Foreign and
 Commonwealth Office, including in May 2014 as an expert participant in a High Level Seminar on
 Future Relations with Russia, chaired by the Minister for Europe Rt. Hon. David Lidington MP.
 Bee was invited to participate as a key expert at the ‘Third Civil Society Seminar on ‘Strengthening
 the Involvement of Civil Society in the European Semester’ in October 2019, in Brussels. The
 event was organized by the European Centre of Expertise in the field of labour law, employment
 and labour market policies and was sponsored by the European Commission, DG Employment,

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Social Affairs and Inclusion. Bee’s Jean Monet Module Challenges to European Integration:
 multidisciplinary perspectives has a series of engagement activities with civil society and policy
 makers, running into 2022.

 Beyond these impact and knowledge exchange activities at the policy level, the unit has also
 engaged at the community level. Barber’s research on the Vietnamese diaspora in the UK has
 been used by artists to inform and modify artistic representations of this community. This has
 included an event at the British Academy Summer Showcase event in June 2018, which featured
 performances by the poet/comedienne Anna Chen and the performance artist Will Pham (Royal
 Academy of Arts). Barber has also consulted for the playwright Rebecca Cruickshank, providing
 insights into the experience of undocumented migrants to the UK, Vietnamese culture and the
 established community in the UK. Mills, as part of the University’s Think Human festival, organised
 a performance on dance and human rights. Bulley’s work on the Grenfell Tower tragedy has fed
 into community engagement and debates, with collaborations with poets and artists.

 4.3 Contribution to the research base

 The unit make significant contributions to the wider discipline. A number of the unit’s membership
 perform editorial roles for journals. Pal is chair and coordinating editor of Historical Materialism,
 Rosenow is associate editor for Security Dialogue, Clack is a member of the Executive Editorial
 Board of Feminist Theology, Browne is a member of the editorial collective for Radical Philosophy
 and Miller is an editor for Families, Relationships and Societies. In addition to these, members of
 the unit are on the editorial boards for journals including Critical Studies on Terrorism (Lister) and
 Sociological Review, and Sociology (Karademir Hazir) Contemporary Political Theory, Studies in
 Marxism, the Hegel Bulletin, Studies in Marxism and Australian Political Studies (all Browning).

 Staff have served as members of grants committees for the Research Council of Norway
 (Whitmore), the Icelandic Centre for Research, the Medical Research Council (both Miller),
 Killam Prize, Canada Council for the Arts (Clack), the National Scientific and Technical Research
 Council (CONICET) Argentina (Bardin), the Oxford ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) and
 the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (both Hurt). Browning (AHRC) and Lister (ESRC)
 have served on the peer review colleges for RCUK funders.

 Members of the unit also serve executive roles for learned societies and associations. Browning
 is a member of the panel for sub-panel 19: Politics and International Studies for REF2021, on the
 executive board for the Britain and Ireland Association for Political Thought, co-convenor of the
 annual Conference for Political Thought of the Britain and Ireland APT, a member of the Council
 of the Hegel Society of Great Britain, part of the Advisory Group of IAA of the ESRC and the editor
 of the International Political Theory book series with Palgrave Macmillan. Rosenow is the Chair
 of the International Political Sociology section for the International Studies Association. Lister
 served as co-convenor of the British International Studies Association’s Critical Studies on
 Terrorism Working Group and Karademir Hazir is a board member of the European Sociological
 Association and the International Sociological Association. Harris is a committee member of the
 Marx and Philosophy Society.

 The research of the unit has also been recognised in a number of ways by national and
 international audiences. Clack is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. Browning’s Why Iris
 Murdoch Matters was non-fiction book of the year in The Lonely Crowd magazine (2019). Galam’s
 work has been nominated for the SAGE Prize for Innovation and Excellence (2020) and
 Managhan’s monograph Unknowing the War on Terror has been nominated for the International
 Studies Association - International Political Sociology Section 2021 book award. Miller’s ‘Being a
 Refugee and a Dad’ research project was shortlisted for the THE Social Sciences Project of the
 Year (2019). The contributions of the PhD community have been recognised, with Hughes’ the
 recipient of the 2014 International Studies Association’s Robert W. and Jesse Cox Award.

 The contributions to and engagement with the wider discipline are also evidenced in the broad
 range of keynotes and invited lectures which members of the unit have delivered. A number of

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 these have been international invitations, such as the keynotes given by Barber (Ghana and
 Vietnam), Bardin (Argentina, Canada and Brazil), Bee (Belgium), Browning (Hungary and
 Portugal), Clack (Australia and USA), Harris (India), Hesketh (Mexico), Miller (Chile, Germany
 and Australia) and Whitmore (Ukraine and Finland). A wide range of invited talks have also
 been delivered at institutions across the United Kingdom. Links with international and UK
 institutions are further entrenched in a number of visiting fellowships, such as those held by
 Clack (Visiting Professor at University of San Diego), Pal (member of Centre for Advanced
 International Theory, University of Sussex), Sutton (Research Fellow, International Studies
 Group, University of the Free State and Whitmore (Honorary Research Fellow, Centre for
 Russian and Eurasian and European Studies (CREES), University of Birmingham). Whitmore
 has also served on the advisory board for the AHRB project ‘Ukraine’s Hidden Tragedy’ with
 colleagues at the University of Birmingham, Oxford and L’viv universities. In addition to this,
 members of the unit have acted as external examiners for PhDs in the UK and internationally.
 Peer review for both publishers and scholarly journals is an activity which is routinely undertaken
 by members of the unit, with colleagues conducting reviews for 54 different journals and 10
 publishers.




                                                                                            Page 14
