Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Loughborough University

 Unit of assessment: D27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 English Language and Literature at Loughborough has enjoyed considerable growth since 2014:
 a 31% increase in staff and a ten-fold increase in external research income to almost £2M.
 Building on existing success with the AHRC and British Academy, we have significantly
 diversified our funding from new sources (some unusual in the humanities), including NERC,
 EPSRC, ESRC, MRC, and Wellcome Trust. Strategic research leadership has established key
 strengths in Textual Editing, Applied Storytelling, and Digital Humanities, and emerging expertise
 in Genders and Identities. Loughborough’s commitment to English is reflected in £615k funding
 for events, networking, partnership development, PhD studentships, and pilot research for
 external funding applications. These developments have provided staff, funding, strategic
 leadership, and an environment that has generated significant improvements in research and
 impact quality, including national and international research leadership.

 1.1 Research structure

 Our submission contains research from the early-modern to contemporary periods, from across
 English Language and Literature, Drama, Publishing, and Creative Writing. The UoA comprises
 32.9FTE staff from the Schools of Social Sciences and Humanities (SSH) and Design and
 Creative Arts (DCA). In 2014, Unit staff were located in the School of Arts, English and Drama.
 In order to raise the profile of the Humanities at Loughborough generally and promote new
 interdisciplinary collaborations specifically, a restructure was implemented in 2019.

 English became part of the new SSH, formed to promote stronger partnerships with historians,
 sociologists and colleagues in the Communication and Media unit which, for example,
 immediately bolstered collaboration in the strategic research theme ‘Genders and Identities’.
 Alignment of Drama with other creative arts in DCA has inspired interdisciplinary exchange
 between, for example, user-experience design and performance practice, and healthcare and
 applied drama, delivering a step-change in practice-led research and providing an ideal home for
 our world-leading, interdisciplinary work in Applied Storytelling. For this REF, and as a benefit
 from the restructure, the Unit includes additional colleagues from SSH with research in Cultural
 Studies, Theatre History, and the Digital Humanities, areas cognate with English research.

 In SSH, the English Unit has a Research Director (Adiseshiah) reporting directly to the Head of
 Unit (J.Cooke) and Associate Deans for Research (ADR) and Enterprise (ADE), all of whom sit
 on the School Senior Management Team (SMT). In DCA, Unit staff are represented by the Head
 of Creative Arts (Wilson) who works alongside the ADR and ADE as part of the DCA SMT. The
 ADRs and ADEs sit respectively on university Research Committee and Enterprise Committee,
 which are chaired by the PVC(R) and PVC(E) respectively. In both Schools, research
 governance is the responsibility of a School Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC), led
 by the ADR and ADE. SREC develops strategic policy and drives research and impact activity.
 Research performance is appraised via annual university-level quality audits, with priorities
 identified in the annual School Research Action Plan aligned with the University’s ‘Building
 Excellence’ Strategy.

 1.1.1 Research Themes
 Our expertise and research strengths are organised into four key themes:

 •   Textual Editing includes the production of large multi-volume projects and single-volume
     scholarly editions, as well as the pioneering of new practices and technologies.
 •   Applied Storytelling uses storytelling as an inclusivity tool to introduce new voices,
     knowledge, and ways of thinking into the public discourse around key societal challenges.


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Digital Humanities focuses on the impacts of the digital revolution, including the
     preservation of and access to digital archives.
 •   Genders and Identities connects expertise across periods, including early-modern women’s
     lives during English Civil Wars, masculinity in the Victorian novel, gender and sexuality in
     modernist women’s poetry, contemporary feminist writing, and gender and race in
     contemporary theatre.

 Textual Editing and Genders and Identities are supported as School-level strategic research
 themes, Applied Storytelling by the Storytelling Academy, and Digital Humanities by a
 research network that extends across five Schools. Unit staff additionally participate in smaller,
 largely period-based research groups (Early Modern, Cultural Currents [1870-1930],
 Contemporary, and Politicized Practices) which promote cross-fertilisation of ideas and methods
 across our areas of influence.

 1.1.2 Approach to supporting interdisciplinary research
 The Unit has built upon a strong foundation of disciplinary, period-based inquiry to engage
 innovatively with non-contiguous disciplines (as evidenced by the increased range of funders like
 NERC) in order to forge new responses to research problems and global challenges. This step-
 change has involved promoting interdisciplinary research through two primary initiatives:

 •   Investing in interdisciplinary research themes, which have received over £30,000 since
     2014 to resource networking, bid-writing, and dissemination. Colleagues work with computer
     scientists (Digital Humanities); social scientists and art and design (Genders and Identities);
     and Environmental Sciences, Medical and Health Sciences, Geography, and Education
     (Applied Storytelling).
 •   Incentivising staff to engage with the institutional ‘CALIBRE’ strategic research
     framework which drives interdisciplinary activity across all Schools. Amongst its
     programmes, CALIBRE promotes and funds interdisciplinarity through the university-wide
     ‘Communication and Culture’ Beacon, the Global Challenge themes (particularly ‘Secure and
     Resilient Societies’, ‘Changing Environments’, and ‘Health and Wellbeing’) and the Institute
     of Advanced Studies (IAS), in all of which Unit staff actively participate.

 Selected examples of interdisciplinary achievements arising from these initiatives include:

 •   Seven PhD studentships in two interdisciplinary centres for doctoral training (mini-CDTs) –
     ‘Feminism/Sexual Politics/Visual Culture’ and ‘Beyond the Binary’ – were awarded
     competitively to the Unit’s Genders and Identities theme from CALIBRE’s ‘Adventure’
     Programme. The PhD projects include the fields of Education, Performance, Sport,
     Sociology, Digital Technologies, Fine Art, and Humanities.
 •   The Loneliness in the Digital Age (LIDA) project and three large mental health projects:
     Creative Practice as Mutual Recovery (AHRC Connected Communities); MeHelp (a current
     GCRF mental health literacy project in Kerala); and What’s Up With Everyone? (an AHRC-
     commissioned project in collaboration with the animation company, Aardman). These
     projects work across disciplinary boundaries with academic and non-academic colleagues in
     the fields of Health Economics, Social Psychology, Computer Science, Design, Mental
     Health Studies, Health and Medical Humanities, Clinical Practice, Psychiatry, Animation,
     Young People’s Services, Health Communication, Cultural Studies, and Music.

 1.2 Review of Objectives and Research Plans in REF2014

 Our research plans for REF2014 intended to extend the significance and reach of our research
 by:

 •   developing collaborative projects beyond the University with emphasis on international
     partnerships;
 •   deepening interdisciplinary research;

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   nurturing projects arising from the growth of publishing, information, and digital technology.

 In combination with our review of REF2014 results and under the influence of the University’s
 ‘Building Excellence’ strategy (2014), our strategic aims for this REF period were to:

 •   develop a sharper focus on strengths and refreshed priorities;
 •   establish Applied Storytelling and Digital Humanities as new research areas;
 •   prioritise quality over quantity in publishing, grant applications, and collaborative projects;
 •   provide a vibrant and supportive research environment encouraging all staff to be
     outward-looking, internationally engaged researchers.

 Our Research and Impact Strategy (2014-2021) also identified our four research themes to
 deliver sustained improvements to our research environment:

 Textual Editing
 Existing research expertise in this area was strengthened by recruiting three new staff
 specialising in publishing and literary archives, textual scholarship and editing, and book history.
 This resulted in five scholarly editions published in this REF cycle, including the first of eight
 volumes published by CUP (each around 1000 pages) from Hobby’s major AHRC-funded
 project, Editing Aphra Behn in the Digital Age, which integrates digital and established
 editorial methods to produce new, comprehensive print and electronic editions of this
 Restoration writer.

 A second major project was B.Cooke’s AHRC-funded Complete Works of Evelyn Waugh
 (CWEW). CWEW’s methodological innovations now benefit the wider field of twentieth-century
 textual editing. B.Cooke sits on the Editorial Board of recently commissioned OUP Complete
 Works of Ford Madox Ford (CWFMF), which adopts the handbook devised for CWEW;
 CWFMF’s leaders estimate that CWEW’s pioneering methodologies have advanced their own
 work by at least five years.

 Applied Storytelling
 The development of Applied Storytelling, with Wilson’s strategic appointment in 2014, resulted in
 a portfolio of 25 awards totalling £12M (£1.1M income to Loughborough), delivered across
 21 countries on five continents, and addressing major societal challenges in environment,
 health, education, and social justice. Liguori’s appointment strengthened the area and led to the
 formation of the Storytelling Academy. Two examples of projects emerging from the Academy
 are: ‘Drought Risk and You’ which combined storytelling with hydrological science to inform
 better policy making around drought risk, and ‘What’s Up With Everyone?’, which used
 storytelling and animation to increase levels of mental health literacy amongst young people. An
 MA in Storytelling commenced in October 2020.

 Digital Humanities
 Jaillant’s formation of the Digital Humanities Research Group in 2016 has built a network of over
 100 colleagues from the humanities, art and design, social sciences, computer science,
 and the library. This provides a fertile environment for funded projects at the intersection of
 English and other disciplines, and has attracted research income of £288k. The profound
 challenges of how digital materials are encountered, accessed, and archived underpinned
 Jaillant’s AHRC Leadership Fellowship (2018-20). Research drawing on large-scale digitised
 newspaper corpora to examine patterns of information flow across national and linguistic
 boundaries formed the basis of Beals’ AHRC/ESRC-funded project, Oceanic Exchanges (2017-
 19), which demonstrated the global connectedness of nineteenth-century newspapers, and the
 value of applying computational analysis to digitised texts. Digital Humanities researchers also
 pioneered a digital mechanism for tracking dance movements with a grammar model translated
 into a suitable data structure. Maiorani’s CALIBRE-funded collaboration with colleagues from
 Computer Science and the School of Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering, in
 partnership with the English National Ballet, discovered more efficient ways to learn and

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 memorise choreographies, which led to Maiorani’s recent large AHRC project The Kinesemiotic
 Body.

 Genders and Identities
 In this emerging area, research has been collaborative, outward-looking, interdisciplinary and
 agenda-setting. The ‘Trans Lives East Mids Workshop’ (2018) convened trans-community
 members, oral archivists, and trans-academics to develop research methodologies centring co-
 creation with trans-community groups. Two international ‘Feminist Methodologies’
 conferences (2017, 2018, organised by J.Cooke) shared new feminist research methods from
 Sociology, Gender Studies, English, and Art History, including work with end-of-life oral histories
 and trans-people, demonstrating how to co-produce research with hard-to-reach communities.
 Recruitment of three additional staff, specialising in gender and sexuality, is evident in increased
 long-form publications in this area: two monographs and four edited volumes. For example, J.
 Cooke’s Contemporary Feminist Life-Writing: The New Audacity (CUP, 2020) is the first
 monograph to identify what she terms the ‘new audacity’ of recent feminist writings from life;
 O’Callaghan’s Sarah Waters: Gender and Sexual Politics (Bloomsbury, 2017) is the first
 monograph to examine all of Waters’ fiction, which is analysed through a feminist and queer
 studies lens.

 1.3 Facilitating research impact

 Since 2014, Enterprise (incorporating impact) has been embedded in all university activity,
 including academic contracts, promotion, performance review, and reward. Staff are expected to
 deliver impact from their research. In REF2014 our primary impact aims were to:

 •   raise the profile of impact within the Unit;
 •   increase participation in non-academic networks, partnerships, and collaborations;
 •   embed impact planning in research design and processes.

 The foundation for meeting these aims was strengthening impact governance by moving from
 separate School Enterprise Committees to combined Research and Enterprise Committees,
 promoting collaboration with non-HEI stakeholders, and advising staff on impact opportunities,
 training, and funding calls. The delivery mechanisms were:

 Im1. embedding enterprise in working structures, such as the Performance and
      Development Review (PDR) and research mentoring scheme. Colleagues are encouraged
      to engage partners and stakeholders from the inception of research projects and embed
      impact pathways.
 Im2. investing in impact through Enterprise Projects Group (EPG) awards for pilot work,
      enabling the development of larger projects, and the award of study leave. Staff can also
      work with RADAR, the University’s commissioning programme inviting artists to produce
      new work alongside Unit research.
 Im3. increasing the level of interdisciplinary research, in particular building collaborations
      with non-contiguous disciplines and non-academic partners.
 Im4. promoting equitable partnerships, including shifting the positioning of non-HEI partners
      from beneficiaries to co-producers of research.

 Our large collaborative projects have incorporated significant non-academic partners from the
 public and private sectors, with the Smithsonian Institution, the John Rylands Library,
 Aardman, and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) as selected examples.
 We developed storytelling projects using the Smithsonian’s digital collections and have
 organised the first of two international conferences with them to increase mental health literacy
 amongst young people. With UNEP we engaged in GCRF projects exploring creative
 interventions to promote sustainable transport solutions in urban East Africa. This led to a more
 publicly engaged and outward-facing research culture, enhancing the Unit’s impact range.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.3.1. How the impact case studies relate to our approach to achieving impact
 Our approach to achieving impact is exemplified by our ICSs. All benefited from the support
 detailed above and are new for REF2021. Each exhibits alignment with our research themes,
 and evidences interdisciplinarity: ICS1 with environmental sciences, ICS2 with education, and
 ICS3 with history and the health humanities.

 ICS1 ‘Increasing Active Citizenship and Community Action through Applied Storytelling’
 exemplifies our promotion of interdisciplinary research across non-contiguous disciplines (Im3),
 and equitable partnerships with non-academic organisations (Im4), especially in low-to-middle
 income countries. These practices were embedded from conception through to dissemination
 and continuity. The ICS demonstrates lasting real-world impact through co-creation in equitable
 partnerships with community-level NGOs in East Africa. This model addressed challenges set by
 our partners who co-developed the project, and tackles wider societal priorities, such as UN
 Sustainable Development Goals.

 ICS2 ‘Transforming Educational Practices through Digital Storytelling for Hard-to-Reach Groups
 across the US and Europe’ illustrates the embedding of impact through mentoring (Im1), as well
 as the promotion of interdisciplinary collaborations (Im3). The underpinning research was
 undertaken by an ECR mentored through securing AHRC funding to develop partnerships with
 the Smithsonian Institution and partner colleges, and funding from the European Commission to
 partner with heritage, education, and training providers across Europe. Promoting equitable
 partnerships (Im4), where non-academic collaborators co-produce research, embedded impact
 into the research itself, resulting in, for example, the adoption of digital storytelling as a core skill
 for adult learners by the Regional Government of Andalusia in Spain.

 ICS3 ‘Enriching Staff and Public Understanding of Women’s History through Events, Exhibitions,
 and Creative Activities at the National Civil War Centre’ results from our partnership (Im4) with
 the National Civil War Centre (NCWC), supported by research mentoring (Im1) and internal
 investment (Im2). Both ICS authors received six-month fellowships during the census period to
 develop the underpinning research. Collaborative activities, networking events, and a film-
 recording were enabled by £2,600 of School, EPG, and Marketing funding. This included
 resourcing two symposia (‘Honest Labour’, 2019; ‘Aiding Upright Births’, 2020) which facilitated
 knowledge exchange between ICS authors and NCWC staff. Impact-related activities were
 embedded into the research process, and our dynamic partnership with the NCWC will continue
 beyond this REF cycle.

 1.4. Research and Impact Objectives and Plans for the Next Five Years

 Our strategy for 2021-2025 commits to establishing our research and impact as world-leading,
 agenda-setting, and responsive to post-Covid, post-Brexit challenges. We will exploit
 opportunities for new collaborations with social scientists, historians, and designers enabled by
 the School restructure, and are determined to produce research that influences the world
 beyond academia.

 1) Research themes: step changes in each area will be enabled by focusing investment in key
    specialisms:

     •   Textual Editing: develop, participate in, and advise on large-scale editing projects (e.g.,
         the OUP Ford Madox Ford project) as well as individual scholarly editions, develop
         innovative methodologies, and establish a centre of excellence to pioneer and
         disseminate best practice, including the digital tools required to transform this field.
     •   Applied Storytelling: deliver a package of provision through the Storytelling Academy
         that expands PGR numbers and our PGT offering, creates a new CPD provision to
         engage with external partners, and builds upon successes with NERC and existing
         international partnerships to co-develop new environmental projects responding to UN
         Sustainable Development Goals.

                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Digital Humanities: support Maiorani’s UK-German collaboration with Bremen
        University and the English National Ballet as part of the project, The Kinesemiotic Body
        (AHRC, UK £337k Germany €346k, 2021-24); develop international collaborations with
        cultural organisations (such as the British Library and the National Library of Ireland) and
        computer scientists (responding to UKRI’s cross-disciplinary schemes), co-develop
        research that tackles big questions, including the application of AI to the human sphere,
        and expand PGR numbers through projects co-supervised with STEM colleagues.
    •   Genders and Identities: develop partnerships with social scientists and non-HEI
        organisations, such as Notts Trans Hub, to engage with the gendered dimensions of a
        post-Covid, post-Brexit cultural landscape, through, for example, participation in
        ‘Midlands Innovation’ (partnership of the Midlands’ eight research-intensive universities)
        whose ‘Inclusive Transformation’ theme is specifically targeted at the humanities and
        social sciences.

 2) Health Humanities: strategic investment in this new theme will enhance our research in
    mental health, women’s health (including pregnancy and childbirth), disability, diet, ageing,
    longevity, and old age. We will provide strategic leadership within the Loughborough
    Community for Research in Mental Health (established by Unit staff in 2019), which networks
    researchers from across the University working on mental health from arts, medical,
    scientific, and health humanities perspectives.

 3) Research Funding: we will exploit opportunities for our research themes arising from cross-
    council funding, including increased participation in larger consortia. Through an existing
    relationship with Uppsala University, we will target the Nordic Cultures Fund and the British
    Council to support a growing international agenda, and prioritise the Wellcome Trust to
    support research in the Health Humanities. Achieving a diversity of funding will enable us to
    share our expertise more widely, affording us opportunities to partner with national
    organisations such as the Mental Health Foundation and Age UK, which provide access to
    communities with limited resources.

 4) Internationalisation: our ambitions for Applied Storytelling include expanding, post-Brexit,
    our existing European partnerships by working with, for example, SWEDESD, a research
    Centre for environmental sustainability and development at Uppsala University (Sweden),
    Roma Tre University, and the British Council in Russia, with whom we have a track record of
    collaboration on which to build. Building on the experience and success of Applied
    Storytelling, we will develop new international partnerships and networks across all our
    research strengths, by targeting GCRF, Newton Fund, and Leverhulme Visiting
    Professorships to secure our position as global leaders.

 5) PGR: we will strengthen our base for PGR students and further grow our PGR population by
    targeting internal doctoral training studentships and the AHRC’s interdisciplinary calls. We
    seek to attract PGRs across our key themes, particularly the Health Humanities, by
    prioritising the Wellcome Trust, as well as Leverhulme Doctoral Studentships, AHRC
    collaborative doctoral partnerships, TECHNE, and an AHRC Midlands4Cities DTP
    application.

 1.5 Open Research Environment

 The University has been a pioneer of the ‘Open Agenda’, actively supporting repositories for
 text-based outputs (since 2005) and data (since 2015), now unified (2019) in a single Research
 Repository. We benefit from the Repository’s flexibility, enabling sharing of outputs in many
 formats, including images, videos, animations, software code, with associated digital object
 identifiers. This has facilitated open access for creative practice and performance elements,
 enabling dissemination in a manner previously impossible. Our researchers work with the
 University Research Data Manager to develop data plans.



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Beals and Fry are pioneers of open research and members of the University Open Research
 Working Group. Beals delivered Open Research workshops from 2016-20, including
 postgraduate training workshops aimed at encouraging open data methods, and a weekly
 Python training programme on developing open methods and reproducible datasets/methods of
 corpus analysis. Fry contributes to the Research England funded COPIM project, a consortium
 of universities and scholar-led publishers developing experimental models for open access
 monographs.

 1.6 A Culture of Research Integrity

 The University’s Ethical Policy Framework is the foundation of the Unit’s culture of research
 integrity. Research leaders ensure adherence to this Framework in the nature, conduct,
 dissemination and end-use of research. They are responsible for conducting ethics checks on all
 proposed projects and routing necessary approvals through Ethics Committees. Our UoA has a
 robust structure designed to support research integrity. A designated staff member signs off
 Ethical Clearance for every new research project conducted by staff and PGR students, as well
 as serving as the first contact for any projects requiring full ethical clearance.

 We actively advocate against unethical research practices. Based on her externally funded
 project on researchers' open access behaviours, Fry de-mystified OA publishing and its
 perceived association with predatory publishing in a series of articles in leading journals (2015-
 19) and provides advice to Unit members via the SREC.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and Recruitment Policy

 All academic staff contribute to teaching, research, and enterprise activities. Staff have 34% of
 workload ring-fenced for research, with additions for PGR supervision and managing Research
 Associates. We expect and incentivise a collegial and collaborative approach to work from the
 earliest career stages and, as careers progress, we also expect colleagues to develop
 leadership skills and experience through taking on a variety of leadership roles. Academic staff
 have open-ended contracts, while research staff are on fixed-term contracts related to projects in
 line with sector norms. Part-time working is welcome.

 The Unit is committed to an inclusive research environment. We returned 100% of eligible staff
 on RTE contracts in 2014 (20.5FTE) and return 32.9FTE here, an increase of 60%. Of the
 current staff, 13FTE (40%) are new appointments. Given this unprecedented growth and
 generational change, recruiting the right people, while retaining and developing existing
 colleagues, has been crucial. Retention has been strong; of those submitted to REF2014, two
 retired and only three left, reflecting high staff satisfaction.

 Since REF2014, the University’s approach to recruiting excellent staff at all career stages, from
 postdoctoral and early career researchers (ECRs) through mid-career and senior roles, has
 radically changed. Following the University’s ‘Excellence100’ campaign (from 2017), focussed
 unequivocally on excellence, recruitment to established posts is now conducted through
 biannual recruitment rounds, managed centrally but with significant School input, rather than
 piecemeal replacement hires. With excellence as the primary criterion, these rounds enhance
 strategic planning, deliver better international recruitment, and improve diversity.

 Recruitment was strategically aligned with four research themes, while also promoting
 interdisciplinarity and impact. We sought a productive balance of proven expertise and
 leadership from senior/mid-career appointments and the dynamism afforded by talented ECRs.
 Early recruitment of a Professor and four Lecturers was complemented by recruitment under
 Excellence 100 of two Senior Lecturers, four Lecturers, a Vice-Chancellor’s Research Fellow (5-



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 year postdoctoral fellowship leading to permanent appointment), and a Doctoral Prize Fellow (a
 two-year fellowship for ECRs within 2-years of PhD award).

 We attend closely to succession planning for research-related leadership roles, through
 appointing staff to co-lead research groups or to participate in REF-related planning to gain
 relevant experience. Examples include Beller’s co-leadership of the ‘Cultural Currents 1870-
 1930’ research group before being appointed as Doctoral Programme Lead for English; and
 Adiseshiah, selected as School REF Lead, and then appointed as Research Director for English.

 2.2 Staff Development Strategy

 Loughborough’s Organisational Development offers a wide spectrum of training opportunities
 and support for Unit staff throughout their careers. Courses range from earliest stages (Welcome
 to Loughborough) through essential training (Information security training, Unconscious Bias) to
 training for staff becoming senior managers (Coaching conversations for managers, Recruitment
 and selection).

 All academics are expected to obtain Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy (HEA).
 For new lecturers, this is integral to their dedicated development programme. More experienced
 colleagues are supported through our ‘Recognition of Experienced Practitioners’ scheme which
 requires preparation of a dossier of evidence to support their application.

 Unit staff receive an annual personal research allowance of £750, and additional funds when
 in receipt of external funding. Additional internal funding can be applied for, with priority given to
 initiatives with ECR participation. A ring-fenced seedcorn fund (<£10k) is also available
 exclusively for ECRs.

 Following the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 the University provides structured support to postdoctoral researchers for career progression
 and development, including preparation of funding applications. This is increasingly important to
 the Unit; since 2014, we have hosted six postdoctoral researchers (none before 2014), including
 five funded by UKRI. All our postdoctoral researchers have mentors and benefit from Unit-level
 support. Evidence of effectiveness is found in their subsequent appointments at Sheffield and
 Queensland, as well as Liguori gaining her Lectureship at Loughborough.

 Under the New Lecturers’ Programme (NLP), all new lecturers are guided by an experienced
 and trained academic colleague from the Unit who acts as Adviser. NLP (formerly academic
 probation) was substantially revised in 2017 and includes the full spectrum of research and
 impact activity (publication, funding applications, collaboration, public engagement, non-
 academic partnerships). New lecturers have a reduced workload in teaching and administration
 (33, 50, and 67% of departmental norms in consecutive years), which enables the establishment
 of a full academic profile in research, teaching, and impact at a manageable pace. In addition to
 an extensive training programme leading to FHEA, the New Lecturer meets four times annually
 with their Adviser. New Lecturers are allocated a university-funded PhD studentship within their
 first two years, for co-supervision with an experienced colleague. Supervision is a requirement to
 pass the programme, alongside a minimum expectation on research output production, and the
 submission of at least one substantial grant application. Almost a third of Unit staff have
 benefitted from NLP since 2014. 10 have competed the NLP and two have subsequently been
 promoted, evidencing the effectiveness of the programme.

 Beyond NLP, our Unit established a successful mentoring scheme in 2015. Mentors (SLs,
 Readers and Professors) support mentees on publication strategy, collaborative practice, grant
 capture, and impact, and have fostered a measured approach to funding where applying for
 smaller grants precedes larger, more ambitious initiatives e.g., Jaillant’s British Academy Rising
 Star Award led to her AHRC Leadership Fellowship and then two AHRC networking awards with
 the Irish Research Council (2020-21) and the National Endowment for the Humanities (2021-22);


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Beller’s Curran Fellowship informing a BA grant for her work on Victorian literature; and Liguori’s
 AHRC IPS award leading to a Fellowship and collaboration with the Smithsonian. Mentoring was
 also instrumental in B.Cooke becoming the Textual Editing theme lead, O’Callaghan co-founding
 the Loughborough Community for Research in Mental Health Network, and Parker winning
 several externally funded library fellowships leading to outputs including Michael Field: Decadent
 Moderns (2019).

 All members of post-probationary staff in the Unit have an annual PDR. A supportive one-to-one
 discussion between the reviewee and a trained reviewer reflects on achievements over the past
 year and agrees objectives across the full range of activities including CALIBRE-aligned goals
 for research and impact activity. The new PDR system, instigated in 2017, is a transparent way
 to recognise performance exceeding expectations with additional financial reward and allows
 much fairer identification of candidates for promotion. The scheme has particularly benefitted
 research staff for whom a rigorous developmental discussion was previously sporadic and
 consideration for reward a rarity.

 The University has also revised the criteria for academic promotion (Senior Lecturer and
 Reader/Professor), to ensure that the research components align with the University Strategy
 and CALIBRE. Evidence for cases can be based on research, teaching, enterprise (impact) or
 any combination to encourage balanced portfolios of work. We judge ‘Excellence and
 International Reputation’ and ‘Academic Leadership and Influence’ rather than metrics that
 emphasise quantity over quality. This focus allows panels to take into account statements from
 promotion applicants describing how personal circumstances, such as caring responsibilities,
 may have affected their profile. The Unit has achieved 11 promotions: seven to SL (Beller,
 Bolton, J.Cooke, Hutton, Jaillant, Maiorani, Rees), three to Readership (Adiseshiah, Freeman,
 Hutton), and one to Professorship (Fry).

 Unit staff can apply for research and impact leave, under University or School Fellowship
 schemes, which facilitate focus on exceptional activities for an extended period. Staff may apply
 for School Fellowships of up to six months, while University Fellowships can be up to 12 months
 for more ambitious projects, with funding for research costs. The Unit has been exceptionally
 successful, securing 18 six-month School and 11 12-month University Fellowships. This enabled
 the publication of most of our long-form outputs, including Hutton, Serial Encounters: Ulysses
 and The Little Review (OUP, 2019), Bolton, Southey’s Letters from England (Routledge, 2016),
 and Brewer, The Bible and Modern British Drama (Routledge, 2019).

 2.3 Research students

 PGRs are highly valued and actively shape our research culture. We have achieved an upward
 trajectory of domestic and international PGR recruitment, with 44 doctorates awarded since
 2014, a 69% increase compared with REF2014.

 The 2017 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) showed 81% of PGRs had
 attended or presented at conferences (national average 73%), and 38% (national average 36%)
 had submitted to an academic journal. Our PGRs have also undertaken editorial roles (e.g.,
 international online journal Literature Compass). In 2019 PRES, PGRs gave 100% scores for
 ‘supervisor’s subject knowledge’, ‘regular contact with supervisor’, and ‘training in research
 skills’.

 The Unit attracts funding to maintain its PGR population (c. 35 students) via university
 scholarships, external funding including UKRI, and high-quality self-funded students. The
 funding mix is approximately 40% internal funding, 10% external, and 50% self-funders.
 University scholarships include a core allocation, studentships matched to major awards (e.g.,
 Editing Aphra Behn), and competitively awarded mini-Centres for Doctoral Training (mini-CDTs).
 The Unit partners in two Centres in ‘Feminism, Sexual Politics, and Visual Culture’ and ‘Beyond
 the Binary’, and a third addressing homelessness, ‘Home’. The Storytelling Academy, secured


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 two further studentships through the AHRC-funded project ‘What’s Up with Everyone?’ and a
 Glendonbrook Doctoral Fellowship was received via philanthropy.

 PhD opportunities are posted on the School and FindAPhD websites. We arrange remote or in-
 person interviews of shortlisted candidates to ensure recruitment of high-quality students.
 Decisions are taken by two members of staff. The Doctoral College runs an induction event for
 new starters, complemented by School specific inductions. All students have two or more
 supervisors with whom they meet at least monthly. Minutes are recorded in the University’s
 dedicated online Co-Tutor tool. The first year of PhD studies has an initial 6-month review,
 followed by annual reviews. All involve a report and viva with an independent examiner, through
 which student progression is decided.

 The ADR provides quality assurance of research degree programmes within the School.
 Schools also have a Director of Doctoral Programmes who monitors progression and arranges
 subject specific training. A new PGR research studio was opened in 2016. Every PGR is
 guaranteed a desk and computer, an annual research allowance, and access to a subject
 specialist Careers Consultant. Further specialist support is available from the Mathematics
 Learning Support Centre, the English Language Support Unit, the Student Advice Centre, and
 the Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service. Schools have elected PGR representatives who
 are members of the PGR Sub-Committee.

 The Doctoral College offers over 200 skills development events annually. All students are
 entitled to a minimum of one semester of teaching experience (with c.70% take-up), after
 completing the University’s Teaching Skills course for PhD students. The Doctoral College runs
 the Annual Conference Summer Showcase Three Minute Thesis competition and the ‘Diversity
 in Research’ workshops. Funding to support travel and conferences is available through
 Santander Travel Awards and for international PGR exchanges. At School level, we organise an
 annual Doctoral Researcher Colloquium, where PGRs present to their peers and supervisors.
 PGRs also organise their own seminars, symposia, and conferences, as well as co-organising
 events with academic staff.

 The effectiveness of Unit support is evident in awards and appointments post-PhD. Awards
 include ‘Best Student Podium Presentation’ at the 12th Annual Conference of The Society for
 the Study of Childhood in the Past, and funding from the British Association for Contemporary
 Literary Studies, Lüneburg Summer School for Digital Cultures, Association for the Study of
 Literature and Environment, and Alan Turing Institute. Appointments include Lectureships at
 UEA, De Montfort, and Leeds; a Readership at Manchester Metropolitan; and (internationally)
 lectureships at Savannah College of Art and Design (Georgia and Hong Kong), University of
 Queensland (Australia), and Manhattanville College (New York).

 2.4 Equality and diversity

 All colleagues complete courses in Respecting Diversity and Unconscious Bias. School SMTs
 receive bespoke Unconscious Bias training. The Unit supports the Race Equality Charter and
 Stonewall Diversity Champion. SSH and DCA both hold Bronze Athena SWAN (AS) Awards.
 AS annual monitoring includes PGR and staff application rates, uptake of staff training,
 promotion, seminar speakers, and awarding of internal fellowships, and funding. The Schools
 fund female staff to attend the Aurora Leadership Programme.

 Issues of EDI, particularly in relation to race, gender, sexuality, disability, age, and social class,
 are central to much of our research, and EDI is centred in the Unit’s culture. We are an
 international community of researchers of diverse backgrounds and ages. 63% of Unit staff,
 including 57% of Readers and Professors, identify as female (one of whom is of colour). 83% of
 those promoted were women which promises to improve the representation of women in senior
 positions during the next cycle. Female staff lead research groups and occupy a variety of
 research leadership posts including Research Director for English, Head of English, Doctoral


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Programme Lead, and SSH Doctoral Research Culture Champion. These leaders include one
 colleague of colour and one who identifies as queer.

 An SSH Decolonising the Curriculum Working Group (initiated by the Unit), with attention to
 research, feeds into the Unit’s practice in policy-making and School committees. Schools have
 run events for Black History Month, International Women’s Day, LGBT History month, and
 meetings on neurodiversity and accessibility, and racial inclusiveness. Engagement with EDI is
 now embedded in PDR.

 Formal flexible working requests are approved by HR with support from the School. 22% of
 staff (8F/1M), including one Professor, have flexible working arrangements, ranging from
 compressed hours to specific working days/hours and fractional contracts. Our staffing policy
 ensures part-time staff have equal access to career pathways, evidenced by notable research
 successes – Hobby’s Editing Aphra Behn project, and Bolton’s and Hutton’s publications of a
 double-weighted monograph and scholarly edition contributing to promotions (twice for Hutton).
 Academic staff also have the option to work flexibly or remotely on an informal basis so long as
 their responsibilities are fulfilled. For circumstances such as caring for a family member in poor
 health, staff can request compassionate leave for immediate issues or longer term flexible
 working for ongoing responsibilities. Remote working is facilitated via the VPN (with secure
 multifactor authentication) that provides access to all University online resources. These policies
 have eased the transition to effective home working during the COVID-19 pandemic from March
 2020.

 Staff and Research Students returning from periods of leave are supported in their transition
 by their School. Staff returning from parental leave benefit from a course release in the first year
 to enable them to re-establish their research agendas, as well as flexible timetabling to facilitate
 caring responsibilities. For example, Hutton returned from maternity leave and moved to part-
 time in 2014, and then gradually back to full-time. Occupational Health and Head of Unit
 supported Rees in moving to part-time on her return from leave. She has subsequently
 published a monograph, and been promoted to SL.

 Support for Staff with Protected Characteristics: annual equality audits are conducted to
 ensure support is provided to all colleagues, including those with protected characteristics. EDI
 committees collect information about grant success rates and studentship applications by
 gender, and seek support from both School and university research committees to promote a
 culture of equality and diversity in the research resource distribution. Workloads and timetabling
 are adjusted to support cognitive diversity, for example. Promotion and PDR criteria
 acknowledge that caring responsibilities, ill-health, and disability may limit activity e.g.,
 international travel, and we proactively tackle inequalities (e.g., CALIBRE’s ‘Here to Stay’
 programme invites international researchers to campus so colleagues can network
 internationally without travel). Staff with caring responsibilities can receive caring costs of up to
 £200/year.

 Support for the wellbeing of staff and research students has been strengthened with four
 new School-level roles: Director of Academic Staffing, Wellbeing Advisor, dedicated HR partner,
 and Doctoral Research Culture Champion. Our Unit has its own mental health first aider and a
 central offer of services including Counselling, Occupational Health, and an Employee
 Assistance Programme, providing 24-hour telephone counselling, with repeated sessions for
 staff with complex issues.

 2.5 EDI in our REF submission

 Following the University's REF Code of Practice, the Unit created a REF Leadership Group of
 four staff (2F/2M including 1 BAME) and a Reviewers Group (5F/3M), all of whom undertook
 REF-specific EDI training. Four external advisors (1F/3M) supported the Unit. Output and ICS
 selections were based solely on excellence. Throughout our REF preparations, equality impact


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 assessments (EIA) were carried out to assess institutional processes and our draft return,
 including outputs selected against protected characteristics, and to determine whether further
 action was required. EIAs confirmed no issues required attention. 71% of outputs selected are
 attributed to staff identifying as female (63% of staff identify as female).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Funding and Strategies

 Research funding has been critical to fulfilling our REF2014 research plan to extend the
 significance and reach of our research, with particular emphasis on collaborative projects,
 international partnerships, and interdisciplinary research. The individual strategic aims of placing
 a sharper focus on strengths, prioritising quality over quantity in grant applications and
 collaborative projects, and encouraging all staff to be outward looking, internationally engaged
 researchers have all contributed to delivering a significant increase in research funding. This has
 been especially important for growing capacity in our new areas of influence, Applied Storytelling
 and Digital Humanities.

 In operational detail, we strengthened quality assurance processes for bids including: demand
 management of strategically important calls; early and ongoing peer review of applications;
 mock-interview panels; and close engagement with the Research and Enterprise Office (REO)
 from inception to bid completion. We implemented additional support for pilot research,
 networking, and partnership development through competitive internal funding. The result was:

 •   1000% increase in research income to £1.99M (£182k in REF2014).
 •   a greater number of substantial grant winners: only three staff won grants of >£10k in
     REF2014; for REF2021 it is seven (three of whom are ECRs).
 •   a diversification of funders (including for the first time NERC, ESRC, EPSRC, and MRC).

                                          Composition of Income

                                                                      AHRC


                                                                      NERC
                                  3% 4%
                             4%

                                                                      ESRC
                                               40%
                       22%

                                                                      British Academy


                                   27%
                                                                      EPSRC


                                                                      Others [including
                                                                      Leverhulme, Wellcome,
                                                                      MRC]

 While the largest single proportion is from the AHRC, 60% is from other sources, with 49%
 awarded from NERC and ESRC, which evidences diversification and interdisciplinarity. Staff
 have also gained funding for internationalisation from the Newton Fund and GCRF. We focused
 on winning larger grants, using smaller awards to prepare for larger bids (for example, Hobby’s
 USA Library fellowships in 2014-15, providing the foundation for Editing Aphra Behn in 2016).



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Strengthening our key areas of influence, particularly Textual Editing, Applied Storytelling, and
 Digital Humanities facilitated participation in research consortia. Awards in Textual Editing
 evidence our agenda-setting ambitions. Editing Aphra Behn (AHRC, £752k; Hobby, 2016-21) is
 a major collaborative project with Birmingham, Leicester and Sheffield Universities to produce
 a complete edition of Behn’s work through collation of manuscript and life-time printed sources in
 archives worldwide. The Complete Works of Evelyn Waugh (AHRC, £822k [£18k to this Unit];
 CI: B.Cooke, 2013-19) is producing for OUP a 43-volume edition of Waugh’s fiction, travel-
 writing, juvenilia, letters, and essays. This is a collaboration with Leicester University and
 partners including the Harry Ransom Center and British Library.

 We achieved multiple successes in Applied Storytelling – 25 grants totalling £1.1M – the most
 prestigious awards (Wilson PI) being Developing a Drought Narrative Resource in a Multi-
 Stakeholder Decision-making Utility (NERC, £388k; 2014) and Loneliness in the Digital Age
 (LIDA): Developing Strategies for Empathy and Trust (ESRC, £235k; 2014-18). We also secured
 (Wilson CI) Newton Funding for Applied Storytelling work on biodiversity in Colombia, How Does
 the Paramo Capture and Store Water? The Role of Plants and People (NERC, £147k [£43k in
 this census period]; 2018-21); PARAMO – Provisioning of Ecosystem Services and Cultural
 Values in the Montane Tropics (NERC, £234k [£108k in this census period]; 2018-21), and
 several GCRF projects in Eastern Africa and India. These grants exemplify our participation in
 large research consortia, and our international reach.

 Digital Humanities achieved significant income across the census period (£288k), with
 collaborative awards enabled by strategic planning supported by mentoring (Jaillant), and
 investment in pilot research for Beals. Beals’ Oceanic Exchanges was supported by £3000
 seedcorn funding to work with Gale Cengage and the British Library. A further £84k EPG grant
 enabled outreach on the Atlas of Digitised Newspapers (2019-21), a comprehensive guide
 published in 2020 to the histories, structures, and metadata of ten collections of digitised
 newspapers. Fry was the Unit’s lead on Open-Access Mega-Journals and the Future of
 Scholarly Communication (AHRC, £420k [£57k to this Unit]; 2015-17), a large interdisciplinary
 collaboration with Sheffield.

 Funded projects have led to numerous high quality outputs including in this submission one
 volume from Editing Aphra Behn and two monographs supported by The Complete Works of
 Evelyn Waugh. Funding has also enhanced impact activity; ICS1 and ICS2 relate to
 Developing a Drought Narrative Resource in a Multi-Stakeholder Decision-making Utility (NERC)
 and Storying the Cultural Heritage (AHRC) respectively.

 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure supporting Research and Impact

 Unit staff receive support in the Schools and from the REO. A dedicated Research
 Development Manager (RDM) identifies funding opportunities, fosters close relationships with
 funders, supports interdisciplinary collaborations, and develops bids. Working closely with RDMs
 has increased the quantity and quality of our funding applications. This is particularly true for
 ECRs (for example, Jaillant, Beals, and B.Cooke) and for larger multi-partner and
 interdisciplinary projects, where RDMs broker networking across and beyond the University. A
 dedicated Partnership Development Manager (PDM) helps us to build knowledge exchange
 partnerships, generate impact, and apply for funding through the EPG (£100k secured for five
 impact projects).

 CALIBRE’s Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS, since 2017) offers competitive funding for
 visiting fellowships and supports internationalisation. In 2019-20, the IAS ‘water’ theme brought
 Visiting Fellows from Turkey, USA, Denmark, Japan, and South Africa, and Murray led an
 interdisciplinary event, ‘The Linearization of Landscapes: Patterns of Water, Terrain, and Life’.
 Under IAS (2020), the Storytelling Academy hosted a Leadership summit, convening leading
 international thinkers to set a future research agenda for Applied Storytelling. As global leaders,
 we attracted an invited audience of 100 participants from five continents.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.3 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact

 All researchers have access to advanced technical facilities, including a sound recording studio.
 The Applied Storytelling team use editing suites and MacLabs to produce digital stories, and
 share the Applied Storytelling Studio, which is equipped with video conferencing facilities to
 enable international collaboration. Staff additionally benefit from three Drama studios (including
 one fully equipped licensed theatre), which support practice-as-research.

 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Support for research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Encouraging Unit staff to be outward-looking internationally engaged researchers was explicit in
 our Research and Impact Strategy (section 1.2) and research collaborations, networks and
 partnerships are instrumental to achieving this. CALIBRE’s Beacons, Global Challenges, and
 IAS, the dedicated RDM and PDM, and internal funding for pilot research activities all support
 network-building nationally and internationally. The effectiveness of this support is evidenced in
 the 1000% increase in externally funded projects with both UK and international partners, often
 involving interdisciplinary teams.

 Nationally, collaborative projects with academic partners demonstrate the utility of
 interdisciplinary encounters between English and fields like computer science for our research in
 Textual Editing and Digital Humanities. In addition to strong partnerships developed with
 colleagues from Birmingham on Editing Aphra Behn and Leicester and Oxford on the Complete
 Works of Evelyn Waugh, we have formed an ongoing partnership with Sheffield’s School of
 Business and Economics through Open-Access Mega Journals, which identified the defining
 characteristics of the emergent open-access ‘mega-journal’ phenomenon and its significance
 across academic disciplines; and with Keele and Lincoln through the landmark, interdisciplinary
 conference, Narratives of Old Age and Gender (British Academy, 2019).

 Strategic investment in international partnerships has resulted in new MoUs with UCLA, RMIT
 (Melbourne), and the Universities of Malta, Odessa, and Leipzig, and has enabled our
 participation in multiple international research projects:

 •   Applied Storytelling researchers forged international collaborations, including a key
     partnership with the Stockholm Environment Institute (SEI), a Swedish organisation of
     environmental and social scientists with presence in the UK, Nairobi, Bangkok, and Bogota.
     The partnership was facilitated through the Climate Adaptation and Water Governance
     project between Europe, Australia, and Canada in 2014. This led to the AHRC-funded The
     Reasons, and to projects in Kenya with UN-Live (ICS1). This partnership facilitated much of
     our GCRF work and resulted in invitations to join projects with SEI Africa (Nairobi).
 •   We worked with partners across Europe (for example, Pädagogische Hochschule
     Freiburg and University of Roma Tre) in relation to storytelling in education, heritage, and
     citizenship, enabled by €600k for eight EU projects funded by the Erasmus+ programme.
 •   Digital Humanities developed partnerships and networks focused on digital cultural heritage.
     Jaillant’s projects on born-digital archives have led to new initiatives as UK PI on AURA
     (AHRC/IRC) and AEOLIAN (AHRC/NEH), focusing on Artificial Intelligence applied to
     archival collections and underpinned by a key partnership with computer scientists in the
     ADAPT centre at Dublin City University. Maiorani’s CALIBRE-funded The Potential for
     Kinesemiotics project (2017) has led to the much larger The Kinesemiotic Body (2021-2023),
     an AHRC-funded collaboration with University of Bremen and distinguished linguist,
     Professor John Bateman (Bremen).

 Our international networking led to visits from 10 world-leading academics, including Professors
 Jack Zipes (Minnesota) who delivered public lectures and ran masterclasses for our
 postgraduates, Margaret Stetz (Delaware) who has mentored our Victorian ECRs, and E. Ann


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Kaplan (Stony Brook) who is collaborating on a special issue on ageing of the Journal of the
 British Academy.

 4.1.1 Key research Users, Beneficiaries or Audiences to Develop Impact
 Our objective to raise the profile of impact of our research encourages staff to collaborate with
 arts organisations, libraries, media outlets, charities, NGOs, policy makers, and the health and
 environment sectors in the UK and across the world. Through the growing international profile of
 arts and humanities at Loughborough, we have new MoUs with the Smithsonian Institution, the
 English National Ballet, and the Yard and Almeida Theatres.

 Examples from Applied Storytelling include Public Health England (presentations to PHE staff);
 the Great Fen Project (workshops for staff and volunteers); the Smithsonian (knowledge
 exchange events); and UN Live and Atlas Foundation (series of meetings with senior
 managers). The Unit has, furthermore, increased the geographical range of its collaborations to
 include Colombia (Humboldt Institute in Bogota), USA (Queen’s Company, Folger Shakespeare
 Library), India (Mental Health Action Trust in Calicut), Australia (National Library of Australia),
 and Kenya (UN-Live in Nairobi). Non-HEI partners such as Hope Raisers, an NGO in Nairobi,
 are both beneficiaries and also co-producers of research, and named as such in funding
 applications.

 Selected examples beyond our ICSs include:
 • Our partnership with the John Rylands Library (JRL) is based on Jaillant’s BA Rising Star
    (2017-18) and AHRC Leadership Fellowship (2018-20), resulting in (1) the preservation and
    curation of oral history interviews and born-digital archives of leading poetry publisher,
    Carcanet Press; (2) increased public access to these archives through an exhibition and
    open access digital resource; and (3) the development, through international workshops and
    publications, of the JRL’s world-leading profile in the management of born-digital records.
 • Maiorani’s Kinesemiotics project, which employs innovative methods for capturing both
    movement and discourse in the archiving of choreographies. It partners with the English
    National Ballet (ENB), who see the benefit in new teaching techniques and rehearsal
    practices with particular importance for new choreographers.
 • Our collaboration with the Bradgate Park Trust, whose mission is to maintain the park for
    the benefit of Leicestershire’s residents and visitors, and advance public appreciation of the
    environment. Featherstone was invited to be their first poet-in-residence (2018-20). He drew
    on his landscape research to facilitate workshops, write poetry, and produce a blog.
 • Warden received three Arts Council awards (totalling £50k) to support performance wrestling
    projects. In 2017, she co-founded a practice-led arts collective, Wrestling Resurgence, to
    recognise wrestling as an art form.

 4.1.2 Wider contributions to Society
 Our wider contributions to society, particularly cultural enrichment, are also evident in outputs
 aimed at non-academic audiences and numerous invitations to speak at events aimed at non-
 academic audiences. Selected examples include:

 •   Tearle’s Interesting Literature: A Library of Literary Interestingness (established 2012)
     has received 44.4 million views, over 25,619 subscribers, global reach (16.9 million views
     from USA, 5.2 million from India, 1.7 million from Canada, 1.6 million from Australia), and
     citation on the QI website as a key source for their best-selling books of facts. This led to
     Tearle’s invitation to contribute to the books blog of the Huffington Post (2013-17), and
     Tearle’s publication of two popular books: The Secret Library (Michael O'Mara, 2016) and
     Britain by the Book (John Murray, 2017) with tie-in talks at the Nottingham Readers Day
     (2016) and the Stratford Literary Festival (2018).
 •   Scott-Jeffs’ well reviewed play Letters to Emma (2017) (included in our outputs) was
     produced in the Lichfield Garrick Studio for five performances, selling out for three, to over
     650 audience members.


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Read’s debut novel, The Gossips’ Choice (Wildpressed Books, 2020) about a midwife in
     1665, has a cover endorsement from Terri Coates, Clinical Editor of BBC’s Call the Midwife.
     The novel has attracted a wide healthcare readership after being positively reviewed in
     Midwifery Matters Magazine. Read has given talks about the novel at local museums,
     Association of Radical Midwives Annual Conference, and Wolverhampton Literary Festival,
     and has been interviewed on BBC Radio Leicester. The publisher commissioned a sequel
     (2022).

 Unit staff have roles as executive members of advisory and consultancy bodies including:
 Hackney Wick Arts Collective, the London Legacy Corporation, the Leicester Literary and
 Philosophical Society, performance poetry organisation Apples and Snakes, the Theatre Boards
 of the Curve (Leicester), the Northampton Repertory Company, and the Lichfield Garrick
 Theatre.

 4.1.3 How the unit engages diverse communities and publics through its research
 Our research reaches a wide range of users, beneficiaries, and audiences through a
 programme of public engagement, including appearances on BBC national and local radio
 (Maiorani, Read, Warden), at the National Theatre (Adiseshiah, Wilson), at festivals (B. Cooke,
 Featherstone, O’Byrne), and through public lectures (Freeman, Hobby, Wood). Unit staff
 organised three ‘Being Human’ events (the most recent being ‘Wikithon: Old and New
 Loughborough, 2020), and contributed five pieces to The Conversation (for example,
 Fitzpatrick’s ‘Charles Dickens and the birth of the classic English Christmas Dinner’, 2018 and
 Parker’s ‘Poets and Lovers: the two women who were Michael Field’, 2020).

 Further examples include:

 •   Applied Storytelling projects which co-produce research with diverse communities in low-to-
     middle income countries, such as Wilson’s Creative Methodologies to Investigate
     Sustainable Transport and Action for Interdisciplinary Air Pollution Research projects (both
     based in Kenya).
 •   Adiseshiah’s collaboration with partners from the Universities of Keele and Lincoln, Age UK,
     and the National Pensioners Convention informed the Narratives of Old Age and Gender
     conference, an ongoing collaboration that engages communities of older people as
     stakeholders in the research. Adiseshiah won a British Academy conferences award for
     Narratives of Old Age and Gender (2019), leading to a Supplementary Issue of the Journal of
     the British Academy (2022). The BA funded 17 world-leading, interdisciplinary speakers,
     hosting the meeting at its London premises.
 •   Warden’s Wrestling Resurgence substantially changed the demographic of visitors to three
     East Midlands art centres; 80% of audience members at Attenborough Arts Centre,
     Resurgence’s home venue, had never been inside the arts centre before. Resurgence
     hosted the first all-person-of-colour wrestling show (2019) to celebrate Black History Month.

 4.2 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 Our most influential contributions are linked to our establishment and leadership of key
 professional organisations, and our convening of international audiences to debate major
 intellectual challenges.

 Adiseshiah (with colleagues from Royal Holloway, Birkbeck, Birmingham, and Salford) co-
 founded the British Association for Contemporary Literary Studies (BACLS) in 2016-17
 (J.Cooke was its Treasurer until 2020). Van Mierlo is President of the European Society for
 Textual Scholarship (2016-) and was Trustee of the International James Joyce Foundation
 (2012-18). Jaillant is on the Advisory Council, Institute of English Studies (2017-), an IES
 Champion (from 2020), and was Treasurer of the British Association for Modernist Studies
 (BAMS) (2017-19). Collins was Co-Convenor of History UK (2014-17).



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our commitments extend across career ranks, evident in the involvement of ECRs in leading
 sections of major associations: Parker was Postdoctoral Officer for the British Association of
 Victorian Studies until 2015 and is now Careers Officer; O’Callaghan is Conference Officer for
 the Contemporary Women’s Writing Association (2020-); 12 Unit staff are executive committee
 members of University English, the English Association, BAMS (Warden is Chair, 2021-), Royal
 Historical Society, Theatre and Performance Research Association, Women's Studies Group
 1558-1837, Victorian Popular Fiction Association, and European Network for Drama in
 Translation.

 We steer the development of our discipline through organising major national and
 international conferences, bolstering the external visibility of our research while responding
 to national and international priorities. Since 2014, the Unit has hosted over 30 international
 conferences, symposia, and workshops, including J.Cooke’s organisation of the inaugural
 BACLS ‘What Happens Now’ conference (2018); Beller, Freeman, and Parker’s two-day George
 Egerton and the Fin de Siècle conference (2017) resulting in a forthcoming volume; Dix’s
 international, interdisciplinary Violence and the American Imagination conference (2015) leading
 to Violence from Slavery to #BlackLivesMatter (Routledge, 2020) included among our outputs;
 and the Applied Storytelling Leadership Summit (2020) resulting in a Story Work for a Just
 Future (Smithsonian Press, 2022).

 In interdisciplinary research, the Unit is developing expertise in Health Humanities, with
 intersections of animal science and the humanities (Murray), dietary science and literary criticism
 (Fitzpatrick), physiology and life writing (Read), and dance and semiotics (Maiorani). Unit
 members founded the Loughborough Network for Mental Health Research.

 4.3 Indicators of Wider Influence

 Since 2014, the Unit has built a vibrant, sustainable, and influential research culture shaped by
 staff at all career stages, from Hobby’s Aphra Behn project to Parker’s Women Poets and
 Photography, 1860-1970 online exhibition at the National Portrait Gallery and O’Callaghan’s
 work on the Brontës, which featured in the Channel 4 documentary, The Secret World of Emily
 Brontë (2018).

 We have increased our engagement with funders, especially UKRI Research Councils. Seven
 colleagues were appointed as Peer Reviewers for the AHRC (Adiseshiah, J.Cooke, Fitzpatrick,
 Hobby, Jaillant, Wilson, Wood). Wilson chaired several AHRC funding panels and served on the
 AHRC GCRF Peer Review College, the AHRC Strategic Reviewers’ Group, and the AHRC
 Advisory Boards for the Connected Communities and Digital Transformations Programmes.
 Wilson also chaired the Arts and Humanities Panel for the British Council’s Newton Fund
 Researcher Links Scheme since 2014, where he revised the rubric to make it more accessible to
 arts and humanities researchers.

 Unit staff have contributed to the editorial boards of over 30 international journals and book
 series (e.g., CounterText, The Eighteenth Century, Journal of Gender Studies, and New Theatre
 Quarterly) and have strengthened the discipline by playing leading editorial roles:

 •   J.Cooke is Associate Editor for Contemporary Women’s Writing, where she has proactively
     prioritised support for ECRs and researchers from the global south.
 •   As Editor-in-chief of Variants: the Journal of the European Society for Textual
     Scholarship (2012-19), Van Mierlo nurtured this international and interdisciplinary forum for
     the theory and practice of textual scholarship in Europe and beyond, promoting digital
     editing.
 •   Beller was General Editor of the Wilkie Collins Journal (2012-16), where she widened the
     journal’s remit from focusing on Collins’ major works to encompassing the more neglected
     areas of his oeuvre.



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Jarvis was Commissioning Editor for ‘American Literature’ and ‘Modernist Geographies’ in
     Literature Compass (2012-20), where he prioritised work by ECRs and the reframing of
     debates.
 •   Beals is History Editor for the Open Library of Humanities where she inaugurated the policy
     of appointing ECR and senior peer reviewers for each submission to ensure a long-term
     community of reviewers and respect for both established and new perspectives.

 Our staff delivered over 60 keynote lectures and plenary talks in countries across the
 world, including at the Universities of Cambridge, Oxford, London, Pisa, Paderborn, Chieti-
 Pescara, Malta, UCLA, Texas, Pennsylvania, Ohio State, South Dakota State, Monash
 University’s Prato Centre, RMIT (Melbourne), and Paris 8 (Nanterre). Specific examples include
 Fitzpatrick’s ‘ExpoShakespeare: Food Onstage' (Milan State University, 2014), Van Mierlo’s
 ‘Beyond the Text: A Critical Eco-System for Literary Manuscripts’ (University of Banja Luka,
 Bosnia Herzegovina, 2015), Parker’s ‘Who’s Afraid of Alice Meynell’ (University of Birmingham
 2018), and Wood’s ‘A Jacobite Alexander Pope? (Yale, 2017).

 Unit members received Visiting Professorships at the Universities of Texas (Hobby) and
 Antwerp (Van Mierlo), UCLA (Wood), and Trinity College, Dublin (Hutton). In addition, we
 secured over 20 prestigious fellowships enabling colleagues to access archives
 internationally, resulting in major new outputs. For example:

 •   Beller received a Curran Fellowship by the Research Society for Victorian Periodicals
     (2015) which led to Geraldine Jewsbury: Critical Essays and Reviews (EUP, forthcoming).
 •   J.Cooke was a Visiting Scholar at Oxford University’s Centre for Life-Writing (2015-6),
     which informed her monograph, Contemporary Feminist Life Writing (CUP, 2020).
 •   In 2018, ECR Liguori was the Smithsonian Fellow at the Smithsonian Center for Learning
     and Digital Access, which resulted in a MoU to explore the use of digital storytelling as a
     teaching strategy within the Smithsonian Learning Lab.
 •   Hutton was one of three colleagues (with Hobby and Wood) to gain a Harry Ransom
     Fellowship (2019) which enabled her forthcoming curation of a physical and online
     exhibition, Women and the Making of Ulysses (Ransom Center, 2022).
 •   Wood was a Williams Andrew Clark Memorial Library Fellow (2016), which informed his
     monograph, Shakespeare and Reception Theory (Bloomsbury, 2020), as was Freeman,
     whose fellowship informed REF output ‘Paths and Percolations’. (Hobby and Parker were
     also Clark Fellows).
 •   Hobby was awarded nine fellowships at libraries in the USA (including Katharine F. Pantzer
     Jr Fellowship in Descriptive Bibliography, Houghton Library, Harvard, 2015)
     and Australia (e.g. National Library of Australia, 2019), which contributed to
     the Cambridge Edition of the Works of Aphra Behn. Hobby’s findings were disseminated at
     international conferences including at Yale University, the Shakespeare Association of
     America, and the British Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies.

 Taken together, our influence through engagement with funders, as editors, keynote speakers,
 and fellowship holders is shaping future directions in our field.




                                                                                         Page 18
