Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Glasgow
 Unit of Assessment: 11, Computing Science
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1. Context

The Unit has 44.6 FTE R&T academic staff, 33 research staff (including 2.0 independent R-only
FTEs) and we supervise 133 PhD students. We taught 678 undergraduate and 308 PGT FTEs in
2019-2020. We have a strong, vibrant research and teaching culture, increasing our total research
income by 47% since REF2014. Our research is making pioneering, world-leading contributions and
delivering global impact across the breadth of the discipline. The Unit is structured around four core
Research Sections (complemented by the Centre for Computing Science Education, devoted to
learning, teaching and scholarship).
 Formal Analysis,          Glasgow Interactive       GLAsgow SyStems           Information, Data
 Theory and                SysTems                   (GLASS)                   and Analysis
 Algorithms                (GIST)                                              (IDA)
 (FATA)
 Head: Manlove,            Head: Vinciarelli,        Head: Pezaros,            Head: Murray-Smith,
 10.6 Cat A staff          8 Cat A staff             10.8 Cat A staff          17.2 Cat A staff
 Algorithms and            Multimodal Human-         Computer systems,         Information Retrieval
 complexity,               Computer Interaction      parallel systems,         (IR), data systems,
 programming               (HCI), social robotics    networked systems,        machine learning,
 language foundations,     and social signal         safety critical systems   computer vision and
 formal modelling,         processing, data          engineering               autonomous systems
 model checking and        analytics and ethics
 verification

We have an international reputation for generating world-leading theory, and for informing cutting-
edge practice, with particular strengths in the areas of Information Retrieval (IDA) and Human-
Computer Interaction (GIST). Examples include:
• IDA – our research is ranked first in the world by number of papers in the specialism’s premier
   publication venue (ACM SIGIR1) while Ounis and MacDonald are both in the top ten of all SIGIR
   authors in the world. The Section develops and maintains Terrier.org, a popular open-source IR
   platform which has been downloaded over 100k times and has been cited over 3900 times
   (Google Scholar). One of our Impact Case Studies (Macdonald and Ounis) comes from this
   Section’s work with [text removed for publication];
• GIST – Brewster has the largest number of publications of any author at the specialism’s premier
   publication venue (ACM CHI2), and we have the second highest publication volume of any
   university at the ACM MobileHCI3 conference. Brewster was a General Chair of the ACM
   CHI2019 conference, the first time it had ever been in the UK and it was hosted in Glasgow
   because of the Section’s world-class reputation. JR Williamson was chosen as one of the
   founding members of the ACM Future of Computing Academy;
• FATA – algorithms developed by our researchers have helped NHS Blood and Transplant
   increase the number of kidney transplants in the UK from paired donation by 44% during the
   REF2021 period. Manlove won the RSE Lord Kelvin Medal for this work. Norman has been one
   of the principal developers for PRISM, a world-leading, award-winning (Haifa Verification Award)
   open-source probabilistic verification tool that has had over 75,000 downloads while related
   papers have received over 4,000 citations;
• GLASS – the Section has a prominent position in parallelism research, e.g., leading the EPSRC
   MaRIONet Network of Excellence and leading 3 of the 5 SADEA Manycore projects. Key
   activities are around open-source and standards, leading to two ICS (Trinder, Perkins).

   1
     https://dl.acm.org/conference/ir/affiliations (as at 31/7/20)
   2
     https://dl.acm.org/conference/chi/authors (as at 31/7/20)
   3
     https://dl.acm.org/conference/mobilehci/affiliations (as at 31/7/20)
                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Johnson’s research has had significant influence on the development of European and Global
    policies in cyber security associated with Critical National Infrastructure security and the aviation
    industry, in collaboration with, among others, GCHQ and the Cabinet Office.

1.2. Structure of the Unit

After REF2014, the Unit underwent a strategic reorganisation to combine expertise from our then
seven groups into our current four research Sections, starting 2017. The Unit is run by the Head of
School (HoS) and the School Executive (comprised of Professors, the Heads of the core committees
and Section heads).

Our restructuring strategy was to consolidate our expertise into a coherent and flexible structure,
giving us bigger communities to tackle larger-scale, global research challenges, and be prepared for
the increase in government investment in R&D to 2.4% GDP over the next decade. Capitalising on
our increased student numbers, we have grown the Unit’s total academic FTE by 60% with 38.5%
of that growth in R&T staff to build critical mass and bring expertise that allowed better synergies
across our areas of research. Our recruitment strategy was to invest in long-term development
through recruiting diverse young talent and provide leadership through competitive internal
promotion. Early career colleagues now make up 29% of our staff. We have built strong connections
with major industries with local presence (e.g., BBC, IBM and JP Morgan Chase) to develop
capabilities in areas of national investment (e.g., healthcare, digital media).

1.2.1. Early Successes of the New Structure
Our restructuring strategy has enabled the new Sections to undertake novel, world-leading work by
combining skills of multiple section members, bringing in significant funding to tackle new research
problems. For example, the £3million EPSRC Closed-Loop Data Science project (led by Murray-
Smith) demonstrated how the critical mass formed around the IDA Section was brought together for
a unique approach to data science, also bringing in companies such as Amazon, JP Morgan and
Skyscanner. Within FATA, Calder’s Science of Sensor Systems Software (S4) EPSRC Programme
Grant also involves Miller and Sevegnani, with collaborators in St Andrews, Liverpool and Imperial
College. Singer (parallel systems) in GLASS run the £900k EPSRC FRuIT project that also brought
together Pezaros and Perkins (networked systems), to explore scale models for Cloud Computing
leveraging clusters of hundreds of Raspberry Pi’s across the UK. Within GIST, the €3million H2020
FETOpen LEVITATE project, coordinated by Brewster, includes JR Williamson and Freeman to
work on highly novel forms of ultrasound-based interaction. There are also large cross-Section
activities: the UKRI SOCIAL CDT (led by Vinciarelli, with Foster and Ounis as Co-Is) brings
together academics from GIST, FATA and IDA, and is joint with the School of Psychology to train
students to build the future of socially intelligent artificial agents.

1.3. Strategy over the REF period

•   Create a flexible and adaptive
    research structure to solve the most
    significant research problems and
    ensure our work has the highest
    relevance and impact: Our strategy
    was to restructure, building on our
    core strengths and expertise but be
    agile and adaptive to new problems by
    using dynamic cross-cutting themes
    (initially identified by the Executive
    and put before the Unit for
    discussion). Three of these are currently running. Evidence of success of the new structure
    includes our academics receiving >20 best paper awards from top international conferences and
    journals, 4 EPSRC Programme Grants (S4, ABCD, Populations, and the recently announced
    QUEST Healthcare 2050), one ERC Advanced Grant Fellowship (Brewster), and over 40

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     academic prizes, showing our research is of the highest international quality. Our projects also
     have strong industrial involvement with >135 companies across the Unit, giving our research
     relevance and impact, and feeding into our ICS (companies involved in our ICS: Trinder:
     Ericsson, EDF, Erlang Solutions; MacDonald and Ounis: [text removed for publication];
     Perkins: Ericsson, CallStats; Manlove: NHS).

•     Increase the number and diversity of academic staff to
     achieve economies of scale and critical mass comparable to Year             R&T Staff FTE
     the upper half of the Russell Group: Our strategy was to 2013 – 14              32.2
     increase the size of the Unit to allow us to tackle larger    2014 – 15         33.2
     problems, and bring in new blood to revitalise the Unit after 2015 – 16         34.2
     many retirals at the end of REF2014. At the REF2021 2016 – 17                   36.6
     census date, the Unit had 44.6 R&T FTE (with an additional 2017 – 18            36.4
     2 fellows), having grown from 32.2 R&T FTE in 2014 and 2018 – 19                40.4
     putting us in the upper quartile in the Russell Group (HESA 2019 – 20           44.6
     2017-18 data). Our strategy has been to employ excellent
     ECR’s to complement the established staff in each Section. Alongside this, we have recruited
     new staff in cross-cutting strategic themes such as autonomous systems (Hesham, Michala),
     healthcare (Deligianni), and media and data science (McDonald, Pugeault) as these are areas
     with high societal need for research.

     We have recruited excellent new ECRs energetically over recent years to build our strength for
     the future and to maintain our teaching and research quality; 46% of our staff are new since
     REF2014, 32% of our new recruits are female and we recruited from 12 different countries. Our
     strategy is paying off with our ECR staff showing excellent trajectories, for example: of staff
     appointed since August 2018, 7 already have grant funding as PI or Co-I; Foster has achieved
     promotion to SL within 3 years; Khamis, within one year of his first academic appointment, has
     produced 5 excellent full papers in ACM CHI, the top publication venue in HCI.

•    Increase research funding commensurate with our larger size and position in research rankings:
     Our strategy was to bring in more bigger grants, focusing on EPSRC and H2020, and recruit LTS
     staff to reduce teaching load to give time for world class research. Our external research funding
     has increased by 35%, to a total research income over the REF period of £21.9M, with 14 grants
     of over £500k distributed across the Sections and academics. We have recruited 7 LTS staff
     since 2018, giving a total of 9, to support teaching and scholarship. To support staff in their
     research, the University recently provided £390k investment for new research infrastructure.

•    Increase PGR numbers and recruit and nurture the best students: Our strategy was to extend
     our PhD cohort and broaden our pool of excellent students to build research strength from the
     ground up. Headcount of PGRs supervised by Unit staff has risen by 80% since 2014. 37% are
     female and our PhD students come from 36 different countries. We competitively recruit the best
     students from across the world, with funding from EPSRC DTA, Horizon 2020, industry
     partnerships and EPSRC iCASE. We specifically aimed at gaining an EPSRC CDT to strengthen
     our PGR numbers and the £5m SOCIAL CDT (socialcdt.org) will add a further 50 students in
     collaboration with the School of Psychology, along with 16 companies and organisations
     (including, Dyson, Flash Robotics, Microsoft, and Telefonica).

1.4. Impact strategy

To build on our REF2014 3.68 Impact GPA (ranked 12th), we further refined our strategy,
concentrating on a small set of objectives to bring impact to the fore, which led to a cascade of
favourable outcomes. Two main objectives were:

1.      Develop long-term national and international partnerships to enhance our research, teaching,
        and impact: We have developed strong relationships with world-leading companies: e.g.
        Google, Facebook, [text removed for publication], Amazon (e.g. collaboration with [text
        removed for publication] led to MacDonald and Ounis’ ICS). We have led international
                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (COST Action CA15210) collaboration networks on kidney exchange programmes, delivering
        impact on kidney transplantation across Europe (Manlove ICS). We used the University’s
        Industrial PhD studentship programme taking advantage of College 50% matched funding;
        the Social CDT; partnership with JP Morgan; the EPSRC Closed-Loop Data Science grant;
        Google AI Faculty & Bloomberg Awards; and a partnership with Naver Labs in Grenoble;
2.      Instil a culture of knowledge exchange, entrepreneurship and impact among staff and
        students: We appointed a Unit Business Development Manager (BDM) in 2014 to ensure
        entrepreneurship and impact were embedded in the Unit's culture. She explores mechanisms
        to support greater impact through research and entrepreneurship, and to widen the current
        pool of organisations that collaborate with the Unit. Successes include the integration of
        engineers from local consultancies (e.g., OBASHI) alongside staff and PGRs, and industrially
        funded PGR studentships (Craneware, JP Morgan). Our BDM also supports engagement in
        entrepreneurship initiatives such as hosting of the StartupGrind initiative events during the
        academic year, a multidisciplinary recent collaboration with Glasgow’s Adam Smith Business
        School on a Startup Factory weekend, and the negotiation of space at the local Skyscanner
        offices for the Unit’s spinouts. We have an Industrial Advisory Board (IAB) comprising 13
        companies (including IBM, Tata, JP Morgan Chase, Skills Development Scotland, and BBC)
        to support our impact, teaching and research activities.

The strategy has led to one successful spinout (Scoop Analytics), 18 startups, and four RSE
Enterprise Fellowships which provide business development, training and funding for academics.
Two of these led to continuing, growing businesses (Opinew and Prodsight). Our staff have won 26
EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) awards for taking research to impact. To support our
impact strategy, we have:

•    Encouraged staff to embed impact from the start of grant preparation. All new projects include
     time from our BDM to support impact and exploitation, while we share best practices in impact
     in grant applications through a grant proposal repository. We regularly run workshops and events
     dedicated to KE and Impact within the Unit (e.g., on KTP, InnovateUK schemes) and, over the
     REF period, we have had 7 InnovateUK and 2 KTP awards;
•    Hosted one of the hubs of the SFC Data Lab Innovation Centre (2014-2019): This led to 6
     collaborative industry projects worth over £220k. The Data Lab also provided £348k to fund
     masters students on our data science and data analytics MSc’s. 36 of the students were matched
     to industry partners for their placements, including: Merkle Aquila, Simul8, NHS NSS, Scottish
     Government, ScottishPower and Clydesdale Bank;
•    Led Knowledge Exchange (KE) in the Scottish Informatics and Computing Science Alliance
     (SICSA) research pool (sicsa.ac.uk), with activities including Demofest and industrial
     participation (Ounis was former SICSA KE Director, Storer is the current SICSA Deputy Director
     and Director of KE & Impact). SICSA is supported by the Scottish Funding Council and Scottish
     HEIs to foster collaboration within the remit of UoA 11 across the sector, and engage with
     industry and increase KE;
•    Actively supported the development of REF Impact Case Studies (ICS). Academics leading
     these are given incentivisation funding to support their time in developing their cases;
•    Recruited academic staff in the media and data science theme (McDonald, Pugeault), to enable
     a new MSc and build a strong relationship with BBC Scotland and other local media companies.

Our ICSs come directly from our impact strategy: Trinder’s ICS is linked to encouraging open source
initiatives; Manlove's ICS is a result of encouraging staff to embed impact in projects from the start;
Ounis and Macdonald, and Perkins’ ICSs are the result of prioritising research that addresses the
pressing challenges facing local and global society (i.e. energy consumption; network
standardisation).

1.5. Multi-disciplinary Research

The Unit strongly supports multidisciplinary research and it is a key part of our strategy to ‘solve the
most significant research problems’. The Unit fosters larger scale activities across and between the

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sections through our cross-cutting theme lectureships while the Unit’s Research Committee
provides seed funding for building collaborations bottom-up. We have had a wide range of
multidisciplinary research over the REF period. The Unit (Ounis, Triantafillou and Ntarmos) was a
founding partner of the Urban Big Data Centre (in collaboration with social science). Murray-Smith
is part of QuantIC, the UK quantum technology hub (quantic.ac.uk). Our UKRI Social CDT
(Vinciarelli) supports significant multidisciplinary work involving 50 PhD students. Each has two
supervisors from different disciplines, drawn from psychology, neuroscience, engineering, and
management. Chalmers’ £1m Human-Data Interaction EPSRC Network+ project has a strongly
multidisciplinary core, with Co-I’s from ethics, medical informatics, art and engineering. The most
recently funded HDI projects combine sociology, digital media and community health. We have taken
advantage of the University’s LKAS Fellowships scheme to promote multidisciplinary work, e.g. we
currently have one fellow (Turpin) working in IDA, coming to us from Physics. There has been a
significant increase in the demand for CS supervisors to co-supervise PGR students in other
disciplines, increasing to 28 students in 2019-20 from just 6 in 2013-14.
                                                                                        Year    % OA
1.6. Open Access                                                                                Outputs
                                                                                        2014     48.1
The Unit strongly supports open access4, with the Research Committee in                 2015     64.5
charge of the topic. Over the reporting period, the Unit’s Open Access outputs
                                                                                        2016     75.3
have almost doubled. All publications (and data from completed projects) are
deposited on the Enlighten institutional repository. Projects within the Unit also      2017      85
meet funder open access requirements, for example depositing data on services           2018     88.6
such as Zenodo and OpenAire.                                                            2019     89.2

1.7. Research Integrity

We follow the approach laid out by the University5, promoting a culture of research integrity through
the roles of Integrity Champions and Advisers, and the model is currently being used as a case study
for both the UK Research Integrity Office and the Royal Society (see our Institutional template).
Within the Unit, all staff undertake research integrity training. Integrity issues are handled initially by
Section Heads giving information and advice. The Unit has an Ethics Champion (Gay) as does the
College (Pearce) who staff can consult. We have yearly research away days for staff and integrity
is a topic that is discussed. Research integrity training is mandatory for 1st year PGRs.

1.8. The Future

The Unit has grown strongly based on the strategy established after REF2014 and is now in an
excellent position to undertake ground-breaking research and scholarship. Recruiting new ECRs
means we are able to continuously revitalise the Unit, generating new research areas and
collaborations, and has set us on the path for a robust future. A key element of our future planning
is to align with the massive paradigm shifts in research culture and associated funding structures,
e.g. as outlined in the UK R&D Roadmap, and in this we will be actively supported by the College
and University. Given our success over the REF period, the University is continuing to invest
strongly, with a further 11 new R&T posts guaranteed over the next 18 months.

Following the outbreak of COVID-19, the Unit developed agile approaches for essential access to
restart research and work on campus. Staff and PGR students have been encouraged to attend
online conferences to keep engaged and disseminate work. The Unit has taken a lead in this area,
setting up an instance of Mozilla hubs as a platform for the community to run virtual conferences (the
first was ACM IMX2020 in June 2020) while staff have been involved in COVID-19-related research
and awarded grant proposals (e.g., Enright, Yuan).

Our strategy for the future builds on our strengths:

   4
       www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/openaccess
   5
       www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/ris/researchpolicies/researchintegrity/
                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •     Adapt and grow our research structures to address emerging research challenges and
         ensure our work is relevant and achieves high impact. Eight of the new academics to be
         appointed will reinforce and renew the existing Sections, the other three will be used to
         support a new cross-cutting theme, with potential topics around programming languages and
         cybersecurity under discussion. We plan to add one new research Section over the next REF
         period to grow our portfolio. We will do this dynamically: developing a prominent theme,
         splitting a large section, or a nucleus may be recruited to address a specific research need;
   •     Inspire and enable our research staff to achieve their ambitions. A key focus is to enable our
         talented early career academics to become established, demonstrate strong leadership and
         achieve eminence;
   •     Continue to increase research funding, impact, and research ranking commensurate with our
         growing size. We will increase the proportion of large grants, with a focus on both EPSRC
         and industrial funding like Innovate UK. We will enhance research impact through our impact
         strategy leading to a cultural change supported by our BDM.
   •     Continue to increase PGR numbers and quality commensurate with our growing size. We
         seek to broaden our pool of excellent students beyond the EU. We will pursue large scale
         doctoral funding, like CDTs and doctoral programmes with strategic industrial partners.

 2. People

2.1. Overview

The Unit is a diverse community with 44% of Cat A and 42% of remaining research staff from the
EU and overseas, bringing together 20 unique nationalities. 18.75% of REF eligible staff identified
as belonging to ethnically diverse communities. We have begun to address the sector-wide
challenge of gender balance, and have improved gender diversity of R&T staff by 7.8%, achieved
proportionate representation in all our activities and processes, set diverse role models, and targeted
outreach activities. We have modernised policies to improve inclusivity and Equality and Diversity
(E&D) to support flexible working, parental leave and return, mentoring and career development
support for all staff, while our paid study leave programme offers significant professional
development opportunities. Research staff (PDRs) are an integral part of the Unit with established
representation in the Unit’s Research Committee and Executive, and in quarterly postdoctoral forums
with the HoS. The team of representatives organize a range of social and professional PDR-focused
events to encourage networking and collaboration, and to promote a positive culture in alignment
with the Concordat for the career development of researchers and the University’s action plan around
collegiality, career development, recognition, open research, and integrity6,7.

Following the outbreak of COVID-19, a suite of much more regular online interactions between
academic staff, PDRs, and PGR students was organised with key staff including the HoS. This
removed barriers resulting from the imposed lockdown and accommodated the needs for staff and
PGR students to work effectively and safely from home, while enabling the monitoring the wellbeing
of staff and students.

2.2. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

2.2.1. Recruitment and Promotion Strategy
Within the reporting period, the Unit has seen a growth of 39% in R&T FTEs to build our strength for
the future and to maintain our teaching and research quality. 22 new Cat A staff have been recruited
at Lecturer or equivalent level, with 11 achieving internal promotion from a variety of routes including
fixed-term research contracts (Anagnostopoulos, Aragon Camarasa, Dardha, Freeman,
McCreadie, McDonald, Sevegnani, JR Williamson) as well as the University’s Lord Kelvin and
Adam Smith (LKAS) scheme (MacDonald, Ntarmos, JH Williamson) for emerging leaders, after
following competitive and transparent appointment processes. This followed our strategy for

   6
       https://www.vitae.ac.uk/policy/concordat
   7
       https://www.gla.ac.uk/myglasgow/ris/researchculture/researchcultureactionplan/
                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
employing excellent ECRs to enhance the sustainability of the Unit, and demonstrates the successful
exploitation of all available support and career development mechanisms (discussed later in this
section) to provide career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff. A new scheme introduced in
2018-19, aims at supporting ECR R&T staff further through the allocation of one PhD studentship
within two years of appointment. Nine of these studentships at home/EU fees and full stipend have
been awarded in the current REF period (recipients Yuan, Steuwer, Dardha, Cano Reyes, Dalton,
McCreadie, Aragon Camarasa, McDonald, Sevegnani). R&T staff recruitment was complemented
by the appointment of a further 7 Learning Teaching and Scholarship (LTS) FTEs for an overall 60%
growth in the Unit’s staff over the REF period.

Leadership throughout the REF period has mainly been through internal promotion (e.g. seven
internal promotions to professor), demonstrating clear career pathways for ECR staff in alignment
with the Concordat. This complemented previous external leadership appointments (Triantafillou,
Trinder), and has been facilitated through identification of appropriate candidates by line managers
at annual appraisals and via self-nomination. To strengthen applications, yearly promotion
workshops are run in the Unit, and promotion is commonly discussed during mentoring sessions.
Applications from females comprised 24% of overall applications, which is on par with the 21.5%
female staff during the review period. In the current assessment period, 62% of all eligible Cat A staff
have been promoted at least once.

Alongside the Section-based restructuring of the line management of the Unit and the established
roles of the deputy HoS (Norman) and the Executive, pathways to internal promotion constitute part
of the long-term succession planning of the Unit which transitioned to a new HoS in June 2020 (Gay).

2.2.2. Career Development
Through cost subsidy, the Unit encourages staff to attend training opportunities offered by the
University through Continuous Professional Development (CPD) courses, ranging from recruitment
and personnel management, to E&D, to research integrity and General Data Protection Regulation
(GDPR). Academic and Research staff in the Unit have attended 205 instances of training over the
assessment period with 27% female engagement. In addition to centrally-provided courses, the Unit
supports women to attend Advance HE’s female-only Leadership Foundation for Higher Education
(LFHE) Aurora. Since the first year of Aurora participation in 2014-15, 80% of attendees have
achieved promotion following completion of the programme.

New Lecturers participate in the University’s Early Career Development Programme (ECDP) through
which they create a long-term personal development plan and set annual objectives to develop the
skills for promotion from Grade 7 to Grade 8 within 3 years, and then to Grade 9 (Senior
Lecturer/Reader) within a further 5 years. The Unit has had 23 staff on ECDP during the assessment
period (14 of whom under 3 years at the census date). From the 9 staff who have been on ECDP for
3 years or more, 75% have already achieved promotion to the next grade within the target period.
An additional staff member has been promoted within 2 years.

2.2.3. Mentoring and Development Support
As part of a strategic approach to inclusiveness and our commitment to the Concordat for the career
development of researchers, the Unit extends the University-wide ECDP scheme through an internal
mentoring scheme to provide personalised and subject-specific career development support to all
members of staff at all levels upon request. PDR staff receive mentoring from their PIs, including
advice on career progression, work-life balance, and technical feedback on job / fellowship / funding
applications. In addition, the Job-Seekers Register gives guaranteed interviews for new jobs to
internal candidates who are approaching the end of their funding.

For academic staff, the Unit has moved from a flat line management model to Section-based line
management in response to staff feedback to provide better support considering the Unit’s growth.
The Head of each Section has formally taken over line management for all academic non-
professorial staff in their Section. Full line management transitioning was preceded by the Head of
each Section conducting the annual appraisal of staff since 2016. This move has enabled staff to
have a closer relationship with their line manager, and to be able to receive timely and more focused

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
feedback and development support. Since these staged changes, average success rates for
promotion applications for the Unit have increased to 89% (2017–2020) from 66% in the previous
period (2014–2016).

2.2.4. Appraisal/Development Review
The Unit undertakes an annual Performance & Development Review (P&DR) which provides the
opportunity for all staff to reflect upon performance and development over the past year and agree
objectives and plans for the forthcoming year. The P&DR cycle includes regular review meetings
scheduled throughout the year to capture progress on the objectives and to offer constructive
feedback and recognition, and a final face-to-face review meeting which is a two-way discussion
between staff and their line manager to reflect on achievements, objectives, challenges, and to set
out future plans that will enable staff to fulfil their longer-term career aspirations.

2.2.5. Networking and Grant Funding Support (Workshops and Training)
The Unit contributed financially to the establishment of the University-wide Women in Research
Network (WIRN) in 2016, which offers research staff across STEM subjects the opportunity to hear
prominent women discuss their challenges and pathways to success.

The Unit actively supports staff, especially ECRs, to identify independent and fellowship funding
opportunities (e.g. Khamis, Omoronyia), and offers annual support and training workshops for staff
to apply for such funding schemes. For example, there was a dedicated workshop organised in
2016/17 to highlight opportunities and support applications for prestigious female-only fellowships.
During the assessment period, 10 PDRs from the Unit have participated in ECR Fellowship
Workshops, with 60% securing lectureship positions within 3 years of completion. The Scottish
Crucible is an annual leadership and career development ECR event focused on creating future
research leaders across Scotland. The Unit has had good representation at the Crucible over the
reporting period (Females: Andrei, Foster, JR Williamson, Dardha, Meeks; males: Sevegnani,
Nabi). A notable leadership success from Crucible attendees has been JR Williamson’s selection
to the ACM Future of Computing Academy.

2.2.6. Study Leave Programme
The Unit has a paid study leave sabbatical programme in place (one semester every four years) to
enable members of academic staff to further their research or to gain significant new professional
experience. Over the reporting period, 12 members of staff were granted study leave, 10 for an entire
academic year and 2 for a single semester. 33% of the paid study leaves were granted to female
academics, a higher proportion than the current academic staff female representation,
demonstrating strong engagement and desire for professional development. Examples of recent
successes resulting from activities undertaken while staff were on paid study leave include the €3m
EU FETOpen LEVITATE project (Brewster, includes JR Williamson and Freeman) and the £670K
EPSRC project on Modelling and Optimisation with Graphs (Prosser).

2.2.7. Engagement Facilitation with Industry/Public/Third Sector
Engagement is a key part of our Impact Strategy. Long-term partnerships and a culture of KE are
instilled though the Unit’s active IAB8. Academic staff are given opportunities to present current
research projects and topics for feedback and engagement. Board membership is diverse and has
traditionally comprised the local technology industry (JP Morgan, Morgan Stanley, SAS, Craneware),
the Public Sector (Scottish Government, Skills Development Scotland), and international technology
organisations (Tata, Google, IBM, Arm, Skyscanner). Examples of concrete collaborations from the
IAB include: the partnership with Skyscanner and JP Morgan in the EPSRC-funded Closed Loop
Data Science project (Murray-Smith); jointly funded PhD studentships with JP Morgan Chase
(Storer); an MoD tender led by Thales to implement machine learning techniques for novel image
analysis challenges (Johnson); the commercialisation of Privacy by Design technology
(Omoronyia) in partnership with Morgan Stanley; and the appointment (0.1 FTE) of Mark Logan,
former Skyscanner CEO and Board Member, to a visiting professorship funded by the Royal

  8
      www.gla.ac.uk/schools/computing/industry
                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Academy of Engineering to work on the development of courses in Growth Science and
Entrepreneurship for staff and students.

2.3. Equality and Diversity

2.3.1. Overview
The Unit is committed to Equality and Diversity (E&D) in its core policies and procedures, including
a supportive and flexible working environment, with commitment from all levels of the organisation
in promoting equality. We achieved Athena SWAN Bronze in 2015, currently pending renewal. The
most recent staff survey in 2018 showed an increase by 7% in staff that find “the environment
inclusive of all genders”, while the percentage of staff who think that “meetings in the School are
scheduled flexibly to enable those with caring responsibilities to attend” more than doubled since
2015 with the introduction of a 10:00-16:00 core hours policy to lower the barriers for those with
diverse caring or other responsibilities.

The Unit adheres to the University E&D policy which includes commitment to disability equality,
ensuring that all staff, students, and visitors have a positive experience of the work, learning,
teaching, and research environment. The Unit adds to the relevant University-wide policies through
proactively attending to staff with protected characteristics on a case-by-case basis and considering
additional measures, such as access to additional entrance lift and priority access to local space for
teaching if centrally managed teaching rooms are not available in close proximity for staff with
disabilities.

2.3.2. Academic and Research Staff Gender Representation
The Unit entered the reporting period with 12.5% female REF-eligible staff. After following our
strategy to increase the number and diversity of academic staff, and taking decisive positive action
to improve gender diversity, it ends the reporting period with 21.5% female Cat A staff (female
academic R&T staff at 20%). From the 22 new Cat A staff appointed in the reporting period, 7 have
been female – 31.8%. Among academic staff Grades, the majority of female Cat A staff are at Grade
8, while two female Professors (Calder, Miller) represent 15.4% of academic staff at the highest
Grade (Grade 10).

Among research staff the percentage of female staff at Grade 7 – the main Grade for post-doctoral
researchers – is higher than at Grade 6, showing a clear pathway to progression for women.

2.3.3. E&D in Recruitment Processes
Candidates for interview are selected using pre-determined essential and desirable criteria.
Appointment panel members must undergo Recruitment and Selection training (a prerequisite of
which is E&D and Unconscious Bias training). Panels have at least one member of each gender and,
for posts at Grades 7 and above, at least 40% female members. Not to overburden female staff with
this, appointing committees often have female staff from other cognate Schools such as Psychology.
The Unit is committed to accommodating childcare arrangements of potential interviewees when
scheduling interviews, while interviewees can claim carer expenses associated with them attending
the interview.

2.3.4. Visibility and Diverse Role Models (for students)
The Unit is committed to providing role models especially for female students, early in their exposure
to the discipline9. Funding and support is provided for the establishment of the Glasgow University
Society for Women in Tech (GU SWiTCH), a network founded in July 2017 to tackle the lack of
female role models and social networks for those students. The network helped hosting CyberFirst,
a female-only, 5-day Summer School programme run by GCHQ for secondary school pupils. We
host Ladies of Code, a monthly open meetup with technical talks from leaders in the field and expert
workshops. Since January 2018, the Unit has hosted a weekly session of the codefirst:girls free
coding course for students who are not enrolled in computing science.

   9
       www.gla.ac.uk/schools/computing/diversity/activities
                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

We ensure that there is appropriate female staff representation at Open Days; that half of Level 1
and Level 2 undergraduate courses are delivered by female colleagues. This has resulted in an
increase of female students enrolled in undergraduate CS plans from 14.7% in 2014 to 19.4% in
2019.

2.3.5. Widening Participation
The Unit participates in the University’s Widening Participation Pre-University Summer School10,
targeted at 16-17-years-old school pupils from deprived backgrounds (measured on the Scottish
Index of Multiple Deprivation). This is the largest summer school of its kind in Scotland and around
half of the participants subsequently enrol as UG computing students at Glasgow, with 24% of these
admissions from females (5-year, 2014-2018 average).

2.3.6. Committee Representation
Female representation on committees is either higher or on par with the overall gender balance of
the Unit. We endeavour to ensure appropriate committee representation that balances gender and
ethnically diverse communities. Responsibilities rotate naturally due to changing circumstances and
personal development plans to ensure staff receive exposure to a range of admin roles and
responsibilities in support of their career development ambitions.

             Committee                                            Female representation
             School Executive                                             22%
             Research Committee                                           33%
             Learning & Teaching Committee                                30%
             Research Student Committee (staff)                           25%
             Research Student Committee (students reps)                   50%

2.3.7. REF2021 Submission
The Unit’s REF-eligible staff male-female ratio is 79%-21%. All staff involved as Champions or
reviewers in the Unit for REF2021 have completed E&D and Unconscious Bias training. Staff were
made aware that they could voluntarily and confidentially declare any personal circumstances that
may have affected research productivity without being individually identified or approached.

Selection of outputs authored by current staff was made according to the institution’s Code of
Practice (CoP) to maximise the GPA of the Unit’s outputs sub-profile even if outputs were unevenly
allocated across staff, different career stages, or not allocating all outputs to their senior author. In
addition, also according to the CoP and with the endorsement of UCU Glasgow, there has been
clear separation between REF and performance assessment and hence output selection decisions
have no bearing on the career progression of any individual colleague.

2.3.8. Flexible Working
The Unit supports a culture of informal flexible working and working from home. Such requests are
made to the line manager, and managers are encouraged to be sensitive to individual needs. The
Unit also observes the University policy on formal flexible working. Any member of staff can make a
flexible working request, and all requests were approved in the reporting period. These rules
changed significantly due to COVID-19, and now all staff are currently working from home by default.
The University has procedures in place for managers to support their staff to return to working on
campus as and when Units reopen.

2.3.9. Parental Leave
Staff are offered early support through their line manager in the case of pregnancy. Cover for
research, teaching, and administrative duties is arranged with the HoS or the Head of School
Administration, and may involve hiring additional staff. There have been five occurrences of paternity
leave and 2 of maternity leave over the reporting period, taken by academic and research staff.

   10
        https://www.gla.ac.uk/study/wp/summerschool/
                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.4. Research Students

2.4.1. Overview
The number of PGRs supervised by the Unit’s staff has risen to 133 (from 74 in 2013-14). Female
PGR student ratio has risen from 19% (2013-14) to 37% (2019-20), improving significantly the Unit’s
PGR gender gap, and in alignment with addressing one of the identified challenges of the sector.
The Unit’s PGR population is increasingly international, with 73% coming from the EU and overseas
in 2019-20 (from 60% in 2013-14), from 31 different countries (36% from ethnically diverse
communities in 2019-20). 7% of the PGR students have declared a disability (2019-20).

There has been increasing demand for academic co-supervision of PGRs on programme plans in a
range of other scientific and medical disciplines (from 2.4 FTEs / 6 students in 2013 -14 to 7.8 FTEs
/ 28 students in 2019-20). PGRs are an integral part of the Unit’s research culture and community,
and our strategy over the REF period was to recruit and nurture the best talent. This is evidenced
through the significant contributions PGRs have made to over 49% of the Unit’s total outputs over
the REF period. PGRs are also involved in significant outreach and research culture activities
facilitated by the Unit, such as the PGR-led (Olaosebikan) Programming Workshop for Scientists in
Africa (PWSAfrica), the PGR-led contribution to the CoderDojo movement (Ryan) running
community-based programming clubs for young people, and the Glasgow Women in Computing
Science (GWiCS) group (Cooper).

2.4.2. Approach to PGR Recruitment
We competitively recruit the best students from a wide range of sources from across the world, with
students funded by EPSRC DTA, Horizon 2020, LKAS, industry partnerships, EPSRC iCASE, and
foreign governments (e.g., China, Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Oman, Nigeria, Turkey, and Thailand).
When applying for admission, applicants are asked to write a proposal which is a core part of their
PhD application and is subsequently evaluated in terms of research potential, originality, and rigour,
alongside the candidate’s track record. The Unit has developed an in-house, online supervisor
search tool11 for potential PGRs to identify relevant members of staff based both on their (online)
profile but also the topics they publish. Each application is reviewed by a minimum of two academic
staff before a decision about admission is made.

The Unit has also introduced international and home/EU excellence bursaries to attract talented
PGRs who would not otherwise have considered Glasgow as a destination through fee discount.
The scheme started in 2018–19 and shows significant promise through a 38% increase in
international student headcount on CS plans, over the last year.

2.4.3. Progress Monitoring and Support Mechanisms
During the latest Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) 2019, PGRs reported very high
satisfaction with their supervisor’s skills (93%) and availability (90%), and an 86% overall satisfaction
(up 4% from 2016/17), showing positive evidence to the Unit’s strategy of nurturing our excellent
PhD students. PGRs get close support through hour-long, in-person weekly meetings with their
primary supervisor. Each is also assigned a second supervisor with complementary expertise who
also has a pastoral role. The Unit operates a mentoring scheme where PDRs mentor PGRs and can
share their knowledge, skills and reflection regarding postgraduate studies and beyond.

The Unit has an established annual progress monitoring procedure where PGRs write a yearly
progress report and are orally examined by two members of academic staff independent from their
supervisory team who subsequently provide detailed feedback. This allows for impartial advice on
ongoing thesis plans and further career progression.

2.4.4. Skills Development and Training
Students are also supported through an extensive PGR training programme offering mandatory E&D
courses, research data management, GDPR, and research integrity. There are also numerous

   11
        https://www.gla.ac.uk/schools/computing/postgraduateresearch/supervisorsearch/
                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
elective activities and courses on transferable skills, ranging from technical to presentation and
effective (scientific) writing.

Support for participation in conferences and workshops for PGRs whose sponsorship does not
cover travel is provided through a dedicated budget. On average, 20 students per year benefit from
this. PGRs are encouraged to publish in the best conferences, with travel support prioritised for
higher ranked venues. The Unit encourages and supports PGRs engaging with the organisation of
social and research related activities. For example, PGRs organise and run a mental health
student support group.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1. Income

The strategic consolidation of the Unit’s core strengths has resulted in an increased and diversified
funding portfolio. During the assessment period, the Unit has attracted an average of £3.7M p.a.
proportioned ownership of external award income, with £25.8M in new HESA-eligible awards through
146 separate projects.
Figure 1 depicts the distribution of awards among Cat A staff, demonstrating increase in the spread
of award income as staff develop their careers.        Figure 2 shows significant (>20%) improvement
in the gender distribution of award income over the assessment period, reinforcing the Unit’s
approach to E&D. Τhe Unit has maintained diverse sources of research income, strengthening the
vitality of our research portfolio, and has achieved an overall growth of 47% in competitively awarded
research income (spend) over the assessment period.

                                                          Proportioned Award Value by Gender


                                                      2013 - 2014


                                                      2019 - 2020

                                                                    0%   20%   40%    60%   80% 100%

                                                                         Female      Male



Figure 1: Percentage award-holders by Grade          Figure 2: Percentage award value by Gender

3.1.1. Research Portfolio
Our strategy for increasing research income was to target bigger grants from EPSRC and H2020,
focusing on the most significant research problems. Major prestigious grant awards made by external
bodies during the assessment period include the £3M Closed-loop data science UKRI EPSRC grant
led by Murray-Smith (IDA), the £1.9 M ViAjeRo ERC Advanced Grant Fellowship awarded to
Brewster (GIST), the £4.2M UKRI/EPSRC Science of Sensor Systems Software (S4) Programme
Grant led by Calder (FATA), the £1.8M EPSRC Border Patrol grant led by Vanderbauwhede
(GLASS), and the £300k Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) Personal Research Fellowship awarded
to Meeks (FATA). Murray-Smith leads the Unit’s participation in QuantIC, the £6.4M UKRI/EPSRC
University of Glasgow led quantum imaging hub. Ounis was Co-PI of the UKRI/ESRC £6.9M Urban
Big Data Centre with Triantafillou as Assistant Director, and Vinciarelli leads the £5m UKRI Social
CDT. This research forms a significant part of the outputs returned for this assessment period. For
example, Brewster (ca. 20k citations) and Murray-Smith’s (ca. 8.3k citations) published works are
extremely well cited, with many best paper awards, and appear consistently in the flagship venues
in HCI, (e.g., ACM CHI and ACM TOCHI); Ounis’s work includes outputs and best paper awards in
top venues in Information Retrieval (e.g., ACM SIGIR, where the Glasgow group is the highest cited
of any University in Europe).

                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Similarly, research funding played a crucial role in supporting the generation of the Unit’s Impact
Case Studies for this assessment period. The authors of the submitted ICS were jointly awarded a
funding portfolio of over £4M over the assessment period, averaging in £200K p.a. per investigator
in award generation.

3.1.2. Consultancies & Professional Services
The Unit encourages staff to engage with industry and government, allowing up to 30 days a year
within contract. Since 2014, staff have participated in 21 consultancies with 14 different
companies/agencies, typically focused on giving specific advice, evaluating or improving products,
with companies including: EDF Energy, US Air Force, Jabra, Mainetti, First Agenda A/S, Blue Bear
Systems Group, Bridgeall Libraries, CCRS Borkers, Neurodata Lab LLC, Singapore Technologies
Kinetics, and Qinetiq. Such activities contribute significantly to strengthening the impact of the Unit’s
research. For example, Perkins’ partnerships with Ericsson and Huawei have contributed to the
development of international standards for real-time multimedia communication which have
subsequently been incorporated in all major web browsers. Murray-Smith’s collaboration with B&O
led to their flagship product, the BeoSound Moment, in 2015.

3.1.3. Industrial PhD Funding
The Unit consistently capitalises on the College policy for 50% match funding on industrial PhD
sponsorships to increase external income and ensure long-term engagement with industry. The Unit
has attracted external funds for 23 such studentships from companies such as Evi, Google, B&O,
Microsoft, Nokia, Obashi, Satalia, Toshiba and Widex, and studentships under the UKRI/EPSRC
iCASE scheme (e.g., with ARUP, BT, DSTL, JLR, Schlumberger). This funding has contributed to
highly impactful research such as the development of forensic tools to minimise the risk of safety-
critical system malfunctions, now used by the UK civil nuclear industry to protect it from possible
cyberattacks (Johnson).

3.2. Infrastructure and Facilities

3.2.1. Overview
The Unit is based in the terraced Lilybank Gardens complex and the adjacent Sir Alwyn Williams
Building. The University and the College have continued to invest in the Unit’s £6M building during
the reporting period. A total of ca £2.5M has been invested in laboratory, office, meeting and social
space, and other strategic research infrastructure. These investments included the conversion and
extension of meeting room and office space (£997K), the refurbishment of student laboratories
(£985K), and the investment in research infrastructure through strategic funding bids for, for
example, file servers, multicore process servers and compute clusters, GPU and networking testbed
equipment (£500K). This level of investment has resulted in a dramatic improvement of the research
environment and reflects the regard that the Unit holds institutionally.

3.2.2. Organisational Infrastructure
The University has made significant investment in the Unit with the funding of 22 permanent
academic (Cat A) staff in the reporting period (as discussed in Section 2), in response to the strategic
objective of expanding the Unit’s size to be in line with the upper half of the Russell Group. New
appointments have been strategically targeted on strengthening the Unit’s research expertise to be
in a strong position to respond to global research challenges. For example, recent recruits in the
areas of healthcare (Deligianni), machine learning (Jensen), and data science (Yuan) helped to
create critical mass for the Unit’s role in the successful proposal of the recently awarded £5.5M
UKRI/EPSRC Transformative Healthcare Technologies 2050 Programme Grant QUEST on
Quantum Imaging for Monitoring of Wellbeing & Disease in Communities (Murray-Smith). Similarly,
investment in growing the Robotics area with two appointments (Foster, Aragon Camarasa)
resulted in ca £1m of research income across several projects funded by UKRI/EPSRC, EC, and
industry.



                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


3.2.3. Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure
The Unit’s Research Committee monitors the research environment, developing strategy, supporting
grant application processes, publicising research results and opportunities, and pump-priming
research (approx. £38K p.a. for the research committee and £8K p.a. for supporting research-related
costs such as conference travel and hosting of external speakers). Together with 26 projects from
the College’s Impact Acceleration Account, such small-scale yet strategic investment has resulted
in highly impactful research such as the development of scalable programming language constructs,
the focus of one of the Unit’s ICS (Trinder). The computing infrastructure within the Unit is supported
by 2 Systems managers, 2 systems programmers and 2 senior technicians. The Unit has been
represented (Macdonald) on the University's Steering Group ensuring effective engagement with
The Technician Commitment and, in particular, how it relates to IT technicians. More recently,
departure of a senior technician has allowed us to look at the demographics in the team and support
replacement with a lower grade appointment to support succession planning and development.

Following the outbreak of COVID-19, the Unit has conducted surveys among staff and PGR students
to identify operational infrastructure needs and, as a result, ergonomic chairs and desks were
delivered to the homes of PDR and academic staff. All requests for such equipment have been met
from the Unit’s operational budget, while further equipping approaches for PGR students are being
considered.

3.2.4 Advanced Equipment and IT Resources
The Unit has invested significantly in its everyday IT needs and also state-of-the-art research
infrastructure. The overall related consumables spend throughout the reporting period totalled ca
£1.6m to 31st July 2020, with an average spend of £226k p.a. In addition, the Sections have received
significant investment in specialist research IT infrastructure:

A 10-node, high-performance cluster is shared between FATA and GLASS. It is used to conduct
large-scale experiments involving algorithms for NP-hard graph problems, algorithms for matching
problems, reproducible parallel combinatorial search applied to computer algebra, and new decision
diagram-based constraint solving systems. This is a unique resource designed for reproducible
parallel symbolic computation (configured for consistency rather than throughput) that goes beyond
what is provided through regional and nationally managed high-performance research
infrastructures. It facilitated research at the intersection of GLASS and FATA, resulting in a recent
£500k UKRI/EPSRC grant award on Session Types for Reliable Distributed Systems (Gay, Trinder).

The IDA Section maintains dedicated compute and GPU clusters to support cutting-edge
experimentation on Big Data search and recommender systems as well as leading research into
artificial intelligence and deep learning systems, including conversational agents and smart robotics.
Such infrastructure has facilitated research on search engine query efficiency prediction that resulted
in increasing the efficiency of [text removed for publication] and underpins one of the Unit’s ICS
(Macdonald, Ounis).

GIST owns a prototype version of a Pepper robot used within the H2020 MuMMER Project (Foster)
including new sensors and design modifications which are to be commercialised as a result of the
project, as well as a PufferSphere and a dedicated VR workshop (JR Williamson). The Section also
owns one NAO Robot for experiments on social human-robot interaction, and has three unique
ultrasound haptics arrays used in Brewster’s FETOpen LEVITATE project, a six-camera Optitrak
motion capture system for highly accurate hand and object tracking, and a Dexmo haptic glove for
VR and haptics work.

GLASS facilities include a distributed compute cluster for experimentation with cutting-edge software
stacks and a large-scale Single-Board Computer cluster, emulating scale models for Cloud
computing which was used as the basis for the £900k UKRI/EPSRC Federated RaspberryPi Micro-
Infrastructure Testbed grant (Singer); a “processor zoo” that comprises a rich set of accelerators,
including a range of GPGPUs and FPGAs for emulating heterogeneous compute environments
which provided a platform for foundational work in the £1.5m UKRI/EPSRC Exploiting Parallelism

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
through Type Transformations for Hybrid Manycore Systems grant (Vanderbauwhede, Gay); an
extensive networked systems laboratory for large-scale network simulation, emulation, and Internet
traffic storage and analysis which has supported research that resulted in the award of the £750k
EPSRC Situation-Aware Information Infrastructure grant (Pezaros). The Cyber Defence Lab
(Johnson) is a unique facility that provides exclusive access to a set of safety-critical network
infrastructures including both conventional technologies but also avionics and vetronics testbeds,
hosting data from digital twins of several UK critical infrastructures and defence applications based
on specialist equipment donated by partner organisations. The labs have facilitated highly impactful
research in securing Industrial Control Systems which has shaped Scottish, UK-wide, European,
and UN cyber security policies for the civil nuclear and aviation industries.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1. Leadership Examples

The Unit has had a prominent role in leading UK Computing Science over many years, as well
providing strong international leadership and strategic direction to the field. Sventek was Chair to
the UK Computing Research Committee (UKCRC) at the start of the assessment period, Johnson
is currently on its Executive Committee with another four academics (Brewster, Calder, Murray-
Smith, Trinder) as members. Calder was Chief Scientific Adviser to the Scottish Government 2012–
2015, and has been included in the Top 50 Women in Engineering in the UK (2016). She chairs the
Science Advisory Committee for Dept of DCMS, sits on the Prime Minister’s Council for Science and
Technology, and is a member of the Technical Advisory Panel to the Investigatory Powers
Commissioner's Office (IPCO). Johnson co-chairs the GCHQ/NCSC steering committee on
industrial cyber security, while he frequently consults and sits on committees of government
departments (e.g., in 2018–2019, DCMS, DfT/BEIS, HMRC) and the Houses of Parliament (e.g., in
2018–2019, House of Commons Science and Technology Committee, House of Lords Select
Committee on Communications). Perkins is the chair of the Internet Research Task Force (IRTF)
which focuses on research issues related to the long-term evolution of the Internet and, in close
collaboration with the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), contribute to the development of
international standards. His work in the IETF has led to his ICS on WebRTC protocol standards.

The Unit has provided strong leadership and direction for SICSA as part of our Impact Strategy,
chairing more of the research themes and directorships than any other University (e.g., Deputy and
KE & Impact Director: Storer, 2019–; Graduate Academy Director: Singer, 2016–2018; Foster and
Pezaros recent research theme leads). The Unit has had significant influence on the direction of
SICSA, for example Murray-Smith initiated the Data Lab Innovation Centre (www.thedatalab.com)
to create an interface between academia and industry in Scotland during his time as Director, which
led to 104 collaborative projects and £590m of economic impact.

Collaboration is at the core of the Unit’s ethos and is a key part of our strategy to ‘solve the most
significant research problems’. Staff across the Sections lead sizeable multi-partner projects, such
as the £4.2m S4 EPSRC Programme Grant with Imperial, Liverpool, and St. Andrews (Calder), the
£1.2m AnyScale Applications EPSRC project with Edinburgh and Manchester (Singer) and the
£5.3m MultiModal Mall Entertainment Robot (MuMMER) EC project with Heriot-Watt, Softbank
Robotics, VTT, and Ideapack (Foster, Vinciarelli).

Manlove chaired the European Network for Collaboration on Kidney Exchange Programmes COST
Action CA15210, to develop a common framework for data and optimisation for kidney exchange.
The cross-Scandinavian ScandiaTransplant kidney Exchange Programme was based on the results
from the project, with its first successful matching run in 2019. Gay chaired COST Action IC1201 on
Behavioural Types for Reliable Large-Scale Software Systems that developed new foundations,
programming languages, and software development methods for communication-intensive
distributed systems.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Unit developed and hosts Terrier (developed by Macdonald and Ounis), an open source state-
of-the-art search engine that provides a unique platform for development and evaluation of large-
scale information retrieval applications. The platform is widely used, e.g. by Amazon Alexa Search,
USA; Yahoo! Research, Argentina; Chinese Academy of Sciences; Italian National Research
Council; University of Southampton; Almaviva SpA, Italy; FX Palo Alto Laboratory.

4.2. Leadership in Academic Knowledge Exchange

Members of the Unit have had more than 250 international conference roles, chairing, serving on
technical, executive, and organisational committees, and reviewing during the assessment period,
including: chairing 27 world-class conferences and workshops, including premier events such as
ACM ICMI 2017, while 50 keynote, plenary and invited talks were given in international conferences,
other academic institutions, and industrial summits.

The Unit hosted ACM CHI 2019, the flagship human-computer Interaction conference with Brewster
as a General co-chair (with JR Williamson and Freeman taking significant roles). The event
attracted almost 4000 of the world’s top researchers to present the future of interactive technology.
This was the first time the conference had ever been held in the UK and was brought to Glasgow
due to the reputation of the Section. Brewster was also a founding member of the ACM CHI Steering
Committee, which sets the strategy and direction for the entire conference series.

4.2.1. International Degree Examination Panel Memberships
Unit staff acted as external examiners outside the UK for PhD and habilitation degrees in >35
defences, including: Australia, Austria, Czech Republic, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany,
Greece, India, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland.

4.2.2. National and International Board Membership and Advisory Roles
Our staff play a significant role in advisory boards across the world. Anagnostopoulos is on the
advisory board of Repado Ltd. Calder was the Chair of the EU Future and Emerging Technologies
Scientific Advisory Group, setting the direction of fundamental research across Europe. She was a
member of The Nurse Review (2015) which led directly to the formation of UKRI. Johnson is advisor
to the board of Frequentis, a technical advisor on UK aviation cyber security strategy for the
Department for Transport (DfT), advisor to the minister on cyber security of critical infrastructure for
the Department for BEIS, and advisor to US Air Force on safety and cyber security. Pezaros is on
the International Scientific Advisory Board for the National Centre for Scientific Research
Demokritos, Greece. Rogers is on the board of the Machine Learning in Computational and Systems
Biology (MLCSB) Community of Special Interest (COSI) of the International Society for
Computational Biology (ISCB). Vinciarelli is on the scientific advisory board of the NeuroData Lab
international AI Hub, and on the robotics advisory board of the French Agence Nationale de la
Recherche (ANR).

4.2.3. Research Collaborations with Research Users, including Industry Users
The Unit has collaborated with >135 companies over the REF period. The Unit currently hosts a
number of iCASE PhD studentships, collaborating with companies such as Jaguar Land Rover, Arup
Group, BT, DSTL, and Schlumberger Cambridge Research Limited. We actively support the
research community, e.g. Vinciarelli has a Feature Selection library on MATLAB File Exchange
which has been downloaded ~18000 times since 2016.

Through the Unit’s participation in QuantIC (Murray-Smith and Turpin), state-of-the-art machine
learning techniques have transformed the capabilities of the Physics partners’ optical imaging
systems, enabling applications at unprecedented levels of performance, including pushing the limits
of fibre optic systems, single-pixel cameras and seeing around corners, as well as applications in
the area of inverse problem solving, enabling imaging systems to see through highly dissipative
materials.



                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Omoronyia’s expertise in cybersecurity led him to gain funding from Innovate UK & the KTN
Cybersecurity Startup Accelerator Programme to commercialise a research-based decision support
tool for the verification of privacy/security in software design, working with 21 companies. He will
strive to commercialise tools to help technology-based companies achieve provable regulatory
compliance through security, privacy and transparency by design.

Interdisciplinary collaboration is widespread. The overwhelming majority of papers are multi-
author, with 42.7% of outputs involving international and a further 17.6% national collaborations.
Over 40% of grants have been with other Units or Institutions. Ounis (with Macdonald and
McDonald) is the only academic partner in the Cicero project with Archives and Security/Defence
contractors, funded by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, to develop tools to review sensitive
documents. The Unit’s research work in identifying sensitive documents before archival was
highlighted in Sir Alex Allen's reports to the Prime Minister on Digital Records (20141 & 20152). A
KTP spin off in Glasgow is currently deploying solutions for the FCO.

Pezaros’ £758k Situation-Aware Information Infrastructure project brought together computer
networking and information retrieval at Glasgow and Lancaster to detect and mitigate the effects of
adversarial events on critical networked infrastructures. The €5.9m EuroFIT project (Chalmers)
combined scientists, community health and football clubs (including Arsenal, Manchester City, PSV,
FC Porto) to target overweight men and support them to become more physically active. Long term
trials showed significant improvements in physical activity, diet, wellbeing, and biomarkers of health.

4.3. Prizes and Awards

Over the REF period, the Unit’s staff have won ~40 prizes, awards, and distinctions demonstrating
the high quality of our staff and research, including: Calder, OBE: DBE awarded in 2020; Royal
Society Wolfson Research Merit Award (2011-2016); Suffrage Science Maths and Computing Award
(2016). Brewster: elected Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (FRSE) in 2017, elected member
of the ACM SIGCHI Academy in 2014 and an ACM Distinguished Speaker in 2015. Johnson:
elected FRSE in 2019. Manlove: SICSA PhD supervisor of the year 2019, and distinguished paper
award at CP 2016. Dalton: Google Faculty and Bloomberg Data Science Research Awards 2019.
Aragon-Camarasa: EPSRC ECR Capital award 2019. Meeks: IPEC 2016 best paper award,
Norman: Haifa Verification Conference (HVC) award. Pezaros: best paper awards from IEEE
Cloudnet 2014 and IEEE HPSR 2015. Singer: best paper award ITiCSE 2019. Steuwer: best paper
award ACM CGO 2018, and HiPEAC Paper Award for ASPLOS 2018 paper. Khamis: honourable
mention award ACM MobileHCI 2018, MUM 2017. GIST Section members won 8 best paper and
honourable mention awards at the ACM CHI conference over the REF period.

4.4. Other Indicators of Wider Influence

As well as senior colleagues, our ECRs have a strong influence across the wider community. For
example, McCreadie works closely with Police Scotland and developed a new incident management
system to link first responders to the command centre and is currently under deployment. JR
Williamson is Vice President for publications on the ACM SIGCHI Executive Committee and is
currently elected on ACM’s Europe Council. Through her work, new publication templates have been
established to support accessibility for all ACM conferences; Dardha is a member of the Computer
Science Committee of the London Mathematical Society (LMS). Meeks is member of the Royal
Society of Edinburgh’s Young Academy of Scotland. It is highly competitive and members must show
“outstanding professional achievement“ to be nominated.

Members of staff have taken editorial board and guest editorship roles for 36 international journals
(including, e.g., ACM Transactions on CHI, Elsevier Information Processing and Management,
Elsevier Theoretical Computer Science, IEEE Transactions on Network and Service Management)
during the assessment period. The Unit hosts twelve full and one associate member of the EPSRC
College of Peer Review.



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



4.5. Further Contributions to Society

The Unit has had a major influence in leading the transformation of the teaching of Computing
Science in schools. Calder chairs the BCS School Curriculum and Assessment committee. Recent
activities include recommendations to OfQual on the exceptional arrangements for Computer
Science examinations due to COVID-19, and to DfE on the content of the GCSE. Cutts, MBE,
launched the Centre for Computing Science Education (CCSE) in 2017, with a focus on curriculum
and pedagogical research, and influencing policy and practice. Cutts worked with Education
Scotland to design the new Scottish CS curriculum, launched in 2017 and adopted nationally for all
3-15-year-olds. It is now delivered in all state primary and secondary schools by Scotland’s 650 CS-
specialist and >23,000 non-CS-specialist teachers. Within the University, CCSE has pioneered the
development of Graduate Apprenticeships, a new degree programme in partnership with 25
employers. The programme will generate >£1m p.a. for the Unit when fully operational in 2020.

The Unit supports several PGR-led services, e.g., HackyHour that provides free computing expertise
to users across the University. The student-led Glasgow University Software Service (GUSS –
managed by Storer) allows University colleagues to leverage student computing skills. Students
benefit from gaining real-world experience while customers benefit from custom-designed solutions.
One recent success is the development of ApplTree with the Institute of Mental Health and Wellbeing
for supporting people with brain injury, now undergoing clinical trials.

The Unit has actively championed the development of the Programming Workshop for Scientists in
Africa (www.pwsafrica.org), a PGR-led initiative to empower young scientists in Africa to push the
frontiers of knowledge in science and technology. Funded by the Unit, SICSA, and the University’s
Global Challenges Research Fund, annual programming workshops have been delivered to over
100 students in Nigeria and Rwanda.




                                                                                           Page 18
