Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Westminster

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 History at the University of Westminster is a vibrant and research-intensive unit that features
 cutting-edge research in modern and contemporary history, cross-disciplinary collaborations with
 a range of external partners and a commitment to societal impact and open access publication
 and dissemination.

 Since the previous REF, research in History has moved to the School of Humanities, within
 the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences. This has enabled closer cross-disciplinary
 collaboration with colleagues from English, Modern Languages and Visual Culture (submitted in
 sub-panels 26, 27 and 32), impacting in particularly positive ways on the UoA’s key research
 clusters clusters in identities and in museum and heritage studies. Catterall (as REF lead for
 History) and Glew (as the School’s Doctoral Research Co-ordinator) represent the unit on the
 School Research Committee (SRC), which plans, manages and monitors research across the
 School. At University level, Catterall also chairs the editorial board of the open-access
 University of Westminster Press (UWP) and plays a leading role in overseeing its burgeoning
 inter- and multi-disciplinary range of freely accessible, peer-reviewed monographs and journals.

 With c.88% of QR funding returned directly to Schools, History is able to draw upon internal
 funding from across the School of Humanities in order to support its commitment to research
 through annual sabbaticals and PhD studentships, and through funding for conference
 attendance and organisation and research travel and archival visits for staff and postgraduate
 researchers. Dedicated time to pursue research activities is ensured for all colleagues through
 guaranteed research hours in staff workload, supported by additional allocations for scholarship,
 impact-related activities and the writing of substantial research bids beyond the standard
 research allowance (see section 2).

 Research in History has been further supported centrally through new investment since 2014 in
 the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO), which provides dedicated
 staff to identify external funding opportunities, facilitate applications, and to support impact and
 public engagement, as well as in the Westminster Graduate School, which has resulted in
 enhanced financial and administrative support and training for our postgraduate researchers.

 1.1 Research Strategy

 Following REF2014, the UoA identified three key strategic goals for our future development:

    1) To establish its international research profile in three main thematic areas (as detailed
       below) and to develop the volume and quality of its world-leading outputs in each of
       these, not least through cross-disciplinary working within the School.
    2) To expand our doctoral researcher numbers in a sustainable fashion through increased
       internal and external funding.
    3) To enhance our dissemination, impact and externally-facing research activities in
       alignment with the research strengths of the UoA through new collaborations with high-
       profile external partners in London and beyond.
 In our environment statement for REF2014, we identified increasing the number of research-
 active staff entering the REF as a particular priority. We are now entering four more staff (3.6
 FTE) than was the case in the previous REF, when only six members of staff were entered. The
 UoA now has 10 permanent staff (8.6 FTE), with strong international reputations in their fields,
 all of whom are active researchers entered into REF2021. The appointment of two new early
 career researchers since 2014 (Attwood, Broch) and the promotion of Smylie and Speiser to


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 full-time contracts has both demonstrated Westminster’s commitment to investment in research
 in History and enabled a significant expansion of research activity within the subject area.

 As a result, History at Westminster has developed over the census period into a small but
 productive and very impactful UoA. Over the course of the REF period the UoA produced 15
 books (including 9 monographs), 24 refereed articles and 31 book chapters from which the 22
 outputs (including six double-weighted outputs) have been selected for submission to REF2021.
 Historical research in the unit spans a wide range of topics focused on modern British and
 European history. As part of our future strategy to build critical mass and impact, particular
 concentrations of research activity and internal collaboration have been identified and enhanced
 by the UoA’s recruitment practices and its development of distinctive research clusters, as
 detailed below.

 Histories of Conflict

 New strategic appointments since 2014 have significantly strengthened the breadth and
 internationalisation of research on histories of conflict, a major research strength of the unit.
 Research in this area is organised into three main sub-themes.

 i) Cold War and Conflict
 A key development since 2014 has been work on various aspects of the Cold War. This includes
 Speiser’s pioneering and so-far-unique work on the British Army of the Rhine (including his
 2016 monograph), which weaves military history into a social history of the encounters between
 British troops and their German hosts, as well as Smylie’s ground-breaking work on Cold War
 Belfast and Catterall’s analyses of the global dimensions and memory of the Cuban missile
 crisis.

 ii) The Social Dimension of Conflict
 The second sub-theme successfully developed since 2014 concerns the social dimension of
 conflict. Of particular importance in this respect is Broch’s first monograph, Ordinary Workers,
 Vichy and the Holocaust, published by Cambridge University Press in 2016 and in French as
 Les Cheminots, Vichy et la Shoah: Des travailleurs ordinaires (Editions Tallendier, 2016). This
 studied the lives of French railway workers during the Second World War and crucially de-
 sanctified the myth of French railwaymen as heroic resisters and saboteurs which had been
 erected by films such as La Bataille du Rail (1945). It builds upon her earlier edited volume:
 France in the Era of Global Wars, 1914-45: Occupation, Politics, Empire and Entanglements
 (Palgrave Macmillan, 2014). Broch has followed this up with her ongoing project on ‘The
 Gratitude Train’. Supported by a Leverhulme/British Academy grant, this explores the history of
 52,000 personal objects gifted from French people to Americans in 1949 in thanks for their aid
 during and after the Second World War.

 iii) Civil Conflict
 An important longue durée analysis of the impact on civil conflict of changes in epistemic
 communities and communications is Catterall’s 2020 analysis of ‘Language, Religion and
 Ethno-National Identity’ for the journal Ethnic & Racial Studies. Broch and Attwood both made
 major contributions to the history of anti-Semitism, in France and Britain respectively, while
 Doherty and Smylie similarly added to understandings of the role of structural factors, political
 cleavages and mass communications in the outbreak and course of the Troubles in Northern
 Ireland.

 Identities and Memory

 Research on histories of conflict intersects with the UoA’s second key research cluster focused
 upon identities. Strengths in this field are considerably enhanced by interdisciplinary
 engagement with the interests of colleagues within the wider School of Humanities, and by the
 support of the University’s cross-disciplinary Diversity and Inclusion Research Community for a


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 range of research and dissemination activities. The UoA’s work in this area is organised into four
 sub-themes.

 i) Women’s and Gender Identities
 Of particular significance in this field is Glew’s 2016 monograph on women’s employment in the
 British civil service and London County Council 1900-1955. This and Glew’s subsequent
 publications make a major contribution to the growing field analysing female professional
 identities and their intersection with the feminist movement internationally. Attwood’s work on
 histories of trafficking reflects in depth upon gender politics, trafficked and marginalised women’s
 experiences and cultural representations since the late nineteenth century. Catterall has
 published widely on coming out as transgender. She also served on the Royal Historical
 Society’s (RHS) working group on LGBTQ+ historians and histories and contributed extensively
 to the resulting report, published in September 2020. Her doctoral research student, Omar
 Phoenix Khan, authored a commissioned toolkit on Gender and Security for the Geneva Centre
 for Security Sector Governance/UN Women on Places of Deprivation of Liberty and Gender in
 2018.

 ii) Political Identities
 Research on political identities is a particular feature of Smylie’s work, not least in his co-
 editorship of and contributions to Irish Communist Lives (2020). Relationships between political,
 religious and class identities are closely examined in Catterall’s ground-breaking 2016
 monograph on Labour and the Free Churches 1918-1939. The interplay between political and
 religious identities and institutions is also explored in her research project into the role of
 community bodies known as Mahalla in processes of state- and nation-building in Uzbekistan.
 This is a transnational project in which the UoA benefits from the University of Westminster’s
 strategic links with Westminster International University in Tashkent (WIUT) where Catterall’s
 research partners are based.

 iii) National Identities
 This is a major strand of the research activity of most members of the UoA. French identity is
 central to Broch’s work on the problematic legacy of the Second World War. Lynch also
 examines the history of French identities, particularly in response to tax policy, as part of her
 ongoing work into the French economy since 1945 commissioned by Agenda for their world
 economies series, with a major monograph due to appear early in 2021. Doherty and Smylie
 work extensively on identities in Northern Ireland. Speiser’s work significantly enhances
 understanding of post-war Anglo-German identity politics, while Seidel’s analysis of the
 Common Agricultural Policy casts new light on the intersections between policy and emergent
 anti-European identities, especially in Britain. Catterall is editor of National Identities, the
 international inter-disciplinary journal she co-founded in 1999. Francesco Cacciatore, while a
 doctoral researcher in the UoA, published on Italian identities in London. Jason Frost holds the
 National Identities research studentship in the UoA, working on religion and Englishness. He
 published his first article in early 2020 on British Israelism, with another forthcoming on
 eighteenth-century martyrdom sermons.

 iv) Transnational Identities
 Transnational histories of Europe and European integration are explored by Lynch in the
 context of her work on French and European fiscal policy. This resulted in a database,
 EuroPTax, which calculates personal income taxes paid in nine European countries for the
 period 1957-2007. Seidel scrutinises the emergence of a European identity in European
 institutions, most notably as a significant contributor to the international team of historians writing
 the third volume of the official European Commission history. This was funded by the European
 Commission and published in 2019. She also initiated research into comparative analysis of the
 under-explored history of international bureaucracies. A significant contribution to this research
 will be made through the Leverhulme postdoctoral award Seidel secured to work with Dr
 Lindsay Aqui on British bureaucrats in Brussels at the University of Westminster. Transnational
 histories are also central to the research of Attwood on Jewish identities, as well as in her work


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on trafficking and her role in the Trafficking Past research network, and to Catterall’s work on
 the historical development of the idea of the Commonwealth and of British relations with Islam.

 A further dimension of this research theme is the study of transatlantic relations, which is, for
 example, explored by Broch’s developing project on the Gratitude Train, Law in his pioneering
 monograph on American views of British identities during the 1950s, Not Like Home (McGill-
 Queens University Press, 2019), and Catterall’s analysis of the personal Anglo-American
 diplomacy of Kennedy and Macmillan.

 Urban Histories and Heritage

 The longstanding strength of the UoA in this field is marked by a number of significant
 publications. Law used the prism of urban change in the twentieth century to map the impact of
 modernity in a series of important monographs, most notably The Experience of Suburban
 Modernity: How Private Transport Changed Inter-war London (Manchester University Press,
 2014) and 1938: Modern Britain (Bloomsbury, 2018). He also explored the impact of
 urbanisation on leisure activities, including in his co-authored monograph with Professor David
 Gutzke of Missouri State University, The Roadhouse Comes to Britain (Bloomsbury, 2015).

 Clapson led international research into the impact of urbicide through his Daiwa project
 comparing the effects of urban bombing in Britain and Japan. This work culminated in his
 synoptic, post-retirement international analysis of this subject in The Blitz Companion (University
 of Westminster Press, 2019). The unit’s expertise in this area also led the British Library to
 commission Speiser’s guide to Soho: The Heart of Bohemian London (2017).

 Catterall’s publications on urban heritage, statues, memorialisation, and inclusion have led to
 various impact activities. She was nominated by the London Historic Environments Forum, on
 which she has served since 2011, to contribute to Heritage 2020’s ‘Heritage Foresight’ meeting
 to set strategic targets for the next five years. Even more significant is her developing
 collaboration with Arup – a multinational professional services partnership headquartered in
 London specialising in the development of the built environment – into ‘Queering Public Spaces’.
 Catterall’s talk on this subject to some 100 architects and planners at Arup’s London
 headquarters on 26 February 2020 was widely disseminated as a podcast and led to Arup
 funding an international research project on this subject in July 2020 led jointly by Catterall and
 Dr Ammar Azzouz (Arup/University of Oxford).

 1.2 Support for Interdisciplinary Research

 Interdisciplinary approaches are apparent throughout the research and engagement activities
 taking place within the UoA. The unit’s location within the School of Humanities has fostered
 interdisciplinary collaborations with several colleagues in other disciplines. For instance, Broch
 works closely with Dr Itay Lotem (UoA26) on history and memory in France. Their co-hosting of
 the annual French History conference at Westminster in 2020 unfortunately had to be postponed
 because of COVID-19. Similarly, Glew and Catterall both work closely with Dr Peter Ride
 (UoA32) and other colleagues in the field of museum and heritage studies. Across the wider
 University Catterall is an active participant in the work of the Law School’s Centre for Law,
 Society and Popular Culture, through which she co-organised the 2018 British Society for Sports
 History’s annual conference at Westminster and developed the ensuing ‘Played at the Poly’
 project.

 Interdisciplinary work is equally apparent in doctoral research. Prior to his retirement, for
 example, Harding co-supervised doctoral research on English nuns in exile (awarded 2016) with
 a colleague in English Literature (submitted UoA27), while Catterall is currently co-supervising
 doctoral researchers on subjects including the Prevent programme and detention without trial in
 Brazil jointly with colleagues in Criminology.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Support for Open Research

 University policy and support for open access, along with procedures for meeting (and going
 beyond) the essential RCUK and REF open-access requirements are described in REF5a. The
 University’s commitment to open research is apparent, too, in its investment in the setting up of
 the University of Westminster Press (UWP). This was launched in 2015 as an open-access
 publishing platform providing all its publications in freely available digital form, with the aim of
 providing the widest possible dissemination to researchers around the globe. History has played
 a central role in the academic development of the press and has been represented on the board
 since UWP’s inception, first by Clapson (2015-18) and then by Catterall (2018-), who is
 currently also its chair. All UWP’s publications are rigorously peer-reviewed both by the editorial
 board chaired by Catterall and by at least three internationally respected scholars. While
 deliberately inter- and multi-disciplinary in approach, UWP specialises in social sciences and
 humanities areas and their relationship to emerging technologies.

 One founding intention of UWP was to facilitate the publication of doctoral research from
 Westminster. This has included Duncan Bowie’s Reform and Revolt in the City of Dreaming
 Spires: Radical, Communist and Socialist Politics in the City of Oxford 1830-1980 (2018). The
 Press also published Clapson’s The Blitz Companion (2019). Clapson is one of 219
 contributors from 33 countries who by the summer of 2020 had produced 35 books and six
 journals with UWP, with over 700,000 views and downloads.

 1.4 Impact Strategy

 Specific hours for impact activities are incorporated into staff workload in the School of
 Humanities, which also provides financial pump-priming of public engagement and networking
 events. Central support is provided by a dedicated full-time Impact Officer in the central
 University RKEO, active University Press Office and full-time College Events Organiser. Drawing
 on such support, Attwood, Catterall, Glew, Lynch and Seidel, for example, have all conducted
 significant impactful research with professional bodies and/or practitioners, ranging from Historic
 England to the European Commission, since 2014.

 A key facet of the UoA’s impact strategy since 2014 has involved collaborative work with the
 museums and heritage sectors. This builds on the University’s long-standing relationship with
 the Smithsonian in Washington DC and the Museum of London. Of particular importance is
 Broch’s work with the Imperial War Museum (IWM), the Smithsonian and the Pears Institute on
 memory and memorialisation of the Holocaust and the Second World War. The first fruits of this
 work, Broch’s important contribution to the £30.5m refit of IWM’s Second World War and
 Holocaust galleries, is currently being installed. Broch’s work in this area was also a major
 feature of her media work, particularly for the Discovery Channel’s World War II: Witness to War
 series in 2017. For further details, see the impact case study on ‘Race and Remembrance in
 France and Germany’ in REF3.

 Catterall gave presentations to over 100 heritage and conservation professionals at the
 Heritage of London Trust’s annual conferences in 2016 and 2017. She addressed similar
 numbers of museum professionals at her workshop on ‘Academics in Residence’ in February
 2018. Her report on the ‘Academics in Residence’ report was also a keynote of the return made
 from the Museums and Universities Partnership Initiative (MUPI) programme to the funding
 body, Arts Council England. See also the ‘Changing Attitudes to the Past: Political, Cultural and
 Built Heritage’ case study in REF3

 A second arm of the UoA’s impact strategy centres on policy history and its contemporary
 implications. Both Attwood and Glew have written widely about their findings on women’s and
 trafficking history for charities, think tanks and in the media. Broch comments frequently on the
 implications of her research for contemporary French identities. As a Board member of the
 Centre of Opposition Studies (2013-19), Catterall was Co-Investigator on their projects on
 political reform in Jordan and Kuwait in 2012-14 and 2014-15 funded by the Foreign Office’s

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Arab Partnership Fund. This included presentations on project findings to British ambassadors
 and Jordanian and Kuwaiti ministers, officials and MPs.

 The work of the UoA in these areas is now being developed to address the historical background
 to further major contemporary themes, such as the rise of populism and the constitutional impact
 of COVID-19.

 1.5 Future Strategic Aims and Direction

 The UoA’s main priorities and objectives over the next five years include:

    •   Further development of critical mass and international profile in key research areas to
        maximise opportunities for impact and collaborative research with external museum and
        heritage partners and to enhance opportunities to tap into a range of further external
        funding sources, from Arts Council England to industry sponsors such as Arup. The
        combination of existing partners, internal expertise and its contemporary resonance
        means that the area of museums and heritage is identified as likely to be especially
        impactful post-2020.
    •   Ensuring that History at Westminster remains a collaborative and supportive environment
        for its staff and doctoral researchers, providing plenty of opportunities for its team to grow
        their ideas and connections both internally (e.g. through the University’s research
        communities) and with external partners.
    •   Mentoring of early career researchers (ECRs) to develop their capacity to initiate and
        lead their own research projects, building on the development of their research profile
        and experience of PhD supervision in the present REF cycle.
    •   Maximising the impact and reach of the UoA’s research outputs, not least by ensuring
        that all members of the unit have participated in the training provided within the School
        and by the RKEO on developing the impact of research. We recognise that a strategy of
        focusing research on collaboration with partners is key to ensuring outputs are effectively
        disseminated to relevant practitioners and to wider audiences.
    •   Sustainable growth in doctoral research registrations and completions, through both
        internal and external funding. This includes via collaborative doctoral award (CDA)
        projects funded by the AHRC Technē DTP consortium of which Westminster is a
        member, the first fruit of which is a project awarded in June 2020, hosted jointly with the
        Royal United Services Institution, on reconstructing the history of their ‘lost’ museum.
    •   Participating fully in the decolonising of our research agenda. Important recent steps
        towards this include the University’s first BME PhD studentship, which the School of
        Humanities has established to begin in 2020-21.
 These aims rest on the dynamic progress of the UoA over recent years, which has gone from
 returning four staff in RAE2008, to six in 2014, and now ten in 2021. History is one of only two
 UoAs at Westminster, a post-1992 institution, where all Category A eligible staff are being
 returned. Our mainly junior staff members have significantly enhanced their experience and
 skills in publishing monographs, supervising doctoral students and disseminating their findings
 over this REF cycle. Their specialisms, inter-disciplinary connections within and beyond the
 University, growing international profiles within the discipline and success in pursuing funding
 opportunities demonstrate the vibrant and sustainable future there is for research in History at
 the University of Westminster.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff

 University investment in History and our successful recruitment and staff development strategy
 has resulted in a dramatic increase in research-active staff within the discipline, including two
 new ECRs, Attwood (2015) and Broch (2014), who were recruited specifically with the aim of


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expanding our portfolio of internationally excellent research in our key areas of Histories of
 Conflict and Identities. We are now entering a third more staff than was the case in REF2014.

 The UoA has put into practice the idea that to develop our research we must support and nurture
 our people. Such support for all researchers in the School is administered and monitored by the
 SRC, with central support from the RKEO, and has five main elements:

 Research Hours: All History staff (both full-time and fractional) have significant responsibility for
 research and are allocated dedicated hours in which to pursue and develop their research
 alongside their teaching and administrative duties. This allocation varies between 350 and 425
 hours per annum for research – out of a contracted total of 1504 pro rata – complemented by
 174 additional hours allocated for scholarly activity. The workload allocation model (WAM) is
 also used to incorporate additional time allowances directly into staff timetables, including for
 impact activities, research administration and larger funding bids, Regular and consistent time to
 pursue research and scholarly activities is thus provided for all staff, constituting at least a third
 of overall workload. Newly appointed researchers are also given a lighter teaching load for their
 first year (equivalent to one less module per semester) to enable them to establish their research
 at Westminster.

 Sabbaticals: In 2015 a new sabbatical scheme funded out of QR monies was introduced. These
 one-semester long sabbaticals are allocated on a competitive basis, with applicants having to
 demonstrate how they intend to use the time, what the outcomes will be and how these relate to
 the strategic objectives of the UoA. Recent sabbaticals have, for example, been used either to
 complete significant pieces of work – such as Seidel’s research in 2019 on the history of the
 Common Agricultural Policy – or to develop new areas of research, such as Doherty’s
 pioneering analyses of media reactions to the Troubles in Northern Ireland during his sabbatical
 in the same year.

 Research Allowances: Financial allowances to support research travel to archives, conference
 presentations and other research-related activities are awarded via a biannual bidding process
 administered by the SRC. This is funded from QR income from across the School. Over this
 REF cycle this averaged around £1,000 made available per person per annum, with a particular
 focus on nurturing the work of ECRs.

 Research Training: The RKEO ensures that varied training provision is available to staff,
 designed to nurture the capacities of academic researchers (see REF5a). As well as generic and
 subject-specific research skills, this includes training on preparing research bids, undertaking
 contract research and public engagement and knowledge exchange. Regular bid-writing clinics
 with external consultants and residential writing retreats at the Abbey Sutton Courtenay are also
 provided by the College. The University’s Graduate School offers training for all staff in
 postgraduate supervision, which is mandatory for ECRs and all new supervisors.

 Research Mentoring: Individual staff research plans and objectives are discussed and monitored
 through annual research interviews for all staff, coordinated by the SRC. There is a well-
 developed peer-to-peer mentoring system whereby colleagues share experience and guidance
 on everything from publications to research bids. For junior staff and ECRs, this is supplemented
 by access to regular meetings with an experienced mentor able to advise them on the
 development of their research career in line with the key principles of the Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers. There are also College Mentoring Circles, where 8-10
 mentees meet to discuss professional experiences and challenges in a supportive peer group
 led by experienced academic mentors from across the College.

 Collegiality and research guidance are further supported by the regular seminars and workshops
 that are held in the School. These include the History Research Seminar, which features papers
 from both in-house and external colleagues. These seminars were moved online and peer-
 support made more extensive in order to support staff and student well-being and the continuity
 of research activity during the pandemic.

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.2 Students

 The University’s Graduate School oversees a comprehensive system of research support and
 monitoring for all doctoral researchers and coordinates the Doctoral Researcher Development
 Programme through a range of customised workshops, individual sessions and PDP activities
 based on the national Vitae Researcher Development Framework. It also organises regular
 symposia and workshops on post-doctoral careers, with speakers from academia, business,
 UKRI, Vitae and London First. For further details, see REF5a.

 This University-level provision is accompanied by School-level training programmes and events
 to develop discipline-specific research skills, led by Glew as School Doctoral Research
 Coordinator. Student progress with the training programme and at key stages of the research
 degree (registration, transfer, completion) is monitored annually at unit, School and College
 level. All PGRs are allocated a main and a secondary supervisor relevant to their research area,
 with a minimum of six supervisory meetings required each year. Students are also encouraged
 to gain experience through teaching on the School’s BA programmes in History and can
 undertake training via the University Certificate of Special Study for Supporting Learning and
 sessions on the DRDP. An annual residential away weekend for doctoral researchers is run by
 the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences with the aim to foster research relationships and
 insights between students across different disciplines and schools. It is free to all who attend.

 Doctoral students benefit from access to earmarked funding for conference attendance, archival
 visits and other research expenses both in Britain and abroad. This is awarded biannually
 through the SRC on the same basis as for staff. The Globally Engaged Researcher Fund
 administered by the Graduate School is further available to support student training needs
 beyond what is routinely offered by the University. There are also other mechanisms of support.
 For example, the doctoral research by Dr Neil Matthews (completed in 2014) on the important
 role the Polytechnic Touring Association played in the development of the tourist industry was
 part of the UoA’s major project researching the history of the University funded by the Quintin
 Hogg Trust, a charitable trust set up to continue the legacy of the University of Westminster’s
 founder. Another student, Omar Phoenix Khan (ongoing), is similarly funded. Jason Frost
 (ongoing) was awarded a National Identities research scholarship. Additional QR monies have
 been used to fund two further scholarships within the subject area since 2014. Chelsey Mordue
 (ongoing) combined this with an internship with Baroness Hayter of Kentish Town, the
 Opposition Brexit spokesperson in the Lords, for her research comparing Parliament’s
 management of Britain’s processes of entering and leaving Europe.

 Five doctoral researchers completed in History over the current REF period (up from two in
 REF2014). Three of these have subsequently moved on to academic positions. Dr Francesco
 Cacciatore (2018) now teaches at the University of Salerno, who funded him to return to
 Westminster for three months early in 2020 for post-doctoral studies with Catterall on a follow-
 up to his doctorate. Dr Kevin O’Daly (2016) holds post-doctoral fellowships at both Westminster
 (2017-2021) and Pembroke College, Cambridge (2019-2021) for his project looking at how
 recently released material casts new light on Kim Philby, for which he is being mentored by
 Catterall and Dr Dan Larson. Dr Caroline Watkinson (2016) is now a teaching fellow at the
 Ironbridge International Institute for Cultural Heritage, University of Birmingham.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 A commitment to diversity and equality is apparent in both the personnel and research activities
 of the UoA. We have made considerable progress in staff diversity but are aware of the need to
 increase BME representation. 60% of staff in History identify as female (including the two most
 senior research staff) and the one Professor in the UoA is transgender. The UoA has also
 actively recruited, provided doctoral research studentships for and supported students with a
 range of protected characteristics, including disability. In such circumstances, care is taken as
 appropriate to ensure that students have been able to access additional support and

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interruptions in studies when required. Similarly, the UoA’s two ECRs were actively supported
 through maternity leave arrangements. These included regular ‘keeping in touch’ engagement
 and transition back to work support. Similar arrangements exist for long-term sick leave and
 other such requirements but have not been needed during this REF cycle.

 The new School EDI Working Group includes research within its remit and the SRC is
 collaborating with other Schools to identify and systematically audit the critical decision points
 where EDI in research can be positively affected, including career progression, mentoring and
 sabbaticals, and to ensure suitable support is put in place (e.g. identity-specific mentoring from
 other Schools where necessary). The University requires all Schools to meet the standards of its
 Athena Swan charter, and all appointment panels have to be gender-balanced. In 2020 Catterall
 became co-chair of the University’s LGBTQ+ Staff Network and a member of the University’s
 EDI committee. As such she contributed both to the University’s response to Black Lives Matter,
 and to the developing agenda of decolonising the curriculum. She has also served on the board
 of the disability charity, Inspire Community Trust (2011-19), and the RHS LGBT+ working group
 (2020).

 Our commitment to equality and diversity is further reflected in the important research carried out
 within the unit in this field. Glew’s work focuses on the struggle for women’s equality, reflected in
 her invitation to give the keynote at the 2019 Women’s History Network conference. The
 historical oppression of vulnerable groups, particularly women, is central to Attwood’s work on
 sex trafficking. As well as writing on the history of this problem, Attwood also comments
 extensively on contemporary aspects of trafficking and the lessons to be learnt from history in
 tackling it. Broch draws attention to the continuing need to come to terms with a problematic
 history of inhumanity and anti-Semitism in the dissemination of her work on the Holocaust in
 France. She also explores the occlusion of the role of colonial subjects in the memorialisation of
 the French resistance. Catterall’s 2019 publication on Britain’s global relations with Islam in the
 twentieth century reflects extensively on the causes and consequences of rising Islamophobia.
 ‘On Visibility’, about Catterall’s practice as an LGBT+ historian, was published alongside the
 RHS’s report on LGBT+ Histories and Historians, which she co-authored.

 The UoA Lead and all internal readers involved in the evaluation process for output selection
 received training in equality and diversity issues related to REF2021. Following University policy,
 outputs were selected by identifying the minimum one output per researcher on a quality basis.
 The remaining pieces comprise the highest-rated pieces in the output pool, as graded by a
 minimum of two reviewers. Where evaluation resulted in the same grade, representation of staff
 with protected characteristics and of research areas across the submission was taken into
 consideration in the final decision on which outputs should be submitted.

 The quality of outputs produced across the team ensured that the unit was able to make internal
 allowance for individual staff circumstances. For instance, the extent of maternity leave taken by
 staff in the UoA meant that we could have made a request for a reduction in the number of
 outputs to be returned. However, after extensive consideration the view was taken that this
 would not reflect the quality and significance of the contributions made by the members of staff
 concerned.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 All researchers in History have access to dedicated support from the University’s RKEO in the
 form of a full-time Research Development Partner attached to the School who advises on
 research funding schemes and bid costing. The RKEO also houses a dedicated Impact Officer
 and Post-Award Manager. The quality of submitted funding applications is ensured through both
 School-level and College-level peer review processes, drawing on the expertise of successful
 major grant recipients and current and former members of UKRI/RCUK Peer Review Colleges at
 Westminster. At School level, as well as local bid writing workshops, further support is provided

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through the allocation of dedicated hours within the overall workload for staff preparing major
 funding bids. These range between 30 and 75 hours depending on the size and/or complexity of
 the proposal.

 Such processes have resulted in a steady increase in successful applications for external
 funding from the UoA. Consequently, grants have been obtained from a range of sources,
 including the British Academy and the Anglo-Daiwa Foundation, which supports reciprocal visits
 between UK and Japanese academics. The census period culminated in the receipt of a
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellow award (c.£93k) for a post-doctoral fellow to work within the unit
 on a project on British civil servants in Brussels with Seidel. In addition, UoA members have
 brought in a range of smaller grants and contract research income over the census period,
 including a range of non-reportable income. Examples include:

    •   Attwood (2015): £6,000 from the University of Sussex for research into the history of
        trafficking 1870-1930.
    •   Broch (2018): £10,000 British Academy/Leverhulme small research grant for her work
        on the Gratitude Train;
    •   Catterall (2014): £4,000 in contract research with the Centre for Opposition Studies on
        Arab Partnership Fund projects supported by the Foreign & Commonwealth Office on
        political reform in Jordan (2012-14) and Kuwait (2014-15);
    •   Catterall (2014): £1,000 commission from the Institute of Alcohol Studies to write a study
        of Labour and the Politics of Alcohol;
    •   Catterall (2017): £730 for an Arts Council England funded project run jointly with the
        London Transport Museum as part of the MUPI programme in 2017-18 on ‘Academics in
        Residence’;
    •   Catterall (2019): £6,994 from the British Society for Sports History for the ‘Played at the
        Poly’ project based in the University’s Centre for Law, Society and Popular Culture. This
        project examined post-war developments in sport and popular culture using the
        University’s own archives;
    •   Catterall (2019): £9,160 from the Westminster International University in Tashkent
        research partnership fund for research into Mahalla and state-building;
    •   Catterall (2020): £15,000 from Arup for a project on ‘Queering Public Space’;
    •   Clapson (2016): £7,000 from Anglo-Daiwa Foundation, which contributed materially to
        completion of The Blitz Companion;
    •   Clapson (2017): £3,464 from the Welwyn Garden City Heritage Trust to write a history of
        Welwyn Garden City;
    •   Glew (2016): £1,500 as researcher-in-residence for Wellcome Trust, building a data
        visualisation tool using Medical Officer of Health reports for London to explore
        relationships between gender, work and public health;
    •   Glew (2019): £2,000 Glasgow Library Fellowship for research on women’s employment
        in twentieth-century Britain, contributing towards her forthcoming monograph on women’s
        work and marriage in Britain.

 The UoA also benefited from a range of specially commissioned projects. These include
 Seidel’s work on the Common Agricultural Policy (European Commission) and on Christian
 Democrats in Europe (Konrad Adenauer Stiftung), and Speiser’s work on Soho (British Library).

 Lynch also received external funding to give papers on her research into personal taxation in
 Western Europe at the German Economic History conference at the University of Münster
 (March 2015), at a conference funded by the University of Keio in Odawara, Japan (July 2015)
 and at the World Economic History Congress, Kyoto, Japan (August 2015).




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 All staff have offices in our central London building at 309 Regent Street. Dedicated space and
 IT equipment for doctoral researchers is provided both there and at the University’s nearby
 building in Wells Street. In addition, the University provides support with developing databases
 and other IT requirements.

 The campus library has been enhanced by major investments in the extension of electronic
 library packages and other resources since 2014 (see REF5a). It includes important physical
 and online resources, as well as the University archives which cover the history of the institution
 going back to the Polytechnic Institute founded in 1838, and which have been so central, for
 example, to the ‘Played at the Poly’ project co-ordinated by Catterall. Our central London
 location also means that researchers have access to some of the best research resources in the
 world within walking distance of the University. These include the British Library, as well as more
 specialist collections ranging from the RIBA Library to the Wellcome Library. This central
 location adjacent to the BBC and within walking distance of Parliament also provides great
 opportunities for media activities and hosting high-profile events. The latter includes book
 launches, research seminars and outreach such as the historical walking tours that Speiser
 organises in Soho and Catterall in Mile End.

 Our research activities also benefit significantly from the excellent conference and event facilities
 available on the Regent Street campus, not least at the Regent Street Cinema. Known as the
 birthplace of British cinema, the Cinema reopened in 2015 after extensive refurbishment. The
 UoA’s research project into the history of the University contributed materially to the success of
 this £6.1m restoration of a grade II heritage site, which was part-funded by the Heritage Lottery
 Fund. The Cinema occupies an important place in film history, not just because of its origins, but
 also because so many film premieres have been and continue to be held there. The UoA
 accordingly participated in a number of events with the Cinema. These included, for example,
 the screening of the film Ulugh Beg and ensuing roundtable about the significance of this
 mediaeval Central Asian monarch and scientist, organised with colleagues from WIUT in 2017
 before a packed and distinguished audience of ambassadors and experts.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 External collaborations and contributions to economy and society

 The UoA is committed to developing national and international research partnerships with a
 range of professional bodies, charities and other partners across its various research clusters. A
 sample of these are described below.

 Within Histories of Conflict, Broch’s developing work with the Smithsonian Institution in
 Washington, DC on her Gratitude Train project, an innovative contribution to the transnational
 analysis of war and memory, is of particular importance. While this has not been completed in
 this REF cycle due to maternity leave, this ongoing collaboration – building on the existing strong
 connections between staff in the School of Humanities and the Smithsonian – is likely to be of
 especial significance for the UoA over the next few years. Additionally, Catterall was historical
 adviser to the East Wickham and Welling War Memorial Trust’s HLF-funded (£51,000) project on
 local memorialisation of the First World War in 2014-15.

 Within the Identities research cluster, Glew’s central role in organising with the History of
 Parliament Trust a conference to mark the centenary of the Qualification of Women Act in 2018,
 which she hosted both at the University of Westminster and the Houses of Parliament, was of
 particular significance. Her resulting publication explores the relationship between women MPs
 and women civil servants in the twentieth century. Of particular importance for our research into
 Transnational Identities is Seidel’s work with the European Commission and the Konrad
 Adenauer Stiftung, marked not least by her contributions to the official history of the European
 Commission published in 2019. Also of considerable importance is Attwood’s collaboration with

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 anti-trafficking NGOs on their research activities and on raising awareness of the value and
 impact of their work.

 The UoA has a host of important collaborations in relation to the museums and heritage sector,
 such as Glew’s long-standing collaboration with the Postal Museum. Since 2019 she has also
 been a member of Westminster City Council’s Green Plaque Advisory Panel. Glew and
 Catterall both worked with the London Transport Museum in 2017-18 on the MUPI ‘Academics
 in Residence’ project. As detailed in one of our impact case studies, Catterall took a leading role
 in overseeing the successful completion in 2016 of the £2.7m HLF-supported ‘Great Stink’
 project at Crossness Pumping Station to establish a museum commemorating Sir Joseph
 Bazalgette’s London sewer system and its contribution to the history of public health and then,
 as chair in 2017-19, raising £490k to deal with asbestos affecting public access to and
 preservation of this Grade 1 listed building. She has also served as Chair of the George
 Lansbury Memorial Trust since 2012, organising its annual lecture and historic walking tours of
 the East End, and the Angela Lansbury Film Festival (at which Dame Angela, George’s grand-
 daughter, was one of the guest speakers) held in 2014. In 2020 she also advised PoplarHARCA,
 the housing association managing the Lansbury estate in Tower Hamlets, on a suitable
 memorial to George Lansbury that would also be of benefit to local residents – a playpark – as
 part of the major redevelopment of the Chrisp Street market area. Broch is historical adviser to
 the Imperial War Museum on the section of their Holocaust galleries dealing with France (to be
 opened in 2021).

 4.2 Collaborations in Higher Education

 Significant collaborations within the universities sector include Law’s role on the Council of the
 University of Sussex 2010-17, including as Vice-Chair for Finance and Investments. Catterall
 has worked extensively on helping to build research capacity at WIUT. In addition to her Mahalla
 project, this involved helping to establish and co-editing for its first year of publication (2019-20)
 a new peer-reviewed international journal, Silk Road: A Journal of Eurasian Development.
 Published by the open access University of Westminster Press, this is the first journal on the
 development of Central Asia actually to be based in the region. This also gave Catterall
 particular insight into the problems of international academic publishing, resulting in her being
 called as a witness for the International Copyright Agency’s inquiry into international copyright
 issues in 2019.

 The research culture of the UoA was also enhanced by hosting a number of visiting historians
 over the course of the census period. These include: Dr. Yusuke Koyama (Kagoshima
 University, Japan) for one semester in 2014-15, working with Clapson on planning history in
 Britain and Japan; Dr Richard Follett (Covenant College, USA) in Summer 2015, working on the
 anti-slavery activities of Thomas Fowell Buxton; Dr Derek Blakeley (McNeese State University,
 USA), working with Catterall in Summer 2016 on their respective contributions to Britain and the
 Islamic World published by Palgrave in 2019; Professor Jane Mattisson Ekstam (Østfold
 University College, Norway), researching into literature about the Great War in Spring 2018; Dr
 Bekir Durcan (Erzincan University, Turkey), working on cinema and identity in Autumn 2018; and
 Dr Francesco Cacciatore (University of Salerno, Italy), working on post-war US intelligence in
 Spring 2020.

 4.3 Professional service and editorial positions

 Researchers in the UoA are actively engaged in various national and international subject
 associations and in editorial positions with academic publishers and journals. These include:

    •   Attwood: Associate fellow of the Centre of German-Jewish Studies, University of Sussex
        (2015-) and member of the international scholarly collaboration, Trafficking Past network
        (2017-).
    •   Broch: Co-convenor of the Institute of Historical Research’s (IHR) French history
        seminar (2013-). Co-founder of the French History Network Blog (2014-). Reviews editor

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        of the Journal of Contemporary History (2016-17). Co-editor of Contemporary European
        History (2017-). Associate Fellow of the Pears Institute for the Study of Antisemitism.
    •   Catterall: Co-editor of National Identities since co-founding it in 1999. Member of the
        editorial board for the Anthem Press book series on ‘Citizenship and National Identity’
        (2018-). Executive member, Social History Society committee, 2014-17 (including serving
        on the organising committee for the 2017 annual conference). Co-convenor of the IHR
        sports history seminar (2008-15). Co-organiser of the annual conference of the British
        Society for Sports History held at the University of Westminster in 2018. Member of the
        RHS working party on LGBT+ Histories and Historians (2020).
    •   Clapson: Member of the Expert Panel of the Romualdo Del Bianco Foundation, Florence
        in 2016-17.
    •   Glew: Co-convenor of the Contemporary British History seminar, King’s College
        London/IHR. Member of the History & Policy Trade Union and Employment Forum
        committee (2013-). Founder of the ‘History of Gender and the Professions’ network
        (2019) with seed-funding from the University of Westminster. Organiser of conference on
        ‘A Century of Women MPs’ with the History of Parliament Trust (2018).
    •   Harding: Vice-President of both the Society for Nautical Research and the British
        Commission for Maritime History since 2011.
    •   Lynch: Member of the ESRC peer review panel (2011-19).
    •   Seidel: Editor of the PhD theses section of the Journal of European Integration History
        (2009-).

 UoA members have reviewed project proposals for bodies ranging from Historic England to the
 Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research, and have reviewed book proposals and
 manuscripts for, among others, Anthem Press, Bloomsbury, Exeter University Press,
 Manchester University Press, Palgrave and Routledge. They have served as peer-reviewers for
 more than 20 different international journals. UoA members have acted as external PhD
 examiners at QMUL (2017), West of Scotland (2017) and KCL (2018), and as external examiner
 for a Habilitation at Aix-le-Provence (2020), and external reviewers for promotion boards at
 Colgate University, NY (2014), Cardiff (2018) and West of Scotland (2020).

 4.4 Conference Keynote presentations

 Members of the UoA have been invited by a wide variety of national and international institutions
 to give keynote presentations on their research. High-profile examples of such keynote papers
 include:

    •   Broch: on the legacy of the Holocaust in France, in Vichy (26/10/2016).
    •   Catterall: on ‘Ulster in the Framework of National Identity’ at a conference in Belfast
        (17/1/2014) to mark the centenary of the 1914 Irish crisis, attended by leading figures
        from both sides of the border.
    •   Catterall on ‘Brexit and “Global Britain”’ at Selskabet for Samtid historisk Forskning
        (Danish Society for Contemporary Historical Research), Royal Danish Academy of
        Letters, Copenhagen (27/1/2017).
    •   Catterall on ‘Ambiguity and Ecumenism: Studied Ambiguity in the Anglican-Methodist
        Conversations’ at a conference on ‘The Anglican-Methodist Conversations’ Oxford
        Centre for Methodist Studies and Church History, Oxford Brookes University
        (29/11/2018)
    •   Clapson: on ‘Milton Keynes: the unsettled city’ at the ‘New Towns/Arrival Cities’
        conference, Milton Keynes, for the International New Towns Institute (Netherlands)
        (23/11/2017).
    •   Glew: at the Women’s History Network conference (6/9/2019) on ‘Professional women,
        the marriage bar and the question of married women’s right to work, c.1920-1950’.
    •   Lynch: on ‘Anglo-French relations and Concorde’ to mark the 50th anniversary of
        Concorde’s first flight at the University of Bristol (10/5/2019).


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Lynch on ‘Alan S. Milward’s Legacy: Deconstructing the History of European
        Construction?’ at a conference on ‘Intersecting Sources and Research Paths in the
        History of European Construction’ held at the French Diplomatic Archives (30 June–1
        July 2016),

 Our commitment to public engagement and the dissemination of our research is reflected in
 various invitations to deliver public talks. These include public lectures at the Fondation Charles
 de Gaulle in Paris, Thammasat and Kasetsart Universities in Bangkok, various branches of the
 Historical Association, Copenhagen University and the London Transport Museum.

 4.5 Contributions to media

 All members of the UoA have extensive media experience and have commented in, or written
 for, the media on their areas of expertise. Outlets range from the BBC and Sky, through the New
 York Times, Times Higher Education, Süddeutsche Zeitung and O Globo (Brazil), to
 international broadcasters such as Al-jazeera, the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, RTE,
 France 24 and ZDF. Broch is in particular demand to comment on France, the Holocaust and
 the Second World War, while Catterall’s media work is so extensive that she was interviewed
 for the ExpertFile report on Academic Experts and the Media: Benefits and Realities of Working
 with Journalists published in August 2019.




                                                                                             Page 14
