Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Brunel University London

 Unit of Assessment: 17 – Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Brunel Business School (BBS) is a dynamic, research-intensive community with a diverse
 international staff and student body representative of our West London location and in line with
 our global ambitions. We draw energy and ideas from this diversity, our international outlook
 providing a varied, multicultural and interdisciplinary research environment that inspires our staff
 to instigate and lead agenda-setting research. Our vibrancy fosters far-reaching networking,
 global collaborations and research impact. It has created a complementary pool of
 methodological expertise through the recruitment of international scholars with specialist
 quantitative and analytical expertise to supplement a deep qualitative research base. Our close
 relationships with businesses and user communities enables staff to engage in applied research
 on local, national and international business and social challenges and deliver far reaching
 benefit. Our permanent research-active staff has increased by 20% since REF2014, achieved by
 consolidating our enduring strengths in cross-cutting research on entrepreneurship and
 innovation and a subject-spanning focus on sustainability and equality. Over the REF period we
 have achieved our strategic aims to:

 (i) increase research capacity by recruiting and retaining research-active staff, up to 72 FTE
       from 61 in 2014, and attracting ambitious world-class early career researchers such as
       Batsakis, Laczko, Ferreira, Nguyen, and Taser-Erdogan who publish in world-leading
       journals;
 (ii) accelerate our research success through high-quality published research outputs, with more
       than 61k citations since 2014 for submitted staff and an average h-index of 12; and since
       2014 we have published 717 articles in peer-reviewed journals;
 (iii) secure £3.4M external funding to enhance the relevance of our research and enable us to
       address contemporary societal, economic and environmental challenges;
 (iv) build and sustain our high-quality PhD programme that produces excellent original research
       and prepares future researchers: 230 PhD completions since 2014 (192 on campus and 38
       based at Ahlia University, Bahrain) and a current population of 127 students (103 on campus
       and 24 based at Ahlia); and
 (v) enhance the significance and global reach of our research impact through effective user
       engagement.

 These have been achieved through staff working together and with our PhD community openly
 and cooperatively, developing mutual understanding and rich research perspectives. We have
 aligned our research strategy with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, in particular SDG5
 (Gender equality), SDG8 (Decent work and economic growth), SDG10 (Reduced inequality),
 SDG11 (Sustainable cities and communities), SDG12 (Responsible consumption and
 production) and SDG13 (Climate action), and priorities of the Global Challenges Research Fund
 (GCRF) to deliver cutting-edge research for the benefit of developing countries. This endeavour
 is exemplified by Dora’s work with farmers in Uganda that improved processes to increase milk
 production, productivity and value, and thereby raised the living standards of Ugandan
 communities.

 Since 2014 we have made strategic investments in new cross-cutting areas which speak to the
 value we place on interdisciplinary research at the nexus of economic prosperity, environmental
 protection and social justice. We initiated critical research on Artificial Intelligence (AI)
 responding to the needs of external stakeholders to understand the benefits, implications and
 risks of embedding AI within contemporary business and society. Led by Braganza, Canhoto,
 and Chen and supported by British Academy of Management and internal funding for a sandpit
 in 2018, this initiative has launched numerous interdisciplinary projects and two special issues
 on AI in operations and supply chain management in high-impact journals. Our strength in
 organisational behaviour and human resources has underpinned our increasing emphasis on

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research to address inequalities, diversity, inclusion and social responsibility. We have invested
 substantially to advance research on food security and waste reduction, leading efforts to
 establish a Vision2020 hub to identify, prioritise and initiate new programmes of research.
 Likewise, our investment in social entrepreneurship is producing compelling new research and
 impact. We have also consolidated previously emerging strengths in brand management and
 marketplace cultures, and business intelligence and big-data, the latter extending our
 methodological expertise to meet the need for more dynamically responsive research.

 The School has an inclusive research culture supported by robust and effective leadership. It is
 committed to building a sustainable community of researchers producing innovative research
 that benefits an increasingly globalised business world. This is operationalized through our five
 internationally renowned Research Groups (RG) that coordinate and foster research activities.
 The groups share an orientation towards nationally and internationally collaborative research
 supported through external income generation (Section 3). All academic staff, PhD students and
 RAs have primary membership of one group.

 The Accounting and Auditing Research Group (AARG), headed by Jarvis, delivers high-
 impact research in the three interrelated and strategically important areas of accounting
 education (Aston, El-Tawy, Theodosopoulos), environmental, social and governance
 performance and reporting (Elamer, Hadid, Nandy, Shaukat, Shiwakoti, Utham), and
 financial reporting and auditing for SMEs (Jarvis, Theodosopoulos). Building on a strong
 blend of experience in the profession and academic expertise, the group has grown policy
 impact and research output significantly, bridging gaps in understanding between academia, the
 regulators and accounting practitioners on key societal phenomena. AARG’s research is
 published in top-tier peer-reviewed finance and accounting journals including the Journal of
 Corporate Finance (Aston), Quantitative Finance (Utham) and Journal of Banking and Finance
 (Shiwakoti), and in wider scope outlets including the Journal of Business Ethics (Shaukat) and
 Energy Policy (Elamer).

 Human Resource Management and Organisational Behaviour (HRM-OB), led by Özbilgin,
 undertakes applied research on organisational performance and behaviour, and the policies and
 processes underpinning modern HRM and workplace innovation management. With wide-
 ranging capabilities in qualitative, quantitative and econometric methods, and less traditional
 approaches (e.g. story-telling), their research examines issues at the micro, meso, and macro
 levels. The group addresses pressing behavioural challenges identified by the likes of the OECD
 and Academy of Management. These include social inclusion and gender (in)equality (Kanji,
 R Simpson), diversity in organisations (Taser-Erdogan, Kanji, Mordi, Özbilgin, Uygur),
 employee well-being (Oruh, Valsecchi, N Wu) and migration (Kanji, Özbilgin,
 Vassilopoulou), alongside leadership (A Simpson, Xing), organisational transformation
 (Hendy), and labour economics (Georgiadis). While recent appointments (e.g. Taser-
 Erdogan) have consolidated established expertise, others investigate more novel issues, such
 as Uygur’s research on spirituality at work, A Simpson’s research on workplace compassion,
 and Özbilgin and Vassilopoulou’s research on the challenges faced by highly-skilled
 professional migrants. High-quality outputs have expanded rapidly in HRM-OB, including
 publications in world-elite Academy of Management Review and Journal of Management (A
 Simpson) and top-tier outlets including the British Journal of Management (Özbilgin, A
 Simpson) and Work, Employment and Society (Vassilopoulou, R Simpson, Kanji).

 The Operations and Information Systems Management (OISM) research group led by Dora
 was formed as a strategic merger of our operations (OASIS) and information management
 (ISEing) groups to capitalise on synergistically fusing management, engineering, systems and
 technology-based expertise to address the international interdisciplinary research needs
 generated by the growing pervasiveness of big-data and AI. Underpinned by several UNSDGs,
 driven by the digitalization agenda, and with a central concern for sustainability and to mitigate
 against global disasters and their consequences, the group focuses on four key areas:
 digital transformation in production and service systems (Al-Karaghouli, Bak, Braganza,
 Hackney, Lee, Lu), sustainable supply chains (Gallear, Hezarkhani, Manouri, Nguyen,

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 You), humanitarian operations (Dora, Mansouri), and sector specific projects, notably food
 chains and transportation optimization (Dora, Lee). Utilising its growing capacity for data-
 analytics that has extended its management science expertise, the group takes a ‘translational’
 research perspective to convert its interdisciplinary knowledge into practical real-world solutions.
 OISM has produced an impressive stream of new knowledge in world-leading journals such as
 the European Journal of Operations Management (Hezarkhani, Lee, Mansouri, Nguyen),
 Production and Operations Management (Hezarkhani) and International Journal of Operations
 and Production Management (Gallear, Mansouri) and other leading outlets notably Production
 Planning and Control (Bak, Dora, Gallear).

 Marketing and Corporate Brand Management (MCBM), led by Balmer, has a longstanding
 record of field-leading research excellence in corporate-level branding and marketing and
 continues to act as a trendsetter cultivating new understanding within five core streams:
 corporate marketing and branding (Alwi, Balmer, M Wu), acculturation (Alwi, Dey, Yen),
 consumer culture, materiality and sustainable consumption (Chelekis, Ferreira, Yen),
 corporate heritage and history (Balmer, Cohen, Heller) and, reflecting the extensive changes
 in modern marketing and supported by careful recruitment, the group takes pride in pioneering
 new research in digital marketing, insight and interactions (Asaad, Canhoto, Dey, Laczko,
 Manika, Wei). Facilitated by innovative research designs the MCBM group publish in world-
 leading journals including Journal of Travel Research (Assad), Annals of Tourism Research
 (Yen), British Journal of Management (Alwi, Yen), and the prestigious Academy of Management
 Learning and Education (Ferreira). Alwi exemplifies how our research support translates into
 high-quality knowledge production, with nine articles in period published in journals rated 4/3 by
 the Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS) including her Journal of Business
 Research article cited over 130 times.

 Strategy, Entrepreneurship and International Business (SEIB), led by Stoian, has
 consistently produced rigorous research with real-world impact on enterprise and global
 business activity. Exploiting a wide-range of theoretical lenses, SEIB constantly applies its long-
 standing expertise to new and shifting enterprise contexts and configurations, e.g. social
 innovation in emerging markets. The group’s expertise coalesces around four main areas:
 strategy, sharing economy, and business ethics (Althonayan, Ayaz Arda, Ayios, Botchie,
 Gerwe, Kastrinaki, Ko, Sarpong, Tardios, You), international business and globalisation
 (Azar, Batsakis, Chen, Fallon, Stoian, Tabaghdehi), entrepreneurship and social
 enterprise (Clear, Guo, Li, Pittaki, Rosli, Samdanis, Wang) and business economics
 (Moscone). Our strategy experts examine technological development and innovation and peer-
 to-peer business models. Our entrepreneurship experts examine entrepreneurial drivers,
 behaviour and policy, typically in hybrid-organisations, ethnic minority firms and family business
 settings. Our international business scholars investigate the internationalisation and expansion
 of large MNEs and SMEs, technology management, inward and outward investment and supra-
 national governance, and our economist expertise resides in applied econometrics in
 employment and health-policy contexts. The substantial corpus of SEIB’s research is published
 in world-elite and top tier journals including Journal of International Business Studies (Batsakis),
 Journal of World Business (Batsakis, Tardios), British Journal of Management (Batsakis,
 Wang), Business Ethics Quarterly (Kastrinaki), Social Science and Medicine (Moscone) and
 Strategic Entrepreneurship (Ko).

 Research is led by a School Research Team comprising the Director of Research (DoR,
 Mansouri), our Research Group Heads, our Director of Large Collaborative Projects and
 Outreach (Dora), our Ethics Coordinator (Batsakis) and our Seminar Series Coordinator
 (Elamer), and is supported by the College of Business, Arts and Social Sciences (CBASS) Vice
 Dean Research (VDR, Gallear) and the College Research Office. The DoR is a member of
 BBS’s Management Board guiding discussions on School research strategy and resourcing, and
 is an active member of the College Research Strategy Group working with the VDR (chair),
 other departmental DoRs, College Research Centre Directors and members of the University’s
 Research Support and Development Office (RSDO) on research vision, priorities and
 infrastructure development.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Strategic aims for research

 Our research is guided by our vision to make positive and significant impacts on society, the
 economy and the environment, and is steered going forward by five clear and regularly
 communicated strategic aims:

 1. Ensuring the relevance of our research by tackling pressing contemporary challenges,
    providing novel theoretical and practical insights, and maximising the reach and significance
    of our research impact and knowledge transfer;

 2. Continuously strengthening our intellectual contribution to the field with high-quality
    published outputs;

 3. Identifying and facilitating interdisciplinary research, securing research income for strategic
    priorities (section 3) and building strong national and international relationships (section 4);

 4. Recruiting high-calibre scholars at all academic levels in all five research groups (section 2);
    and

 5. Nurturing and nourishing the collegiate research environment that we have created allowing
    all colleagues and PhD students to achieve their research goals (section 2).

 Contemporary challenges and research impact

 Undertaking challenge-led user-relevant research is at the heart of our research strategy. Our
 research ideas are informed by actively engaging with external stakeholders and adopting
 innovative approaches for identifying emerging issues. We leverage our problem-solving
 capabilities to provide fresh insights and address pressing needs that have local, national and
 global resonance. Internal funding is provided to support research that has clear potential for
 positive socio-economic outcomes. The international diversity of our staff is a major strength,
 positively impacting our research through our wealth of international contacts and networks and
 cross-national research interests.

 Tackling important challenges on sustainability and humanitarian action has led to significant
 external funding, high-quality outputs, awards and international esteem. Mansouri’s work with
 the University of Tehran on humanitarian operations led to its new ‘Centre for Research on
 Disaster Management and Business Continuity’ and greater awareness in Iran of the role of
 humanitarian logistics and business continuity planning, building greater capacity to deal with
 humanitarian crises. Dora’s project with farmers in Uganda not only augmented their income
 and business sustainability but provided a model for sustainable university/farm-sector
 partnerships and led to Mountains of the Moon University’s full institutional accreditation by the
 Uganda National Council for Higher Education (UNCHE). Braganza, Canhoto and Chen have
 teamed up with Bell from Brunel computer science to examine the challenges posed by the rapid
 ‘gigification’ of work, creating an App to self-assess the effects of AI on peoples’ jobs.

 A multipronged strategy drives the vitality and sustainability of our research impact: (i) training
 colleagues in active user engagement skills, to identify pathways for impact, and to apply best
 practice principles (see section 2), (ii) facilitating their introduction to interested stakeholders and
 beneficiaries through organising practitioner workshops or conferences or through direct
 introductions, and (iii) nurturing those relationships to build sustained networks that then become
 available to others.

 Brunel RSDO trained BBS staff to use the Brunel Pragmatic Impact Toolkit’s impact strategies.
 This was followed in 2018 by a ‘School Impact Awayday’ organised by R Simpson involving
 colleagues in shared interest groups propagating new plans for generating impact.


                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wang introduced BBS colleagues to West London social entrepreneurs and Community Interest
 Companies by organising an event on Measuring and Scaling-up Social Impact. Balmer
 continuously strengthens the MCBM group’s work on corporate heritage brands, expanding
 colleagues’ networks through his annual Corporate Heritage and Identity Symposiums, hosted at
 Brunel and overseas. These are now widely accepted within the international branding research
 community as a field-leading site of knowledge exchange. AARG has identified the need for
 greater alignment between accounting education, policy and the accounting profession.
 Elamer’s research identified vocational skills gaps in the UK’s accounting curricula. To access
 key stakeholders and initiate research for corrective interventions the group’s 2020 Accounting
 Symposium (to be held in 2021 due to COVID-19) is devoted to Accounting Education.

 Our impact case studies were chosen as exemplars of our impact strategy in action,
 demonstrating the importance we place on being in tune with funder priorities and knowing our
 key research users.

 In the UK, BBS research has had significant policy impact: Dey, Al-Karaghouli and Ayios
 informed Ofcom’s policy decisions on the local mobile telecommunications industry regarding
 speed and coverage, also adopted by major telecoms-player Three to update service priorities
 and reduce customer attrition. Jarvis used his connections with the UK’s Financial Inclusion
 Centre to lead research on the business models driving payday lending and their often-
 destructive consequences, resulting in a cap imposed by the Financial Conduct Authority on UK
 high-cost short-term credit, a £1BN+ decrease in the UK payday lending market and a huge
 reduction in social detriment. Georgiadis’ expertise facilitated his appointment as advisor to the
 Greek Minister of Labour, his research producing new evidence on the impact of the minimum
 wage on wage distribution and employment, leading to the significant increase in the Greek
 minimum wage in 2019 for those aged over 25 and for under-25s in the private sector.

 Dey, Dora and Rosli’s impact exemplifies our aspirations for international impact and our
 concern for UNSDGs. The Bangladesh government applied key findings from Dey’s research in
 their policies supporting the electric vehicle industry. Using a ‘Brunel Research Accelerator in
 Developing Countries’ award, Rosli applied her practice-based research with the Ulu Sapi
 community (Malaysia), creating an independent marketplace and the significant expansion of
 small-holders’ businesses. Her work on the development of entrepreneurial mindsets through
 intergenerational projects was adopted by the Activity Centre for the Older Persons (PAWE) in
 Putrajaya (Malaysia) and initiated negotiations with Telecom Malaysia for a new partnership to
 enhance the ageing populations’ independence. The international impact realised in Dora’s
 Ugandan case study was the product of a strong relationship with their farming community and a
 long period of scholarship adapting lean methodologies to food supply chains supported by a
 Brunel pump-priming BRIEF award.

 We are maximising our research impact through the launch in 2019 of our major business-
 outreach platform Brunel HIVE. This aims to accelerate business growth, particularly for SMEs,
 within our local London community and globally through a strategy of engaged scholarship.
 HIVE connects businesses and key industry stakeholders with our research through networking,
 training and special events. It enables our staff to access users, pinpoint research priorities, and
 use our research to tackle immediate business needs. For these reasons we have also recently
 secured Small Business Charter accreditation.

 Our impact strategy also embraces actively recognising opportunities to transfer knowledge and
 skills gained in one area to another. This approach is exemplified by Lee, drawing on expertise
 developed in his eGovernment research and OISM’s expanded data-analytics expertise to
 secure income from the Medical Research Council to apply new techniques to streamline
 processes in the healthcare sector and improve public spending and patient outcomes.

 We take pride in fostering novel theoretical and practical insights that can provide the basis
 for value-laden future impact. Chelekis’s application of anthropological ethnographic grounded
 theory has delivered new insights into consumer cultures within Amazonian tribal communities.

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The growth of digitalization in marketing is being investigated by several colleagues, notably the
 impact of machine learning and big-data in decision-making (Canhoto), consumer online
 communities (M Wu) and digital consumer culture (Dey and Yen). Dey’s work on digital
 marketing and culture within contemporary societies is already attaining considerable impact in
 the private and public sector internationally, including Hutchinson3G, and the Government of
 Bangladesh, as has Vassilopoulou’s research on diversity, through her gender bias and gender
 in leadership education for major institutions including the ECB, ING Bank and Eastman
 Chemicals.

 To complement our approaches to nurturing a culture where impact is a natural first
 consideration when crafting projects ideas, we are presently developing a ‘pool’ of colleagues
 with experience in delivering impact from their research to act as ‘Impact Coaches’ to ECRs and
 colleagues without an established track record for generating impact.

 Intellectual contribution to the field

 Enhancing the academic excellence of our research is a constant goal. High quality research
 enables us to maintain the highest standards in our intellectual contributions. Colleagues are
 supported to undertake research that merits publication in journals considered to publish work of
 world-leading or internationally excellent quality in terms of originality, significance and rigour.
 For 2018 and 2019, Scopus places Brunel in the upper quartile in Business and Management
 globally for publications per staff member and citations (FWCI). Since 2017 Brunel staff have
 published 147 papers in business and management journals on the Web of Science, with an
 average of 8.5 citations, and between 2014 and 2016 114 with an average of 24.0 citations.
 This high-quality output over the REF period has been achieved through a generous research
 support budget enabling international collaboration and the refining of ideas at leading
 conferences, dedicated research and writing time, and through our Journal Article Publishing
 Programme run R Simpson and Özbilgin, supporting ECRs to publish in high-impact outlets,
 and which comprises writing workshops and retreats and expert sessions often from editors of
 leading journals.

 Mansouri’s EJOR articles were selected by its editors for special recognition at the prestigious
 EURO2019 conference. Shaukat’s Most-cited Paper (2016-2019) in the British Accounting
 Review (over 300 citations) and the Outstanding (Mansouri), Best (Xing) and Highly
 Commended (Gallear, Yen) Paper awards conferred by leading international journals, attest to
 our high academic standards. Our researchers are also recognised for impressive field-leading
 edited works, notably Balmer’s Advances in Corporate Branding with over 250 citations since
 2017.

 Interdisciplinary research

 At BBS we recognise the essential interplay between income generation, the collaborative
 process and interdisciplinary lenses. Research at the intersection of academic disciplines is a
 vital component of our research strategy and we lead and take advantage of University support
 to grow interdisciplinary research through our five research groups, the College’s two
 interdisciplinary Research Centres and Brunel’s four interdisciplinary Research Institutes.

 Wang is founding Director of the College’s Entrepreneurship and Sustainability (CES)
 Interdisciplinary Research Centre initiated in 2017. Twenty-five BBS colleagues are members
 and have secured competitive CES awards totalling over £100k for new research ‘clusters’,
 external collaborations, pilot projects and the preparation of external bids. Fallon and
 Samdanis used their CES award to initiate a twelve-strong Business/Sociology ‘cluster’ to
 catalyse interdisciplinary research on the impacts of institutions and innovation on
 entrepreneurship and SMEs, organising a Grant Writing Workshop and several high-impact
 article submissions. Dora, with Brunel colleagues from Engineering and Life Sciences, and
 collaborators from Cambridge, Rome and Uganda organised a Food Helix event attracting
 industry specialists to seed ideas for EU Horizon2020 project proposals in food security and

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 circular economy. Yen brought together Business and Psychology scholars with a primary
 school and examined the views and behaviours of children about wasteful food consumption,
 leading to a bid to the Nuffield Foundation. Azar’s team used their award to develop a tool to
 measure UK SMEs’ innovation readiness, Chen’s to collaborate with Brunel’s ‘Impacting
 Business by Design’ Project Manager to examine DIY laboratory business models, and Pittaki’s
 to construct a database on the business impact of social enterprises.

 Nine BBS staff are members of the College’s Global Lives (GL) Interdisciplinary Centre led by
 Jones (Sociology), also securing pump-priming awards with scholars from Arts and Humanities,
 Economics and Education: for example, Valsecchi on Professional Formation, and Özbilgin on
 the transnational motherhood of highly-skilled migrants. Each CES or GL award is bestowed
 partly to help develop interdisciplinary capabilities for external bids. In the last three years, BBS
 staff have secured successful follow-on income from funders including the British Council, BAM
 and the UK-India Education and Research Initiative.

 We created the new the post of Director of Business Engagement (Rosli) to scale-up our
 network of industry and third sector research users and to spread and enhance capability for
 developing industry partnerships amongst colleagues. Nandy’s appointment as Director of
 Internationalisation fortifies this crucial strategy internationally.

 Our interdisciplinary achievements are illustrated by numerous projects. Braganza and Dora’s
 project, initiated with Aldridge from Education and involving the British Computer Society and
 Indian Institute of Technology Delhi and supported by grants from the British Council and the
 Indian government, created and trained 150 trainers across India in an employability curriculum
 on essential new skills for the AI sector. Braganza’s ‘Everyday Intrusions’ project with
 colleagues from Law and Engineering assessed peoples’ reactions to knowing how their
 personal data is commercialised by data aggregators and led to an APEX bid. ECR Ferreira
 was part of a seven-country interdisciplinary team who undertook research on the isolationism of
 ECRs, disseminated to the academy through their article in AMLE.

 Gallear is leading the development of Brunel’s fifth interdisciplinary Institute, the ‘Institute of
 Communities and Society’, through which BBS staff will lead new projects tackling priority
 interdisciplinary challenges in enterprise and entrepreneurship, identity and (in)equality, cultural
 and digital innovation, and migration and mobility. The Institutes serve to drive challenge-led
 research across Brunel’s five Strategic Challenge Areas. Canhoto and Dora are members of
 the Institute of Environment, Health and Societies, and Dora, Lee and Mansouri the Institute of
 Energy Futures. Dora’s membership facilitated his introduction to like-minded Brunel engineers
 and the opportunity to participate in an ambitious bid for a new £5M UKRI DTP on sustainable
 food futures.

 We plan to initiate new interdisciplinary work in equality, diversity, inclusion and social
 responsibility, its salience highlighted by the intersectional inequalities observed during the
 Covid-19 pandemic. The appointment of Paterson, a social and natural scientist, as one of four
 University Global Challenge Research Fellows, has extended the School’s transdisciplinary
 research capacity. Paterson is working closely with colleagues in BBS, arts and humanities and
 Energy Futures. She and Dora are active members of Brunel’s Africa Group, catalysing
 interdisciplinary connections across Brunel to address complex development challenges in
 Africa. Both contributed to its most recent, highly successful, seminar series.

 Research integrity and open research

 Maintaining the highest standards of research integrity is a requirement for all staff and students.
 All projects involving human subjects require ethical approval from the University through the
 Brunel Research Ethics Online (BREO) portal. Risk assessment is part of this process to help
 ensure all parties are protected. The School’s Research Ethics Coordinator (Batsakis) is a
 member of the College Ethics Committee, and provides regular training on ethical considerations
 and preparing a BREO application, and updates on processes and best practice. Completion of

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the University’s Research Integrity training module is mandatory for all. These elements
 combine to ensure everyone robustly follows Brunel’s Research Integrity Code, is sensitive to
 the needs of those they work with, and are attentive to the associated legal and professional
 frameworks.

 We are committed to developing an open research environment to maximise the reach and
 impact of our research and embed a culture valuing open science. We expect that all published
 outputs including monographs are open access, requiring colleagues to upload their publications
 to BURA the University’s open access repository. We also encourage them to utilise the
 University’s substantial funding for Gold Open Access. All colleagues are required to have
 active ORCiD ids, and we promote research data’s digital availability through Brunel’s Figshare
 or other repositories such as Harvard Dataserve. Training on research data management is
 provided by the University’s Research Data Manager, who colleagues also consult when
 preparing funding applications.


 2. People

 Staffing strategy and development

 Our strategy for staffing and staff development is driven by our desire to achieve the highest
 standards of research excellence. Considerable care is taken to recruit, support, retain, and
 promote staff across our academic hierarchy. We consider the international backgrounds of our
 staff to be a particular strength, facilitating comparative and international perspectives, extensive
 international networking, and access to internationally diverse research participants through the
 abundance of regional expertise. Currently, 22% of our staff are nationals of ten different EU
 countries (excluding the UK), 37% are from nineteen different other overseas countries, and
 41% are from the UK. We are incredibly diverse, particularly in gender (49% female), age
 (median ~45 years), and ethnicity (50% BAME). To sustain growth in the quantity of high-quality
 research and impact we have defined two strategies:

 To recruit high-calibre scholars at all academic levels in all five research groups

 The sustainability of our research is underpinned by our commitment to recruit to permanent
 positions (100% of REF2021 eligible staff) and to careful succession planning for targeted
 growth in priority research areas. Accordingly, we have focused recruitment on sustainable
 development and global and ethical value chains, digitalization and AI, diversity and inclusion,
 social entrepreneurship and innovation, and consumer insight. Furthermore, we ensure the
 vitality of our research through the strategic recruitment of early career academics. Pittaki,
 Guo and Tardios (SEIB) have reinforced our strength in entrepreneurship and international
 business, adding expertise from the institutional, political, Chinese economy, and economic
 geography perspectives. In HRM-OB, Taser-Erdogan, Oruh and N Wu have extended critical
 mass in employee relations, equality, diversity and inclusion and flexible working and work-life
 balance. Bak and Hezarkani have consolidated OISM’s research on supply chain skills and
 resilience, and service contracting and logistics. The intensity of our ‘digital’ research has been
 increased by ECRs Gerwe, an emerging authority on peer-to-peer business and the sharing
 economy, Laczko specializing in servitized business models, and Tabaghdehi’s research on AI
 and the digital economy. Chelekis’s appointment has enhanced our branding and consumer
 culture research.

 We have galvanized our research supporting the UNSDGs and GCRF through the forward-
 looking recruitment of ECRs whose work is located firmly within emerging and developing
 market contexts (Botchie, Chelekis, Oruh). Building methodological capacity in data analytics
 to benefit research School-wide has been achieved with the appointment of OISM ECR Nguyen
 specializing in big-data analytics applications. Elamer and Utham have strengthened AARG’s
 corporate governance and social responsibility research.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A proven track record of research accomplishments including a PhD, evidence of high-impact
 publications, and a clear vision for the development of their research is expected for all new
 appointments. To ensure our recruitment processes are fair and transparent, all staff taking part
 in recruitment activity are required to regularly complete unconscious bias training.

 Our targeted approach ensures we strengthen areas that intersect our five research groups.
 Samdanis’ specialization in leadership and diversity in technology-based creative industries has
 strengthened SEIB’s links with HRM-OB, as has Ayaz Arda’s research on leadership and ethical
 business value creation in the digital era. You, a developing authority on circular economy
 issues in global sourcing has strengthened OISM’s connection with technology management in
 SEIB. Hadid’s appointment to AARG has added capacity in supply chain accounting and lean
 systems that directly connects with OISM research, as does Elamer’s in environmental
 accounting.

 Ensuring sustainability has also driven strategic investment in research leadership through top
 international scholar appointments. Kanji exemplifies this, appointed as chair in HRM with
 expertise at the intersection of gender, work and social inequality in the workplace and the
 home, providing mentoring of ECRs in their E&D research. Recognizing the opportunity for
 interdisciplinary collaboration with Brunel’s new Medical School, Xing, an expert in leadership,
 resilience and cross-cultural perspectives in healthcare was appointed. Wang was recruited to
 spearhead SEIB’s research in entrepreneurship and innovation. Specializing in entrepreneurial
 learning, RBV and organizational ambidexterity, she is able to support and collaborate with a
 significant number of other colleagues.

 We recruited Rosli (Reader) for her wealth of expertise in entrepreneurial team learning and
 ecosystems and her ability to initiate innovative community-industry collaborations through co-
 creation. She has been instrumental in driving our research that delivers immediate social and
 economic impact through entrepreneurial mobilization. Sarpong (Reader) was recruited to lead
 research on second-order innovation and strategic foresight and develop research on first-
 generation West-African migrants.

 To consolidate research leadership in MCBM, Manika (Chair) was appointed. She is mentoring
 colleagues throughout the school using her expertise in effective message construction for
 behaviour change. A new chair in Accounting will join in September 2021 to bolster our
 interdisciplinary research in sustainability accounting.

 Focused recruitment of established senior and mid-career researchers balanced with emerging
 specialists in new contemporary areas serves to continually reinvigorate our priority research
 areas with fresh perspectives. It also outlines the need to contribute to collegiate and senior
 leadership roles and to developing our external profile. Manika and Rosli were also appointed
 to help increase capacity to bid for external funding and peer-review, bringing records of success
 with funders including EPSRC/Innovate UK, CRUK, the British Academy/Leverhulme, ERDF and
 the Quintin Hogg Trust.

 To nurture and nourish the collegiate research environment that we have created
 allowing all colleagues and PhD students to achieve their research goals

 We enable our staff to produce high-quality output and impact by implementing the Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers (Brunel renewed its HR Excellence in
 Research Award in 2020), and by providing extensive and flexible support that caters to the
 needs of all and drives up quality. At its heart is a finely-tuned research mentoring and personal
 development structure, numerous research training opportunities, and reflective appraisal of
 colleagues’ specific career-stage needs.

 A 30% time allowance for research is provided to all staff in our workload model. This, together
 with our effective mentoring scheme enables achievement of research goals. It enabled


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hezarkhani, mentored by Mansouri, during his first year at Brunel to obtain his first external
 grant from BAM/ANZAM for a timely study on supply chain collaboration among agribusiness
 SMEs and post-Brexit UK-Australia trade.

 BBS has a generous research support fund (normally £2k per person annually) for conference
 attendance or activities to support research including data collection and purchasing specialist
 software. The budget is managed by the DoR and to maximise return and raise quality, is only
 allocated with strong justification. It has enabled extensive knowledge transfer and networking at
 leading international meetings such as the Academy of Management, Academy of Marketing
 Science and British Academy of Management. An additional £25k budget is provided to the
 research groups to invest strategically in group research resources/activities.

 The research groups have been instrumental in driving our quality agenda and achieving our
 positive collegial and inclusive research culture. Members meet twice per term to discuss their
 group’s strategic direction, share recent successes and project experiences, undertake training
 and assist each other with impact and grant planning.

 Extensive training and support is provided by the School, notably grant writing workshops, peer-
 review for funding applications and our Research Impact Awayday, and through many more
 University channels. An annual Performance Development Review (PDR) helps colleagues to
 develop and reflect on research targets and for us to determine and offer the career
 development support they need. Research achievements are integral to promotion criteria and
 our staff have consistently demonstrated they meet the requirements illustrating the success of
 our staff development portfolio over the period. 22 staff were promoted to Senior Lecturer, five to
 Reader and five to Chair. We encourage colleagues to apply as soon as it is clear they are
 ready, and colleagues demonstrating outstanding research contributions are rewarded through
 accelerated increments. Professors and Readers are rewarded through performance reviews
 against annual targets linked to University expectations.

 The College’s Early Career and Researcher Development Series (EC&RDS) workshops
 incorporate planning pathways for impact and a session for colleagues proficient in generating
 impact to illustrate their impact journey to their peers. The Series introduces colleagues to the
 array of tools comprising the Pragmatic Impact Toolkit developed by Brunel’s RSDO.
 Recognition for staff who have generated impact is celebrated through the University’s Research
 Impact Awards. Georgiadis and Jarvis received Special Commendations in the inaugural
 awards in 2020 for ‘Economic’ and ‘Policy’ Impact respectively. Promotion, the ‘Brunel Rewards’
 Programme and special recognition incentivises academic research excellence and building
 external esteem.

 Mentoring

 Our agile research mentoring, operating principally through the research groups, ensures that
 each ECR/SL is assigned a mentor (professor or reader) in their area of expertise. The heads
 and the DOR meet with new staff during their induction to help them reflect constructively on
 their research plans and determine specific mentorship requirements. Our mentoring dynamic
 enabled both Mordi and Uygur for example, to benefit from R Simpson’s publishing expertise,
 working collaboratively with her on their respective articles in Gender, Work and Organisation.
 Our preference is for a flexible system that responds to needs in a timely manner but we
 recommend a minimum of one meeting each term. Flexibility means colleagues can arrange
 supplementary mentorship from other colleagues with particular know-how (sometimes outside
 the School) for specific guidance such as on interdisciplinary aspects of their research or a
 funding bid. Mentoring is focused on ECRs and SLs, but is available to all colleagues.
 Whatever stage of career, the provision includes expedient feedback on projects and
 publications and plans for collaboration, grant capture and impact.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research leave

 The University’s competitive research leave scheme is open to all staff who have completed
 probation and is awarded to staff who demonstrate that the proposed work will lead to
 identifiable outcomes of benefit to the individual’s standing and the University’s research
 agenda. Applications are peer-reviewed by senior colleagues. Seven BBS staff over the period
 have benefited from periods of relief from teaching/administrative responsibilities to complete
 and write-up major projects, develop funding proposals or initiate new research. R Simpson was
 awarded three terms leave to develop pioneering interdisciplinary work on gender, ageing and
 migration and expertise in novel methodologies involving historical inquiry and memory work.
 She was able to complete her co-authored monograph Gender, Class and Occupation: Men
 doing Dirty Work and two articles published in leading journals.

 The scheme was recently enhanced to a Sabbatical Leave (Research) scheme offering the
 flexibility to also apply for much shorter periods of release (e.g. three-weeks) to undertake more
 time critical activity. A Business School-specific scheme also supports those colleagues
 completing tenure in a substantial management role by retaining that role’s reduced teaching
 load for up to one further year. After completing tenure as Director of Learning and Teaching,
 Theodosopoulos strengthened his collaboration with Federico II University of Naples and
 completed two journal articles.

 Colleagues are also encouraged to apply for University Knowledge Transfer Leave. Stoian
 secured £15k to develop, evaluate and pilot a new knowledge-based framework for SME
 internationalisation with The UK’s Institute of Export and International Trade.

 Support for early career researchers

 All new lecturers undertake a three-year probationary period which includes targets for research;
 normally publication (or acceptance) of two refereed articles in journals considered to publish
 work of world-leading or internationally excellent quality and submission of an application to an
 appropriate funder. A minimum of two developmental interim reviews identify what additional
 support from the School or Brunel’s research infrastructure may be needed to help meet
 probationary targets.

 All probationers have reduced teaching and we try to ensure that their core teaching aligns
 closely with their research expertise. For those new to teaching we team them with experienced
 academics to quickly acclimatize them to our research-informed teaching environment and help
 them properly balance their research and teaching responsibilities. They are kept free from
 significant administrative roles.

 Brunel’s Research Initiative and Enterprise Fund (BRIEF), open to all ECR staff during the first
 three years of their contract, offers pump-priming funds up to £15k to initiate research projects
 and prepare follow-on external bids. Over the period, Azar, Chen, Dora, Ferreira, Gerwe, Ko,
 Li, Stoian and Uygur have all secured awards, totalling over £125k. All applicants receive one-
 to-one application support from the DoR and their research mentor.

 Azar’s BRIEF award covered travel and employing an RA, supporting data collection for an
 experimental study to examine managers’ perceptions of cultural and institutional differences in
 foreign markets and initiating new collaborations at Groningen and Cardiff Universities.
 Likewise, BRIEF helped Li to establish a collaboration with the University of Minnesota.
 Stoian’s award provided resources to liaise with the University of Glasgow on research
 subsequently published in the Journal of World Business and prepare a British Academy bid,
 and Uygur’s facilitated collaboration with LUMS Business School (Pakistan) on a bid to the
 Leverhulme Trust. Findings from Gerwe’s award were accepted for the 2020 AOM Conference,
 and in combination with an article in the Entrepreneur and Innovation Exchange has led to her
 invitation to present to UK Parliament on how the sharing economy is being affected by the
 Covid-19 pandemic. Since receiving her BRIEF award Ko’s work on social entrepreneurship

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has flourished including a BA/Leverhulme Small Research grant. Ferreira’s current BRIEF
 award is supporting vital practice-led research on the re-cycling of waste products with
 Universities in Brazil and Chile, supporting our UNSDG commitment and an application to the
 ESRC-FAPESP bilateral agreement scheme.

 PhD students

 We offer an exciting, productive and supportive environment for postgraduate research study in
 which our students are deeply immersed, and to which they make significant contributions. Led
 by PGR Director (Mordi) we currently have 103 PhD students on campus and 24 more enrolled
 through our partnership with Ahlia University (Bahrain) and have graduated 230 PhDs over the
 REF period (192 on campus and 38 based at Ahlia).

 We recruit PGRs who aspire to examine contemporary issues in our five research groups’ focal
 areas. Selection is based on merit. Our inclusive admission process is open to all, welcoming
 applications irrespective of their origin, and specific attention is given to those with protected
 characteristics, resulting in a rich and culturally diverse PhD community. In 2018 the School
 inaugurated the Cristina Scandelius PhD Studentship scholarship programme and our aim is to
 recruit more externally-funded students through the AHRC-funded TECHNE DTP that Brunel
 recently joined, and if successful through Dora and colleagues’ UKRI sustainable food futures
 DTP bid. Funding can also be offered by research groups, and plans for Braganza’s new AI
 Research Centre includes funding for PhD candidates interested in AI. Applications meeting
 threshold requirements which includes a relevant Master’s (or equivalent) are shared with all
 staff. An interview with the proposed supervisors and an independent member of staff verifies
 suitability for admission.

 The management of PGRs is guided by the University’s Code of Practice on Research Degrees.
 First and second supervisors are appointed who students consult at least bi-monthly and a
 Research Development Advisor (RDA) provides broader personal developmental advice.
 Progress reviews by independent reviewers occur at months 1, 4, 9, 20 and 30, and we have
 considerably enhanced monitoring, scheduling and recording of supervision meetings (minimum
 ten per year) through a new electronic records system (eVision). We provide all students with
 dedicated office space close to staff, a computer and access to printing facilities and support
 remote working through online supervision.

 Students receive extensive methodological, critical review, ethics, impact and e-Resource
 training through BBS’s two seven-week Business Research Methods modules. Further training
 is available via the Brunel Graduate School’s Researcher Development programme. Students
 can also proactively shape their development using Brunel’s innovative 3D Researcher
 Development Tool© to pull together a personalised schedule of career-skills training, and have
 the opportunity to attain Associate Fellowship of the HEA and gain teaching experience through
 the University’s PGR teaching training programme. Full access to the School’s Business Life
 Employability workshops delivered with industry representatives facilitates professional
 development.

 All students are members of a BBS research group and participate in our Research Seminars.
 At our prestigious annual Doctoral Symposium, they present to their peers and staff and
 receive enriching feedback. We encourage writing for publication, particularly to those training
 for an academic career, and many have been mentored to publish in international outlets,
 contributing to the growth, diversity and sustainability of the discipline, with some obtaining
 accolades such as an Emerald Literati Network Award for Excellence.

 Our generous School budget supports expenses for presenting at leading conferences and since
 2014 thirteen BBS students have benefitted from competitive Vice Chancellor’s Travel Prize
 awards (circa £500) to connect with scholars in their field and seed links for future research.
 During the Covid-19 pandemic we augmented support by moving processes online, providing
 extra training on remote data collection, and reviewing timelines for those adversely disrupted.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Many BBS PhDs have secured significant roles in academia (e.g. numerous Senior
 Lectureships), private business (e.g. Supply Planning Manager) and the public sector (e.g. UN
 Social Affairs Officer), and some have secured awards, notably a Global Challenges Research
 Fund QR/ODA Grant.

 Equality and diversity

 We are fully committed to equality of opportunity and diversity. It is only through inclusiveness
 and sensitivity to all protected characteristics including age, race, gender, disability, religion and
 sexual orientation, and devotion to wellbeing, that individual needs can be met and our world-
 class research delivered. 49% of our current research staff are female, 22% are under 39 years
 old, 10% between 60 and 69 and 4% above 70, and 50% identify as BAME. None have a
 declared disability.

 Brunel University holds an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in recognition of its E&D achievements.
 Staff returning from maternity, adoption or paternity leave are strongly encouraged to make an
 application for Athena SWAN Research Leave. Our workload allocation model protects the 30%
 dedicated research time for all and ensures a balanced distribution with teaching, management
 and external engagement. Flexible and remote-working is available to all, permitting research
 off-campus (two days per week). We apply flexible arrangements or temporary
 teaching/administrative relief to help colleagues resume their research following absence due to
 ill-health or for those with caring responsibilities. Specialist resources are provided where
 required to support staff and PGRs.

 The School has a Director of Equality and Diversity (Vassilopoulou) who, as a member of the
 School’s Management Board, actively guides the School in meeting its responsibility for fairness
 and inclusion. Alongside the appointment of a College Vice Dean for Equality and Diversity in
 2019, this places E&D considerations at the heart of all academic staff recruitment,
 development, promotion and support. We provide mandatory E&D training for new staff and all
 staff are required to refresh their knowledge annually. Equality impact assessments are used
 when there is competition for finite resources or opportunities.

 These policies combine to ensure that no individual or demographic group are overloaded or
 disadvantaged and that we are responsive to the differential support required. Their success is
 illustrated by Yen’s rapid progression, her research achievements and value-added as PGR
 Director leading to promotion to Reader and appointment as Associate Dean of the School.
 Moreover, all staff have been able to contribute to this submission; more than half of new staff in
 the period are female including six of the nine Chair/Reader appointments; the number of
 females and males promoted to Reader/Chair over the period was equal and more than half of
 the promotions were secured by BAME staff.

 We are proud of the diversity of our PhD student community and the PGR Director, with input
 from supervisors and RDAs, monitors their overall wellbeing. 52% of those awarded their PhD
 in 2019-20 were female (a rise from 39% in 2014-15) and 9% identified as disabled. More than
 two-thirds of the awards have been to BAME students.

 Brunel, as a research-intensive university, is submitting 100% of all eligible academic staff. We
 followed our Code of Practice for the fair and transparent identification of independent
 researchers and to ensure that the submitted outputs provided a balanced and unbiased
 representation of the work of our diverse academic community, their characteristics and
 contractual positions (age, disability, race, sex, part-time workers and fixed-term employees).
 Output selection was monitored through regular Equality Impact Assessments. The outputs
 submitted are a very well-balanced representation of the protected characteristics and
 contractual positions of BBS staff. For example, the 20% of staff of Asian ethnicity, 5% of Black
 ethnicity and 23% of Mixed & Other ethnicity are fairly represented contributing 23%, 5% and
 24% of the outputs respectively.


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding

 During the REF period BBS has secured £3.4M of external funding for 34 projects from 14
 different funding bodies/sources, including the European Commission (EC) (10 projects, 78% of
 funding), UKRI, NIHR and Leverhulme (5 projects, 3.3%), Qatar National Research Fund (2
 projects, 6.8%), British Council (2 projects, 1.9%), British Academy (4 projects), British Academy
 of Management (2 projects), and other sources (9 projects, 8.4%) including NASA and SAMA
 Group (Oman).

 Our income generation strategy emphasises preparing all staff irrespective of their career stage
 to bid for funding. Following our mandate to support diversity and inclusion, we have
 encouraged and supported wide participation across all levels and genders in securing grants;
 from senior staff (e.g. Hendy (F), Lee (M), Mansouri (M)) and R Simpson (F)), mid-career
 academics (e.g. Dora (M), Heller (M), Rosli (F) and Vassilopoulou (F)), and junior staff (e.g.
 Hezarkhani (M)). Impressively, we have increased the number of mid/early-career researchers
 securing awards compared to the previous REF.

 Building on our research expertise and diverse international connections we make informed and
 strategic decisions targeting calls and opportunities that are timely and identified from funders’
 strategic priority areas:

 In sustainable operations BBS staff have secured funding for four projects to reduce energy
 consumption and emissions in data centres (GREENDC, EC); in smart cities (DAREED, EC);
 and in maritime shipping (MINI-CHIP, EC; CLOUD-VAS, EC; and PortForward, EC). The
 PortForward project is also enabling the UK to progress the government’s ’Freeports’ initiative
 post-Brexit.

 To increase the security of food chains and reduce food waste, we obtained funding for five
 projects: `Evaluating food waste and its impact on sustainability performances in the fresh fruit
 and vegetables value chain in the UK using lean thinking principles’ (British Academy);
 `Understanding young people’s socialization into becoming consumers of food outside of home’
 (British Academy); `Food fraud prevention using blockchain technology’ (British Council); `Lean
 humanitarian supply chain and logistics (LHSCL) to ensure resilient and efficient food distribution
 in humanitarian disasters and emergencies’ (British Council) and ‘Safeguarding food and the
 environment in Qatar’ (Qatar National Research Fund). The latter was a collaborative project
 with Turkish partners in response to the refugee crisis in Europe following the Syrian war and
 mass migration of refugees to Turkey.

 To improve the performance of healthcare systems in one of the largest global public service
 sectors, and using AI, big-data analytics, and educational interventions, BBS colleagues secured
 four projects: `Impact of Artificial Intelligence on productivity, employability and business models
 in health care services’ (UKIERI); `Knowledge exchange on healthcare big-data analytics’
 (Medical Research Council); `A Big-data and social data-driven fuzzy cognitive map for public
 policy modelling and impact analysis’ (The NRF of Korea); and `An innovative educational
 intervention to improve uptake of Hepatitis B and C testing in South East Asians:
 Intervention development and a feasibility study for a RCT’(NIHR).

 To understand the opportunities and challenges presented by the growth of social media, social
 innovation, and ICT-enabled social services, we secured three funded projects: `Social services:
 Exploratory study on ICT-enabled innovation in social services in the EU’ (EC); `Social
 Innovation: Driving force of social change’ (EC); and ‘PolicyCompass- develop a visual, intuitive
 tool for social networks and e-participation platforms’ (EC).

 In response to Brexit, a project jointly funded by BAM-ANZAM to investigate supply chain
 collaboration among agribusiness SMEs and post-Brexit UK-Australia trade was secured.

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Strategies for generating income and impact

 A comprehensive strategy enables staff to succeed at income generation. This includes
 measures outlined in sections 1 and 2 including staff training, research and knowledge transfer
 leave, ECR BRIEF support and our intensive-mentoring approach, alongside pump-priming
 awards and grant writing workshops. The annual amount of the School budget dedicated to
 direct research support has risen steadily over the period, up to £153k for academic year 2019-
 20.

 A Dean of School Large Grant Strategic Fund (circa £20k per annum) was introduced to support
 staff, especially ECRs, to undertake pilot projects for larger external bids. The scheme helped
 secure Hezarkhani’s first grant. It enabled You to work on two major proposals: a GCRF bid led
 by Oxford and Tsinghua University (China) on ‘Reducing the Impacts of Plastic Waste in
 Developing Countries’, then on a UKRI proposal led by Newcastle University on ‘Smart
 Sustainable Plastic Packaging’ under the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund. Botchie was able
 to organize two knowledge exchange workshops for BBS with the University of Ghana to
 generate novel ideas on internet of things and food poverty reduction, subsequently helping his
 participation in a bid by a consortium involving Newcastle University, The OU and a farmer’s
 group in Ghana.

 Lee and Wang joined forces using OISM and CES funds to organise a ‘Research Proposal
 Awayday’ in 2018 which contributed to the development of two substantial Horizon-2020 bids
 with Brunel as lead on data-analytics optimisation for logistics and supply chains.

 The University’s Research Support and Development Office (RSDO) supports projects with high
 impact potential through a substantial GCRF-QR allocation. Brunel Research Accelerator in
 Developing Countries awards are available to support the scale up of collaboration activities
 that are eligible for Newton Fund or GCRF funding. Braganza, Dora and Rosli all successfully
 applied (circa £15-20k each) to use their research to support communities in OEDC DAC
 countries to become more resilient and sustainable. Brunel Global Challenges Mobility and
 Networking Grants support researchers below the level of Reader to develop new
 engagements between Brunel and international universities or research organisations eligible for
 ODA funding. Botchie and Lu have both been awarded, Lu’s initiating his ‘Enhancing through
 Sharing’ project with Tribhuvan University (Nepal) to improve patient access to healthcare
 through the development of a new service provider resource-sharing platform.

 Brunel Innovation Vouchers support collaborative innovation with UK SMEs, social enterprises
 and third sector organisations who have not previously worked with us. Vouchers contribute up
 to £5k to the costs of accessing the University's expertise and facilities for projects to develop
 new products, processes or services and that will secure future collaboration, with the company
 contributing equally in cash or in kind. Through a £4.5k voucher, Stoian and Wang were able to
 help 15 SME social enterprises to assess their social, economic and environmental impact, and
 develop a toolkit for the sector and the Regulator of CICs to evaluate the wider impact of social
 enterprises.

 The agility offered by our research and impact support is superbly illustrated by Dora. With his
 ‘Accelerator’ funding from RSDO he created the interdisciplinary Circular Food Forum network of
 diverse European government, industry and policy stakeholders. Supported also by his internal
 CES award, this then led to his Vision2020 Food Helix Event to develop new food-sector
 collaborations, and subsequently, through his membership of the Institute of Energy Futures to
 his participation in Brunel’s bid for a £5m UKRI sustainable food futures DTP. Together, these
 internal mechanisms have supported his accumulation of external grants in excess of £140k and
 a prestigious masterclass on Blockchain-driven sustainability at PricewaterhouseCoopers.

 We actively engage with the specialist support provided by the University’s RSDO to develop
 and strengthen external bids. This includes timely alerts on grant calls through Yammer and

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 personalised recommendations via Research Professional, talks on scheme opportunities from
 invited funders (e.g. Leverhulme), networking and match-making events, funder-specific grant
 writing workshops and extensive support with proposal costing. It was through RSDO
 networking events that Mansouri succeeded in joining European consortia with his pioneering
 research on novel green scheduling. He subsequently won EC funding for two major projects as
 PI and Co-I respectively. The RSDO has appointed six new Business Development Managers,
 and colleagues are working with them to develop new relationships in the creative industries
 sector.

 To strengthen their external bids staff also benefit from a robust College system for peer-
 reviewing all applications, receiving constructive feedback from two evaluators (one within and
 one outside the School). We operate a similar two-stage institutional scheme for ESRC bids. For
 the popular British Academy/Leverhulme Small grant scheme we use a ‘Pitch-to-Peers’ event
 that provides immediate feedback from a panel including previous awardees. This supported
 Dora, Heller and Shiwakoti to win their BA/Leverhulme awards. Peer-review is also required for
 internal schemes, and helped ECRs Gerwe and Chelekis to obtain their BRIEF awards.

 Infrastructure and facilities supporting research and impact

 As part of the University and School strategy of creating an environment suitable for a world-
 class business school, we are now located in the state-of-the-art Eastern Gateway Building on
 the University’s highly attractive, self-contained campus in close proximity to Heathrow airport.
 This is a purpose built, dedicated space for all staff, visiting researchers and our PhD students,
 with high-specification audio-visual IT-enabled rooms for research groups, workshops and
 research seminars. Co-location in a single flagship building in a prime location allows close
 coordination, integration of PhD students into wider activities and the effective delivery of staff
 development. It has fostered synergy and enabled greater collaboration amongst our research
 groups, has enhanced our research profile and facilitates extensive interaction with research
 users and other stakeholders.

 It is home to our unique business engagement platform Brunel HIVE which supports impact
 through relationship building with practitioners and SME owners. The HIVE ecosystem through
 which we collaborate extensively with West London Business and local Chambers of
 Commerce, allows colleagues to access our ever-expanding business network, helping to build
 strong, vibrant and impactful links with research users, such as those developed with London
 Growth Hub, the CEO of BSE (formerly Bombay Stock Exchange) and Meres Consult Ltd
 amongst numerous others. In May 2020 through HIVE, Canhoto and Wei helped a boutique
 hotelier in Oxford overcome immediate and significant challenges imposed by the COVID-19
 pandemic - just one of over 50 other examples of direct support.

 Colleagues also benefit from training workshops and one-to-one advice on impact planning
 provided by the College’s Research Impact Officer (Schuppert), from the College Research
 Office for post-award project administration, and for online public engagement from its recently
 appointed Research Impact (Social Media) Officer (Kania).

 The School’s Research Seminar Series hosts carefully selected leading scholars in areas of
 strategic importance to us who enrich our research environment and networks alongside internal
 speakers. Likewise, our five research groups act as crucial enabling infrastructure for events
 and interactions that enable colleagues to take full advantage of impact opportunities, as does a
 sizeable College Research Impact Fund and our use of Brunel’s ‘Impact Tracker’ database.

 Other infrastructural support for research includes an excellent central library providing
 outstanding access to specialist Business and Management resources (including over 26,500
 books, 2,500 e-journals, Bloomberg, FAME, Osiris, Datastream and Thomson One) and an
 Academic Skills service for PhD students and dedicated subject librarians. We benefit from
 excellent IT and computing services and specialist software (e.g. NVivo, STATA), University and
 College research resource webpages, a Media Relations Team who provide media training and

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 assist with rapid research publicity and press releases, BBS’s own bespoke searchable
 Research Expertise Database, and regular RSDO and Leading Edge research e-newsletters.

 Brunel’s online Research Database (BRAD) stores and automatically updates details of all staff
 publications including citation counts, and Altmetrics data tracks the attention our research
 receives. This is directly linked with our external-facing open access publications repository
 Brunel University Research Archive (BURA) showcasing our publications by making the full-text
 freely available. Extensive access to our articles via open-access journals is ensured through
 the University’s Open Access Publishing Fund.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Our staff are empowered to network and build strong partnerships that raise the quality of our
 research and help shape ideas for innovative research and funding. Through the strategic
 support detailed in sections 1 and 2 including resources for joint projects,
 conference/symposium organisation and research workshops we have substantially
 strengthened the global reach of our networking and external collaborations. Colleagues
 collaborate with high-profile researchers nationally (e.g. Aston, Cambridge, LSE, Loughborough
 and Oxford), and from numerous countries globally, including Hong Kong University of Science
 and Technology, Harvard University, University of Groningen, University of Montreal, Stella
 Nkomo University of Pretoria and University of Sydney. In 4 of our 6 impact cases the main
 beneficiaries are located in overseas user-communities.

 Our generous research allowance enables colleagues to create research networks that in turn
 translate to major collaborations with international partners. Mansouri’s Horizon2020-funded
 “PortForward” project involves close collaboration with the Port of Vigo and LeiTaT (Spain) and
 industry and academic partners in Germany, Belgium, Greece, Spain, Italy and Norway, and
 Lee’s “GREENDC” brings together academic partners in Turkey and commercial partners LKKE
 (UK), David Holdings (Bulgaria) and TURKSAT (Turkey).

 The allowance facilitated Theodosopoulos’ Erasmus research collaboration with The Federico
 II University of Naples on EU graduate entrepreneurship, and El-Tawy’s with the University of
 Dubai. Kanji initiated the interdisciplinary project ‘The Mental Load’ with social policy and
 psychology colleagues at Kent and City University London, and now Harvard. Vassilopoulou
 collaborates extensively with the European Network Against Racism and is co-organising a pan-
 European event to be hosted by Loreal, Paris.

 Through our strategy to lead in the development of Brunel research structures we have also
 expanded our interdisciplinary collaborations. Braganza’s new Centre for AI brings BBS
 researchers together on projects with engineers, lawyers, educationalists, artists and medical
 scientists. Wang’s Centre for Entrepreneurship and Sustainability has seeded more than 30
 interdisciplinary projects or clusters led by BBS researchers involving colleagues from arts,
 computing, education, engineering, humanities, sociology and politics and numerous external
 scholars. Moreover, we frequently provide expertise to interdisciplinary projects in other
 departments, for example to the Brunel Design-led ‘Impact Business by Design’ project.
 Mansouri’s Institute membership triggered his collaboration with Brunel engineers on an EU-
 funded zero-defect manufacturing project involving thirteen EU partners.

 We encourage colleagues to initiate networks or join those at the forefront of their field. Kanji,
 with economists from Birmingham and East Anglia started a research network on educational
 outcomes in low- and medium income countries. Georgiadis collaborates with like-minded
 scholars from Oxford, Washington and UCL in the TEAM1000+Saving Brains consortium and on
 The Young Lives Determinants and Consequences of Child Growth Project Team with Oxford,
 Berkeley and Fordham. Our facilitation of Dora’s work supported his appointment as ‘Champion
 for Africa’ in UKRI’s interdisciplinary STFC Food Network.

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our staff provide intellectual leadership within the academy through chairmanship of Special
 Interest Groups: for instance, Rosli as Chair of ISBE’s ‘Practice and Impact SIG, Canhoto as
 co-Chair of the Academy of Marketing’s ‘Service Marketing and Customer Relationship
 Management’ SIG and Dey as co-Chair of its ‘Qualitative Enquiry in Marketing’ SIG, and
 Sarpong as co-Chair of BAM’s ‘Strategy’ SIG. The School’s Executive Speaker Series,
 featuring amongst others John Cridland (former CBI Director General), Tom Levitt (former MP)
 and Peter Budd (CBE), connects colleagues with potential collaborators and research sites. We
 have hosted eleven Visiting Academics in the period from institutions such as Harvard and TU
 Delft Universities.

 Key research users, beneficiaries and audiences

 The School supports colleagues to engage with and develop specific events for specific user
 audiences. ECR Laczko initiated collaboration with Insight Futures (Glasgow) on sustainability
 in the built environment, Hezarkhani developed relationships with the UK Meat Trade
 Association and Meat and Livestock Australia, and Valsecchi organised a multi-disciplinary
 Symposium on Health Technology and Innovation in partnership with the Health for Work
 Adviceline. Alwi’s research led to her appointment as brand advisor to the National University of
 Malaysia. Wang in collaboration with Co-Innovate, a Brunel ERDF project, organised an event
 for social entrepreneurs and community interest companies (CIC) on Measuring and Scaling-up
 Social Impact, featuring talks from CIC practitioners and BBS researchers.

 Other examples of our successful user engagement include: Manika’s work with the Royal
 Borough of Kensington and Chelsea’s Adult and Social Care Committee on energy saving
 interventions in healthcare; Dora’s engagements with an Indian Government development
 studies body; Hendy’s collaboration with an NHS Trust Accountable Care Partnership; and
 Jarvis’s ‘Payday Lending: Fixing a Broken Market’ Roundtable events with the ACCA and with
 the House of Lords, the latter chaired by the head of the Archbishop of Canterbury’s Task Force
 on Responsible Credit and Saving. Jarvis also presented on Britain’s debt to a roundtable
 chaired by the PPS to the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills. Hendy
 regularly engages practitioners through the West London Business forum.

 External briefings and seminars are important nodes of engagement. Hendy briefed 150
 Cabinet Office staff on targeted Covid-19 health interventions for UK BAME communities. Rosli
 chaired a ‘Thought Leadership Dialogue on the Future of Ageing’ involving 18 stakeholders from
 NGOs, government and universities and moderated a Webinar on generational issues during
 crisis, both organised through Malaysia’s ‘Social Innovation Movement’. Our support has
 benefitted our ECRs, exemplified by Gerwe’s invitation to be a Symposium panellist at the
 prestigious AOM conference, and her initiation of a collaboration with the Plekhanov Russian
 University of Economics.

 Our involvement in Brunel’s Open Innovation Partnership with the Cabinet Office (CO) illustrates
 our commitment to knowledge exchange on societal issues with the UK government. Braganza,
 Canhoto and Chen provided expert knowledge to Members of both Parliaments on the effects
 of AI on jobs and the future of work, Hendy briefed its new National Leadership Centre, and
 Jarvis spoke on consumer indebtedness. Reciprocally, we have benefited from CO
 Masterclasses on influencing policymakers in parliament.

 Our creation of the posts of Directors of Business Engagement (Rosli), Internationalisation
 (Nandy) and Strategic Engagement (Hackney) and of Brunel HIVE has augmented our
 capacity for the development of long-lasting external relationships in the future.

 Engagement with diverse communities and publics

 Our research strategy emphasises communicating important research findings to user
 communities and the wider public. Rosli illustrates this as panellist at the UK Access to Finance

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Funding Show organised by the LEAP consortium, and Samdanis as panellist at the
 International Symposium on Electronic Arts and public exhibition. Bak took her research on soft
 skills to supply chain practitioners through CIPS’ SC-JOBS forum and her expert interview with
 Procurement Leaders. Balmer advised an Australian TV production company for the
 documentary “The Story of the Royals” broadcast by Australia’s ABC.

 We engage the public through our media contributions. Vassilopoulou and Özbilgin were
 interviewed by ERT Radio (Greece) about their WES paper on the migration of highly-skilled
 Greek’s to Germany which also featured on Greece’s ANTI TV and in its TaNea newspaper.
 Mansouri was interviewed on Iran’s Documentary channel about humanitarian disaster
 operations, Dey on the BBC South Asian Network about community acculturation, and Rosli
 about entrepreneurs on Haringey Local Radio.

 Our research features in national press including Die Welt (Germany) (Balmer) and Russia
 Today (Dey). Moscone was interviewed for articles in the Independent, Daily Telegraph, THE
 and several Italian/Spanish newspapers. Batsakis has written for newspapers Eleftheros Typos
 and Naftemporiki (Greece) and Business Partners (the official magazine of the Hellenic-
 American Chamber of Commerce), and Canhoto for Retail News. ECR Utham’s research on
 hedge fund activists featured in CityAM. Canhoto, Dora, Ferreira and Jarvis have written
 numerous pieces for The Conversation; ECR Ferreira’s co-authored article “Overworked and
 isolated: the rising epidemic of loneliness in academia” has already reached 40,000 readers and
 was republished by the World Economic Forum. Yen’s research on social media image usage
 was featured in Raconteur.

 Our staff regularly engage public audiences through Brunel’s own public channels. Dora tackled
 ‘Food Sustainability and Security’ through Brunel’s Public Lecture Series, and Canhoto
 discussed ‘Mortgage Market Lockdown Lessons from the 2008 Recession’ through our Public
 Webinar Series.

 Wider contributions to the economy and society

 Our research expertise is frequently sought by governments. Vassilopoulou and Özbilgin’s
 work was discussed in the Greek Parliament which has since introduced new policies to reverse
 the trend of highly-skilled Greek worker migration to Germany, and Rosli informed the
 Malaysian Ministry of Higher Education about ROI for research which they used to develop a
 new methodology for university research evaluation. Althonayan provided advice to the
 Kazakhstan government’s Strategic Development Advisory Board, Georgiadis served as
 Advisor to the Greek Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, and Shaukat has
 provided written evidence on corporate governance to the BEIS Corporate Governance Enquiry
 and UK Financial Reporting Council.

 Likewise, many BBS colleagues are called on by policy or advisory groups. Alongside European
 Commission appointments, Jarvis has served as Chair of the Consumer Protection Group of the
 EBA, is Special Adviser to the European Federation of Accountants and Auditors and has acted
 in similar capacities with the Nordic Federation of Accountants and the Danish Consumer
 Council. Hendy is Advisory Board member for The Health Foundation, Batsakis’ is assessor
 for ‘Enter–Grow–Go’ the official start-up incubator of Greece’s Eurobank, Xing regularly advises
 the China-based influential think-tank Centre for China and Globalisation, Rosli has advised
 Malaysian NGOs, its Academy of Sciences, and its ARMA on embedding research impact, and
 Nandy provided an influential policy paper to the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.

 We also engage through service with not-for-profit advocacy and professional bodies. Dey has
 served on the Technical Advisory Committee of CIM, Lee on the Korea Scientists and Engineer
 Association in the UK Audit Committee, Özbilgin on the NHS Employers Scientific Advisory
 Board, and Stoian on the International Trade Committee of the London Chamber of Commerce
 and Industry. Jarvis is Board Member of The Genesis Initiative (The National Senate for the UK
 SME Sector), and Director of NFP Registry Trust limited who operate TrustOnline. Nandy is co-

                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Chair of the British Accounting and Finance Association’s (BAFA) South East Group, and
 Shiwakoti Advisory Board member of its Financial Markets and Institution’s SIG.

 Contribution to disciplinary sustainability and responsiveness to national and
 international priorities

 BBS researchers work enthusiastically to advance the discipline and its interdisciplinary
 capacity, organising international events that instil a culture of valuing knowledge transfer.
 AARG hosts an annual Accounting Symposium to engage research-users and leading scholars
 in their outstanding research. It attracts keynote speakers from leading accounting bodies,
 regulators and government, including the ACCA, ICAEW and HMRC. In HRM-OB, Özbilgin
 founded and has organised the international Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Conference
 every year since 2014, chaired by Vassilopoulou in 2017 and 2019, and Kanji organised an
 International Symposium on Mental Load for the Work Family Researchers Network. In MCBM,
 Balmer founded both the annual International Corporate Identity Symposium (organising five
 since 2014), and the International Corporate Heritage Symposium (organising two) and Alwi
 chaired an international Colloquium on Corporate Branding, Identity, Image and Reputation in
 2017. Lee, in OISM, co-chaired the first International Workshop on Energy Data Analytics
 (Greece), and in SEIB Moscone regularly chairs the annual American-European Health
 Economics Study Group Meetings and the Spatial Health Economics Workshops. Sarpong has
 co-convened two BAM Capacity Building Workshops on publishing in elite journals.

 Colleagues likewise support the discipline through programme committee work, chairing tracks
 or special workshops (for example Canhoto’s workshop on ‘Artificial Intelligence in Marketing’ at
 the Academy of Marketing Conference (2018)), and acting as expert panellists (for example
 Theodosopoulos on New Technologies and Sustainable Growth at the International Congress
 on ICT). Furthermore, our staff have led intellectual development in the field assembling state-
 of-the-art research through 20 completed Special Editions over the period in leading journals
 including the British Journal of Management and Organization Studies, and they are regularly
 invited to share their exceptional research findings through seminars at international HEIs.

 Our enabling environment promotes responsiveness to national and international priorities.
 This includes urgent research and insights on the current Covid-19 pandemic as exemplified by
 Hendy’s NIHR/UKRI award to develop targeted COVID-19 health interventions to UK BAME
 communities and her accompanying Cabinet Office briefing, ECR Ayaz Arda’s contributions
 since April 2020 to the West London Business Covid-19 Help Database, and the ‘Brunel for
 Business: Opportunities and Resilience in Crisis’ Webinars quickly organised in May 2020 to
 provide advice on technology and wellbeing during lockdown (Asaad and A Simpson),
 migrants’ experience of lockdown (Yen) and business adaptation and crisis navigation (Ko).
 Nandy provided written evidence to BEIS on SME recovery planning and support measures,
 and Canhoto’s article on consumer vulnerability to the ‘mortgage lockdown’ featured in the
 Birmingham Post. Exemplars in other priority areas include Yen’s collaboration with a local
 primary school to identify strategies for reducing food waste by empowering schoolchildren, and
 Jarvis’s work on the Welsh Government’s Advisory Review Panel to establish high street banks’
 propensity for funding SMEs.

 Wider influence, contributions and recognition by the research base

 Evidence of the School’s wider influence and recognition for intellectual leadership in the
 discipline since 2014 includes:

 •   Moscone and Wang are Senior Members of the ESRC Peer Review College, Moscone of
     the Swiss National Science Foundation, and Jarvis of the EUFIN Scientific Committee.
 •   Our staff serve on national/international grant committees: British Council KT (Rosli),
     Canadian National Sciences Foundation (Özbilgin), Carnegie Trust (Jarvis), China
     Scholarship Council (Xing) and NHS Models Programme (Hendy).


                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Reviewing for funders: colleagues have evaluated numerous proposals for major funders,
     including the BBSRC, British Academy, British Council, DFID, EPSRC, ESRC, European
     Commission, GCRF, Independent Research Fund Denmark, Israeli Science Academy,
     Leverhulme, MRC, Netherlands National Science Foundation, NERC, NIHR, Research
     Promotion Foundation Greece, TheAHSNNetwork and Wellcome Trust.
 •   Journal editorship: Fifteen over the period, examples include Editor of European
     Management Review (Özbilgin), Senior Editor Management and Organisation Review
     (Xing), and Associate Editors Journal of Marketing Management (Canhoto and Manika);
     alongside 40 memberships of peer-reviewed journal editorial boards.
 •   The award of 27 esteemed visiting professorships/positions: examples include Fallon
     WSB University (Poland), Hackney and Vassilopoulou University of Sydney, Jarvis
     sponsored MIA Chair University of Malta, Mordi Coal-City University (Nigeria), Özbilgin
     University Paris Dauphine, and Sarpong University of Kwazulu (South Africa).
 •   Twenty-two current staff have given over 50 invited keynote addresses at prestigious
     meetings across the globe.
 •   The vast majority of our current staff frequently referee articles for over 25 CABS 4*/4-rated
     journals, and over 70 CABS 3-rated journals.

 Our commitment to developing the research excellence of academics and enhancing access to
 research careers for students extends far beyond Brunel internationally. We provide coaching in
 PhD supervision by first supervising our PhD students based at Ahlia University with Ahlia
 academics as second supervisors. Our staff deliver research training for these PhDs, and have
 done so for doctoral training at the Universities of Bergamo, Galatasaray, Macquarie, Malaya,
 Minho (Portugal), Oxford and Southampton. Sarpong has co-convened three BAM Doctoral
 Symposiums and two Online Doctoral Workshops for its Management Strategy SIG, and
 Samdanis organised the 2018 London Centre for Social Studies’ 6th Methodology Conference.
 As a member of the AHRC TECHNE Doctoral Training Partnership we collaborate in
 postgraduate training with seven other institutions. Staff frequently supervise external PhD or
 DBA students, and while working at BBS current staff have externally examined more than 120
 PhD theses.

 The significance and impact of the School’s research is demonstrated by the Prizes awarded to
 our ECRs: Nguyen’s 2018 Santander Networking Award and Gerwe’s and Stoian’s Best Paper
 Awards at EURAM and BAM respectively; and those to established researchers, such as R
 Simpson’s 2017 BAM Richard Whipp Lifetime Achievement Award; Alwi’s Outstanding JBR
 Reviewer Awards, Jarvis’s Jean Monnet Scholarship, Moscone’s Benigno e Filomena
 Suffoletta 2018 Gold Medal for contributions in health economics, Nandy’s Bangaratna Calcutta
 Press Club Award for research in accounting, and Xing’s Inaugural Hermann and Marianne
 Straniak Stiftung MOR Best Paper Award 2016, alongside numerous other Best Paper awards
 bestowed by leading conferences.




                                                                                           Page 21
