Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UoA25 Area Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview

 The Department of African Studies and Anthropology (DASA) is one of the most prominent
 centres in the world dedicated to the study of Africa and its diasporas. For more than 50 years,
 our research has spanned an exceptionally wide range of disciplines in the Humanities (History,
 Literature, cultural production in African and European languages) and Social Sciences
 (Anthropology, Human Geography, Development Studies, Politics). We have a long tradition of
 partnership with colleagues and institutions in Africa. Since REF 2014, we have built upon these
 longstanding commitments, identifying new ways of bringing our close-up, ‘on the ground’
 research into impactful international collaborations. Through our strong presence in major
 publishing outlets and subject associations, we continue to shape the field of African Studies.
 DASA has highlighted unequal structures of knowledge production and exchange and advocates
 for changes that keep African colleagues and institutions, and their concerns, at the heart of the
 field.

 Research context and strategy

 DASA’s influence is disproportionate to our small size (detail in §4). Our outward-looking
 approach, and our capacity to shape the field of African Studies, is underwritten by strong
 institutional support and effective mechanisms for devising, reviewing and
 operationalizing research strategy.

 DASA sits within the School of History and Cultures, under the umbrella of the College of Arts
 and Law. Appropriate linkages have been established, vertically and horizontally, to enable
 DASA to contribute to, and benefit from, the School, College and institutional research
 environments. DASA’s Research Lead and Impact Lead participate in the School Research
 Committee, alongside the Head of School, the School Head of Research, the School Impact
 Lead, and the Director of the Birmingham Research Institute for History and Cultures (BRIHC).
 The School Research Committee provides a vertical link to the College Director of Research and
 the Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research, while BRIHC fosters horizontal linkages between DASA
 and the other subjects in the School (History, Ancient History, Archaeology, Classical Literature
 and Heritage Studies). Through its participation in BRIHC’s thematic workshops, lecture series
 and capacity-building events, DASA engages with approximately 80 academic colleagues in
 cognate disciplines whose research spans all time periods across the globe.

 At REF 2014, DASA’s over-arching aim was to generate and nurture world-leading
 interdisciplinary research on Africa and its diasporas - in individual staff members’ projects,
 through our own interdisciplinary departmental community, and up to the level of international
 collaboration. In 2014, we had a four-pronged strategy for achieving this:

        1. diversification beyond our historic focus on West Africa;
        2. the positioning of DASA as a ‘hub’ for Africa-focussed research, providing expertise
           to other disciplines and centres across the University of Birmingham, and raising our


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           profile across the Midlands;
        3. the sustenance and formalisation of partnerships with Africa-based colleagues and
           African institutions, including in the area of postgraduate research supervision;
        4. fundraising, and the establishment of scholarships for African postgraduate students.

 Through the period 2014-20, DASA reviewed its progress against these strategic goals, notching
 up achievements in all four areas. Bi-annual away days enabled us to identify how our historic
 strengths and recent successes could be deployed in response to the new priorities and
 opportunities that arose within our institution and beyond. Our evolving research strategy is
 grounded in the thoughtful combination of longer-term commitments with agile responses to a
 fast-changing research environment. Goals identified in 2014 have served as launch pads from
 which to develop strategies for the enhancement of research impact, research integrity and
 open research.

 Goal 1 – diversification beyond historic focus on West Africa

 Despite its apparently similar size (7.6 FTE entered in REF 2014 and 7.0 FTE in 2020), DASA
 has navigated a generation change in staffing, furthering our transformation from a Centre of
 West African Studies to a centre with expertise across the regions of sub-Saharan Africa
 and its diasporas. Institutional support enabled us to go beyond the achievement of
 geographical breadth outlined at REF 2014. Over the past six years, the department, and
 institution, has developed a shared strategic focus on

    •   recruitment of outstanding individuals to three-legged open-ended academic posts;
    •   development of long-term research careers;
    •   cultivation of productive synergies in a supportive and inclusive research environment;
    •   active pursuit of, and strong support for, large research grants that establish and develop
        international collaborations, include pathways to research impact and facilitate our move
        towards an open research environment.

 These shared priorities have been pursued via the development of six thematic, interdisciplinary
 and cross-country research clusters, which build on the targeted recruitment of new members of
 academic staff. The clusters cultivate critical mass through the attraction of postdoctoral and
 visiting research fellows, the integration of members of our postgraduate community, and the
 inclusion of fixed-term teaching staff:

    •   Gender and kinship [Johnson, Nolte, Skinner]
    •   Livelihoods, resources and mobility [Cline-Cole, Di Nunzio, Fesenmyer]
    •   Religion and difference in everyday life [Nolte, Fesenmyer]
    •   Slavery and its legacies [Rossi]
    •   Law, bureaucracy and reform [Johnson, Skinner, Di Nunzio, Bolt]
    •   Sources and texts [Skinner, Rossi, Nolte, Jones]

 These clusters have enabled DASA to develop historic areas of strength, attract research grants
 and manage international collaborations, so as to deliver research impact and make more of our
 data and analysis available on open access. Rossi’s ICS for REF 2021 was developed within the
 cluster on ‘Slavery and its legacies’, building on DASA’s tradition of hosting world-leading
 researchers on slavery over the past 50 years (Tony Hopkins, Robin Law, Ann McDougall and
 Gareth Austin). Bolt’s ESRC Future Leaders Fellowship, and the ICS arising from it, were

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developed within the cluster on ‘Law, bureaucracy and reform’, in synergy with projects led by
 Johnson (monograph on gender justice) and Skinner (Leverhulme International Academic
 Fellowship on ‘Learning, Leveraging and Living with the Law’).

 All six clusters have either received, or are working towards, large research grants. Grants held
 by Bolt (ESRC, in the ‘Law, Bureaucracy and reform’ cluster) and Skinner (BA/GCRF, in the
 ‘Gender and kinship’ cluster) support our move to an open research environment by
 generating primary datasets that are, or will ultimately be, freely available online. Such data may
 become increasingly valuable to other researchers in the light of COVID-19 travel risks and
 restrictions. Fesenmyer’s ERC award (in the ‘Religion and difference in everyday life’ cluster)
 contains provisions for future publications to be made available on Gold Open Access.
 Johnson’s recent book, Pursuing Justice in Africa (co-edited with George Karekwaivanane), is
 freely available to download as a PDF from the Ohio University Press website.

 Goal 2 – DASA as a ‘hub’

 DASA’s historic reputation as a leader in the field of African Studies was enhanced by Nolte’s
 presidency of the African Studies Association of the UK (ASAUK) from 2016 to 2018, and by our
 hosting of the ASAUK’s largest-ever biennial conference (detail in §4). In accordance with the
 strategic goals identified at REF 2014, we have also supported the institutional emphasis on
 the civic university and regional engagement. We have added new outward-facing events,
 such as Africa Arts Live (detail in §4), to complement our established departmental programme
 of Africa Talks and our prestigious annual Fage lecture. Our invited speakers come from a
 diverse range of backgrounds, whilst the Fage lectures have amplified the voices of UK-based
 academics from minority groups, as well as attracting senior academics from the African
 continent.

 Since REF 2014, departmental events have been scaled up through strategic intra-
 institutional and external collaborations. Our relationship with the University’s International
 Development Department (IDD) was boosted by their appointment of Professor Nic Cheeseman.
 This generated several DASA-IDD innovations, including the University’s first-time hosting of the
 Royal African Society’s ‘Africa: Prospects and Forecasts’ in January 2017, drawing journalists,
 leaders of NGOs and businesses (particularly the creative industries) and members of the
 public; and the founding workshop of the Midlands African Studies Hub in September 2017
 (detail in §2).

 DASA’s pre- and post-2014 work as an Africa ‘hub’ enabled us to play an important role in
 institutional responses to the UK government’s Global Challenges research agenda, and
 particularly to the establishment of the University’s Institute for Global Innovation (IGI; see
 REF5a, 2.3). Skinner was an active participant in the institutional consultations that led to the
 establishment of the IGI, and an early advocate for its emphasis on SDG 5 (gender equality).
 The IGI has provided crucial support for new research projects in DASA (e.g. Skinner’s
 BA/GCRF project on Ghanaian gender activists) and for the achievement of impact from
 established lines of research (e.g. an additional grant of £10,000 for Rossi’s ICS on legacies of
 slavery) (detail in §3).

 Goal 3 – collaboration and partnership for research excellence and impact

 DASA’s historic strength, and underlying source of excellence, is its commitment to in-depth, ‘on
 the ground’ research in particular African societies and diasporas. This research is essential in

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ensuring that global challenges are understood in specific contexts and can be addressed with
 sensitivity and flexibility. DASA has long recognised that international collaborations provide an
 important vehicle through which to integrate our own in-depth studies with those of researchers
 in other countries and fields, and thereby establish global comparative and interdisciplinary
 engagement. But, since 2014, we have also re-thought older approaches to capacity-building
 and partnership, so as to establish a new strategy for the achievement of impact from excellent
 research. We have therefore established new ways of working

    •   between academics, practitioners and activists
    •   between academics located in the global north and global south, and particularly on the
        African continent.

 Within DASA, we have re-thought our annual Cadbury programme, which, for the past 15
 years, has been funded via a generous bequest from the Cadbury family. Hitherto, annual
 programmes had focussed on the identification of a shared research theme, a call for fellowship
 applications from early career researchers in Africa, a five- to ten-week programme of
 developmental activities and events in DASA, culminating in a conference at which our Cadbury
 fellows presented their papers to an international audience, prior to submission for publication.

 Since 2016, the Cadbury programmes have been more closely integrated with staff members’
 externally-funded projects, extending the capacity-building benefits to more early career
 researchers from the global north and the global south (e.g. Nolte’s ‘Learning to be Muslim in
 West Africa’ programme in 2016). We also introduced shorter visiting fellowships for
 practitioners and activists, thus involving them directly in research debates and in the
 formulation of research agendas and activities, and not merely in dissemination at the end of
 academic projects. The 2019 Cadbury workshop on ‘Law, Custom and Property’ established
 dialogues between academics and legal practitioners; provided opportunities for external
 partners on particular projects to engage with one another and compare the challenges
 encountered in different African countries; and enabled broad discussion around a policy-toolkit
 (for Bolt’s ICS).

 These innovations drew from DASA’s long tradition of partnership with African academic
 colleagues and institutions. The collaborations in doctoral training and supervision that
 were highlighted at REF 2014 have since been deepened. During her 2019 Leverhulme
 fellowship, Skinner participated in a three-day programme on feminist research methodology,
 with postgraduates at the University of Cape Coast (Ghana), and Bolt continued to co-supervise
 with colleagues at WISER, South Africa, which offered him a visiting fellowship during his ESRC
 Future Leaders award.

 But DASA has also embraced the challenge of ‘doing collaboration differently’. Our strategy
 is grounded in evidence that international collaboration, and particularly north-south
 collaboration, is more likely to have meaningful and sustained impact if it is genuinely
 collaborative – and this means recognising inequalities in structures of knowledge production
 and exchange. Contributions towards capacity-building of early-career scholars in Africa thus
 need to be combined with new efforts to tackle the marginalisation of academic colleagues and
 external partners in the global south, who have too often been treated as gatherers of data, or
 loosely-defined ‘beneficiaries’ of research projects formulated in the global north. Within DASA,
 research integrity has extended beyond adherence to the institutional Code of Practice, to
 encompass greater sensitivity to conditions of academic research in Africa, and in-depth and


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 context-specific consultations with African partners about research methods, ethics and wider
 dissemination of findings (including on Open Access).

 Thus just as the Cadbury 2019 workshop tackled a division between academic producers of
 knowledge and practitioner users of knowledge, so staff members’ projects and outputs have
 increasingly built collaboration with Africa-based academic colleagues into the stages of design
 and analysis, as well as data-gathering and dissemination. This is evident in co-
 authored/collective outputs (by Skinner & Yayoh, and by Nolte, Jones & Ogen) and new
 collaborative projects (Skinner with Adomako Ampofo under BA/GCRF). These complement the
 strenuous efforts of Nolte to ensure that Africa-based colleagues were able to obtain travel funds
 and appropriate visa invitation letters to participate in the exchange of knowledge at the ASAUK
 conference in 2018 (detail in §4).

 Goal 4 – fundraising for international doctoral scholarships

 Doctoral training for African students is a key element in DASA’s broader commitment to
 redressing historical and structural inequalities in African Studies: without it, young African
 researchers will struggle to become agenda setters in the future, and this will undermine
 collaborative efforts to tackle the hierarchical relation of global-north to Africa-based expertise. A
 key challenge that we flagged at REF 2014 is the need for international students coming to the
 UK to demonstrate how they will meet tuition and maintenance costs before a student visa is
 granted.

 Whilst DASA’s collaboration with UoB’s Development and Alumni Relations team was
 successful in securing generous private donations, our major donor focused on undergraduate
 student exchange with our established partner, the University of Cape Coast (Ghana). Split-site
 postgraduate research programmes with African partners remain a medium-term goal.
 Institutional funding was offered to complement DASA’s fundraising efforts: two BRIHC
 international scholarships were dedicated to the PhD in African Studies, while the institutional
 Global Challenges Doctoral Scheme has opened up a new opportunity to develop a more
 diverse postgraduate research community in DASA (detail in §2, see also REF5a, 3.2).

 DASA is still committed to securing scholarships for African students who wish to study with us
 in Birmingham, but our experience suggests that more institutions on the continent are
 developing PhD programmes, and that sustainable improvements in doctoral training can be
 achieved via split-site programmes, which are more collaborative and less costly.

 Vision for the future

 In the forthcoming REF cycle, DASA aims to maintain its long tradition of world-leading research
 on Africa, and to embed it even more firmly in meaningful and sustainable international
 collaboration for maximum impact. There are three main strategies through which we will pursue
 this overarching goal:

 1. Maintain critical mass around the six dynamic research clusters through
    • continued institutional commitment to a core establishment of academic staff on open-
       ended three-legged contracts, funded from a sustainable combination of tuition fee and
       research income; and



                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   targeted recruitment of staff on open-ended contracts to maintain and enhance areas of
        historic strength that will be affected by forthcoming retirements and career moves.

 2. A selective but intensive approach to funding applications that will
    • boost our research clusters through visiting and postdoctoral fellowships, and
       postgraduate recruitment;
    • embed from Day 1 collaboration and partnership with Africa-based academics,
       practitioners and activists, and maintain this approach through the stages of research
       design, data gathering, analysis, dissemination and impact; and
    • extend current efforts to disseminate data and analysis on Open Access, enabling us to
       connect open research to the broader issues of research integrity in African Studies (as
       outlined above), and to embed ‘openness’ from the initial stage of project design.

 3. Continued advocacy for affordable, sustainable and collaborative approaches to
    doctoral training, including split-site programmes that make doctoral training more
    affordable for Africa-based students and build UK-Africa institutional linkages.

 2. People

 Staffing and recruitment strategy

 DASA has navigated a generation change in its staffing. Between 2014 and 2018, research
 income from successful grant applications encouraged the institution to respond to retirements
 and resignations with investment in five open-ended lectureships, four of which included
 responsibility for research. This led to the appointments of Johnson and Jones (2016), and
 Fesenmyer and Di Nunzio (2018). Jones decided to make a career change in May 2020. Bolt
 moved to Oxford University in April 2020. DASA’s total REF-eligible staff resource in 2020
 (7FTE) was similar to that entered in REF 2014 (7.6FTE).

 The commitment to three-legged open-ended academic posts has been critical to the
 achievement of our strategic goals. Firstly, it enabled us to combine the recruitment of
 outstanding individuals with our ongoing emphasis on expanding geographic coverage beyond
 our historic focus on West Africa, leading to the formation of inter-disciplinary and cross-country
 thematic clusters that scale-up their individual research interests (as described in §1). Secondly,
 it enabled us to attract a diverse group of talented postgraduate researchers into co-supervision
 arrangements, and to provide strong support for their projects and career development. Thirdly,
 the commitment to open-ended posts helped us to monitor equality and diversity over multiple
 academic years, to ensure that colleagues are supported in a range of ways through the
 different career stages, and to avoid short-termist decision-making. Research capacity continues
 to be enhanced by, but is not excessively reliant upon, postdoctoral research fellows and visiting
 professors.

 Geographically, Fesenmyer and Di Nunzio contribute a sub-regional specialist expertise that we
 had previously lacked (Eastern Africa and the Horn). A successful application, submitted in July
 2020, for an ESRC Postdoctoral Fellow will further develop this area of expertise.

 Thematically, the appointment of Jones built on our historic reputation in literature, popular
 culture and African-language texts, as established by Professors Karin Barber and Paulo de
 Moraes Farias. Jones’ expertise cross-fertilised with Skinner/Yayoh’s project on African-


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 language (Eʋe) newspapers in the era of decolonisation, and Rossi’s analyses of Arabic and
 Hausa sources for the history of the West African Sahel.

 Fesenmyer’s appointment sets off a new extension to Nolte’s pioneering ERC-funded project on
 inter-faith encounters and practices in Nigeria. DASA is well-placed to support Fesenmyer in the
 completion of her monograph on transnational kinship (London-Kenya) and her contribution to a
 new ERC-funded project (hosted at UCL) on multi-religious encounters in urban settings. In his
 ethnographic research on urban growth, Di Nunzio benefits from Cline-Cole’s longstanding
 expertise on geographies of development (including migration as a livelihood strategy, and
 access to and use of rural resources), and from Rossi’s impactful research on historical and
 contemporary connections between labour exploitation and human mobility.

 Our present geographic spread and thematic synergies are a source of considerable vitality,
 enabling us to provide expert feedback on each other’s new project proposals, draft outputs and
 impact case studies, in a supportive and inclusive departmental writing group. Johnson’s
 research on law, rights and gender justice in Malawi helped Skinner to develop her Leverhulme
 International Academic Fellowship proposal on post-Independence reform to family law in
 Ghana. This in turn helped Bolt to place his research on popular and legal norms in post-
 Apartheid South Africa into a comparative context during the Cadbury 2019 workshop, and
 identify possibilities for the scaleability of his ICS.

 Support for staff members’ research

 At 31 July 2020, DASA has seven members of staff with significant responsibility for research:
 three lecturers, two senior lecturers, two readers. Five are women and two are men; two are
 white British, three are white and of continental European background, one is white North
 American, and one is black African. Five staff members are carers of children under the age of
 18; four took year-long maternity leaves in this REF cycle, whilst two took shorter parental
 leaves. One staff member spent approximately two years on a part-time contract in order to
 balance work and caring responsibilities.

 All members of staff participate in a robust mentoring system, tailored according to career
 stage. In their first year, new lecturers are automatically given a workload reduction so as to
 ease their transition to three-legged responsibilities and maintain their research momentum.
 New lecturers in DASA are encouraged to develop specialist optional modules, which showcase
 their own research in their teaching and place their individual projects within a wider scholarly
 field. All new lecturers have an initial meeting with a College Research Funding Facilitator, which
 enables the Research Office to be proactive in matching appropriate funding opportunities to the
 new lecturers’ research goals. New lecturers are guided through a three-year probation and
 professional development plan, including written yearly reviews with input from the Head of
 School, and quarterly discussions of progress with their mentors (REF5a, 3.4.3).

 With the retirement of Professor Karin Barber, research leadership in DASA has passed to the
 next generation. In order to support this transition, DASA’s mid-career cohort has taken up a
 range of opportunities created through institutional investments in leadership training (REF5a,
 3.4.4). Nolte, Skinner, Rossi and Bolt were all selected for and completed leadership
 programmes. The alignment of individual, unit-level and institutional priorities is pursued through
 supportive annual Performance and Development Reviews. Everyone who was a lecturer at
 REF 2014 achieved promotion. DASA’s current and former Heads of Department, Research
 Leads and Impact Leads are all women. This has helped us to achieve gender parity on

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointment panels since 2014 and to put new lecturers into probationary and mentoring
 arrangements with senior women (although additional measures are still required to promote
 diversity in future recruitment and staff development – see below).

 All members of academic staff receive a personal research allowance (usually £1000 per year),
 and they are entitled to apply for one semester of study leave after six semesters of teaching
 and administrative service. In order to support projects of exceptional scale and significance,
 develop impactful projects, or kick-start research after intensive administrative service, staff
 members can apply for additional or double study leave. Skinner benefitted from a double study
 leave in 2017/18, enabling her to write two successful research funding applications after the
 end of her three-year period as Head of Department. Rossi also benefitted from an additional
 study leave in 2018/19, to focus on the development of impactful research and a successful
 application for an ERC Advanced Grant.

 In order to ensure equal opportunities to conduct research and achieve impact from research,
 eligibility to apply for study leave continues to accrue through maternity leave and sick leave;
 academic colleagues returning from maternity leave are entitled to a remission on one of the
 three legs of their academic contracts; and workloads of all staff are monitored by the Head of
 Department on a termly basis. Criteria for promotion to reader and professor place a strong
 value on the achievement of research impact, as well as on publication, grant income,
 contributions to the scholarly field, and indicators of esteem (REF5a, 3.4.6).

 All members of academic staff, including postdoctoral research fellows, participate in a
 supportive writing group, which provides feedback on draft proposals, outputs and impact case
 studies. Staff members have also benefitted from the targeted input of visiting professorial
 fellows, e.g. Jane Guyer, who visited under a Leverhulme scheme in 2015 and supported Bolt’s
 ESRC Future Leaders application. Postdoctoral research fellows are given development
 opportunities that cohere with their research projects, e.g. leading research training sessions
 based on their expertise and experience, convening postgraduate reading group modules, and
 organising some of the Africa Talks.

 DASA has hosted three postdoctoral research fellowships since REF 2014: Augustina Adusah-
 Karikari (BA Newton 2013-15), Leslie James (Leverhulme ECR 2014-17) and Rebecca Jones
 (ERC Knowing Each Other project, 2014-16). All of our postdoctoral research fellows progressed
 into open-ended three-legged academic posts. This is a reflection of their individual quality and
 our mechanisms for integrating them into a dynamic and supportive research culture. DASA also
 shared in a Global Challenges postdoctoral research fellowship programme run by BRIHC
 (detail in §1).

 DASA values the wide range of research activities and outputs that staff members contribute
 to the field of African Studies. Where it is necessary to select outputs for REF grading, we have
 endeavoured to do so fairly, transparently and rigorously, guided by the institutional Code of
 Practice for REF 2021. A unit-level reading and grading group, which includes the Head of
 Department and the current and former research leads, ensures that each output is read twice
 within the unit before it proceeds to a College group. Declarations of individual circumstances
 are voluntary, confidential and handled in line with the institutional CoP.

 In recognition of the need to maintain and step up commitments to equality, diversity and
 inclusion, DASA participated in a large data-gathering and self-assessment exercise within the
 School in 2018 and 2019. The DASA research lead is carrying out an evaluation of annual

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Performance and Development Reviews across the School, with a view to ensuring more
 consistent mentoring for all members of academic staff. We also follow the principles of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The financial consequences of
 the COVID-19 pandemic inhibited recruitment to University-funded open-ended three-legged
 academic posts in 2020. However, the COVID-related cancellation of our usual Cadbury
 programme in the spring of 2020 resulted in an accumulation of funds, which DASA proposes to
 spend on the establishment of an 18-month fellowship for an Africa-based early-career scholar
 in 2021-22.

 Postgraduate researchers

 All postgraduate researchers now have a minimum of two supervisors and some have three,
 enabling a wide range of thematic, methodological, theoretical and country-specific expertise to
 be brought to bear upon dissertation projects. DASA runs its own PhD programme in African
 Studies; in addition, our experience in an ESRC-funded doctoral training partnership with five
 African institutions (2012-15) leads us to take the broadest possible approach to shared
 supervision. We contribute supervision to, and draw it from

    •   other units at our own institution, particularly History, International Development and
        English Literature;
    •   other UK institutions with whom we have shared doctoral training arrangements – e.g.
        Skinner contributes supervision to Julia Fernando at Aston via an ESRC-DTP
        arrangement, and Jones co-supervised AHRC-funded students with colleagues at
        Nottingham Trent and Leicester;
    •   international exchange programmes – e.g. Rossi supervised Ana Luiza de Oliveria Silva
        from the University of São Paulo under the CAPES sandwich scheme, whilst Skinner
        supervised Kirsty Wissing from Australia National University through the Scope Global
        Endeavour programme.

 The shift away from sole-supervisor arrangements and towards shared supervision within DASA
 and across other units/institutions, has helped to establish a virtuous cycle. Our current doctoral
 researchers have access to a wider range of expertise and are stimulated by interdisciplinary
 insights and cross-country comparisons; the successes of current doctoral researchers (in terms
 of completion, publication and future employment) strengthen DASA’s reputation with key
 national and international funders of doctoral research; this enables us to work with talented
 prospective doctoral researchers to establish original, significant and fund-able projects, thereby
 building our diverse research community.

 Since REF 2014, despite our small size, we have had a steady stream of prestigious doctoral
 funding: five doctoral awards from the AHRC Midlands Consortium (M4C), including two run in
 partnership with cultural organisations; one collaborative AHRC award with the British Library;
 two ESRC awards, and two joint awards under the institution’s inter-disciplinary Global
 Challenges doctoral scholarship scheme (Cline-Cole with a colleague in Geography, and
 Johnson with a colleague in Political Science). Partly as a result of these awards, during the
 assessment period DASA awarded 16 doctoral degrees (compared with 9 in the last census
 period). Amongst our M4C and ESRC award-holders are two parents of young children, one of
 whom is studying on a part-time basis alongside caring responsibilities. Supervisors support
 doctoral researchers with caring responsibilities through the flexible scheduling of
 supervision meetings, and the use of Skype supervision where necessary.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institutional scholarships have been critical in enabling talented postgraduate researchers from
 Africa and the global south to overcome cost barriers, pay their tuition and provide the evidence
 of maintenance that is required for their student visa applications. So far, the BRIHC
 international scholarships for African Studies have supported one Indian woman and one
 Zimbabwean man. Two DASA candidates (both Ghanaian men) were successful in the College
 of Arts and Law doctoral scholarship competition, whilst another DASA candidate (a French
 woman) was successful in the institutional competition for an AE Hills scholarship. The initiation
 of a Distance Learning PhD programme has also reduced maintenance costs (although not
 tuition fees) for Africa-based postgraduate researchers, and provided another option for those
 who need to balance caring responsibilities or paid work with their research. Our first graduation
 via this route was achieved by a Kenyan woman in 2019, and another student is now close to
 thesis submission.

 DASA adheres to the institutional focus on a rigorous but supportive approach to monthly
 supervision and annual progress review, and the documentation of these meetings in
 standardised online forms. In order to ensure a culture of research integrity, all postgraduate
 research projects are subject first to a supervisor-led self-assessment of ethical considerations;
 the majority of DASA projects proceed to full ethical review, according to the institutional Code of
 Practice (REF5a, 2.2). Departmental relationships with African partner institutions also allow for
 consultation with Africa-based academics around ethical issues arising in particular projects and
 contexts.

 Postgraduate researcher training needs analyses are conducted annually and mapped on to a
 suite of research skills courses offered by the University graduate school (REF5a, 2.2). Paid
 teaching assistant roles are advertised across the School. Wherever possible, development
 opportunities are matched up with sources of financial support, and postgraduates are
 encouraged to propose and convene their own events. In May 2017, two DASA M4C award-
 holders convened a conference of 40 researchers on ‘Postcolonialism in Interdisciplinary
 Perspective’, drawing from the M4C’s cohort development fund.

 In order to cultivate research impact in the future, DASA has been particularly supportive of
 funding applications that embed collaboration with cultural organisations into doctoral projects.
 Examples include Jones’ support for Pernille Nailor’s partnerships with the Africa in Words blog
 and the Africa Writes Festival, and Stacey Kennedy’s partnership with the Ikon Gallery and the
 Art X Lagos Fair.

 Staff members’ externally-funded projects have also provided opportunities for postgraduate
 researchers to gain experience and develop new skills – e.g. Rossi’s SLAFNET project
 employed Pernille Nailor and Tessa Pijnaker in the organisation of the ‘Slavery, Post-Slavery
 and Gender’ conference in March 2018. Postgraduate researchers have also presented their
 work at workshops convened by DASA staff members and by colleagues in the School, e.g.
 Nimrita Rana presented at Skinner’s 2017 Cadbury conference on ‘Marriage in Africa’, and Jovia
 Salifu presented at the 2018 BRIHC workshop on ‘Debt: the first 5000 years’. The Midlands
 African Studies Hub, which was established as a DASA-IDD collaboration in 2017, has held
 annual workshops (Coventry 2018 and Warwick 2019) that provide postgraduates with
 opportunities to present, receive feedback and network across Midlands institutions. This is
 important for DASA as a small department, since it links our postgraduates into a larger
 Midlands research community.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 DASA’s hosting of ASAUK 2018 gave our postgraduates ready exposure to a major international
 conference. Multiple opportunities to present have encouraged our postgraduates to refine their
 work for international peer-reviewed publications. One notable postgraduate achievement was
 the publication in 2018 of an article by Nathalie Raunet Robert-Nicoud, in one of the major
 journals in Area Studies (African Affairs). Visiting PhD student Ana Luiza de Oliveria Silva (from
 Brazil) also went on to publish in a special issue of Islamic Africa, edited by Nolte.

 After graduating, several DASA alumni have been employed as postdoctoral researchers on
 staff members’ externally-funded projects (Jones on Nolte’s ERC project, and Jovia Salifu on
 Skinner’s BA/GCRF project). Three others have secured postdoctoral research fellowships in
 South Africa (Tom Penfold and David Kerr at the University of Johannesburg, and Allen Kiconco
 at the University of the Witswatersrand). PhD graduates from the previous REF cycle are now
 making a significant impact and are providing important Africa-focussed expertise to research
 projects in other academic disciplines and to related sectors. Eunice Apio is now a research
 fellow on an ERC Gender and Transitional Justice project run out of the Birmingham Law
 School, whilst Plangsat Dayil is now Acting Director of the Centre for Gender and Women’s
 Studies at the University of Jos (Nigeria). Dayil’s research has analysed the Bring Back Our Girls
 movement, and highlighted the gendered dimension of the political violence in Jos and
 elsewhere in Nigeria. Paul Naylor is now Cataloger of West African Manuscripts at the Hill
 Museum and Manuscript Library (USA).

 In order to maintain and strengthen an inclusive research culture among postgraduate
 researchers, the School has expanded and consolidated welfare support, paying particular
 attention to mental health. The Africa Talks have been scheduled earlier in the day to reduce
 barriers to participation for researchers with caring responsibilities. Online presentation platforms
 are being trialled in 2020 as a response to COVID-19. This will benefit our distance learners, and
 it has enabled the pairing of speakers and discussants from global north and global south
 institutions, in the spirit of more equal knowledge exchange.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 By maximising unit-level, College-level, and institutional expertise and resources, DASA has
 secured grants of various sizes (totalling research income of £1,566,950 during the current REF
 period) for a wide range of research and impact activity. This diversity of funding has enabled
 us to realise commitments to

    •   interdisciplinarity and associated methodological innovation,
    •   studying oral and literary texts in African languages,
    •   the production of world-leading outputs (including substantial book-length projects),
    •   the increased dissemination of data and findings on open access,
    •   sustaining ambitious international collaborations for the generation of impact from our
        research.

 Bolt’s ESRC Future Leaders Fellowship (£142,690) supported a year of immersive ethnographic
 fieldwork in the Johannesburg courts and associated legal bureaucracy, and the generation of
 an open access dataset of estates files (wills). Skinner’s BA/GCRF award (£267,016) is
 supporting filmed interviews with gender activists in Ghana, leading to the archiving of
 transcripts on open access, and a free-to-view documentary. Nolte’s ERC award (£1,012,851,
 distributed across the 2014 and 2021 REF periods) supported a large-N ethnographic survey in


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nigeria, and an innovative interdisciplinary analysis of that survey data via computer-driven
 corpus methods (detail in §4).

 In the context of a squeeze on modern languages in the UK university sector, DASA has
 secured funding to maintain and enhance its commitment to research with African-
 language texts. The tradition established by Professors Barber (FBA) and de Moraes Farias
 (FBA) is being taken forward by various colleagues. Skinner’s BA IPM-funded project with
 Wilson Yayoh (£26,165) supported a book-length translation and analysis of an African-
 language (Eʋe) newspaper from the Ghana-Togo borderlands. Following her research on the
 Agadez chronicles and Y Tarichi, Rossi became a senior research fellow on the new ERC-
 funded LANGARCHIV project on Hausa and Kanuri sources. Jones successfully developed her
 AHRC-funded doctoral research into a monograph on Yoruba travel-writing, whilst Di Nunzio’s
 ethnography of street life in Addis Ababa also entailed substantial research with Amharic
 newspapers.

 Smaller, but very prestigious awards, such as Rossi’s IGK Re:Work fellowship at Humboldt
 University (£19,531) have supported periods of intensive writing, contributing to high-quality
 outputs. Skinner’s Leverhulme International Academic Fellowship (£9,713) supported a
 ‘discipline hopping’ experience at the University of Cape Coast, enabling her to engage with
 legal scholars and practitioners, so as to develop a new area of expertise in legal history.

 Participation in funded collaborations, such as SLAFNET (EU-RISE), CHIBOW (EU-ITN) and
 CSiW (SSHRC), and leadership of LESLAN (AHRC-GCRF) (£94,071), have been central to the
 internationalisation of Rossi’s research on historic and contemporary forms of slavery in Africa.
 Funded collaborations have also enabled the development of her close relationships with Africa-
 based researchers, anti-slavery activists, heritage institutions, and providers of services for
 people who have experienced enslavement (further detail in her ICS).

 College research development staff helped Bolt to plan for the maximum impact of his research
 during his ESRC Future Leaders Fellowship, from the initial design through the methods for the
 delivery and recording of impact. Institutional funding further supported the project by enabling
 the extension of activities beyond the project period.

 Strategies to support the drafting of high-quality funding proposals include the use of our
 unit-level writing group to secure specialist feedback, and the identification by the College
 Research Office of experienced colleagues to serve as internal peer reviewers of applications.
 Institutional investments have proved critical to the success of medium and large applications:
 Bolt’s ESRC Future Leaders Fellowship was secured following a successful pilot study carried
 out with College seed funding; the IGI provided Skinner with an additional £6,185 to enable the
 purchase of film equipment that was beneficial to her BA/GCRF project but could not be
 accommodated within the external funders’ rules. IGI has also provided additional funding for the
 achievement of impact from established strands of research (e.g. supporting Rossi with an
 additional £10,000).

 Whilst mid-career staff have secured the largest awards, strategies are in place to ensure a
 pipeline. Probationers are not expected to raise a specific amount of funding but they are
 supported to write at least one high-quality funding application as part of their three-year
 probation plan, and receive support for this from colleagues in the relevant research cluster.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoB Main Library is one of the largest university libraries in the UK with 1.8 million print and
 500,000 online books, and over 85,000 print and online journals (REF5a, 4.3). The library has a
 substantial collection of African archival material including the Church Missionary Society
 papers, the Cadbury Papers 1890-1960, the Joseph Chamberlain papers, a collection of West
 African popular pamphlets, the Swanzy “Caribbean Voices” papers, and, on microfiche, a large
 collection of African newspapers as well as the Bascom Collection of early Yoruba publications.
 It has also acquired access to the online World Newspaper Archive providing searchable text for
 early African newspapers (1800-1922). The newspaper collections proved critical to Leslie
 James’ choice of DASA as the host for her Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (2014-17), and
 to Jones’ monograph on Nigerian travel-writing.

 The Danford Collection of West African Art and Artefacts, a major collection of more than 500
 items curated by the University’s Research and Cultural Collections staff, is housed in the
 department and used both in teaching and as a focus for research and engagement. In 2018/19,
 the collection acquired a series of masks from the Eastern Niger Delta (the Salmons-Nicklin
 collection). Cataloguing is still in progress, but a preliminary exhibition of the masks was
 facilitated by Nolte in September 2019, during the ASAUK conference.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 DASA exercises an influence disproportionate to its small size. This is not only through the
 achievements of outstanding individuals, but also through a strong presence in leading
 publication outlets and subject associations, and a commitment to re-thinking our relationships
 with African colleagues and institutions. This has made us both an initiator of impactful
 international collaborations, and a partner-of-choice for networks established elsewhere.

 Nolte’s presidency of the African Studies Association of the UK (ASAUK) provided new avenues
 for the commitment to ‘doing collaboration differently’. Central to this commitment has been
 action to address the marginalisation of Africa-based colleagues from knowledge exchange at
 international conferences. Following up on the well-publicised visa refusals at the previous
 ASAUK conference (Cambridge 2016), Nolte worked with the ASAUK council and membership,
 and the University of Birmingham, to raise the number of Africa-based delegates to the 2018
 conference in Birmingham.

 DASA’s Cadbury bequest yields income of approximately £27k per annum, some of which was
 mobilised alongside private donations by ASAUK members, to increase the number of
 conference bursaries. The University of Birmingham directed administrative resources and
 expertise towards the provision of invitation letters for those applying for visas. Ultimately the
 conference was attended by 800 delegates, of whom 188 were from African institutions. Almost
 half of the 40 thematic streams were organised by an African colleague. Africa-based
 participants in streams and panels convened with or by DASA colleagues were eligible for
 financial support from the Cadbury Fund.

 Nolte (outgoing President) and Ambreena Manji (incoming President) reported to an All-Party
 Parliamentary Group (Africa) meeting on 22 January 2019, reviewing the visa application,
 refusal and reapplication experiences of the 186 Africa-based delegates who had received
 letters of invitation from the University of Birmingham. A broader agenda for keeping Africa at


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the heart of African Studies was set out in Nolte’s presidential address to the conference. This
 has since been published in the Journal of African Cultural Studies. Other DASA staff members
 share these concerns – including the three (Cline-Cole, Jones and Bolt) who are or have been
 members of ASAUK council.

 DASA staff members are aware of the historic marginalisation of African academics, activists
 and practitioners into roles as data-gatherers or agents of dissemination. We have sought to
 tackle this through the joint determination of research questions and research design.
 Examples include Skinner’s project run jointly with Adomako Ampofo, and Bolt’s legal
 ethnography, which was conceived and developed in relationship with the Pro-Bono.Org NGO.
 Projects initiated prior to 2014 have now generated collective publications that break from a
 historic tendency of global north researchers to separate data-gathering in Africa from analysis
 in the global north. This is particularly evident in the Beyond Religious Tolerance volume, edited
 by Nolte, Ogen & Jones, arising from their ERC-funded project. This book, and a set of
 conference proceedings, have also been published in Nigeria, so as to make them more
 affordable for readers there.

 Co-authorship with activists and practitioners has been an important element of specific Impact
 Case Studies (for example, Bolt with legal practitioner Tshenolo Masha) and of a range of other
 efforts to render research accessible, responsive and relevant to wider publics. Several
 staff members have shared research findings on blogs – e.g. Fesenmyer’s blogposts on the
 Oxford University Centre on Migration, Society, and Policy; and the posts written by Skinner and
 her team of researchers and practitioner collaborators, for popular blogs including Democracy in
 Africa and Critical Interventions in Humanitarianism in Africa.

 Our staff members have become the partner-of-choice for several networks initiated in other
 countries (e.g. SLAFNET and CSiW), and we have built on this experience to initiate new
 impactful international collaborations (particularly LESLAN, which was crucial to Rossi’s ICS).
 We have been invited to feed our experiences, and lessons learned, back to major funders. For
 example, Nolte convened two panels at the GCRF Global Engagement Event for UKRO (at the
 British Academy, June 2017), and Rossi was invited to present lessons learned from LESLAN to
 the AHRC in March 2020.

 Collaborations have also been key to developing DASA’s work as a centre for methodological
 innovation. Whilst DASA has a long tradition of exchange between disciplines within the Arts,
 Humanities and Social Sciences, we continue to innovate. For example, in collaboration with
 linguist Clyde Ancarno, corpus-linguistic methods were used to analyse text from the open-
 ended questions in the ERC-funded Knowing Each Other survey on inter-religious relations in
 Nigeria. This generated what we believe to be the very first publication demonstrating an
 analysis at the intersection of computer-driven Corpus Linguistics and Anthropology.

 Wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 DASA’s expertise in, and longstanding appreciation of, African cultural production has enabled
 us to contribute to major exhibitions. The British Library hosted ‘West Africa: Word, Symbol,
 Song’ for four months in 2015 and 2016. The exhibition attracted 19,002 visitors and was rated
 4* by Time Out. De Moraes Farias, Barber and Nolte assisted by organising the loan of material
 from DASA’s Danford Collection, writing notes for exhibition displays and sections of the
 exhibition book, and advising on a timeline. This relationship laid the foundation for a successful


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 AHRC collaborative award with the British Library, during which Paul Naylor catalogued their
 collection of West African Arabic manuscripts.

 A departmental series of performances, film screenings and readings (Africa Arts Live), initiated
 in September 2016, led to an exciting new collaboration with the Royal African Society and
 the Birmingham Literature Festival. This brought an ‘Africa Writes’ event to Birmingham for
 the first time in October 2017, thereby making the Birmingham Literature Festival more
 representative of and responsive to the diverse population of the city. This collaboration, initiated
 by Jones, is now being developed by her PhD student, Pernille Nailor, under an M4C doctoral
 award. Jones also utilised institutional funding to initiate a promising new collaboration with the
 Ugandan writers’ collective, Writivism.

 DASA’s influence in the field of African Studies is enhanced by these collaborations, and by the
 esteem in which our staff members are held. A few indicators of this esteem include the
 election of Senior Honorary Research Fellow de Moraes Farias as a Fellow of the British
 Academy in 2016; the appointment of Rossi as the Evans Pritchard lecturer at All Souls’ College,
 Oxford, in 2018; and the selection of Bolt to give the Malinowski lecture at the London School of
 Economics in 2018. De Moraes Farias and Barber (retired 2017) were awarded (jointly) the
 Distinguished Africanist Lifetime Achievement Award by the ASAUK in 2018. DASA staff
 members have been invited to give a range of keynote and public lectures, including several on
 the African continent. Nolte gave the Vice-Chancellor’s lecture and received the VC’s honorary
 award at Lagos State University in October 2016. Skinner gave a public lecture on ‘Child
 Maintenance in Ghana: historical and contemporary perspectives’ at the University of Cape
 Coast in October 2019.

 DASA postgraduate researcher Jones was runner-up for the ASAUK’s Audrey Richard thesis
 prize in 2016, whilst monographs by Rossi and Bolt were finalists for both the ASA book prize
 (Herskovits prize) (ASA-USA) and the Fage & Oliver prize (ASAUK). Bolt’s monograph won the
 BBC / British Sociological Association Ethnography award, and Bolt was interviewed about his
 research on the BBC radio show Thinking Allowed. Di Nunzio’s monograph has attracted
 considerable attention in Ethiopia, including two book launch events, two public lectures, and a
 radio and a newspaper interview, all in February 2020.

 Staff members also make substantial contributions to leading publications in the field of
 African Studies. Building on a tradition established by Barber (retired from DASA 2017), and
 Shear (retired 2018), Bolt was invited to take up the editorship of Africa: Journal of the
 International African Institute, and Johnson was invited to take up the editorship of the Journal of
 Southern African Studies, both in 2018. Cline-Cole serves as a co-editor and as a member of the
 editorial working group of the Review of African Political Economy; Nolte continues to sit on the
 editorial board of Africa; Rossi sits on the editorial boards of the Journal of Global Slavery,
 Slavery and Abolition, African Economic History and African Studies Review; Jones sits on the
 editorial board of the Journal of African Cultural Studies; and Fesenmyer sits on the editorial
 board of the Journal of the Anthropological Society of Oxford. A new development was Jones’
 managing editorship 2015-17 of the blog africainwords.com which makes debates on cultural
 production in Africa accessible to those excluded by journal pay walls.

 DASA staff members also contribute to the publication of high-quality peer-reviewed
 monographs, through their participation on the committees of prestigious book series. Nolte sits
 of the board for the International African Library series, whilst Skinner sits on the board of the
 Fontes Historiae Africanae series of the British Academy. Rossi sits on the editorial boards for

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 two major encyclopedias: Histoire mondiale de l’esclavage and the Oxford Research
 Encyclopaedia of African Slavery, the Slave Trade and the Diaspora. Peer-reviews of book
 manuscripts and proposals have been conducted for Cambridge University Press, Manchester
 University Press, Routledge, Boydell & Brewer, and James Currey.

 Our seven staff members have also reviewed articles for nearly 50 journals, contributing their
 expertise to
    • the field of African Studies,
    • the improved coverage of Africa in major disciplinary journals (in history, anthropology,
         political science, education, development studies and business studies), and
    • publishing infrastructure on the African continent.

 Finally, in their role as external examiners of PhD theses at 12 different universities during this
 REF cycle, DASA academics contributed to the sustainability of the discipline through the
 maintenance of rigorous academic standards and the development through constructive
 feedback of the next generation of researchers.




                                                                                               Page 16
