Unit-level (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds

 Unit of Assessment: 21 Sociology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 A. Unit context and structure
 This submission comprises the research activity (2013-2020) of the School of Sociology and
 Social Policy, Faculty of Social Sciences (FSS), University of Leeds. Founded in 1946, our School
 has a long and distinguished history. In 2021 we celebrate our Diamond Jubilee. Positioned in the
 Global Top 100 for our subjects (QS rankings), we are committed to research excellence, which
 we define in terms of criticality, inclusivity and contribution (academic and societal).
 As one of the largest UK academic communities focused on critical, sociological investigations,
 our research concentrates upon social identities, systems and practices, politics and policies,
 governance and resistance, from local to global levels. We analyse injustices and inequalities
 associated with gender, disability, ‘race’, religion, migration, social class, the generations and their
 intersections. We engage critically with technologies and social sustainability ‘projects’,
 developing and applying sophisticated approaches to the evaluation of social programmes. We
 are united in our concern for social inclusion, welfare and wellbeing - recognising social science’s
 vital role in highlighting the impact of a complex, turbulent world upon ‘vulnerable’ populations.
 Our School Research and Innovation Strategy is developed by our Director of Research and
 Innovation (DoRI) in consultation with the School, our Research and Innovation Committee (RIC),
 Head of School and our Faculty Pro-Dean for Research and Innovation. We submit our research
 plans to the Faculty RIC for discussion and integration within an overall Faculty Research
 Strategy. The latter is reviewed by the University Executive Group during an Annual Integrated
 Planning Exercise. Our School-level RIC meets regularly (10 times per year), monitoring progress
 against our plans and helping to determine ways to enable, enhance and sustain research, impact
 and knowledge-exchange (KE).
 Our ‘Research Expectations’ document, developed by our DoRI in the same consultative manner,
 is aligned to University and Faculty benchmarks, providing guidance to colleagues when
 formulating their academic plans. It provides a cultural reference point regarding the activity
 normally expected of us as researchers, calibrated by career-stage, personal and other
 circumstances. It reflects our commitment to disseminate the tacit knowledge(s) that facilitate
 research activity and success. Such knowledge circulates unevenly across academia. We are
 keen to ensure that ‘equality, diversity and inclusion’ cohorts and early career researchers, in
 particular, can access this knowledge. Our ‘Expectations’ document emphasises cooperation –
 that we rise and succeed together. It outlines the various and valued ways colleagues can and do
 contribute to the achievement of our research objectives, reminding us that we can expect support
 to achieve our academic plans. It affirms the commitment of our Senior Management Team to
 implementing a responsive and creative approach to supporting researchers.
 Colleagues are encouraged to build impact into their research wherever appropriate. All Category
 A Staff are afforded time for impact activities and KE. The School provides seed-corn funding,
 enabling researchers to develop partnerships with non-academic stakeholders. Impact
 Champions and a Faculty Knowledge Transfer & Impact Officer identify avenues for and support
 the achievement of social impact.
 We maintain high ethical research standards, in line with the Code of Ethics of the International
 (ISA), British (BSA) Sociological Associations and UK Social Policy Association. Well-established
 institutional culture and support mechanisms, determined by the University’s Concordat to


                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level (REF5b)
 Support Research Integrity, promote principles of honesty, rigour, transparency and open
 communication, care and respect for research participants.
 Highlights of our achievements during this REF period include:
      £5.6M external research funding;
      170+ new awards from 32 funders;
      Quadrupling funding-capture from industry sources;
      11 prestigious Postdoctoral Fellowship Awards;
      Interdisciplinary and international collaborations: 47 Visiting Scholars and 11 Visiting
       PhD researchers from 26 countries; output co-authors from 25 disciplines and 20
       countries; involvement in 3 large, EU-funded, European research networks;
      Publication of 20+ books, 6 edited collections, 190+ peer-reviewed journal articles,
       55+ book chapters and 15 significant research reports.
 Inspired by the Budapest Open Access (OA) Initiative and supported by Open Research Leeds,
 we extend the reach of our research beyond academia. We deposit (subject to ethical and legal
 requirements) research data in suitable repositories issuing a persistent identifier and able to
 preserve data in perpetuity. Via our ESRC-funded Timescapes Initiative, we have pioneered the
 preservation and sharing of qualitative longitudinal data. This repository, developed with the UK
 Data Archive, is open to inter/national researchers. We use the self-archiving Green OA White
 Rose Research Online repository to share our publications. Since 2013, colleagues have
 launched one new OA periodical (International Journal of Disability and Social Justice) and taken
 a second into this realm (ReOrient). We support the BSA’s free-to-access Sociological Research
 Online, providing in-kind funding of one day per week time for its Chief Editor (Hughes).
 Research activity in the School congregates around five ‘Centres’ (see Table 1), which drive
 research, develop a critical mass of researchers and expertise and build reputation around our
 intellectual agendas and research strengths. All Category A staff are members of one or more
 Centre. Exchange of ideas between Centres, development of joint research projects, events and
 co-supervision of postgraduate researchers (PGRs) prevents the formation of sub-field ‘silos’.
 Table 1

             Centre                                              Focus
  Bauman Institute (BI)            Inspired by the legacy of Professor Zygmunt Bauman at
  Director: Favell                 Leeds, developing critical/social theory perspectives on
                                   alternative futures for economies, arts, populations,
                                   mobilities and democracy.
  Centre for Disability Studies    Globally-renowned centre in its field and pioneer of research
  (CDS) Joint Director:            into disability as a form of social oppression. Developing
  Beckett                          interdisciplinary perspectives on equality and social justice
                                   for disabled people and building inclusive societies.
  Centre for Ethnicity &           Exploring decoloniality and anti-racism, diaspora and
  Racism Studies (CERS)            migration and Islamophobia. Bringing racism, ethnicity and
  Director: Demir                  migration into conversation.
  Centre for Interdisciplinary     Interdisciplinary research into gender and feminist
  Gender Studies (CIGS)            scholarship.
  Director: Throsby
  Centre for Families, Life        Examining socio-economic inequalities and interplay of
  Course & Generations             social experience and social change for families,
  (FlaG) Director: Irwin           intergenerational relationships and across the life course.




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level (REF5b)
 All are interdisciplinary Centres, with members from across the University. The CDS has two
 Directors, one from the School of Sociology and Social Policy and one from the School of Law –
 underlining the Centre’s interdisciplinarity.
 Centre Directors are members of our RIC and PGR Committee helping to shape, monitor and
 realise the School’s Research and Innovation Strategy.

 B. Research and Impact Strategy
 i. Evaluation of achievements against 2013-2020 Strategy (set forth in REF2014)
 Between 2013-2020 we revised our research orientation to become a leading source of and home
 for critical sociologies, with a global footprint. This informed our decision to return to the Sociology
 Unit of Assessment. Our research has challenged conventional wisdoms among disciplines and
 publics, helping to shape scholarly and public debates and transform policies, programmes and
 practices across public, private and third sectors.
 The following mechanisms and/or initiatives supported these achievements:
      Revitalising our School Research Culture: greater dialogue has been fostered between
       Centres, to counter over-specialisation and encourage cross-fertilization of ideas; we
       established a well-attended, weekly Research Seminar Series, at which external
       speakers and School researchers (including PGRs) present their work;
      Investing in three University Academic Fellowships (UAFs): we participated in this
       structured five-year development programme for early-career researchers (ECRs)
       identified as future leaders (Allen, Barbulescu and Wallace were appointed via this
       scheme);
      Investing in Research: all Category A staff have received at least one day per week for
       research and have conference allowances. Centres are financed from our core funds,
       with Directors afforded half a day per week to undertake their roles;
 s


      Enhancing Internal Review Processes: we have established a Research Funding
       Application Review Group for the School; robust and supportive Faculty and Central
       University peer-review processes have also been introduced;
      Continuing Diversification of Funders: we have approached a diverse range of funders,
       receiving support from thirty-two bodies (37% Research Councils; 24% EU funders;
       22% UK Charities; 12.5% UK Government; 3% Industry; 1.5% Other);
      Working for Positive Change: we have been agentic, collaborating with catalytic
       individuals and organisations concerned with social justice and sustainability.
 In the forward-looking section of our REF2014 submission we identified three research and impact
 objectives for the current REF period (2013-2020). Objective 1 was the primary goal, facilitated
 by Objectives 2 and 3. We met these objectives, mostly as envisaged, but also in additional ways
 as we responded to events unfolding during this period e.g. deepening of austerity in UK post-
 2014, 2015 Europe migration/refugee crisis and social/cultural/economic consequences of Brexit
 and Covid-19.

 2013-2020 Objective 1 was to extend our research focus from social injustice towards social
 sustainability. Our work in this period was informed by a ‘strong definition’ of social sustainability,
 understood as entailing: (a) opportunities for all to participate in, and benefit from, the economic,
 political, civil, social and cultural life of communities; and (b) guarantee of rights in these spheres.
 We explored the practices, institutions and systems needed to create and sustain communities
 that are diverse, inclusive, equitable and democratic, ensuring the wellbeing of all.


                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level (REF5b)
 Globally, population health and flourishing, together with intergenerational equity, are major
 frontiers in social justice and sustainable futures. These were the focus of CIGS and CDS projects
 that: interrogated the concept of ‘healthy lifestyles’, politics of food and its lived inequalities;
 evaluated the effectiveness of (a) programmes to improve maternal and child health in Nigeria
 and (b) UK-based initiatives to improve health and mental wellbeing amongst older people and
 patients with Multiple Sclerosis (MS).
 FLaG projects linked to the Timescapes Archive tracked the lives of young fathers as austerity
 deepened, exploring the impact of men’s insecure work trajectories on their familial and social
 relationships. This programme of research considered how the needs of vulnerable families might
 be met, sustainably, and their experiences of key public services improved. CIGS researchers
 explored how participation, rights and wellbeing for people of all genders are vital to achieving
 ‘sustainable futures’ and critiqued the constraints imposed by power relations and gender norms.
 CDS research monitored progress towards achieving human rights for disabled people across
 Europe (see UoA21 REF3 CS 3 ‘Mainstreaming Disability Equality’) and beyond.
 CERS researchers considered how diverse communities retain and respect cultural differences
 amongst their members, to live together well. The ‘Anti-Islamophobia Toolkit’ Project reviewed
 dominant anti-Muslim narratives and compared the efficacy of prevailing counter-narratives to
 Islamophobia within eight EU member states (see UOA 21 REF3 CS 1 ‘Countering
 Islamophobia’). Work on migration refined our understanding of how, despite rising anti-
 immigrant sentiment, ‘receiving’ societies accommodate migrant communities, provide non-
 citizens with rights and transform citizenship. The ‘Commission on Diversity in the North’, co-
 ordinated from the School, considered the impact of the UK’s EU Referendum on the post-War
 vision of Britain as an open, diverse, multi-racial society. This laid foundations for the ‘Northern
 Exposure: Race, Nation and Disaffection in "Ordinary" Towns and Cities’ Project, investigating
 Brexit’s impact on/in Northern communities. From 2016 CERS colleagues developed a research
 programme allowing them to track the impact on social sustainability of the UK’s withdrawal from
 the EU Social Model.
 Building on the School’s leadership of the University’s ‘Building Sustainable Societies’ initiative
 (2011-2015, bridging two REF periods), BI research included thought-experiments and critical
 appraisal of the community-building potential of Mega-events, ‘imaginaries of aspiration’ and role
 of cinematic-imagineers in creating new principles of hope. They explored the: (a) potential of
 crowdfunding to finance socially-beneficial and sustainable public infrastructure projects; (b) role
 communities play in energy development and whether the private sector can contribute to local
 collective resilience; and (c) growth in ‘prosumers’ – people who produce and consume energy
 from renewable sources - asking how this trend might be maintained, citizen participation and
 inclusion safeguarded, via business models, market regulation and energy policies (see UoA 21
 REF 3 CS 2 ‘New Model of Finance’).
 Closely-connected work by FLaG researchers analysed: (a) Social Impact Bonds (‘pay-for-
 success’ financing), assessing their effectiveness in tackling entrenched social problems (health
 issues, homelessness, youth unemployment); and (b) ethical food practices and their implications
 for environmental as well as social sustainability.
 2013-2020 Objective 2 was to consolidate and extend our methodological expertise. Our
 researchers advanced the state-of-the-art in realist methods. By focusing on context and actor-
 reasoning they showed how it is possible to gain a sophisticated understanding of context/causal
 mechanism(s) resulting in particular outcomes (desired or otherwise) in social programmes. They
 advanced the craft of interviewing in realist evaluation and realist synthesis as a mode/l of
 empirical research. Their work inspired others in the School to integrate elements of realist
 methods into their research, to understand what works, for whom, in what contexts and how in


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level (REF5b)
 relation to social interventions. This transfer of methodological expertise is most evident in CDS
 research, where realist approaches informed evaluations of the effectiveness of sex-offender
 programmes for people with learning disabilities and sports-based programmes designed to
 challenge dis/ableism.
 As envisaged, we built capacity for deploying mixed methods approaches, strengthening
 quantitative expertise in the School via a new post (Lectureship) linked to the University of Leeds
 Q-Step Centre. Hughes’s award as National Centre for Research Methods (NCRM) Fellow
 cemented FLaG’s position as a centre of excellence in Qualitative Longitudinal (QL) Research
 Methods and the Timescapes Archive as a NCRM Centre Partner. New appointments brought
 expertise to the School in visual and media studies methods (CERS) and autoethnography
 (CIGS).

 2013-2020 Objective 3 was to collaborate in developing interdisciplinary responses to new Global
 Challenges. This goal has been facilitated by enhanced leadership and support in this area at the
 University level, led by a Dean for Interdisciplinary Research and team. Further, the Leeds Social
 Sciences Institute (LSSI) provides support for impact activities and large interdisciplinary grant
 applications in the form of a dedicated Research and Innovation Development Manager.
 Since 2013 colleagues have been involved in research projects and co-authored outputs with
 scholars from 25+ disciplines across the social sciences and STEAM. They have led the
 sociological dimension of these projects, positioning sociological theories and methodologies at
 their core. Much of this research has been transdisciplinary, with knowledge-production evolving
 from dynamic tension between different disciplinary perspectives and those of non-academic
 stakeholders and experts. Example projects include:
       CRIMSON (CDS Project, MS Society-funded, Principal Investigator, Manzano):
        researchers from Medicine and Sociology, practitioners from the MS Society and
        those living with MS co-produced research to understand patient decision-making on
        treatments and design information tools to support patients in this process;
       PROSEU (BI Project, EU-funded, Davis as Working-Group Leader): researchers from
        Ecology, Engineering, Finance, Accountancy and Sociology, plus Local Authorities,
        NGOs and Non-Profits worked to find ways to enable mainstreaming of the renewable
        energy prosumer phenomenon (see UoA 21 REF3 CS ‘New Model of Finance’);
       COST Action LUDI (CDS Project, EU-funded, Beckett as Working-Group Leader
        2014-17): researchers from Psychology, Health Sciences, Sociology, Education, ICT,
        Design and Engineering worked with disabled people’s organisations, NGOs and toy
        companies to forge a new agenda for innovation to ensure disabled children’s (UN
        CRC Art 30, CRPD Art 31) right to play.

 ii. Post-2020 Research and Impact Strategy
 Moving forward, we will build upon our achievements in the current REF period. Our research will
 be informed by our School Mission to foster and deliver research excellence, understood in
 terms of criticality, inclusivity and contribution. We will elaborate a sociological imagination for a
 post-disciplinary academy, nurturing critical, creative and rigorous research underpinned by
 intellectual pluralism and academic freedom. At a time when the world faces environmental, health
 and geopolitical instability, the School will continue to be a productive space for discussing matters
 of pressing social concern - local to global - and imagining better futures.
 We have determined a set of Strategic Objectives that will help co-ordinate our efforts and drive
 a value-based approach to research activity, as follows:


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level (REF5b)
 Post-2020 Objective 1: aligned with the University of Leeds’s Vision and Strategy 2020-30, our
 research will be challenge-led, focusing upon:

                       Understanding the Making of Majorities: we will interrogate the
                       formation of national majorities – the normative and demographic centre
                       of contemporary nation-states – by exploring the entanglements of
                       ‘racism’, patriarchy, heteronormativity, ableism and class in the
                       construction of majorities and their occurrence in societies that span the
                       ‘West and the Rest’. We will seek to understand the impact of these
 entanglements on people’s lives, dignity and wellbeing, especially in those border and contact
 zones where cultures meet and grapple with each other.

                        Engaging Critically and Constructively with Social Innovation: we will
                        develop a distinctive, critical, sociological approach to social innovation.
                        We will articulate this as a new version of the older question, core to
                        sociological thinking, about how we might study society in ways that allow
                        us to see into, through and around it, ultimately getting beyond to imagine
                        future conditions that are desirable and possible. We will consider the role
 of sociology within post-disciplinary initiatives for positive change. Working with public, private
 and third sector partners, we will investigate new approaches to meeting social needs and
 managing crises in the face of interconnected ‘mega-trends’ including: global pandemics, climate
 change, a shifting balance of global economic power, challenges of/to governance, ageing
 societies, movement of peoples, rapid urbanisation and growth of digital economies.
 Two 5 year ‘Projects’ (formalised, collective endeavours involving writing and research projects,
 symposia and public events, impact and KE activities, workshops and training for early-career
 researchers), each with a Scientific Director, will provide the organising framework for our
 engagement with these challenges.

 Post-2020 Objective 2: We will consolidate and extend our methodological expertise by
 establishing infrastructure bringing together our resources (e.g. Timescapes Archive) and
 expertise in realist and emancipatory methodologies, qualitative longitudinal research, archiving
 and secondary analysis of longitudinal qualitative data and quantitative methods. We will develop
 innovative ways to: (a) conceptualise and implement transdisciplinary, even ‘post-disciplinary’
 methodologies; (b) disseminate resulting knowledge to the research community.

 Post-2020 Objective 3: we will engage in Public Scholarship. Social research has an important
 role to play in an age which is data-rich and analytically-poor, when publics are vulnerable to
 disinformation and/or information-overload, neither of which are helpful in the process of
 deliberation over our collective futures. We will engage as social commentators, creating
 opportunities for publics to engage with and learn from our research and expertise in new,
 accessible ways, in diverse spaces. We will build on the success to date of our Northern Notes
 Blog (launched 2019) as a communication platform.
 The following Guiding Principles (see Table 2) and Facilitators (see Table 3) will help us to achieve
 our post-2020 Mission and Objectives:




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level (REF5b)
 Table 2

                                        Guiding Principles
      Criticality: we will articulate our critical sociologies in ways that facilitate dialogue
      between disciplines, preparing and positioning ourselves to be at the forefront of
      University-wide initiatives to address Global Challenges.
      Inclusivity and Internationalisation: we will explore and exploit the creative synergies
      afforded by contacts with a diverse world, contributing to the de-Westernization of
      knowledge and co-production of transnational knowledge in our fields. We will employ
      digital technologies to enhance our global footprint, whilst lowering our carbon footprint.
      Contribution: we will continue to focus on generating academic and social impact from
      our research, supporting each other and our students to be/become ‘change-makers’.
 Table 3

                                            Facilitators
      Funder diversification: we will work with international contacts to develop applications
      to binational funding schemes (target countries to include: Bangladesh, Brazil, Canada,
      Germany, India, Taiwan and USA). We will grasp opportunities afforded by bilateral
      agreements established by the LSSI with corresponding institutes at the Universities of
      Queensland (Australia) and Buenos Aires (Argentina), by School-level Memoranda of
      Understandings with the Universities of Malta, Nanjing (China) and Punjab (Pakistan)
      and by the University’s International Collaboration Fund.
      Collaboration: We will maintain and enhance our engagement with White Rose and
      Northern 8 Partnership initiatives. Biannual ‘Stakeholder Forums’ will inform our
      research agendas. We will explore how we might work with NEXUS (the University’s
      community of business innovators, including social enterprises) to translate our
      research into products or services of social value.
      Communication: We will encourage and facilitate creative approaches to
      communicating our research and raising its profile. Colleagues will receive training as
      required. We will maximise on the potential of the ‘Policy Leeds’ initiative – a new
      mechanism developed by the LSSI to be a focal point for policy-facing research at the
      University and hub for fostering communication with policy communities.
 Finally, key to achieving our mission and objectives will be our Research and Innovation
 Infrastructure. Two new roles are being introduced (2021): Deputy DoRI (Income and
 Infrastructure) and Deputy DoRI (Culture and Infrastructure). Our DoRI and Deputies will form the
 School’s Research Leadership Team, working together to maintain and enhance existing
 structures and introduce new components as follows (see Table 4):
 Table 4

                                                              Maintain &
           Research Infrastructure Component                                         Introduce
                                                               Enhance
  Mentoring and Coaching                                          ✔
  Continuing Professional Development                             ✔
  Innovation Events (e.g. pitch-to-peers, sandpits)               ✔
  Research Funding Application Review Process                     ✔
  Open Science Strategy                                           ✔
  Research Seminar Series                                         ✔
  Enhanced Engagement with University’s                                                   ✔
  Challenge-Led Research Initiatives (see REF5a)
  Public Scholarship Action Plan                                                          ✔
  Stakeholder Engagement Activities                                                       ✔


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level (REF5b)


 2. People
 i. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 During this period, our staffing strategy has ensured that our staff weighting is sufficient to maintain
 and enhance our historical strengths, in a context that is ever more sociologically and
 epistemologically global. We will maintain this approach, focusing upon recruiting researchers to
 increase our research intensity.
 Including assistant researchers on funded projects, we sustain a critical mass of research staff in
 the region of forty, plus seven Professors Emeriti. We envisage this number increasing by 10-15%
 over the next five years through investment posts (Senior and ECR) and increased research
 activity.
 Since 2013 a number of staff have left (retirements and new positions) and we have recruited
 three Professors, two Associate Professors and six ECRs. We have balanced external
 appointments with internal staff progression, demonstrated by four promotions to Professorial
 level. This submission includes the work of: eight professors (four women, four men); twelve
 Associate Professors/Readers (seven women; five men); eight lecturers (four women; four men);
 and three University Academic Fellows (two women, one man). We have welcomed eleven Post-
 doctoral Fellows (funded via ESRC, Leverhulme, Marie Curie Sklodowska and Wellcome). An
 example of the latter is Palmer, who we have supported to transition from doctoral studies, to
 Teaching Fellow to his current position as Leverhulme Early Career Fellow within the School.
 The School endorses the objectives and philosophy of the Researcher Development Concordat
 (University of Leeds is a signatory), recognising that career-development is a mutual responsibility
 of employer-employee. All colleagues are provided with career and skills development
 opportunities. They are offered mentoring at induction and, after completing probation, participate
 in an Annual Academic Meeting (AAM) and Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS)
 meeting with senior colleagues. In future, the School’s ‘Research Expectations’ Document will
 provide a reference point during these discussions. AAMs are a supportive space for celebrating
 successes and discussing areas for development, plus consideration of an individual’s academic
 plan. The SRDS meetings provide colleagues with the opportunity to discuss aspirations and
 training needs, which can be met by the University’s Organisational Development and
 Professional Learning Unit (OD&PL) or alternative providers. For those with line-management
 responsibility, an annual review of performance against the University Leadership and
 Management Standard (in the context of the University’s core values) is routine.
 Research workloads: all Category A staff are allocated a day per week for research (School-
 funded), to which externally-funded research time is added.
 Research/er investment: we reserve an additional workload ‘budget’ for research investment,
 enabling us to allocate additional time to colleagues (up to half a day per week) to achieve priority
 activities. This is allocated annually, fairly and transparently. Category A staff can apply for seed-
 corn funds from the School, to develop research concepts/ideas or partnerships.
 Research leave: all Category A staff can apply for a semester-long research leave every seven-
 eight semesters. Applications are subject to peer review of an outcome-based research plan and
 report on previous research leave. Since 2013, twenty-two colleagues have had research leave.
 ECRs are encouraged to apply for the annual Rockefeller Foundation Fellowship, which funds
 overseas travel to develop research collaborations. Since 2013, six colleagues have benefitted.
 Researcher development: traditionally, the DoRI initiates mentor-mentee arrangements for
 colleagues at all career-stages. These arrangements may last years, or shorter periods to support
 a colleague with a particular research activity or in a new role. Our new Deputy DoRI (Culture and


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level (REF5b)
 Infrastructure) will assist our DoRI with enhancing mentoring and coaching within the School,
 encouraging uptake of opportunities provided by the University’s OD&PL team and facilitating
 engagement with University initiatives such as the Crucible Programme for ECRs (see REF5a).
 Our Research Leadership Team will work with Centre Directors to foster a culture of continuous
 professional development.

 ii. Equality and Diversity
 We are committed to attracting, developing and retaining a diverse and talented staff-base able to
 build on the School’s research strengths and support its Mission and Objectives. When recruiting
 staff we welcome applicants from diverse backgrounds, including disabled people, LGBTQ+ and
 minority ethnic groups. The School currently comprises researchers from 12 countries – a more
 international community than at REF2014. Maintaining and growing a diverse staff-base is
 important to us - it provides the resources for developing a global outlook and inclusive approach
 in our teaching and research.
 Our Staffing Strategy is informed by a drive for excellence and research intensity, underpinned by
 an ethic of care. Disabled staff are supported via Access to Work or reasonable adjustments. We
 facilitate phased returns to work from illness, flexible working and reduced hours where beneficial
 to the wellbeing of staff. We participate in Athena Swan as one way, amongst others, to ensure
 that we advance the careers of women and equality, representation and success for all. The
 Faculty of Social Sciences was awarded Athena Swan Bronze (2020).
 We encourage our staff to participate in initiatives designed to foster inclusivity in the University
 and HE sector. CDS colleagues supported the University’s Equality Policy Unit to develop the
 University’s Disability Equality Framework. We have engaged in the national ‘Why is My
 Curriculum White?’ Campaign and colleagues led related initiatives at the University. The Book
 Building the Anti-racist University (Routledge, 2018) was the culmination of work of CERS
 colleagues. The CDS co-sponsored the 2018 ‘Ableism in Academia’ national conference, which
 explored the challenges faced by disabled, chronically ill and neurodiverse staff in HE. This event
 began to shape a policy-facing manifesto for improving access and inclusion in the sector.

 iii. Research Students
 Our doctoral researchers (henceforth PGRs) are valued members of our community, adding to the
 richness of our research culture. We want our PGR graduates to work creatively and flexibly
 across diverse intellectual contexts and challenges. Thus, whilst they are all aligned to one of our
 Centres, providing a supportive peer-group and sense of belonging, they are encouraged to
 engage with other Centres and regularly do so.
 We are supportive guides to our PGRs on their PhD journey, helping them to achieve their
 potential. We encourage them to generate impact from their research and become ‘change-
 makers’. The training we provide equips them with the knowledge, skills and confidence to become
 the next generation of globally competitive researchers.
 Of the sixty students who completed their PhD since 2013, around half have continued into
 research careers. Example PGR alumni and their positions at the time of submission include:
       Bolaji Balogun (2020) Leverhulme Early Career Fellow, University of Sheffield.
       Leah Burch (2020) Lecturer, Liverpool Hope University.
       Katucha Bento (2019) Lecturer, University of Edinburgh.
       Kathryn Gudmunson (2019) Senior Policy Analyst, British Columbia Ministry of Health.
       Maria Victoria Gauci (2018) Lecturer, University of Malta.
       Katie Markham (2017) Research Associate, Newcastle University.
       Remi Joseph-Salisbury (2016) Presidential Fellow, University of Manchester.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level (REF5b)
       Yana Manyukhina (2016) Research Associate, University College London.
       Deborah Fenney (2015) Researcher, The King’s Fund.
       Ruth Patrick (2015) Lecturer, University of York.
       Angelica Pesarini (2015) Lecturer, New York University-Florence.
       Kate Brown (2013) Senior Lecturer, University of York.
       Leon Sealey-Huggins (2013) Assistant Professor, University of Warwick.

 Key figures: Between 2013 and 2020 we have welcomed 106 PGRs, of whom
     65 women, 41 men;
     63 home, 34 international, 9 EU;
     17 disabled students.

 At the point of submission there are 90+ PGR students (over 60 FTE) in the School. Our
 messaging on PhD opportunities is clear: we welcome and support students from diverse
 backgrounds.
 Since 2013 there have been 70+ PhD completions. The average number of completions per year
 holds steady at just over 10 per year (as at REF2014).
 Scholarships and awards: our PGRs have received 46 competitive scholarships/awards.
     22 ESRC Studentships;
     12 University Scholarships (4 international);
     12 awards from international funders in Algeria, Brazil, Chile, China, Japan, Mexico, Saudi
        Arabia, Thailand and Turkey.
 The prestigious ESRC White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP) is the second largest
 in England, providing critical mass for funding, training and support. The partnership funds
 Pathway & Interdisciplinary Awards (50% funded by WRDTP and 50% funded by School). We
 have secured six such awards since 2013. Colleagues can apply for Network Awards (100%
 funded by DTP and White Rose University Consortium) and WRDTP Collaborative Awards (100%
 funded by DTP) to provide PGR scholarships. We have obtained two Network awards and two
 collaborative awards since 2013.
 The CDS secured two Marie Curie Sklodowska Early Stage Researchers as part of the ‘Disability
 Advocacy Research in Europe’ (DARE) Initial Training Network. These Fellows are registered for
 PhDs and will work with partners Lumos Foundation and European Disability Forum.
 Moving forward we will be even more proactive in seeking scholarship funding, especially from
 industry sources and organisations e.g. Association of Commonwealth Universities.
 Institutional support: the Leeds Doctoral College coordinates all PGR support services and
 opportunities at the University, runs drop-ins, training sessions, seminars and events including the
 annual Doctoral College Showcase. All PGRs are members of the FSS Graduate School, which
 works closely with staff across faculty to develop and implement initiatives for PGRs. Disabled
 students are well-supported by the University’s Disability Services. New investment has delivered
 a comprehensive online Graduate Record of Achievement and Development (GRAD) system to
 facilitate individual training needs analysis, supervision records and progress review. The WRDTP
 hosts events for all PGRs from the participating institutions. FSS Graduate School and LSSI work
 with the WRDTP Research Support Team, identifying strategic training and support opportunities.
 Since 2017 we have provided the Director of Advanced Qualitative Methods Training for the
 WRDTP (Emmel then Manzano). In a recent ESRC mid-term review of the WRDTP the quality,
 reach and extent of advanced qualitative research training was positively noted. The School leads
 the University’s MA Social Research (Interdisciplinary), providing ESRC-recognised research
 training for 15 Schools across the University.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level (REF5b)
 School provision: our Director(s) of PGR oversee all PGR matters and have administrative
 support. They Chair our PGR Committee, which oversees School support for PGRs and includes
 PGR representatives. All PGRs have at least two supervisors - F/T students receiving a minimum
 of ten supervision meetings per year.
 An enhanced PGR induction process begins with an initial two-day event, followed by a year-long
 series of workshops, supporting the PhD journey and covering all aspects of the PGR experience.
 Centres support their PGRs to run events e.g. CERS-supported ‘Challenging Academic Debates:
 Situating Decolonial Science, Art and Faith in the Syllabus’ Conference (2018) and the CDS-
 supported ‘Disability Studies: Past, Present & Future’ Conference (2019). Further, students from
 different Centres have collaborated to run events, e.g. CERS, CDS and CIGS students ran the
 ‘Challenging Academic Debates: Decolonizing Knowledge Production’ Conference (2017). These
 events have attracted delegates from the UK and internationally.
 Records of meetings, annual audits of training needs and bi-annual progress reports are
 monitored via the GRAD system. The School’s methodological expertise provides capacity for
 training in all aspects of social science methodologies, including Masters-level modules, specialist
 events (such as Masterclasses in Academic Writing) and in-house workshops on ethical review
 and Year 1 milestones. All students receive the same high-quality supervision, training and
 support, irrespective of funding source. All PGRs have access to dedicated office space,
 computing facilities and an annual conference/research allowance from core School funds.
 PG Culture and Career Development: our PGR community is international and inclusive. We are
 proud that amongst our PGRs are students who joined the University of Leeds via our Foundation
 Degree in Social Science (for students without the usual entry requirements, many of whom are
 mature students and from widening participation backgrounds). The Faculty Annual PGR
 Conference supports the development of academic-paper presentation skills. Our Research
 Seminar Series provides regular opportunities to engage with the School’s research and that of
 external speakers and for PGRs to present their work-in-progress.
 PGRs have access to a subject specialist in the University Careers Service and a Work Placement
 Officer within the School. They are encouraged to gain paid teaching experience leading
 undergraduate seminars. They receive in-School mentorship on research-led teaching from the
 Teaching Assistant Co-ordinator and are encouraged to attend the ‘First Steps in Student
 Education’ Programme run by OD&PL.
 PGRs present papers at inter/national conferences and publish. Since 2013, our PGRs have
 published in e.g. BMJ Global Health; Disability & Society; Ethnic & Racial Studies; European
 Journal of Social Theory; Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour; Journal of Chinese
 Governance; and Journal of Education Policy. They have engaged in impact/KE activities. For
 example:
     CIGS PGR Ben Vincent’s research-informed book Transgender Health: a Practitioner's
      Guide to Binary and Non-Binary Trans Patient Care (Jessica Kingsley, 2018), provided
      medical/healthcare professionals with guidance on excellent care for diverse patients;
     CDS PGR Leah Burch contributed to the BBC Journalist Nick Cassidy’s documentary
      on Disability Hate Crime (2019);
     FLaG PGR Chong Liu advised Marie Stopes International, China, on the development
      of their Guidelines for Fundamental Sexuality Education (2019).
 Other successes in this period include PGRs writing for media outlets (e.g. Open Democracy,
 Baltic Worlds, Muslim News and Discover Society). Remi Joseph-Salisbury won the 2019 BSA
 Philip Abrams prize for his book ‘Black Mixed-Race Men: Transatlanticity, Hybridity and “Post-
 racial” Resilience’ (Emerald), based on his PhD (2016); and Daniel Edmiston (now a colleague in

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level (REF5b)
 the School) won the 2019 SPA Richard Titmuss Book Award for: ‘Welfare, Inequality and Social
 Citizenship’ (Policy Press), based on his PhD (2015).
 Post-2020 PGR Strategy: we will enhance PGR experience and training by introducing ‘PhD
 Pathways’ run by Centres. Students will attend regular reading-groups throughout the year in order
 to gain breadth and depth of knowledge of those texts considered ‘highly significant’ within their
 respective fields.
 We will introduce a new programme for identifying and supporting applicants for Postdoctoral
 Fellowships; and a Visiting Research Fellow Scheme, providing recent doctoral graduates who
 are ‘independent scholars’ with a year of ongoing affiliation and mentorship. Our goal is to help
 facilitate their progress into research careers.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 i. Research Income: our research income 2013-2020 was £5.6 million. Highlights include:
     Priestley’s (CDS) Scientific Leadership of the EU Commission’s Academic Network of
      European Disability Experts (ANED) - a decade-long €6.6M research network of 35
      country partners (for which the School received £300k in this REF period) (see UoA21
      REF3 CS 3 ‘Mainstreaming Disability Equality’);
     Law and Sayyid’s (CERS) leadership of the £519k Marie Curie-funded project
      ‘Countering Islamophobia’ (see UOA 21 REF3 CS 1 ‘Countering Islamophobia’);
     Favell’s (CERS/BI) £728k ESRC-funded project ‘Northern Exposure: Race, Nation and
      Disaffection in "Ordinary" Towns and Cities after Brexit’;
     Professor Emerita Neale’s (FLaG) leadership of the £568k ESRC-funded project
      ‘Following Young Fathers: the lived experience of young fatherhood’ (concluded 2015).
 We are proud that, collectively, our ECRs have been awarded over £1M in grants. Example
 projects include:
     Anna Tarrant’s Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship: ‘Men's experiences of
      family life and multiple care responsibilities in low income families’ (2014-16);
     Greg Hollin’s Wellcome Research Fellowship in Humanities and Social Science:
      ‘Hard Knock Life: Negotiating Concussion and Dementia in Sport’ (2018-21);
     Jack Palmer’s Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship: ‘Zygmunt Bauman and
      the West: Exile, Culture, Dialogue’ (2018-21).

 ii. School Infrastructure: in addition to the research and innovation infrastructure discussed in
 Section 1 (B ii), at the end of the last REF period the physical infrastructure of the School was
 improved, with a major refurbishment. During this REF period we have benefitted from this multi-
 million pound investment, which provided us with a new space to host events e.g. our Research
 Seminar Series. A bespoke PGR suite significantly improved the PGR workspace and bringing
 our doctoral students together enhanced their group spirit and collaboration. A new staff room has
 offered a communal space for ‘time-out’ from busy work schedules – vital for wellbeing.
 In terms of e-infrastructure, the School is well-supported by the University’s IT Services, who
 provide data and computing systems and our communication network. IT Services offer a wide
 array of research software for the social sciences (including, but not limited to SPSS, NVIVO Plus,
 Jisc Online Surveys and data visualisation tools). The School is connected to the Leeds Institute
 for Data Analytics (LIDA), which provides physical and IT infrastructures, to raise the bar in
 standards of data quality, access, protection and exploitation. This is a connection that we will be
 seeking to enhance.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level (REF5b)
 iii. Facilities: the University of Leeds has one of the largest and best-resourced research libraries
 in the UK. We have a dedicated Librarian and invest annually in purchasing additional texts and
 library resources. Researcher@Library teams help staff and PGRs with open access, literature
 searches, finding and managing information and provide relevant training. The Research Hub, in
 the refurbished (2017) Edward Boyle Library, is a space for researchers and postgraduates,
 facilitating individual and group working. The Library Special Collections supports our research
 specialisms, hosting (longstanding) the Feminist Archive North and, since 2013, the Janina and
 Zygmunt Bauman Archive. Special Collections assisted BI researchers to prepare three
 collections of Bauman’s lesser-known and hitherto unpublished writings, to be published by Polity
 Press – the first, entitled ‘Zygmunt Bauman. Culture and Art: Selected Writings, Volume 1’ is due
 May 2021.
 iv. Professional and Academic Support: the University’s Research and Innovation Service
 works in partnership with Faculty Research Offices and the Senior School Research and
 Innovation Support Administrator to provide researchers with comprehensive support for research
 projects (and consultancy) from birth of an idea through to dissemination and impact-generation.
 KRISTAL, a web-based, ‘cradle-to-grave’ research grant management system, integrates and
 streamlines processes of proposal initiation, submission, governance, financial management and
 reporting. In 2016 the University implemented robust institutional procedures for quality control of
 ESRC funding applications, with the establishment of a Central University Peer Review Panel,
 with a similar procedure at Faculty level for other UKRI applications and projects of over £1M. This
 provides a valuable additional layer of review and mentoring of applications to that within the
 School.
 The inter-Faculty Ethics Committee (chaired 2016-19 by Hughes) reviews research projects. The
 Research Data Management Team at the University Library supports the writing of data
 management plans, compilation of data documentation/metadata, preparing data for deposit and
 provides research data management training.
 Since REF2014 we have laid the foundation for achieving our Post-2020 Objective 3 (Public
 Scholarship) and our communication strategy by investing in an administrator to raise the profile
 of the School within its discipline and amongst local, national and international publics, via support
 for events and development of our social media presence.
 Interdisciplinary and international collaborations with and beyond the Social Sciences are
 facilitated and supported by infrastructure at the LSSI (School colleagues are currently co-Deputy
 Director [Favell] and member of its Steering Group [Barbulescu]). During 2013-2020 the LSSI
 facilitated delegations, including School members, to forge connections with leading research
 institutes in Argentina (University of Buenos Aires), Australia (University of Queensland) and
 China (University of Nanjing).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 In this section we focus on the portfolio of outputs in this submission and wider activities of
 colleagues, which are indicative of expansive intellectual contributions to, and beyond, the
 disciplines of Sociology and Social Policy. The outputs selected include fifteen books and eight
 chapters, plus fifty-five peer-reviewed journal articles.
 i. Advancing Theories and Methodologies:
 Since 2013 colleagues have made useful interventions in their fields. For example, they have
 proposed a Foucault-Deleuzian ‘manifesto’ for Social Movement Studies (Beckett359695);
 considered the limitations of the agency/structure ‘stand-off’ in research on consumption
 (Emmel381588); and demonstrated how the concept of ‘meta-reflexivity’ might be applied to
 understand crisis and ethnic diversity (Hussain329917).

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level (REF5b)
 Harrington’s(531498) Georg Simmel: Essays on Art and Aesthetics is a significant scholarly
 achievement, translating into English Simmel’s complete writings on art, and providing an
 extensive commentary. Palmer’s(480806) exploration of genocide in Burundi and Rwanda using a
 theoretical framework of entanglement, provided insights into the existence of a variety of
 intertwined routes to and through modernity. Tzanelli’s thought-experiments on topics including
 mega-events(440732) and global tourism(307919), employed complexity theory in an original manner,
 developing a new mobilities paradigm; whilst Prideaux (324108) explored the complex interplay
 between politics, the media, business and criminal enterprise.
 Elsewhere, our researchers offered Foucauldian perspectives on: ‘Prevent’ (a critical intervention
 in public discourse on this programme, generalizable to other national contexts) (Bagguley 356127);
 and the ‘social model’ debate within Disability Studies, reappraising this model as an ‘oppositional
 device’ of importance to disabled people’s fight for social justice (Campbell317886) and
 distinguishing it from the more recent human rights model (Beckett 533439). They explored the
 changing nature of cosmopolitan citizenship and resistance politics in the digital age
 (Rovisco493294). They offered robust critique of characterisations of the EU as a neoliberal project,
 centring the ‘fourth freedom’ (i.e. movement) and the concept of a post-national cosmopolitan
 order at the centre of their analysis, with implications for future theorising on/of mobilities and
 Brexit (Favell334627).
 In other work Sayyid developed a new definition of Islamophobia(260138) and explored the
 relationship of this concept to Europeannness(487392). Holliday(462914) applied new materialist
 perspectives to explore the under-researched issue of cosmetic surgery tourism, re-orientating
 academic discourse away from a disapproving critique of ‘vanity’ projects-of-the-self towards an
 understanding of neoliberal subjectivity and its impact on different bodies. Buckner(464019) drew on
 the sociology of time to understand the role of community-mediators working with marginalised
 young people, revealing how youth-workers reflexively develop temporalities which replace
 hegemonic linear time (‘working for a better future’) with situationally ‘open time’ praxis (‘making
 things better right now’). Hughes(327599) undertook the first sociological exploration of the
 sociogenesis of happiness in Western thought; and Hollin (350223) made valuable contributions to
 critical autism studies via his STS investigations into the emergence of the ‘socially disordered
 body’.
 In relation to methodological innovation, colleagues developed the craft of interviewing
 (Manzano344974) and advanced understandings of the ‘mechanism’ in realist evaluation
 (Greenalgh323080). They employed realist synthesis to explore the processes through which, and
 the circumstances when, feeding back data from patient-reported outcome measures improves
 patient care (Greenhalgh373599); and laid the foundations for achieving our Post-2020 Objective 2,
 by thinking in-depth about the challenge of post-disciplinary research (Emmel535261).
 Throsby’s(333923) autoethnography of marathon swimming is a showcase for this method, providing
 valuable insights into gender, the body and citizenship. Hollomotz (440536) advanced the state-of-
 the-art in qualitative interviewing with people who have learning disabilities, with implications for
 inclusive research practices; and Hughes(469077, 524353) provided social science with insights into the
 possibilities and limitations of secondary analysis of qualitative longitudinal data.
 ii. Critical Perspectives on Social Injustice and Social Sustainability: we maintained our
 historical strengths in the mapping and critiquing of social injustice(s), whilst extending this to
 explore issues allied to social sustainability, including conceptual and empirical work on ‘mobility’.
 Colleagues investigated perceptions towards and experiences of inequality in the UK (Irwin359727).
 They considered how the media’s ‘class problem’ and neoliberal austerity policies have been
 reflected in the cultural sphere, negatively impacting younger people (Allen435510). As austerity
 politics deepened post-2013, they exposed how unevenly the vagaries of welfare capitalism are

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level (REF5b)
 distributed between rich and poor, corrupting the internal coherence of social citizenship
 (Edmiston468320). They provided original insights into men’s generational identities in low-income
 contexts (Hughes469077); and cast their critical gaze on areas of urban gentrification, revealing how
 polarities and injustices persist within such communities (Wallace497115).
 CDS researchers undertook a series of ‘firsts’: the first study of disabled people’s access to the
 internet (Priestley368044), with implications for understanding inequality in digital economies; the
 first systematic cross-national, EU assessment of disabled people’s political participation, with
 implications for citizenship and political rights (Priestley331563); and the first study, from a disability
 studies perspective, of access to play for disabled children in E. Asia, providing insights into
 cultural constructions of disability and childhood (Beckett 495078).
 Social finance initiatives designed to address social needs were other subjects of our research.
 Edmiston(379501) investigated Social Impact Bonds (asking whether they improve social outcomes)
 and Davis(456536) considered financial justice in relation to low carbon transitions and policy-
 responses to the global energy crisis.
 Our researchers have explored issues of mobility in the forms of migration and social mobility,
 often entwined, undertaking myth-dispelling investigations into the experiences of more
 established immigrant populations and providing insights into the intergenerational compromises
 that occur amongst immigrant groups (Bagguley 295240). They expanded the horizon of research
 into the S. Asian diaspora, empirically and conceptually, through studies of the well-established
 S. Asian population in New Zealand, in a context where ‘super-diversity’ might not be expected
 (Hussain458235,471703). They have considered the human dimensions and implications of the
 extraordinary economic and urban change in China, particularly rural-urban internal migration
 (Sun470225).
 As the 2015-ongoing refugee crisis in Europe unfolded, our researchers considered the role of
 NGOs in securing rights for migrant children and in counter-patriation (Barbulescu369774). They
 studied the identity dilemmas (battlegrounds) amongst diasporic populations (Demir491176); re-
 positioned the immigration and integration debate, which has seen it dislocated from the nation-
 state (Barbulescu497408); and critically appraised the category ‘immigrant’ as has been applied and
 misapplied to EU27 nationals in the context of Brexit, with implications for discrimination
 (Favell516867).
 iii. Collaboration and contribution to wider academic communities
 Since 2013, members of this School have given 200+ papers/presentations at UK conferences
 and 130+ internationally.
 Esteem Indicators: colleagues have been recognised for their outstanding contribution to their
 fields. Williams (Professor Emerita) was elected Fellow of the British Academy in 2016. In
 recognition of his status as a leading academic in Disability Studies, Priestley was elected to the
 Academy of Social Sciences (2016) and invited to become permanent Visiting Professor at the
 National University of Ireland. In 2019 Beckett was nominated, then elected to the Royal Society
 for Arts (RSA) in recognition of her role as a social innovator in the field of disability and inclusion.
 In 2020 Greenhalgh became President Elect of ISOQOL, a global community committed to
 advancing the science of quality of life and patient-centred outcomes.
 In 2017, COST Action LUDI network (involving Beckett as ‘Core Group’ member 2014-17), was
 awarded the International Play Association’s ‘Right to Play Award’.
 In 2020 Holliday et al’s (2019) book Beautyscapes: Mapping Cosmetic Surgery Tourism was
 awarded the 2020 Foundation for the Sociology of Health and Illness Book Prize; and Tzanelli
 won the Russel B. Nye Award for outstanding article in the Journal of Popular Culture.



                                                                                                    Page 15
Unit-level (REF5b)
 Contributions to Research Infrastructure: we co-ordinate research networks and develop research
 resources. The CDS runs the leading JISCMail list for Disability Studies researchers (1,400
 subscribers from 50+ countries). Barbulescu co-edits Migration News, a social media platform
 with anchors on Facebook (5k+ followers) and Twitter (10k+ followers), providing global updates
 on international migration. Campbell, Davis and Palmer (BI) are developing the Janina and
 Zygmunt Bauman Archive to make a large body of Bauman’s hitherto unseen material publically
 available.
 International Connections: in addition to research and writing projects with academics in over 20
 countries, spanning Global North and South, our researchers have held overseas Visiting
 Fellowships and given invited presentations (35+), Keynote and Plenary speeches (30+) and
 prestigious Public Lectures (7) outside the UK. We welcomed 47 Visiting Scholars and 11
 Visiting PGRs from 26 countries. Notable examples include the BI’s (2019) hosting of Prof. Alfia
 Leiva (National Autonomous University of Mexico), who shared her work on images of fertility,
 matriarchy and the body in ancient Meso-American art and cultures through to the present; and
 2014 Visiting PGR Roshanak Mehdipanah (Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona) who engaged
 in a writing project with Manzano, resulting in a co-authored paper on complex causal pathways
 between urban renewal, health and health inequality.
 Figure 1 shows our global connections/collaborations 2013-20 (in purple):




                                                 Figure 1

 International interest in our research is evidenced by translations. Since 2013 there have been
 translations of articles/chapters by Demir (into Spanish), Hollin (into Polish), Tzanelli (into Spanish)
 and Sayyid (into Malayalam). Major translated publications include Priestley’s book Disability: a
 Lifecourse Approach (into Chinese, 2015); and Sayyid’s books A Fundamental Fear (into Turkish,
 2017), Recalling the Caliphate: Decolonisation and World Order (into Turkish, 2017, Arabic, 2018,
 Italian, 2019 and Malaysian, 2020) and Thinking Through Islamophobia (into Italian, 2019).
 Training for Researchers: since 2013, our researchers have been at the forefront of the
 development of resources and training in the realm of Research Methodologies and Methods.
 They have published advanced textbooks e.g.:
      Doing Realist Research (2018) – Emmel, Greenhalgh and Manzano
     Contemporary approaches to ethnographic research. SAGE International Library Series
      (Four volumes) (2018) – Hughes
     Qualitative Secondary Analysis (2020) – Hughes

 They have published ‘guides’ for researchers, available open access, online e.g.:



                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level (REF5b)
     Managing Qualitative Longitudinal Data for Longer Term Use and Re-use: a practical
      guide for researchers (2017) – Hughes for Timescapes
     Revisiting Yesterday’s Data Today. Working Across Qualitative Longitudinal Studies
      (2016) – Emmel for ESRC’s NCRM

 They have produced/been involved in training videos and materials e.g.:
     Emmel’s (2017) 15 videos with Sage Research Methods on aspects of Realist Research
     Between 2013-2020 The Rameses Project, involving Greenhalgh and Manzano,
      developed standards for quality, reporting and publication of realist syntheses and
      evaluations, plus accompanying training resources

 Our methodological expertise is globally in demand: for example Manzano has run training events
 in realist evaluation at John Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and Department of Health
 Policy and Management, Stanford University (USA) and Hughes has led training at University of
 Maynooth (Ireland) on qualitative secondary analysis.
 Contributions to Academic Publishing: since 2013, colleagues have edited books that will be
 important reference points for the academic community e.g.:
     The Ashgate Research Companion to Cosmopolitanism (2017) – Rovisco
     Transitions to Adulthood Through Recession: Youth and Inequality in a European
      Comparative Perspective (2018) – Irwin
     Everyday Europe: Social Transnationalism in an Unsettled Continent (2019) – Favell,
      Barbulescu and Varella

 Holliday is Co-Editor of the Emerald Book Series: Gender, Health and Technology.
 School colleagues have edited special editions or themed sections of journals including: Cultural
 Sociology, International Journal of Social Research Methods, Social Inclusion, Social Science &
 Medicine and Theory, Culture & Society. Colleagues are members of the Editorial Boards of circa.
 25 journals (e.g., British Journal of Sociology of Education; Decolonial Horizons; Disability Studies
 Quarterly; Families, Relationships and Societies; Feminist Review; Islamophobia Studies; Journal
 of Ethnicity and Migration Studies; Journal of Patient Reported Outcomes; Journal of Poverty and
 Social Justice; Social Movement Studies; Sociological Review; Sociology).
 They have played a pivotal role in establishing two new journals: ReOrient (Founding Editor-in-
 Chief: Sayyid) and the International Journal of Disability and Social Justice (IJDSJ) (Founding Co-
 Chair: Beckett). The IJDSJ is pioneering a new publishing model in Disability Studies – a journal
 with an open access companion ‘Digest’, written in plain English, designed to engage a wider non-
 academic audience.
 In 2019 Hughes led a team (including Hollin and Wright) to become the Editors of the BSA’s journal
 Sociological Research Online. Their successful bid included five promises to the discipline and
 society: inclusion, responsiveness, interdisciplinarity, innovation and accessibility.
 Additional Contributions to Discipline: we
     Are active members of 20+ associations including: BSA, ESA, ASA and ISA; Council
        for European Studies; European Evaluation Society; Feminist and Women’s Studies
        Association; Global Studies Association; Royal Statistical Society; SPA;
     Play/ed pivotal role in various research networks e.g. as BSA Youth Study Group
      Convenor; co-Founder of the Global De-Centre (Migrating People and Migrating
      Cultures); founding member of Privileged Mobilities Research Initiative;
     Have organised many successful events e.g.: ‘The State of the Art of Realist
      Methodologies’ Conference (2015); BSA Youth Study Group conference on

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level (REF5b)
        ‘Methodological and Ethical Challenges in Youth Research’ (2017); ISA RC21
        (Sociology of Urban and Regional Development) Annual Conference and Summer
        School; SPA-funded Workshops ‘Rethinking the Social Divisions of Welfare’ (2018); the
        Sociological Review Foundation Seminar Series ‘Welfare Imaginaries’ (2018); ‘Disabled
        Children’s Lives and Rights Symposium’ (2020) with the University of Malta;
     Have been members of the review colleges or commissioning panels of the ESRC,
      DAAD (Germany), Health Foundation, Irish Research Council, Friends Provident
      Foundation, Horizon 2020, MS Society, NIHR and Spanish Agency of Innovation and
      Research. Beckett and Irwin have been members of Grant Assessment Panels for the
      Norwegian and Finnish Research Councils (respectively). Beckett represented the
      discipline of Sociology on the ESRC’s Grant Assessment Panel B (2014-18) and
      Hollomotz was a member of their Capability Committee (2016-19);
     Been external examiners for 30+ UK and 11 international PhDs.

 iv. Contribution to Economy and Society
 The research described in the School’s three Case Studies represents a significant contribution
 to economy and society. Research led by Davis (UoA 21 REF 3 CS 2 ‘New Model of Finance’)
 provided a new public financing solution – Community Municipal Investments - developed in
 collaboration with industry stakeholders and government, to meet local needs. Research by
 Sayyid (UOA 21 REF3 CS 1 ‘Countering Islamophobia’) helped to redefine Islamophobia as a
 form of racism and transformed its public understanding so that civil society organisations, local
 government and politicians could take new action to challenge it. A decade-long programme of
 international research led by Priestley (UoA21 REF3 CS 3 ‘Mainstreaming Disability Equality’)
 helped to embed and strengthen disability equality across the work of EU institutions, with
 important implications for disabled citizen’s rights and wellbeing.
 Beyond this, however, the majority of our research is designed with in-built impact. Vehicles for
 achieving impact have included arts-based approaches, pedagogical interventions and sustained
 engagement with policy-makers/commissioners and other stakeholders. In addition to the
 generation of impact via stand-alone research projects, we have contributed to economy and
 society in the following ways, by:
     Membership of Working Groups/Committees at the UN, World Bank, OECD, Ethical,
      Legal and Psychosocial Aspects of Organ Transplantation (ELPAT) and UK Ministry
      of Housing, Communities and Local Government;
     Giving evidence to e.g. the UN, UK All Party Parliamentary Groups (APPG British
      Muslims and APPG Migration and Roma Travellers), Digital, Culture, Media and
      Support Select Committee, NICE and the Danish Technology Board.

 The School encourages its researchers to engage with and support Governmental Bodies and
 Civil Society Organisations, developing KE and research partnerships. For example, during this
 REF period:
     At the BI: Wallace worked with Leeds City Council and Bauman-Lyons Architects to
      consider whether modular housing might be a solution to the UK housing crisis;
     At the CDS: Manzano collaborated with MS patients, the MS Society and NHS to
      design a Decision Aid to support people with MS to make treatment decisions; and
      Beckett was an invited expert (on the rights of disabled children) to the Joint Working
      Group of the UN CRC and CRPD Committees and worked with the Human Rights
      Monitoring Institute to provide training on Disability Hate Crime for Police Services
      and civil society organisations in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia;

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level (REF5b)
     At CERS: Barbulescu became a Board Member of the New Europeans, a civil rights
      organisation championing the principle of solidarity in Europe; Favell and Barbulescu
      received ESRC Impact Acceleration (IAA) funding to forge the civil society partnership
      ‘Commission on Diversity in the North’ (partners including Runnymede Trust, New
      Europeans, Leeds City Council, the Office of the Police and Crime Commissioner
      West Yorkshire, West Yorkshire Police, JUST Yorkshire, Leeds Jewish
      Representative Council and Stop Hate UK);
     At FlaG: Irwin ran a conference (2019) with Leeds City Council’s Employment and
      Skills Lead, focusing on young people’s skills, pathways and prospects; and Edmiston
      collaborated with Leeds Poverty Truth to coordinate a project, enabled by ESRC IAA
      funding, to enhance opportunities for the civic representation and participation of
      marginalised citizens.

 Finally, our researchers engage in social commentary and public debates – making useful
 interventions. For example, Wallace organised the Public Social Science event 'Struggles over
 home at a time of crisis’ (2016). Throsby runs Blogs related to her research, drawing international
 audiences: ‘The Long Swim’ (circa 2000 hits/month) and ‘Sugar Rush’ (circa 500 hits/month). On
 the basis of her work on Kitsch/Camp Holliday spoke at a V&A exhibition. Sayyid has written over
 30 Op-Eds for Turkish newspapers and has a regular column in the Daily Sabah. Manzano has
 written for The Conversation and IFL (a popular science website). Our researchers have been
 invited to provide social commentary for high-profile media outlets e.g. Davis (RSA) and Sun (City
 Journal), podcasts e.g. Hollin (Autism Science Foundation), television and radio e.g. Bagguley
 (BBC News 24 and China TV), Sun (Phoenix FM), Holliday and Sayyid (Radio 4) and Hughes
 (BBC Look North).
 Our research is cited within public discourse – evidence that it ‘speaks’ to matters of pressing
 social concern. Outlets such as The Guardian, Observer and Financial Times have referenced our
 research. Buckner’s calculation of the economic value of informal care in the UK has been quoted
 in 18 Parliamentary debates, by the BBC and widely in local and national media. She provided
 evidence for the 2019 ITV documentary ‘Living with Young Carers’. Edmiston’s work on poverty
 and inequality has been cited in The Guardian and New Statesman and his research into social
 impact bonds has had wide coverage in ProBono Australia, GovInsider, The Mandarin and Third
 Sector Magazine. Manzano’s work on organ trafficking received media coverage in the Observer,
 Birmingham Star, Medical News, Business Standard, Medical Daily, ChinaTopix and The Big
 Issue in the North.
 Our social commentary to date provides a firm foundation upon which to build and achieve our
 Post-2020 Objective 3 relating to Public Scholarship.




                                                                                            Page 19
