Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Cambridge
 Unit of Assessment: 11 - Computer Science and Informatics



 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context
This Unit of Assessment is essentially the Department of Computer Science and Technology – a
world-class research facility combining theory with practical activities, and significantly advancing
both the field and computing in the wider world. The Department sustains active research across the
breadth of computer science and encourages the development of new technologies and applications.

Key elements of the Department’s ethos are our focus on impact, and openness to working closely
with both academic and non-academic organisations. Our activities are formally overseen by the
Faculty Board and the Degree Committee (whose Chair and some members are external to the
Department.)

The Department occupies a single purpose-built facility. We strive to be a single coherent community
with an open environment where all academics, research staff and students can contribute to
discussion of topics affecting the Department. Over 260 people are engaged in research here. On
the census date, the Department employed 54 permanent academic 1 staff – an increase of 13
since the last REF – and 110 contract research staff (an increase of 26), and also accommodated 3
research fellows funded by colleges and other agencies. Sixty of the research staff were employed
on HESA Category A contracts, and 28 of these were identified as independent researchers.

We’ve been able to attract a large pool of excellent candidates for new positions, even in highly
competitive areas – e.g., receiving 128 applications for a Lecturer/Senior Lecturer position in
Machine Learning and subsequently being able to appoint three new staff. Several new appointees
have joined from industry (see section §1.4). The new permanent staff include seven women and
gender balance in this period has improved at all levels (see §2.4).

 PhD student numbers are at 100 and increasing rapidly, with over 50 new students in the academic
year 2020-21 (see §2.3). These figures reflect a strong increase in research funding coming from
more diverse sources (see §3.1). As discussed below, and in §1.3.3, an increasing proportion of
our research is interdisciplinary.

One notable strength is the Department’s range of highly impactful long-term research projects such
as CHERI*2, a 10-year processor architecture security technology project that is now at the centre
of the £187 million Digital Security by Design cybersecurity programme with investment from the UK
government and major industrial players. Another is the diversity of pathways to impact (see §1.4.)
from spin-outs (e.g., from the Unikernels* research) to online learning platforms (e.g., Isaac*) to Iris
recognition* technology being incorporated into international standards and used by international
government agencies during its global deployment.


1.2 Structure
We classify research undertaken here by themes – i.e., research specialisms – and application areas
like ‘Education’ and ‘Health’, which involve collaborations between researchers from this Department
and other disciplines and/or external organisations.

1 Including Emily Shuckburgh who is a member of this Department but for the purposes of the REF is being

returned by UoA 7.
2 Starred Names* denote impact case studies.


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Themes centre on the methodologies and technologies employed in research. They are:

    •   Algorithms & Complexity: application of logic to computational complexity, the design and
        analysis of algorithms.
    •   Computer Architecture: CPUs, accelerators, interconnect, memory hierarchy, SW/HW co-
        design.
    •   Graphics, Vision & Imaging Science: interpreting, creating, and animating visual data.
    •   Human-Centred Computing: affective computing, human factors, design, HCI.
    •   Machine Learning (ML) & Artificial Intelligence (AI): foundational ML methods, data science.
    •   Mobile Systems, Robotics & Automation: IoT, wearables, robotics, sensors and sensor
        networks.
    •   Natural Language Processing: computational linguistics, algorithms and machine learning
        approaches adapted to language and text.
    •   Programming Languages, Semantics and Verification: automated reasoning, compilers,
        foundations, logic and programme analysis
    •   Security: privacy, security, cryptography, cybercrime.
    •   Systems & Networking: distributed systems, databases, wireless, operating systems,
        virtualisation.

The Department has significant strengths in all these, but is most notable for its consistent success
in bringing researchers from different themes to work together – e.g., in the following application
areas where we have large ongoing projects and activities:

    •   Security by design. The REMS* and CHERI* projects involve world-leading expertise from
        the Computer Architecture, Programming Languages and Security themes using full
        hardware-software co-design, as well as formal modelling and proof.
    •   Education. The ALTA Institute (part of the Text prediction and feedback* impact case study)
        is a product of our work in Machine Learning and Natural Language Processing. In
        collaboration with the Department of Engineering, Linguistics and Cambridge Assessment, it
        is improving educational technology for English language learners.
    •   Mathematics both underlies much of the Department’s research and is an important
        application area. The Algorithms & Complexity and Programming Languages, Semantics and
        Verification themes, in collaboration with the University’s Centre for Mathematical Sciences,
        both use and create new results in mathematical logic and category theory, such as in Glynn
        Winskel’s ERC ECSYM project. Lawrence Paulson’s3 ERC ALEXANDRIA project aims at
        large-scale formal proof for the working mathematician via modern verification technology,
        such as the Isabelle/HOL interactive theorem prover.

Themes describe the Department’s activities externally. Internally, activities fall within research
groups. These provide structure for postdoctoral staff and PhD students – e.g., by organising
specialist seminars, and running feedback sessions for draft papers – and influence decisions such
as space allocation.

The main changes in research structure during this REF period arose from strategic decisions to
build capacity in key areas where computer science has potential for huge societal impact. One is
environmental science, long an important area here – as evidenced by ‘Computing for the Future of
the Planet’, Andrew Hopper’s 2017 Royal Society Bakerian Prize-winning research initiative.

We made two interdisciplinary appointments in 2019: Emily Shuckburgh from the British Antarctic
Survey as Reader in Environmental Data Science and Srinivasan Keshav as Robert Sansom
Professor of Computer Science, to work broadly on using computer science techniques and
technologies to encourage the adoption of renewable energy and combat climate change.
Shuckburgh is Director of Cambridge Zero, the University’s climate change initiative, and PI and Co-
Director of AI4ER, the Cambridge UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training in the Application of Artificial
3 Names in bold denote staff we are submitting. We also give their first name on initial mention.


                                                                                                    Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Intelligence to the study of Environmental Risks. Keshav and Damon Wischik are Deputy Directors
of AI4ER.

There has also been concerted expansion in Machine Learning (ML) and Data Science (DS).
Significant efforts by both Heads of Department (Hopper to May 2018, and then Ann Copestake)
secured a donation from DeepMind to fund a Chair of Machine Learning. This enabled us to make a
key appointment (Neil Lawrence), which helped us attract other new staff. Overall, we have recruited
six people with expertise in these areas since 2016 (Wischik, Shuckburgh, Lawrence, Carl Henrik
Ek, Ferenc Huszar, Nicholas Lane); five of these are new positions. The new expertise
complements the work of existing staff already well established in this area (especially Sean Holden,
Pietro Liò, Mateja Jamnik and others).

A particularly strong emerging feature of the Department is the focus on ML/DS as an integral part
of computer science, including systems (Lane, Lawrence), programming (Andrew Rice) and
computer architecture (Robert Mullins). This complements the work of other research groups in the
University, particularly the internationally-acclaimed Machine Learning and Machine Intelligence
group in Information Engineering, with whom we have strengthened ties through joint involvement
in projects.

A major part of our strategy involves collaboration with other disciplines to enhance their research
by using cutting-edge ML/DS techniques – as we are doing in a Mark Foundation Institute for
Integrated Cancer Medicine initiative involving Liò and Jamnik, that uses advances in machine
learning to integrate diverse breast cancer patient data and derive insights from it. (This is in
collaboration with Cambridge University Hospitals Department of Oncology and the University
Department of Radiology.)

We recently obtained substantial funding from Schmidt Futures for our new ‘Accelerate Programme
for Scientific Discovery’ to equip researchers with the skills they need to use ML in their research.
Similarly, this Department is a hosting partner of AI4ER and eight of the ten inaugural students who
started their PhD in 2019 are supervised or co-supervised by academic staff here. Such activities
align with another of our strategic recruitment objectives, to increase our interdisciplinary work (see
§1.3.3).


1.3 Research Strategy
The Head of Department (HoD), Deputy Heads and Research Strategy Manager have overall
responsibility for the strategic development of research, in consultation with the University School of
Technology. The process is highly consultative: relevant research-related matters are discussed at
weekly term-time staff meetings, involving all REF Category A staff and the more senior professional
services staff. There are occasional structured meetings to explore particular issues more widely,
and an annual offsite meeting.

1.3.1 Review of research plans described in REF 2014


   1. Expand the academic staff by four over the period 2013-2018. In fact, we expanded from 41
      to 54 staff by the end of the REF period (see §2) in order to maintain a broad range of
      research and stay internationally competitive, supported by success in obtaining funds,
      including via the ERC and the Alan Turing Institute.

   2. Expand support functions, particularly the finance office. This plan was modified because we
      saw the need to create a broader Research Strategy Team to support all aspects of research,
      not just financial. (See §1.3.2.)




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   3. Start planning towards a new building for 2020 onwards. This is the only plan not yet to have
      succeeded, for reasons discussed in §1.3.4.

   4. Smooth out the cluster of 2020 retirements by using reserves to recruit early to some of these
      posts. We have increased staff numbers as well as recruiting early.

   5. Further diversify funding and increase industrial engagement. Our successful diversification
      and increase in funding is described in §3. Growth in industrial engagement is described in
      §4.

1.3.2 Strategic planning after REF 2014


To supplement the usual planning processes described above, in September 2018 the Department
underwent a Strategic Research Review (SRR) with an external panel, chaired by Marta
Kwiatkowska (University of Oxford) and including panellists from Carnegie Mellon University, UCL,
the University of Austin at Texas and Nokia Bell Labs. This was purposely timed to take place shortly
after Copestake took over as HoD. The SRR identified several priorities, including:

   •   Communication and Support. The panel recommended establishing a communications role
       here – to highlight the Department’s successes to funders and society at large and raise the
       profile of the quality and scope of research here – and recruiting more academic-related staff
       “to lessen the administrative workload of academic and professional services staff”.
   •   Culture. “Carefully manage the impact of any further growth on the Department’s internal
       culture. Foster early collaboration and communication between faculty and PhD students and
       reflect on the integration process… in order to ensure the satisfaction and well-being of its
       graduate student population.”
   •   PhD funding. The panel suggested we optimise the return from industrial links to fund
       studentships.

The Communication and Support priorities extended our existing plan 2 (see above) to expand the
finance office. This led to the establishment of a Research Strategy Team, headed by the Research
Strategy Manager, which currently has five staff (2.8 FTE) and is still growing. Internally the team
supports many aspects of grant applications (see §3.3). Externally, its functions include
communications, managing an association for industrial supporters – the Supporters’ Club – and
another for alumni, the Cambridge Ring (see §4.4.). Generally, the SRR made positive comments
about Departmental culture, including highlighting the collaboration between groups, and intellectual
freedom. Their recommendations about the integration of postgraduate students led us to introduce
more structure to student induction (see §2.3).

1.3.3 Interdisciplinary Research


Since the last REF period, we have focused on expanding interdisciplinary activities to help extend
the impact of our research. We achieved this through appointing new academic staff who have strong
interdisciplinary links or come from different disciplines.

   •   Paula Buttery, a computational linguist, now leads the ALTA Institute, a key demonstration
       of the importance of the multidisciplinary approach to language learning and assessment.
   •   Alice Hutchings has a background in criminology and is Deputy Director of the Cambridge
       Cybercrime Centre, which combines expertise from computer science, criminology and law.
   •   Keshav’s conservation focus is discussed above.
   •   Lawrence leads the Accelerate Programme for Scientific Discovery.
   •   Shuckburgh, a mathematician, climate scientist and Director of Cambridge Zero, leads
       AI4ER.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Wischik is a mathematical statistician who, prior to joining us, was chief data scientist at
       Silicon Valley start-up Urban Engines (now part of Google).

The Department greatly benefits from the University’s support for interdisciplinary activities via its
Strategic Research Initiatives and Networks (SRIs and SRNs) and Interdisciplinary Research
Centres (IRCs). These groupings aim to address multidisciplinary research challenges, strengthen
collaborations across disciplines, and influence research and policy agendas. Copestake co-directs
the Cambridge Language Sciences IRC. The Cambridge Global Challenges SRI, co-led by Alan
Blackwell, promotes research to advance sustainable development goals and works in collaboration
with partners in low-income countries. Other SRNs and IRCs with substantial involvement from the
Department include CamBridgeSens (sensors) and the Cambridge Centre for Data-Driven
Discovery. Simon Moore and Jat Singh co-chair the Trust & Technology Initiative which was kick-
started with University funding.

1.3.4 Future strategic aims

People. Our academic staff numbers have grown rapidly over the last seven years ( §2.1) but will
not continue expanding at the same rate. As part of the SRR, it was decided we should keep to about
50 academic staff for the next few years. (This still implies recruiting 1-2 academic staff per year as
staff retire or leave.) Supported by the University’s Equality and Diversity section, we plan to continue
increasing our proportion of female and BAME staff. We will also offer several five-year fellowships
for postdoctoral researchers with about three years’ experience post-PhD. (This gap in current
provision results in us losing some of our most promising researchers to industry.) We have already
hired four Fellows through the Accelerate Programme for Scientific Discovery. We also aim to further
increase the PhD student numbers. These objectives require funding: further philanthropic donations
(from industry or foundations) are the most likely source.

Building. Plans drawn up in 2016-17 to extend our current building showed a high cost for a
relatively small space gain and so were ruled unfeasible. However, some pressures on space are
being relieved by the expansion of the University’s West Cambridge site, especially the Shared
Facilities Hub (SFH), expected to be completed in 2021-22. The pandemic has probably put a
substantial extension/new building beyond financial reach in the near future but has encouraged us
to re-examine our use of space. So we are reconfiguring existing spaces to meet needs, e.g.,
repurposing our library space (since there will be a library in the SFH) as a flexible workshop/teaching
area.

Industrial and third-sector collaboration. Some of our most important current projects (e.g.,
CHERI*) involve multiple companies collaborating with our researchers and each other; we hope to
increase this style of interaction. We also wish to support the involvement of third-sector
organisations and other disciplines in our research. The Isaac* online platforms and the ALTA
Institute are examples of this and form a core for further collaborative research in applications of
computer technology in education.

Research areas. We expect further growth in all areas, especially digital security, mobile devices,
data science and ML. Increasing the impact of our activities within the University is a strategic aim,
particularly through supporting the growth of ML/AI across Cambridge in collaboration with
Information Engineering. We see huge potential for further growth in collaborative research in both
sciences and humanities – a specific objective is to collaborate with the University’s new Centre for
Digital Humanities. This also links with our aim to increase our work in education.

Research support. We will further grow our new Research Strategy Team and recruit more project
managers and research software engineers.




                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



1.4 Impact Strategy
The 2018 Strategic Research Review noted that “members of the Department have established
strong, long-lived links to industry to support and develop ongoing world-leading research and
explore new and exciting areas”, and “the majority of research done in the Department reaches wider
society through government policy, the health sector, industry and charities.”

This variety and vitality of impact is facilitated by the University’s intellectual property policy – which
gives researchers the right to make results public and the ownership of copyright (including copyright
in software) – and by University employment contracts that place few restrictions on employees’
activities outside the University. This offers researchers significant flexibility to engage in, among
others, formal and informal collaborations with companies and third-sector organisations, spin-outs,
start-ups, and non-profits.

Our impact case studies reflect this range of paths to impact. Text prediction and feedback* led to a
start-up and spin-out, both subsequently acquired by established companies; CHERI* and REMS*
involve close collaboration and interchange of researchers with major industrial companies; non-
profit company Raspberry Pi* has achieved impact through community-building; the Isaac* online
learning platforms do so by public service to education.

Our strategy for sustaining impact is to maintain and develop an impact culture. Our impacts are
diverse and individual researchers/groups of researchers are usually best placed to decide how to
pursue them – though our Research Strategy Team also supports them, e.g., by suggesting sources
of impact/translational funding or through their links with Cambridge Enterprise, the University’s
commercialisation arm. Impact often requires continued hands-on involvement of academics in
translation of research: the University’s liberal IP policy facilitates this, as does the Department’s
willingness to support unpaid leave and other forms of flexible working. Potential for impact is an
important factor in hiring and promotion: when hiring researchers, we pay as much (if not more)
attention to the impact/potential for impact of their work as we do to the volume of their publications.
Interchange of staff and students between academia and industry is also essential and several
recently-recruited academic staff have joined us from industry (Huszar, Twitter; Lawrence, Amazon;
Cengiz Oztireli, Disney Research Switzerland; Wischik, Urban Engines). Researchers are
generous in sharing their experience with colleagues, and entrepreneurship (among staff and
alumni) is celebrated in the Cambridge Ring. ( §4.4).

Since 2019, we have been seeking to amplify our impact successes to raise the Department’s profile
with prospective funders and collaborators. Ensuring impact is communicated much more widely is
part of the new communications role.

The Department’s culture is an integral part of the local Cambridge tech environment. Staff and
alumni of the Department have so far created 300 companies and the central role the Department
played in the Cambridge Phenomenon is well known. This high degree of interrelationship persists
and grows. Members of local companies and third-sector organisations interact frequently with
members of the Department, collaborating on research and start-ups, co-supervising PhD students,
proposing undergraduate/postgraduate projects, giving seminars, acting as members of our Faculty
Board and informally advising and being advised. Because of its ubiquity, this is impossible to
quantify: as the SRR highlighted, members of the Department experience it as a unique culture and
it is a major factor in their choice to come to, and stay in, Cambridge.


1.5 Open Research and Research Integrity
We take full advantage of the University’s Open Access support (such as the Apollo repository,
guidance on practice and training programmes for open research and open data management and

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the Cambridge Open Access policy framework). However, we go well beyond these institutional
measures: the right to release material as open source is strongly promoted by the Department
through its long standing open culture, embodied in flexibility of collaboration, open source software
and hardware outputs in many areas, open innovation practice evident in our impact strategy, and
open research in sharing data and publications.

Our open source release of the Xen hypervisor is a notable part of our history; it changed the
discipline and flies the flag for the effectiveness of open research. Some more recent open source
releases are described in §4.5. The Isaac* platforms are an example where an industry contract
demands open source outputs and where the Departmental approach has enabled collaboration and
impact. The Cambridge Cybercrime Centre pioneers practice around research data sharing for
sensitive and illicit information. Department personnel have been involved with the CRASSH Open
IP for Emerging Technologies research network, exploring the frontiers of open IP tech transfer.

The Department supports a culture of research integrity via an ethical review model, informed by
current best practice and the institutional Good Research Practice guidelines, and in consultation
with other Schools within the University, and fellow universities. All research projects (including final
year undergraduate and Masters’ projects) go through up to three stages of review:

   •   Self-assessment, which may lead to
   •   Departmental review, which may require guidance from a
   •   Specialist panel.

Our interdisciplinary interactions with humanities, law and social sciences broadens awareness of
ethical issues around the Department. We support ethical review of projects from other disciplines
when there is a computational angle. The Research Strategy Team plays a role in spotting potential
issues at the early proposal stage. Review at proposal stage is encouraged to drive higher quality
submissions. The Department works closely with the University’s Development, Research
Operations and Research Strategy offices to ensure projects are appropriate.

Discussion of methodological and ethical issues is also built into our teaching. Ensuring
reproducibility is especially important in research that uses machine learning, and open sharing of
datasets and software allows research results to be reproduced by others. More generally, our open
research culture plays an important role in research integrity by ensuring that work can be informally,
but critically reviewed by others before submission for publication.




                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy
Our strategy for recruiting permanent academic staff reflects our research strategy of sustaining
active research across the breadth of computer science while also encouraging work in important
new areas. We made 23 appointments between January 2014 and July 2020 (a marked increase on
the five appointments in the previous REF period). The appointments were at all levels of seniority
– two Professors, one Reader, 11 Senior Lecturers and nine Lecturers – and seven of the 23 new
appointees were women. In recruiting, we looked (as we continue to do) for excellent researchers
with both relatively broad interests/expertise and the flexibility to adapt, a factor we regard as
important given the rapidity with which research in our field moves and the fact that many staff stay
with us long-term.

Four new appointees came from industry (see §1.4) and one from a research institute. The
remainder came from universities in the US (two), Canada (one), Switzerland (one), other UK
institutions (nine) and Cambridge (five). The Department's strong reputation and strategy of
empowering academic staff to work on research topics as they see best allows us to recruit and
retain exceptionally talented people even in areas of keen academic and commercial competition:
our new staff came to us with PhDs from world-leading institutions.

We have a strong record in staff retention: academic staff may choose their own research agendas,
and we are also flexible around consultancy work, work outside academics’ University commitments
and IP ownership, recognising this generates welcome additional income for research staff and aids
staff retention.

Contract research staff have increased from 81 to 110. We had five Research Fellows without an
underlying permanent position at the census date. Seeking more Fellowships to help the best
researchers build up their research profile before undertaking the full demands of a permanent
position, we recently introduced Departmental Early-Career Fellowships (DECAFs). We obtained
philanthropic funding for the first four as part of the Accelerate Programme.


2.2 Staff development
For all staff, we recognise the importance of training, mentoring, appraisals and promotions;
opportunities to work flexibly; support for their wellbeing; and the need to continue improving equality
and diversity in the Department.

As the University is a signatory to the Researcher Development Concordat, all staff can access its
comprehensive programme of training and professional development. Departmentally, new
academic staff are assigned at least one and sometimes two mentors to help them settle in the short
term and offer broader career mentoring longer term. The HoD and Departmental Secretary arrange
mentors from outside new recruits’ research areas, whereas colleagues closer to their specialism
monitor and advise them on their programme of research, both through routine informal contact and
through the more formal biennial appraisals, which focus positively on support and academic career
development. The mentors, alongside the HoD, provide support during the probation period. Other
support for new academic staff includes the underwriting of PhD students and start-up funds
(unrestricted, but normally used for travel, specialist equipment, etc) from Departmental reserves.
New lecturers are given a reduced teaching load, usually joint-teaching one lecture course in their
first year.



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The HoD annually and proactively identifies academic staff who are ready for promotion (often aided
by appraisals and ensuring staff from underrepresented groups are considered). She encourages
them to apply and supports them through the process, e.g., advising on the choice of referees. She
or another member of staff with experience of the promotions process will review applicants’
promotion paperwork before it is submitted. She discusses steps to improve CVs with those who are
not yet ready for promotion and gives detailed feedback in the (rare) cases where an application is
unsuccessful.

Evidence of the career development support we offer academic staff is shown in their strong
performance in the University’s rigorous and competitive annual Senior Academic Promotion
process (as part of which, applications are considered by up to three committees: our Faculty
Promotions Committee, the School of Technology Promotions Committee and the University’s
General Board). During this REF period, out of 39 applications, 35 resulted in promotion /approval
for promotion – 6 to Senior Lecturer, 15 to Reader (3 of them women) and 14 to Professor (4 of them
women) – a success rate of 90%.

Support for postdoctoral researchers

There were 110 contract research staff employed at the census date. In addition to the 22 Research
Assistants (most of them also registered for the PhD), there were 88 postdoctoral staff – 67
Research Associates, 17 Senior Research Associates, 2 Principal Research Associates and 2
Research Fellows as well as 3 Research Fellows funded by colleges.

Institutionally, the University retained its HR Excellence in Research award in 2015 – a recognition
of its commitment to improving the working conditions and career development of research staff. It
offers additional institutional support for research staff through the Postdoc Academy, the lead
organisation for the postdoctoral community, which offers personal and professional development,
pastoral and information support. There are also dedicated support programmes for postdoctoral
staff at the Careers Service and the Researcher Development Programme, and subsidised staff
housing in Eddington (near to the Department) for which many postdocs are eligible.

Departmentally, postdocs make a vital contribution to our research and we work hard to support their
continuing development. Postdocs employed on grants are recruited by academic staff with the
support of the HR team. Each is ‘housed’ in a research group (and some in more than one) providing
both their academic and social activities. The Department also has a Research Staff Forum – which
meets termly, as a platform to assist postdocs - where staff issues such as training, availability of
teaching opportunities and improving career progression can be brought for discussion. All main
research groups are represented; the Department Secretary, Deputy Director for Postgraduate
Education (Researcher Development) and Research Strategy Manager also attend and liaise with
the HoD over issues / suggestions that arise.

Contract research staff can apply for promotion from Research Associate (RA) to Senior Research
Associate (SRA), which recognises their status as an independent researcher. There were 22 such
promotions in this REF period. The appraisal process is important in identifying RAs who could be
promoted to SRA and in advising both roles on their career options, academic and
otherwise. Promotions are assessed by the Faculty Board. The Department makes information
about the promotion procedure available via our intranet, including case studies from previous
successful applicants on how they put their case for promotion. SRAs and Research Fellows with
independent status are invited to the Department’s weekly staff meetings and offsite meetings, along
with permanent academic staff, allowing them to play a role in decision-making around research
issues.

Some postdoctoral staff are involved in University teaching, including lecturing and supervision of
Masters’ projects. We aim to make this opportunity more evenly available so all postdoctoral staff
wishing to develop their teaching skills – e.g., to help them pursue a career in academia – are
supported in doing so.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Fellowships obtained by members of the Department are detailed in §3.1.

Many postdoctoral staff and fellows leaving the Department have gone to permanent academic
positions across the world, including at the Universities of Amsterdam, Bristol, Edinburgh, Otago and
Oxford, Carnegie Mellon University, IIT Madras, Imperial College London and King’s College
London. Four obtained permanent positions in the Department during the REF period. Others have
gone into industry, including positions at Apple Research, Brit Insurance, Microsoft Research,
Ocado, and to start-ups including Anvil and Navenio.

Knowledge exchange and impact


Academic staff are free to undertake consultancy: we recognise that it enhances their experience of
industrial realities and problems, while also creating the links between academia and industry that
are essential to knowledge exchange and impact. Some work is done pro bono; paid consultancy
may be done through Cambridge University Technical Services (CUTS), or privately, as staff choose.
Recently staff have consulted for, among others, Alcatel (Bell Labs), Apple, AOL, BBC, BT, CSR,
France Telecom, Google, Intel, Juniper Networks, Microsoft, Netronome, and Orange.

Academic staff are able – and indeed, expected – to take sabbatical leave one term in every seven.
They may also take unpaid leave to work with companies. (Though this requires consideration of
how to cover their teaching and supervision, it is important both for staff retention and, again, for
impact.) Staff may also work for companies alongside their Department positions, as long as it
enhances their academic work, for instance by allowing publishable research which would not be
possible in an academic setting or by demonstrating impact.

Mechanisms for recognising the impact of work by staff include the Department’s annual Hall of
Fame awards They celebrate the success of companies founded by Department staff and graduates
and successful products these companies create; the philanthropic or social impact of work by
staff/graduates; and the most significant peer-reviewed paper by staff/graduates.


2.3 Research students
During the current REF period we admitted 223 PhD students, funded by a mix of Research Council
(mainly EPSRC) grants, University resources (e.g., Cambridge Trust, Gates and college
scholarships), industrial philanthropy and studentships, project grants, international scholarships and
students’ self-funding. Thanks mainly to an increase in industrial philanthropy, and the Department’s
increased involvement with CDTs, student numbers are rising – as shown below.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 1: PhD admissions by academic year.

Reflecting our increased emphasis on interdisciplinarity, and our increased capacity in
AI/ML/robotics, the Department is involved with the following CDTs:

   •   Sensor Technologies for a Healthy and Sustainable Future (SensorCDT)
   •   Application of Artificial Intelligence to the study of Environmental Risks (AI4ER).
   •   AgriFood Robotics (AgriFoRwArdS)

Admission to our PhD programme is highly competitive, our application process and training
programme both support rigour; as a result, standards are very high. Students won British Computer
Science Distinguished Dissertation Awards in 2015 and 2017; two more were runners-up in 2020.

Recruitment

The PhD application process is designed to combine rigour with support for unconventional
backgrounds and diverse candidates – in the last five years, we have admitted students from
Psychology, Earth Sciences and Land Economy as well as Mathematics, Engineering and Computer
Science.

Typically, about 40% of research students have taken either our one-year MPhil in Advanced
Computer Science or the optional fourth year of the undergraduate Computer Science Tripos. These
degrees are formally PGT but are intended to prepare students to start research, offering sessions
on key skills from research publication to specific research methods, as well as modules on cutting-
edge topics in Computer Science and Technology. The vast majority of the other PhD students
admitted have undertaken Masters’ level training elsewhere, but we also admit students directly from
industry, and a Masters’ is not a requirement for those with industry experience. Most such students
have completed an undergraduate degree in Computer Science or Engineering before entering
industry, but we have also admitted PhD students with incomplete undergraduate degrees who were
recognised in industry as leading researchers. The students admitted in the last five years – 1 female,

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2 male – took some study from our MPhil, or some Open University classes, in their first year to
ensure they were up to the academic rigour of a PhD.

Monitoring and support

We implemented the 2018 Strategic Research Review recommendation to introduce more structure
to postgraduate student induction. Spread over two weeks, this now includes mandatory completion
of several core units on researcher development including soft skills (presentations, confidence
building), and better integration into the research groups from the outset. There are also sessions
on career development, the help available from the counselling services, and Departmental IT
support.

Each student works closely with a supervisor and contributes to the work of a research group,
collaborating with others as appropriate. PhD students are assigned both a primary supervisor and
a separate graduate advisor who, along with the postgraduate student administrator, is available to
discuss problems. Institutionally, PhD students are supported by the wider University and their
college (e.g., with financial aid, housing, counselling, etc). All research students have access to
necessary online resources and extensive computing facilities, as well as social spaces (café and
common room) and events. For female and non-binary students, the women@CL initiative offers a
mentoring scheme and online forum for advice on topics ranging from the PhD journey and
scholarship funding to ‘imposter’ syndrome.

The PhD programme includes formal assessments at the end of each year. Students have a viva at
the end of the first year, including a report on their progress and research proposal, to demonstrate
they are likely to proceed successfully. The second-year report is expected to include detailed plans
for completion of the PhD. A third-year progress statement – including either a draft of their
dissertation or a plan for finishing it – is considered by the Director of Postgraduate Education.

Skills development and career preparation

Research groups offer students opportunities to develop their skills, e.g., by contributing to weekly
seminars or practising their presentations of workshop/conference papers. PhD students are
encouraged to submit papers to, and attend, international workshops to make contacts. The
Department has funding to support this when other sources are unavailable.

Researcher development is integrated into the first year of PhD study with a compulsory module on
the underlying skills required for research, including designing experiments, analysing experimental
results, and research ethics. In subsequent years, PhD students are offered a programme of further
training, including a range of teaching and research-related courses from the University’s personal
and professional development staff. Researcher development activity is evaluated and refined in
consultation with students by way of the Postgraduate Students’ Forum (a Departmental committee
formed of student representatives chaired by the Deputy Director of Postgraduate Education
(Researcher Development)).


2.4 Equality and Diversity
Recruiting the best people and ensuring the department is a friendly and supportive place to work
for everyone is central to our strategy. Our HoD, as she wrote in our 2018 Athena SWAN submission,
has herself experienced “the insidious effects of being a woman in a male-dominated subject” and
leads the Department in its commitment to addressing equality and diversity. Institutionally, the
University supports diversity through a range of initiatives and offers networks for staff and students
such as the LGBTQ+ Staff network, the BAME Staff Network and SPACE (for those with caring
responsibilities). In recruitment, diversity is explicitly monitored by the University’s HR team.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Department holds an Athena SWAN Bronze award (first received in 2015, renewed in 2018)
and made great progress between those dates, including doubling the number of female
academic staff. The Department’s Equality & Diversity Committee prepares the submission and
implements the action plan. Its members represent all staff groups and roles, a range of
circumstances (UK/international, different caring responsibilities, etc), and Departmental initiatives
such as women@CL (see below). The Department has regularly surveyed staff and students to learn
their views about the challenges they face. Actions include ensuring meetings are timed to be
compatible with caring/childcare responsibilities and increasing mentoring for postdoctoral staff.

All members of staff – and most PhD students – are required to take the University’s Equality &
Diversity and Implicit Bias training. This is explicitly checked before they take part in any promotion,
recruitment, or supervision activity.

Women@CL exists to support women in computing science in their careers and help them aspire to
leadership positions. It is directed by a committee of postdocs and students, with a member of
academic staff as liaison; the Department provides administrative support and core funding.
Women@CL runs networking events and raises the visibility of female role-models with talks where
women academics discuss their research. It runs local career development workshops and (with
Oxford University) the Oxbridge Women in Computer Science conference (open to everyone in
STEM, regardless of gender identity).

Hutchings founded a Departmental LGBTQ+@CL network in 2018, offering meetings and
resources. One postdoc described it recently as “a really welcome link to the queer community at
the Lab,” adding: “Cambridge lacks any dedicated LGBTQ bars or cafes, and much of the local
community is concentrated around the colleges – so for postdocs who are not affiliated to colleges,
this can lead to feeling cut off from potential community, support networks, etc. The LGBTQ+@CL
initiative is really good, particularly as a resource for new starters to get to know people.”
Institutionally, the University LGBT+ Staff Network provides information and support to staff, helps
coordinate diversity events and helps the University to progress equality.

Though we have further to go, the Department is steadily improving its gender balance. Chairs of
selection panels have instituted proactive searches for female applicants. The proportion of female
academic staff rose from 12% at the last REF to 20% now. There were only two female Professors
at the time of the last REF (one of whom retired shortly afterwards); there are now five. At the current
census date, 24% of the contract researchers were female and 40% of the Fellows. (This has since
risen to 55% of Fellows, following the appointment of our Departmental Early Career Fellows.) The
proportion of female PhD students during this period has fluctuated between 18% and 27%. As of
the start of the year 2020-21, it is 27.2%.

Following an initial gift in 2018-19 from DeepMind to fund three Masters’ students from
underrepresented backgrounds (female, and/or BAME), a further gift is supporting three more MPhil
and two PhD students who started in October 2020. Such philanthropic funding is very welcome: it
aids our efforts to increase diversity in the Department, and we are actively investigating further
opportunities with possible donors.

Support for staff and students with disabilities is tailored to their particular needs, with advice from
the University’s Occupational Health Service (for staff) and the Disability Resource Centre (mainly
for students, although some resources are also helpful for staff).

Leave, wellbeing and flexible working policies

The Department allows academic staff to organise their own time, giving parents/carers freedom to
organise their work around their caring responsibilities. We are also flexible in how formally-specified
hours and days of work are handled. In practice, most computer scientists require little specialist
equipment so remote working/working from home is commonplace. Where there is need, we will
supply equipment for home working – including any equipment needed to support staff with
disabilities, or problems such as RSI – some of which can be purchased with grant money. (During

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the pandemic, we have supplied office chairs, standing desks and equipment for recording lectures
to staff.) While most Departmental staff except those whose job requires them to be there at fixed
hours (e.g., Reception staff) choose to work full-time, around 11% work part-time (16 female, 13
male).

The University has considerably more generous maternity/paternity/adoption leave provision than
required by law. Its graduated return to work policy allows staff to return to work for a minimum of
20% of full-time hours. To support that, we provide breastfeeding and milk refrigeration facilities.
Additionally, we offer a range of flexible working options: part-time/term-time working, job share,
compressed or annual hours, flexitime, or staggered hours. The Department also underwrites
funding for contracts of research staff whose contracts would otherwise finish during their period of
parental leave.

The Department encourages researchers to use the Institutional Returning Carers’ Scheme, which
funds and supports return to work and professional development following a career break or leave
for caring responsibilities. Since 2013, four Department members have used this scheme (Laura
Rimell, Mateja Jamnik, Noa Zilberman, Poonam Yadav). We are located near two University
Workplace Nurseries (West Cambridge and Eddington) and benefit from institutional services such
as a salary exchange scheme to support childcare costs.

The University Counselling Service is available to staff and students: it is expected that counselling
services will be available in the new West Cambridge Shared Facilities Hub which is very close to
the Department.

The Department provides a range of social/wellbeing opportunities to promote interactions between
staff and students, e.g., weekly ‘Happy Hour’ gatherings run by postdocs and PhD students and
open to all. We have two Wellbeing Advocates. In 2019, they established a committee to formalise
their remit and more effectively promote wellbeing among staff and research students. The
committee signposts University initiatives (e.g., its Festival of Wellbeing), promotes Departmental
ones, and works with the Department’s HR Manager to improve staff processes.

Equality and Diversity in the context of the REF submission


The working methods document for the Unit of Assessment includes a section on how its committee
handled Equality & Diversity (paragraph 13). This was checked by the University's REF secretariat
and found to conform to the University's policies which themselves have been approved by the
national REF authorities.

All members of the committee handling the submission for the Unit of Assessment took the
University's training course on Equality & Diversity Essentials and on Understanding
Unconscious/Implicit Bias. A further course on Equality & Diversity for REF2021 was taken by the
Chairman, the Lead for Equality & Diversity, and the Administrator.

The Department's criteria for promotion to Senior Research Associate reflect the REF2021 indicators
of research independence, so identifying staff with significant responsibility for research was
straightforward. Discretion was only required for determining the independent status of Research
Associates who would be eligible for promotion to Senior Research Associate were funding
available. These were resolved in consultation with the Principal Investigators on whose projects
they were employed. The affected staff were individually contacted to inform them of these decisions,
and none of the decisions were challenged.

All eligible staff were invited to nominate outputs for inclusion in the submission. These were
independently assessed for their originality, rigour, and significance. Outputs were then selected for
submission so as to best reflect research quality in the Department while complying with the REF
requirements for the number of outputs from each member of staff and the overall number of outputs.


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff were notified of the selection, invited to comment and the selection refined in the light of their
responses. Again, none of the decisions have been challenged.




                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating income




Figure 2: Charts showing comparison of funding sources in 2013-14 and 2019-20, by percentage of
total value of awards received.

The Department made the strategic decision in 2010 to diversify its portfolio of research funders and
generate research income by combining public funding with industrial sponsorship and philanthropic
gifts. Figure 2 (above) shows a comparison of funding sources in 2013-14 and 2019-20, illustrating
how continuing that strategy has worked well; increasing proportions of our research income now
derive from the third sector, industry and philanthropy.

Philanthropic funding from industry is particularly valuable because it can be used to balance other
sources. It has enabled us to admit 20 more PhD students in the last two years and allows us to
bridge short gaps between research grants for contract researchers. Where research contracts may
be shorter-term and focus on delivery of specific outcomes, philanthropic gifts free us to pursue
higher-level goals and help us maintain longer-term academic vision and drive. Our success in
obtaining substantial and sustained philanthropic donations (e.g., from Nokia Bell Labs and
Qualcomm) is thanks to a combination of highly proactive engagement by successive HoDs and
other staff, the excellence of the University’s Development Office, and our reputation for advancing
the field.

We obtain public funding through responsive-mode applications to UKRI and the ERC via responses
to specific calls and through personal fellowships. Alongside public funding, we have obtained
funding from UK government departments (e.g., Digital, Culture, Media, and Sport), charities (e.g.,
The Leverhulme Trust) and industry (e.g., AstraZeneca, Cambridge Assessment, Facebook,
Google, and GSK). This period has also seen a considerable increase in funding from overseas
government sources. This Department is one of very few UK institutions to receive funding from
DARPA, and this is due to the strong relationship between the Computer Architecture Group (Simon
Moore, Robert Watson) and SRI International.




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We anticipate this heterogeneity of funding continuing as we proceed with projects across a large
number of different disciplines. Beyond the constraint of ethical due diligence, academic staff are
free to choose their research direction and the funding sources they approach.

Our success in obtaining funding is additionally helped by our Departmental Research Strategy
Team and Finance Office (as described in §3.3), and institutionally by the University’s Research
Operations Office and Development Office, with whom we liaise closely. New funders in this period
include Alcatel-Lucent Technologies, Autonomous Surface Vehicles, Cabinet Office, Cambridge
Consultants, DeepMind Technologies, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, Input Output HK,
Nokia UK, Orange, Raspberry Pi Foundation and Thales UK.

During the current REF period we have obtained substantial industrial funding for major initiatives:

   •   The ALTA Institute received £2.8M from Cambridge Assessment to conduct research into
       improving the linguistic proficiency of learners and automated forms of assessment of
       language performance. (Ted Briscoe, Paula Buttery)
   •   The Centre for Mobile Wearable Systems and Augmented Intelligence is funded by a £1.75M
       donation from Nokia Bell Labs over five years to explore how to augment and improve the
       human experience in a digitally connected world. (Cecilia Mascolo, Alastair Beresford)
   •   The work on OCaml Labs was funded during the period by Jane Street (£4.5M), with other
       supplementary industry funding. It develops and promotes the OCaml functional
       programming language as an open-source platform that can be used widely by both industry
       and academia. (Anil Madhavapeddy, Jeremy Yallop).
   •   Huawei has given a donation to support PhD students over five years.
   •   The Accelerate Programme for Scientific Discovery includes funding from Schmidt Futures
       for four new Departmental Early-Career Academic Fellows. Additionally, the funding will
       support six PhD students and six postdoctoral research fellowships.
   •   Donations from ARM and DeepMind Technologies support work in computer architecture
       and trustworthy systems engineering.
   •   Additional funds have come from Microsoft for the Cloud Computing Research Centre in
       collaboration with Queen Mary University of London. (Jon Crowcroft).

The Department is also proud of the number of academic staff who obtain grants from the European
Research Council (ERC) via its internationally competitive process. In this period, nine ERC grants
were awarded to staff. They were made at all three levels and across a wide range of research
projects, underlining the breadth and excellence of the research being conducted here by academic
staff at all career stages:

   •   ERC Starting Grant (Thomas Sauerwald, 2015; Nic Lane, 2019; Alice Hutchings, 2020;
       Amanda Prorok, 2020)
   •   ERC Consolidator Grant (Rafal Mantiuk, 2017; Andreas Vlachos, 2019)
   •   ERC Advanced Grant (Larry Paulson, 2016; Peter Sewell, 2017; Cecilia Mascolo, 2019)

These grantees were in addition to four existing ERC grant recipients (Advanced Grant, Glynn
Winskel, 2011; Starting Grants, Stephen Clark, Rob Mullins, Frank Stajano, 2012) whose work
has enriched our research environment.

Other significant grant awards made by external bodies on a competitive basis include the following
EPSRC Fellowships:

   •   Early Career Digital Economy Fellowship (Jat Singh, 2017)
   •   Early Career Fellowship (Hatice Gunes, 2019)
   •   Senior Turing AI Fellowship (Lawrence, 2019)




                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Postdoctoral Fellowships


We encourage postdoctoral researchers to apply for relevant fellowships. As a Department, we can
offer some matched funding for these; the University supports postdocs applying for Leverhulme
Fellowships – prestigious post-doctoral awards for researchers near the start of their career –
through matched funding from the Isaac Newton Trust. The following fellowships were awarded:

   •   The Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 (KC Sivaramakrishnan, 2015)
   •   Royal Society University Research Fellowship (Cristina David, 2017)
   •   Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (Noa Zilberman, 2016)
   •   Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (Ekaterina Shutova, 2015)
   •   Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (Franck Courbon, 2017)
   •   Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (Martin Kleppmann, 2019)

The first four listed subsequently went on to faculty positions (IIT Madras, January 2019; Bristol,
January 2020; Oxford, January 2020; Amsterdam, February 2018), the last two remain in the
Department. Additionally, college stipendiary Junior Research Fellowships, which are highly
competitive (generally over 100 applicants per place), were awarded to Heidi Howard, Guy
Emerson and Marwa Mahmoud.


3.2 Operational infrastructure
As outlined in §1.3.2, we established a Research Strategy Team in this REF period to improve the
way we support researchers at all levels through the research funding lifecycle – as shown here.




Figure 3: Support offered to researchers throughout the research funding lifecycle.

Working with our finance office, the Team leads on research funding and partnerships and liaises
with colleagues in the University, industry and the third sector to support research, networking and
collaborations.



                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Research Strategy Manager promotes prospective funders and collaborators to researchers
considering a funding application. She recruits relevant panellists (often including researchers who
have previously secured the same grant / fellowship) to run mock interviews. After the funding award,
she and the Team assist with knowledge transfer and impact arising from the research, offering
researchers support in accessing funding for impact. This has helped the Department achieve a high
success rate for its applications to the University EPSRC Impact Accelerate Account. She also works
with the Department’s Communications Coordinator to raise the profile of the research and its impact
to draw the attention of other prospective funders, partners, and beneficiaries. She stays abreast of
funding opportunities and policies by attending relevant research council meetings and through links
with the University Research Strategy Office. She and the Research Strategy Team work closely
with networks / affiliations across the University – in areas including knowledge exchange, funding
operations and entrepreneurial support – and beyond, e.g., with sector specific networks such as
Agri-techE.

The Department has received funding for several Knowledge Transfer Fellowships to support
postdoctoral researchers to spend a year working with an industrial partner to apply the results of an
EPSRC-funded research project to that business. Examples include TranscenData (2014), ARM
(three fellowships in total during 2016-17), Smart Cambridge (2017) and the Met Office (2018). The
Department’s Entrepreneur in Residence is also part of the Research Strategy Team and can offer
help and advice to researchers when they are looking to commercialise their ideas.


3.3 Use of infrastructure for impact activities
The Department is housed in the William Gates Building – a purpose-built facility providing quiet
office space, small group offices for PhD students, workshop and lab facilities, lecture theatres and
a networking area. It houses both researchers and visitors and enables us to host symposiums and
outreach events, enhancing our external connections and furthering research interaction.

Specialist computing support within the Department is provided by an IT team, in addition to the
general support offered by the University Information Services. The team provides support for most
aspects of our research provision ranging from purchase through to installation and maintenance of
servers, storage, and networking.

The Department’s data centre offers a number of specialist facilities for researchers, including a GPU
cluster for development of machine learning systems, support for prototyping of novel hardware
interconnected by high-speed optical networking, a flexible private cloud providing virtual servers,
and a highly-reconfigurable and monitorable ‘model data centre’ for experimentation on distributed
systems and novel network architectures.

Individual groups have additional specialised research equipment pertinent to them, usually
purchased through research grants. The University Information Services' High Performance
Computing (HPC) clusters are also available to Department members, used in conjunction with
Departmental GPU and CPU clusters. The HPC is funded partly (27%) by the Department with the
rest (73%) coming from University funds.

The considerable in-house computing and communication systems are enhanced by the extensive
network infrastructure provided by the University Information Services; for example, the
Department’s research has made extensive use of the University’s dark fibre network around the city
centre.


3.4 Benefits in kind
Beyond our own research software and equipment, our sponsors and collaborators enable us to
access unique datasets and industrial equipment and assets that greatly assist our research. These

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have included a network simulator from Microsoft, FPGA boards from Xilinx, GPUs from NVIDIA (to
enable our network traffic research), specialist software from Broadcom and Xilinx, cloud computing
credits from Microsoft and Google or anonymized service usage datasets (such as one from location
service company Foursquare Inc, which enabled substantial and unique human urban mobility
analysis studies).




                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base,
 economy and society

4.1 Support for research collaborations
Collaborating with others, and in doing so accelerating the impact of research for all partners
involved, has been central to the Department’s ethos since Maurice Wilkes and his team built
EDSAC in 1949 with the aim of creating a general use computer that could benefit as many
researchers as possible. Today the Department collaborates widely: with academia (locally,
nationally and internationally), industry, government and third sector organisations.

This is facilitated, as outlined in §1.4, by the freedom academic staff have over the amount and type
of collaborations they undertake. Additionally, their connections across the Cambridge research
landscape, through the collegiate system and interdisciplinary networks, also aid collaboration.
When staff seek to collaborate with external partners, we are deliberately flexible over the models of
collaboration.

As described in §3.3, our Research Strategy Manager and her Team play a key role in
enabling/supporting collaborations. The Research Strategy Manager proactively seeks out
collaborators, is first point of contact for potential industrial / third sector partners who approach the
Department; and works to find the best alignment between academic research interests and issues
prospective collaborators are looking to solve.

Collaborations keep our research projects grounded and relevant. To facilitate them, we are flexible
over allowing visitors from industry / academia to work in the Department for both short and long
stays. In this REF period, more than 70 staff between them hosted over 700 visitors including
scholars, investors, and industrial partners. The OCaml Labs project calculates that in 10 years it
has welcomed over 100 visitors (including industry staff, developers, programmers and academics)
to help its work on bringing an elegant and precise functional programming language out of obscurity
and encourage its use in industry. This openness to visitors helped turn Cambridge into a hub for
the OCaml developer community, which continues to work on the open-source language and further
its development.

Researchers from Nokia Bell Labs (which funds The Centre for Mobile Wearable Systems and
Augmented Intelligence) have ‘Visiting Scholar’ status in the Department, giving the company flexible
access to our teams, enabling them to discuss ideas with PIs here, and directly recruit interns and
researchers from the Department – a valuable benefit to them.

We use various models of collaboration to sustain longer-term research. For example, with one major
industry partner we set up a framework agreement, running for five years from November 2019,
through which they committed to fund research in this Department (plus a division of another
University Department). Because the contract negotiation was carried out as part of the overall
framework agreement, rather than on a project-by-project basis, academic staff can apply to the
resulting pot of research funding through a lightweight application process that is much more
streamlined than for individual industry grants.

Institutionally, the University’s liberal approach to IP ( §1.4) makes Cambridge a very attractive
environment for both researchers and collaborators. Additionally, we benefit from infrastructure
provided by the University. About two-thirds of academic staff (and all students) belong to a
Cambridge college: these provide extra facilities, including additional funding to support travel and
other research costs, and accommodation for visiting academics. This helps us host workshops,
visitors, and meetings with collaborators.

                                                                                                 Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The Department also benefits significantly from the University’s world-class facilities, such as its
copyright library. Several researchers collaborate with the Department of Engineering in photonics
and display technology, with Engineering’s fabrication facilities vital to that research.


4.2 Academic collaborations
The Department engages in numerous academic collaborations locally, nationally and
internationally, often involving partners in a range of disciplines.

Nationally, this Department was a founding member of The Alan Turing Institute, the UK’s national
institute for data science and artificial intelligence. Several academic staff spend time there (e.g.,
Crowcroft as Chair of the Institute’s Programme Committee) and advise Turing PhD students and
run Turing projects: Buttery has a project around understanding social media and unrest; Crowcroft
has a project in collaboration with Imperial on providing confidential cloud machine learning
platforms, and another with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation on Trustworthy Digital Identity. Anuj
Dawar is contributing to foundational work in logic for data science. Wischik works in electrical
vehicle charging networks.

We continue to forge new national collaborations. In 2020 we teamed for the first time with the
University of Lincoln on a Research England Ceres Agri-Tech project where Oztireli works with
academic staff on using data science/AI to boost cereal yields.

Internationally, the Department has had eight years’ joint funding from DARPA, with SRI as the prime
contractor, to research fundamentally more secure computer systems. This work has been led here
by Watson and Simon Moore, with a team of over 20 researchers with a broad range of computer
science skills, enabling work on new processor architecture, hardware prototypes, compiler support,
operating system porting, and benchmarking of applications. This level of funding has gone beyond
anything available through standard EPSRC funding mechanisms and has been critical to enable
hiring a team with the required breadth of skills to undertake the research and compete with top
universities in the USA. The unusual skills of this team have driven effective industry engagement
and unlocked significant government industrial funding, as evidenced in the CHERI* case study.

Local collaborations include establishing with the Department of Engineering – supported by
substantial University funding – ‘The Observatory for Human-Machine Collaboration’ in 2018 for the
holistic study of the fundamentals of human-machine interaction by putting human and technological
perspectives on an equal footing.

Lio’s work on machine learning approaches for the analysis of bio-medical data sets has led to
collaborations with the University Departments of Clinical Neurosciences, Haematology, Oncology,
Psychiatry, Radiology, and Veterinary Medicine.

Holden has been collaborating with researchers in the Department of Biochemistry since 2012,
applying Bayesian inference, probabilistic programming and computational learning theory to drug
design and proteomics.

Mascolo, who works with different domains on the application of mobile sensor technology, is
currently collaborating with the Department of Clinical Neuroscience on diagnostic methodologies
for Alzheimer’s disease, and with Psychology on behavioural interventions delivered via mobile
devices.


4.3 Developing relationships with key research users
We purposefully seek a diversity of partnerships and funding sources for research projects as this
helps them develop and evolve through several funding cycles. We also involve collaborators from
                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
heterogeneous disciplines as bringing a range of perspectives to bear on the research helps keep it
relevant. Projects that have built long-lasting platforms are detailed in the REMS*, Text prediction
and feedback* and CHERI* case studies. Such long-term programmes mean we can see research
through its lifecycle from initial idea, through trial and error, to success, knowledge transfer and
impact via a spin-out (as from the Unikernels* research), or adoption by a national priority research
programme (as with CHERI* and the UK Digital Security by Design Challenge), or via a government
department, as with the Isaac* Learning project and the Department for Education.

Since the last REF, we have demonstrated our ability to build on existing research relationships to
develop long-term collaborative partnerships with industry. In several cases, by identifying ideas
arising from initial collaborations, discussing them with partners and agreeing milestones and
deliverables, we have negotiated larger research contracts with them. Examples include ARM
(Timothy Jones, Simon Moore, Peter Sewell), Boeing (Beresford), Microsoft Research (Alan
Blackwell), Google (Hopper) and Samsung (Mullins).

We also have industrial collaborations with many of the technology spin-outs from this Department
or cognate University departments. We have ongoing and productive engagements with (among
others) the Raspberry Pi Foundation (Mullins, Alan Mycroft), Cambridge Assessment (Briscoe),
SolarFlare (Hopper, Andrew Moore, Rice), and Ubisense (Hopper).

Formal collaborations with smaller companies often consist of a joint application for funding to
organisations such as Innovate UK. In the last three years, Briscoe has had two consecutive
Innovate UK projects with All Street, who have just launched their first product, and the outputs of
Gunes’ recent project with ‘Sensing Feeling’ are currently being commercialised.


4.4 External engagement mechanisms
We sustain engagement with our alumni and their businesses (key users of our research) through
our graduate association, the Cambridge Ring. Members can network with us and each other – e.g.,
to make new contacts in key sectors, share job opportunities and interact with our students by
offering student projects. Members are also invited (as are the public) to our keynote research
outreach event, the annual Wheeler Lecture. Held virtually for the first time in May 2020 due to the
pandemic, it attracted 350 attendees. In 2019, the Research Strategy Team assumed management
of the Cambridge Ring and put more membership management structure in place, increased
communications with alumni and surveyed them to learn more about how the Ring can benefit them.
Membership has since doubled and we anticipate increased engagement with our alumni.

The Research Strategy Team also manages our Supporters Club – another mechanism for engaging
with wider audiences. This mixed group of local, national and international businesses, ranging from
very small to major multinationals, helps support Departmental research through their financial
donations to the Department, and via networking and industrial opportunities. Supporters’ Club
income is used for purposes including funding early stage research, as bridge funding for
postdoctoral researchers, and for outreach activities such as our annual Open Days. Members
welcome interaction with the Department, including at the annual dinner where they can network
with academic staff and research students.

We also engage with wider communities and publics through publications. Notable books in this
period include Martin Kleppmann’s Designing Data-Intensive Applications, translated into six
languages and selling over 100,000 copies. Java 8 In Action and Modern Java in Action, co-authored
by Mycroft (with alumnus Raoul-Gabriel Urma and collaborator Mario Fusco), have sold over 30,000
copies.




                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

4.5 Wider contributions to Economy, Society and Response to
National and International Priorities
We have a long history of working collaboratively with large open source and open (or licensed) data
projects and demonstrating the value of doing so by advancing knowledge, generating academic
papers and creating jobs. Examples include an open source silicon venture that was incubated in
the Department before spinning out as a non-profit company. In November 2019 it announced
OpenTitan, the first open source silicon root of trust, a collaborative engineering project with Google,
ETH Zürich, Western Digital and other major corporate partners. Other examples include the Isabelle
theorem prover; CamFort; Automerge; the COVID-19 Sounds App; the Cambridge Cybercrime
Centre and DELPH-IN (one of the first organisations making open source computational linguistics
code and data available). This interest in open code and data has extended to an interest in open
models of academic publishing: Lawrence is Founder and Series Editor of Proceedings of Machine
Learning Research, a highly active journal that now publishes the proceedings of three major ML
conferences (UAI, ICML and AISTATS) while being completely free for submitters and with the
authors retaining copyright.

The Department is eager to see computer science more deeply integrated into society, and to
promote computing for social good. Examples of work here range from Vlachos’s project on
Automated Verification of Textual Claims to combat the proliferation of misinformation online, to the
FEVER (Fact Extraction and VERification) dataset in collaboration with Amazon, and to Giving Voice
to Digital Democracies (Copestake in collaboration with CRASSH, the University’s Centre for
Research in the Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities and the Department of Engineering). This
looks at ethical issues in speech and language technology such as virtual assistants and machine
translation.

The Department is closely involved with Cambridge Global Challenges (CGC); this University
Strategic Research Initiative works with partners in developing countries to deliver projects to
address challenges there. We have hosted CGC members for some years, Blackwell is its Co-
Director, and from October 2020 CGC is formally ‘housed’ in the Department. Department members
working on CGC projects include Eiko Yoneki on the BugAlert initiative to shift traditional, labour-
intensive crop pest detection methods to smart crop monitoring technology. Through CGC, there has
also been collaboration with Africa’s Voices Foundation, an interdisciplinary humanitarian charity.
Department member Dr Luke Church is Senior Advisor there, working alongside social scientists on
projects including (in 2020) supporting the Covid-19 public health response in Kenya.

Many Department researchers (including Ross Anderson, Hutchings, Lawrence and Singh) are
part of the University’s Centre for Science and Policy, which brings together public policy professionals
and academics to learn from each other and improve the use of evidence and expertise in public
policy. During this REF period, 37 members of the Department engaged with Policy Fellows at over
100 meetings. These included workshops on transport and data policy organised by Mascolo, and
Crowcroft’s involvement in the Cambridge University Press Data and Policy journal and a Data for
Policy conference. Similarly, the Trust & Technology Initiative – a University-wide programme led by
the Department – is a forum for interdisciplinary research exploring the dynamics of trust and distrust
in relation to internet technologies, society and power.

Along with Raspberry Pi, we pursue multidisciplinary public engagement. In addition to our
successful collaboration with them on the Isaac* Computer Science platform, there is the
development of Sonic Pi, the code-based music creation and performance tool. This non-profit spin-
out from the Department has substantial international impact, attracting a community of 1.5M coders
and being used in music education initiatives in the UK, Africa and Finland.

Many academic staff work in advancing healthcare, e.g., Lio, Jamnik and Mascolo with clinical
collaborators to advance the use of systems and machine learning to improve diagnosis and patient
care in areas from breast cancer to Alzheimer’s disease. Meanwhile, many repurposed their
research in 2020 to address the pandemic, including Crowcroft and Yoneki’s seminal work on digital

                                                                                                Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
contact tracing, Lio’s work on machine learning for intensive care patient stay prediction, Mascolo’s
work on audio-based diagnostics for COVID-19 sounds.

Also responding to the pandemic were academic staff at the interdisciplinary Cambridge Cybercrime
Centre. Established in 2015 by Richard Clayton with EPSRC funding, it combines expertise from
this Department and the University’s Institute of Criminology and Faculty of Law and has one of
academia's largest data sets on cybercrime, used by over 100 researchers at over 30 universities.
The Centre gathered a mass of data on the surge in pandemic- and lockdown-related cybercrime
and from July onwards produced weekly briefing papers for policymakers, practitioners and
academics.

Establishing the Accelerate Programme for Scientific Discovery in 2020 to speed the use of machine
learning by researchers in other disciplines was a key milestone for the Department and underlines
our commitment to leverage further impact from research by delivering relevant skills training for
researchers. In July 2020, we delivered the inaugural ‘Data for Science’ programme to PhD students
and postdocs in disciplines outside Computer Science (including chemistry, engineering, medicine
and psychology), helping them learn to apply data analysis to their own datasets.


4.6 Indicators of wider Influence, contributions and recognition
Several staff from the Department serve/have served as government advisors, including:

   •   Hopper in the government’s Innovation Expert Group
   •   Jamnik as Specialist Adviser to the House of Lords Select Committee on Artificial
       Intelligence
   •   Lawrence as member of the government’s AI Council, and on the Committee of the Royal
       Society DELVE (Data Evaluation and Learning for Viral Epidemics) initiative
   •   Richard Mortier as Advisor to the Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport on Internet
       of Things, and Internet Protocols
   •   Anderson as a member of the UK Cybersecurity Policy Working Group and working with the
       EU Data Protection Board (EU Commission Data Regulator)

Staff elected as Fellows of the Royal Society:

   •   Crowcroft, 2013
   •   Paulson, 2017

Royal Society Medals:

   •   Bakerian Medal (Hopper, 2017)

Awards:

   •   British Computer Society Lovelace Medal (Anderson, 2015)
   •   N2 Women Stars in Computer Networking and Communications Award (Mascolo, 2016)
   •   Herbrand Award for Distinguished Contributions to Automated Reasoning (Paulson, 2017)
   •   Google Security and Privacy Research award (Beresford, 2018)
   •   N2 Women Rising Stars in Computer Networking and Communications (Zilberman, 2018)
   •   Alonzo Church Award (Andrew Pitts, 2019)
   •   SIGMOBILE Rockstar Early Career Award (Lane, 2020)

Distinguished/Best Paper Awards include:

   •   Crowcroft, A Moore, Watson at NSDI 2015
   •   A Moore at SIGCOMM 2017

                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Prorok at DARS 2018
   •   Robert Harle at UbiComp 2018
   •   Mascolo at Ubicomp 2014 and Ubicomp 2019
   •   Rice at OOPSLA 2017 and ICSE 2019
   •   Neel Krishnaswami, Yallop at PLDI 2019
   •   S Moore, Sewell, Robert Watson at ASPLOS 2019
   •   Hutchings at the Symposium of ECrime 2019
   •   Krishnaswami at POPL 2020
   •   Madhavapeddy at ICFP 2020.

‘Test of Time’ Awards:

   •   A Moore at SIGMETRICS 2015
   •   Hopper at SIGMOBILE 2016
   •   Mullins, S Moore at ASP-DAC 2016
   •   Sewell at SIGPLAN 2017
   •   Lane at SenSys 2018
   •   Harle at UbiComp 2018
   •   Marcelo Fiore and Pitts (separately) at LICS Symposium 2019
   •   The NetFPGA project (led by A Moore) received the ACM SIGCOMM SOSR System Award
       in 2019
   •   Marcus Kuhn at IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy 2020

PhD Student Awards:

The quality of research conducted by our PhD students has been recognised by these awards:

   •   Bhatty, CPHC/BCS Distinguished Dissertation Award 2015
   •   Bulat, Women Techmakers (formerly Google Anita Borg) Scholarship 2015
   •   Dolan, CPHC/BCS Distinguished Dissertation Award 2017
   •   Kumar, ACM SIGPLAN Doctoral Dissertation Award 2017
   •   Brouwer, Homerton Santander Award for PhD Research 2017
   •   D’Silva, N2Women Networking and Communications Rising Star Award 2019; VentureBeat
       Women in AI Rising Star Award 2019; Royal Bank of Canada Top 25 Canadian Immigrants
       Youth Award 2019
   •   Grammenos, Distinguished Paper Award at UbiComp 2019
   •   Emerson and Li, runners up, CPHC/BCS Distinguished Dissertation Competition 2020
   •   Zhao, Apple Scholarship 2020
   •   Tailor, Best Paper, WellComp 2020

A number of PhD students/early career researchers have received ‘Top Reviewer’ awards:

   •   Emerson at ACL18/20;
   •   Cangea for ICML 2020

Most academics serve on programme and organising committees for journals and conferences and
are called upon as keynote speakers. Many are also visiting faculty at other institutions including in
this period Lio at Padova, Jamnik at the Centre for the Future of Intelligence, Pitts to Aarhus
University, Mycroft to IIT Bombay, Buttery as Principal Investigator, Computational Linguistic skills
training at Makerere University, in collaboration with Andrew Caines and Marek Rei.

Many Department members are fellows of learned societies and professional bodies, including in
leadership roles, e.g., Hopper as Treasurer and Vice-President of the Royal Society. Fellowships
include Paulson and Pitts at the ACM; S Moore at the BCS and IET; John Daugman at the US
National Academy of Inventors. Crowcroft, Mascolo and Pitts have served as Advisory Board

                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
members for the Max Planck Software Systems Institute. Department members also contribute to
the wider academic community through refereeing publications and acting as members of grant-
awarding panels (e.g., Copestake, Crowcroft, Mascolo, Pitts, Robinson have served on ERC
Research Grant panels).

Copestake, Crowcroft, Hopper and Paulson have been on Royal Society University Fellowships
and Award Committees. (Paulson is currently serving on the Milner Award Committee.)

A number of Department academics are editors of journals, including Lawrence (Action Editor for
the Journal of Machine Learning Research; Series Editor of the Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research), Pitts (Area Editor for logic and computation for the Journal of the ACM, founding Editor
of Forum of Mathematics, Pi and Sigma (CUP) until 2017), and Gem Stapleton, Co-Editor-in-Chief
of the Journal of Visual Languages and Sentient Systems, and Editorial Board member for the
Journal of Visual Languages and Computing.




                                                                                          Page 27
