Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Westminster

 Unit of Assessment: 19 Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure

 Led by the internationally renowned Centre for the Study of Democracy (CSD), established in
 1989, research in politics and international relations at the University of Westminster has a
 distinctive and inclusive character. We have strategically adapted to new academic and political
 challenges, all the while retaining our commitment to a dynamic and diverse research culture,
 with a particular focus on dimensions of injustice and the empowerment of those who are
 marginalised and excluded in the exercise of power. This has been realised through expansion
 in areas of strength, in particular critical international theory, the politics of the global South and
 gender and sexuality, the embedding of equalities, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in appointments
 and research support, extensive and high-profile events, and engagement with activists and
 practitioners to foster meaningful social and political change.

 CSD is located within the School of Social Sciences in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences.
 Strategic research planning and management is overseen by Smith, the Director of CSD, and
 Anand, the Head of School, with much of the day-to-day activities and events organised by
 research clusters representing the UoA’s research strengths:

 Contemporary democratic theory and practice (Burke, Cross, Greenwood, Smith,
 Tambakaki). The longest-standing research theme in CSD, this cluster organises an ongoing
 series of high-profile workshops with international figures in democratic theory and practice,
 leads major projects and impact activities on participatory governance and is home to the
 Routledge Advances in Democratic Theory book series and open access Journal of Deliberative
 Democracy.

 Critical international theory (Brighi, Chandler, Charrett, Fluck, Kaul, Moore, Raphael).
 Praised by the REF2014 panel, this cluster continues to push the boundaries of international
 theory and is home to the Materialisms Old and New Reading Group, attracting participants from
 across London and beyond.

 Gender and sexuality (Anand, Charrett, Conway, Holt, Kaul). A research group that
 coordinates research across the university, organising an impressive number of interdisciplinary
 events and home to a ground-breaking research project on Pride festivals across the world.

 Post-colonial politics, development and emerging powers (Anand, Basu, Cross, Dannreuther,
 Kaul, Morady, Ostrowski, Rad). Commended by the REF2014 panel, the cluster runs a thriving
 event series on the rights of marginalised and oppressed groups in Asia that involves significant
 activists and academics, is engaged in broader impact activities focused on Kashmir and Tibet
 and is home to the journal Review of African Political Economy.

 Governance, complexity and resilience (Chandler, Greenwood, Frennhoff Larsén, Ostrowski,
 Smith). A relatively recent research cluster that draws together colleagues working on both
 conceptual and empirical analysis, it is home to the interdisciplinary open access journal
 Anthropocenes – Human, Inhuman, Posthuman and Routledge Studies in Resilience book
 series.

 Security, justice and violence (Brighi, Charret, Dannreuther, Hehir, Raphael). Home to the
 high impact Rendition project focused on the CIA rendition and torture programme, the journal
 Critical Studies in Terrorism and the Routledge Series on Intervention and Statebuilding.



                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Research strategy 2014-2020

 The Political Studies Association identified the UoA as one of the five most improved in the
 country in REF2014. While delighted with this recognition, we were aware that our research
 management and culture could be enhanced further and taken in new directions. In the
 REF2014 Environment Statement we highlighted priorities for our future research strategy, in
 particular a review of research structures and impact strategy and our approach to workload
 management, research leave and research grants, all of which have been reorganised during
 this REF period.

 Our driving ambition is to promote a distinctive, vital and inclusive research culture that
 embraces engagement with both academic and practitioner/activist partners and audiences on a
 range of critical challenges to the theory and practice of politics and international relations. To
 realise this ambition, in 2014/15 Anand, Chandler and Smith led a comprehensive review of
 the UoA’s research strategy that engaged all colleagues and postgraduate students, with the
 aim to create an even more robust strategy that promotes and provides incentives to:

    -   Produce high-quality and innovative research outputs
    -   Enhance and develop national and international collaborative activities within and beyond
        academia
    -   Increase applications for, and awards of, external research income
    -   Organise significant public and academic events
    -   Engage in tangible impact activities
    -   Enhance our doctoral programme
    -   Encourage undergraduate and masters students to organise and participate in research
        projects and networks.

 The strategy has been realised in a number of ways and has been enabled by an increase in QR
 funding following REF2014, the majority of which (c.88%) is returned directly to the UoA.

 1.2.1. Management of research and impact activity carried out under the auspices of CSD. Until
        2015, the UoA was organised into three research groups: CSD, Security and
        International Relations, and Emerging Powers. The review identified limitations with this
        arrangement: an imbalance of activities; unnecessary repetition of management
        functions; failure to exploit opportunities across the three areas; and a lack of shared
        sense of purpose.

        Consensus emerged on streamlining the management and presentation of research
        under CSD given its international reputation for research excellence and impact
        activities. In 2015, Smith was appointed Director of CSD and thus Research Director
        (RD) of the UoA. He is an experienced research coordinator and manager who has
        directed significant funded research projects and has an extensive impact record.

        Research clusters within CSD were created to undertake much of the day-to-day
        research activity, for example, organising external speakers for our regular CSD
        seminars and exploring potential collaborative activities. Clusters are regularly reviewed
        through inclusive consultation processes to ensure that they capture fully the evolving
        research strengths of the UoA. In the last review, Gender and Sexuality replaced the
        original Identity and Political Community cluster and a new Governance, Complexity and
        Resilience cluster was established.

 1.2.2. Enhanced research support and incentives. More systematic processes are in place to
        protect sustained research time, incentivise and support research bids, provide
        resources and afford guidance. A Workload Allocation Model (WAM) designates specific
        hours for independent research and bid writing, combined with creative timetabling to
        promote blocks of research time necessary for the completion of substantial projects.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Since 2015, a sabbatical process prioritises production of high-quality research
        publications, funding applications and impact activities.

        Annual Research Progress Reviews with the RD ensure ambitious, sustainable research
        plans with clear targets and relevant support for all staff. A more streamlined research
        application process coordinated by the RD in collaboration with the University Research
        and Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO) combines identification of funding
        opportunities, support in effective bid writing and peer review of drafts to ensure high-
        quality applications.

        Dedicated research funds for each staff member enable presentation of papers at
        international conferences and/or fieldwork. Resources are available to organise events
        and bring together research networks.

 1.2.3. Specific support for impact. Finances are available at School and University level along
        with time allocation in WAM to support colleagues engaged in impact activities. Guidance
        from the RD on developing impact strategies is part of the annual Research Progress
        Reviews, supported by the Impact Officer located in the RKEO.

 1.2.4. Appointment strategy focused on building areas of research strength. Our focus has
        been on junior appointments with potential to produce high-quality outputs and impact-
        related activities in line with research, teaching and EDI priorities.

 1.2.5. Doctoral scholarships and resources to support conference attendance and event
        organisation. The largest proportion of our QR allocation is spent on an annual
        competitive doctoral scholarship scheme. We exploit other schemes including the Quintin
        Hogg Trust that supports the advancement of education for the students of the University
        and the institution's Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) QR allocation to attract
        high-quality postgraduate researchers. Dedicated resources are available locally and
        from the Graduate School for doctoral students to attend national and international
        conferences and organise events.

 1.2.6. The Democratic Education Network (DEN). A unique student-led initiative has been
        established as an extra-curricular vehicle through which undergraduate and postgraduate
        students are mentored by staff and doctoral researchers to develop their own collective
        research projects.

 1.2.7. Competitive visiting researcher scheme. This scheme attracts established academics,
        early career researchers and doctoral students to work with colleagues in CSD and to
        institute and deepen international networks and collaborations.

 1.2.8. Development and effective implementation of EDI policies and practices in all aspects of
        the research strategy.

 The effectiveness of the current research structure and practices is evidenced by the
 enhancement of world-leading and internationally excellent research outputs, increase in
 applications and awards for external research funding, appointment of 8 FTE researchers,
 thriving postgraduate community, enhanced diversity, broadening and deepening of impact
 activities, and the exceptional number of external collaborations and events organised under the
 auspices of CSD.

 1.3 Structures to support interdisciplinarity

 CSD is inter-disciplinary in its constitution. Funding and support from our QR budget have long
 been available to colleagues to support collaborations across disciplinary boundaries. These
 range from international conferences such as ‘Digital Objects, Digital Subjects’ organised by
 Chandler with a colleague in Media Studies and the ‘Popular Culture and World Politics 8’

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conference organized by Moore, through to Gender and Sexuality cluster events organized by
 Conway and Holt that bring together colleagues across social sciences, humanities,
 management and law.

 Colleagues in CSD are active in the new University-wide interdisciplinary Research
 Communities (RCs) established in 2019 (see REF5a). Basu, with colleagues in Architecture,
 Law and Humanities, has received funds from the Sustainable Cities and Urban Environment
 RC for a project on inclusive and equitable urban mobility infrastructure in South Asia; the
 Diversity and Inclusion RC has funded Conway, with a colleague in Humanities, for a project on
 LGBTQ+ culture, democracy and activism in Hong Kong.

 The interdisciplinary character of CSD has been further enhanced with the creation of the School
 of Social Sciences in September 2018, which has led to the integration of colleagues from
 Sociology and Criminology (submitted to UoA20) within CSD’s remit. Colleagues from Sociology
 had already been active within CSD prior to this reorganisation. The new arrangements offer
 exciting opportunities. For example, colleagues from Criminology are broadening the research
 agenda of the Security, Justice and Violence cluster. Val Gillies, Professor of Sociology, has
 been appointed Deputy Director of CSD to work with Smith to encourage exchange across
 disciplinary boundaries. Along with the RD of Psychology, CSD has organised a series of
 themed cross-disciplinary exploratory meetings on group identity and digital social sciences with
 the aim of seeding future collaborative projects. A Research Development Manager from the
 RKEO attends these meetings to provide guidance on potential funding sources and to aid
 intelligence-gathering activities.

 1.4 Open research strategy

 REF5a lays out the University policy and support for open access, and the use of the Virtual
 Research Environment (VRE) and institutional repository WestminsterResearch to ensure UKRI
 and REF requirements are met (and, indeed, exceeded). We actively promote the use of open
 access platforms and blogs and other forms of research dissemination to extend research reach
 and impact potential.

 CSD also works closely with the open access University of Westminster Press (UWP),
 established in 2015. Moore sits on the UWP Editorial Board. Chandler is co-editor of one of its
 first open access publications, Digital Objects, Digital Subjects, including contributions from Jodi
 Dean and Antonio Negri. Chandler is editor, along with colleagues in Life Sciences and Law, of
 the new interdisciplinary peer-reviewed open access journal Anthopocenes – Human, Inhuman,
 Posthuman. Smith is one of the four editors of the peer-reviewed open access Journal of
 Deliberative Democracy, which has moved to UWP, the other three editors being based in
 Australia, Finland and Germany. JDD is funded by newDemocracy Foundation (Australia), the
 International Association of Public Participation and the Deliberative Democracy Consortium
 (US).

 1.5 Impact strategy

 Much of the research in CSD focuses on dimensions of, and responses to, injustice and
 disempowerment and aims to provide support and build the capacity of those who are
 marginalized and excluded from political power. Impact has always been fundamental to our
 research strategy in which we recognise engagement with activists, practitioners, policy makers
 and the public as a central element of our culture. We believe that working at the academic-
 activist/practitioner boundary both stimulates research and engenders broader social and
 political impact. We recognise that, while we can act strategically to exploit impact opportunities,
 impact often emerges serendipitously and cannot be forced or imposed.

 We pay particular attention to three broad forms of impact: (1) shaping and stimulating public
 debate on salient political issues; (2) contributing to the empowerment of politically marginalized
 groups; (3) enhancing the inclusiveness of political decision making.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We seek to affect impact via three main pathways: (1) co-production of activities with civil society
 organisations; (2) participation in open and closed policy events; (3) targeted contributions
 (solicited and unsolicited) to printed, audio-visual and new media outlets.

 The three Impact Case Studies (ICSs) that accompany this submission embody aspects of each
 of these forms of impact. ‘Redressing the state of the stateless’ shows how Anand and Kaul
 have exploited opportunities to act as expert witnesses in court settings and a US Congressional
 Hearing, and to undertake extensive media work and collaboration with activist organisations to
 shape outcomes for oppressed stateless peoples from Kashmir and Tibet. This has included
 defending their status as refugees, shaping public discourse on the activities of the Indian
 government in Kashmir and empowering Kashmiri and Tibetan civil society organisations.
 ‘Torture Unredacted’ documents how Raphael has achieved extensive impacts on the capacity
 of the International Criminal Court, the European Court of Human Rights and the UK Parliament
 to hold officials and other actors accountable for their torture programmes. This has been
 achieved through the creation of the Rendition public database, itself a collaboration with a
 range of civil society organisations, and participation in various policy spaces. ‘Citizens’
 Assemblies’ details how Smith has worked in collaboration with a range of civil society
 organisations, including Involve, G1000, Extinction Rebellion and The Big Issue, to affect the
 adoption of citizens’ assemblies in the UK and other countries.

 The vitality and sustainability of impact activities is assured through the embedding of
 management systems and practices to encourage and incentivise impact activities, while at the
 same time recognising that the research activities of some colleagues have more potential for
 impact than others. The Workload Allocation Model (WAM) enables the Head of School, with
 advice from the RD, to designate specific hours for impact activities. The development of impact
 plans is a specific consideration in annual Research Progress Reviews and is supported by the
 University Impact Officer. The RKEO organises impact events, including one led by Smith,
 where colleagues learn about different approaches to impact. The development of significant
 impact agendas by a range of staff, most prominently Kaul and Raphael, enables more informal
 support for colleagues developing their impact activities and will ensure the sustainability of
 these activities over time. Existing and potential impact is a consideration in appointments and
 promotions. Dedicated funds have been made available at both University and School level to
 support impact activity: for example, CSD prioritises funding events that involve collaboration
 with non-HE actors.

 The authors of the three ICSs have benefited from dedicated time for impact in WAM and
 financial support from both CSD and the RKEO to support collaborative activities. For example,
 between 2018 and 2020, the UoA received over £40,000 from the RKEO enabling: Raphael to
 pilot a new set of web resources on UK national security and human rights to complement the
 Rendition Project; Smith to develop collaborative projects with the charity Involve on how
 academic research can inform the work of democracy practitioners and on participation during
 Covid-19; Anand to collaborate with activists in Kashmir and to bring Tibetan activists and
 academics from around the world into dialogue. Additionally, Anand and Kaul received funds
 through the University’s GCRF allocations to partner with organisations in India and Bhutan.

 The three ICSs represent only a limited flavour of the impact activities and achievements by
 colleagues in CSD. The many examples of collaborative activities, media engagements and
 participation in policy events in Section 4 indicate how embedded the exploitation of pathways to
 impact is within our research culture.

 1.6 Future research strategy

 Our future research strategy aims to sustain the current trajectory of recent years that has
 established CSD as a world-leading centre of research. While we will continue with the priorities
 and objectives of our current research strategy, with regular reviews to ensure our policies,
 structures and practices align, we plan to place particular emphasis on three areas.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    1. Building on the research tradition of CSD through academic and activist/practitioner
       collaborations and exploitation of funding opportunities to develop distinctive research
       agendas on emerging social and political challenges such as the Anthropocene and the
       climate crisis, the impact of authoritarian populism and structural racism, and political
       responses to pandemics.
    2. Further embedding the EDI agenda into the research policies and practices of the UoA.
       This includes the need to develop an inclusive and compassionate response to the
       impact of COVID-19, which for many staff has meant that their research time and
       capacities have been squeezed by familial commitments and illness and fieldwork is not
       always possible.
    3. Translating success in applications for small and medium sized research funds into more
       effective applications for larger grants.

 Evidence of continued success over the REF2021 period means that we are confident that the
 trajectory and vitality of the research culture is sustainable and can be further developed. We are
 nurturing new talent and enabling new research leaders to emerge through supporting the
 activities of our research clusters. Overall, we have a strong commitment to an inclusive and
 compassionate research culture where leadership is shared and diffused.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff

 Our staff and recruitment strategy aims to sustain and enhance a diverse and inclusive
 environment in which all staff are enabled to flourish and to ensure that new appointments
 complement existing staff strengths and extend the range of research (including impact
 activities) undertaken within CSD. Building on the established CSD ethos, we aim to extend our
 commitment to greater equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) both in terms of appointments and
 the support offered to colleagues with protected characteristics. Early career researchers are
 given extensive support to ensure they can establish and sustain their research trajectory.

 In addition to the 22.8 FTE staff returned in this evaluation exercise, the unit is home to a further
 4.4 FTE colleagues who have traditionally not had significant responsibility for research. These
 colleagues contribute significantly to the delivery of teaching programmes and senior teaching
 management activities, and a learning and teaching career development pathway is in place
 within the University. They are offered support from the RD if they wish to develop their research
 activities. For example, Burke and Morady who were previously on the learning and teaching
 pathway have both moved to take on significant responsibility for research.

 We have an established set of procedures and practices to ensure research-focused staff have
 time and resources to pursue their research activities and develop a well-considered personal
 research strategy.

 Protecting and increasing available research time

 Allocation of dedicated research time is managed through the University Workload Allocation
 Model (WAM). WAM is also used to assign hours for impact, bid-writing and research leadership
 activities. WAM ensures fairness in the allocation of hours, and clearly and transparently
 specifies the expectations for different levels of research activity. Most staff with a significant
 responsibility for research receive the full allocation of research hours (350 hours per year from
 a total 1504 workload hours pro rata). Professors and Readers are guaranteed a minimum of
 425 hours for independent research in each year. All staff receive an additional 174 hours per
 year for scholarship activities, including those staff who do not have significant responsibility for
 research, to ensure dedicated time to promote awareness of current research in their area of
 teaching. Early career researchers are given a lighter teaching load in their first two years
 amounting to roughly 10-15% relief.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 A sabbatical process was introduced in 2015 with at least one sabbatical per year awarded on a
 competitive basis, with particular focus on completing significant outputs, writing grant
 applications and/or impact activities.

 Support in developing research

 The RD meets formally with each member of staff to review their research activity over the
 previous year against agreed objectives, set objectives for the following year in relation to the
 colleague’s longer-term research plans and discuss opportunities for funding and impact. These
 Research Progress Reviews and more informal research meetings have continued during the
 COVID-19 pandemic to ensure that research strategies are realistic given personal and
 institutional constraints.

 CSD follows the key principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. All staff are offered a specific mentor in addition to the RD, with a particular
 emphasis on ensuring support for more junior colleagues and those returning from long periods
 of absence. With his return to CSD from a Deputy Vice-Chancellor position, Dannreuther has
 joined Chandler in acting as mentor for early career and recently appointed staff working in the
 broad field of international politics. Staff are encouraged to participate in the College Mentoring
 Circles, which are peer groups of up to 8 staff members, led by two experienced researchers.
 Our effectiveness in nurturing ECRs can be seen in the full-time appointment in 2014 of two
 Postdoctoral Research and Teaching Fellows, including Fluck, who were initially appointed to
 two-year posts in 2012; the other subsequently moving to the University of Edinburgh. Charrett
 secured funding from the competitive College Developing Researcher scheme to undertake
 fieldwork for a new project on transnational movements of policing technologies and post-
 imperial masculinities.

 Dedicated research funding of £1,300 is made available to each staff member to present papers
 at international conferences and/or support research field trips. Applications to access this
 funding are overseen by the RD. Additional resources are available to organise events for both
 academic and practitioner audiences, with priority given to those that involve collaborations with
 external partners. Capitalising on our central London location and excellent facilities, we are one
 of the most active Politics and International Studies units in the country in this regard, with over
 250 events since 2014, including high-profile events attended by over 200 people (see section
 4).

 Research-in-progress workshops take place two to three times a semester, in which staff and
 final year doctoral students present their current work. Over the spring and summer of 2020,
 CSD ran online research-in-progress workshops to provide a supportive and informal space for
 research conversations in the early stages of the pandemic. The College organises regular one-
 to-two-day writing retreats attended by colleagues.

 Testifying to the success of our staff development procedures, since 2014, we have seen
 various promotions in the UoA: Anand to Professor; Greenwood, Kaul and Raphael to Reader;
 Brighi, Cross, Frennhoff Larsén, Moore, Fluck and Ostrowski to Senior Lecturer.

 Appointment strategy

 Our strategy for new appointments has been to strengthen our critical international theory and
 post-colonial politics clusters (both recognised as strengths by the REF2014 panel) and the
 newer gender and sexuality cluster, and to ensure improvement in relation to equality and
 diversity. Since 2014, we have appointed 8 new research active staff. Half identify as female,
 three BAME and two LGBTQ+

 •   Basu joined from the University of Surrey and has research specialisms in the politics of
     identity, representation and violence in South Asia.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Charrett joined from Queen Mary University of London where she was an Early Career
     Research Fellow funded by the Independent Social Research Foundation. She is a specialist
     in Palestinian politics, imperialism, queer theory and performativity.
 •   Conway joined from the Open University and has research expertise in feminist IR, political
     sociology and queer theory.
 •   Fluck was a postdoctoral fellow in the UoA with expertise in critical IR theory, in particular
     the relationship between epistemology and the political.
 •   Kaul joined having spent time outside academia as a novelist and poet. She is an expert in
     post-colonial IR and democracy.
 •   Ostrowski was a research fellow on an ESRC project in the UoA and has specialisms in
     energy security and political economy of resources.
 •   Rad joined from SOAS and is an expert in the political economy of international
     development, particularly in the Middle East and North Africa.
 •   Raphael joined from Kingston University, is an expert in critical IR, in particular state
     violence and state terrorism, and leads the Rendition Project.

 In late 2020, Burchiellaro began a three-year Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship on ‘Re-
 thinking global homocapitalism: LGBT rights, corporate power and hierarchy’, further
 strengthening the Gender and Sexuality cluster.

 At the end of 2017, Chantal Mouffe moved from 0.2FTE to Emeritus, but continues to play a
 major role in the unit through the inspiration she provides for colleagues and her capacity to
 bring high-profile speakers to CSD, including via the regular ‘Exchanges in Democratic Politics’
 that have attracted significant activist and academic speakers such as Paul Magnette, Jean-
 Claude Monod, Pablo Bustinduy, Christophe Ventura and Samuele Mazzolini. Bhikhu Parekh,
 also Emeritus, continues to collaborate on public events.

 Visiting fellows

 Since 2014, fourteen visiting fellows and researchers have spent between three months to a
 year at CSD from Austria, Brazil, Bhutan, Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Japan,
 Germany, Portugal, Mexico, Spain, Sweden and Uruguay. Visitors work closely with at least one
 member of staff on issues such as agonistic and deliberative democracy, international security,
 populism, peacekeeping, the politics of oil, and resilience, and engage fully in CSD activities. We
 recognise the potential of these visitors to further enliven our research culture and encourage
 international collaborations, such as with the Finnish ‘Participation in Long-term Decision
 Making’ and Spanish ‘Cherrypicking Participation’ projects. Fellowships have resulted in
 significant publications in, for example Policy and Politics, International Spectator and the Oxford
 Handbook of Deliberative Democracy.

 2.2 Doctoral researchers

 Our strategy for doctoral researchers is simple: we aim to sustain a high-calibre, vibrant and
 diverse cadre of PhD students who work in our identified areas of research strength. In
 REF2014 we stated that our ambition was to have “a vibrant PhD community marked more by
 quality than quantity and where students genuinely gain added value by being fully integrated
 into the Department as well as being members of the University Graduate School … Our aim is
 to have around 5-7 new postgraduate researchers joining us each year”. This ambition has been
 realised with both a noticeable improvement in the quality of applicants and an increasing
 diversity, particularly in terms of gender and ethnicity. Currently CSD hosts 28 doctoral
 researchers, 16 of whom identify as female, 12 as BAME. Our community is international, with
 almost half non-UK/EU, from Brazil, Ethiopia, Kazakhstan, India, Iran, Malaysia, Morocco and
 Nepal. The postgraduate community is physically located in the School in two dedicated rooms
 which helps to ensure students are fully integrated into CSD’s research culture.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To further vitalise the research culture and help build postgraduate networks, we have extended
 the visiting researcher scheme to doctoral researchers who work on aspects of their thesis
 mentored by one or more staff members. Since 2014, we have welcomed 13 postgraduates from
 Brazil, Ecuador, Germany, Italy, Mexico, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Turkey.

 In the previous REF period, the UoA introduced an occasional mix of full-time and partial
 scholarships. In the last 4 years we have systematized this significant QR investment with at
 least one (and often two) FTE scholarship awarded each year. Currently we have 9 doctoral
 researchers on School-funded studentships. We actively exploit other funding sources where
 possible: two studentships are funded by the Quintin Hogg Trust (based on a University-wide
 competition for 22 scholarships), two by GCRF, one by CECAN (Centre for the Evaluation of
 Complexity Across the Nexus) and two through partnerships with CARA (Council for At-Risk
 Academics) and the civil society organisation Bioregional. An Allan and Nesta Charitable
 Foundation Award helped to pay overseas fees for one student. All doctoral scholarships are
 competitive, and the key criteria are to attract the best qualified and engaged students who will
 contribute to the research culture of CSD and enhance our commitment to EDI.

 The School Postgraduate Coordinator, Greenwood, plays an active role in including junior
 colleagues in the supervisory teams of doctoral students to ensure they gain the experience that
 will enable them to lead supervisory teams in the future. Where an applicant wishes to be
 supervised by a more junior colleague, it is a requirement that a more experienced colleague is
 part of the supervisory team, mentoring the junior colleague and ensuring the necessary
 progress against the University framework is achieved.

 Supervisors and supervisees within the UoA participate in the University-wide Graduate School
 (see REF5a), which organises a training programme and events for all doctoral students,
 including writing retreats. Specific training in postgraduate supervision is provided. The Graduate
 School has been active in running both formal and informal sessions to support the postgraduate
 community during the COVID-19 pandemic in recognition that many are feeling particularly
 isolated.

 CSD organises discipline-specific doctoral training seminars throughout the academic year.
 These combine presentations from doctoral researchers to their peers with staff-led discussions
 on aspects of research design, methodology and career development (including postdoctoral
 opportunities). Led by Cross, CSD has hosted publication training workshops for postgraduate
 students within and beyond Westminster in partnership with the International Initiative for
 Promoting Political Economy (IIPPE) in 2016 and 2018, with participants publishing work in high-
 ranking journals including Economy and Society and Competition and Change.

 Doctoral researchers are encouraged to apply for dedicated School funds to present papers at
 conferences and for specialist research training. Additional funding is available from the
 Graduate School to support international activities. Pradeau was funded to organise a panel at
 the International Conference on Policy Diffusion and Development Cooperation in Sao Paulo,
 Brazil; Lanza to present at the ECPR General Conference in Wroclaw; Jouai, the International
 Conference on Poststructuralism, Universidad Complutense de Madrid; and Asenbaum, the
 World Congress of Political Science in Brisbane and IPSA Summer School for Social Science
 Research Methods at the National University of Singapore.

 Doctoral researchers organize an annual conference within the School and are encouraged to
 attend the regular CSD research seminar and other events. Final year students present at the
 CSD research-in-progress workshops. They are also encouraged to apply for funding from the
 School, University Graduate School and external sources to develop events, often in partnership
 with staff. In 2019, Mahmood received funding from the University GCRF for a project on
 sustainable peace in Kashmir. In 2017, Asenbaum received funding from CSD to organize a
 two-day postgraduate/postdoctoral symposium on participatory spaces that attracted participants
 from all over Europe and included a public keynote lecture by the renowned political sociologist
 Donatella Della Porta. In 2019, Asenbaum received further funding from the School,

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Participedia and the PSA to organise the international conference of the PSA Participatory and
 Deliberative Democracy Specialist Group, Participatory Spaces in Perspective, with keynotes by
 Carole Pateman and Michael Saward. The conference attracted over 100 participants, with more
 attending the public keynotes. In 2019/20, Jouai organised the impressive monthly seminar
 series “French Politics: A Neighbour’s ‘History of the Present’”, supported by CSD, the Institute
 for Modern and Contemporary Culture, the French Embassy in London and PSA. Nine
 prominent French social and political theorists were invited to analyse the most pressing
 challenges facing French politics and political theory today.

 We seek to ensure that all doctoral researchers have teaching opportunities to enhance their
 employability and support them to complete the PG Certificate in Teaching. We strongly
 encourage postgraduate researchers to begin their publishing careers while studying at
 Westminster. For example: Asenbaum published in the prestigious American Political Science
 Review and New Media and Society; Raimondi in Democratic Theory; Menon and Mahmood in
 edited volumes. Asenbaum received the best paper prize for the Democratic Innovations
 section of the ECPR General Conference 2017. We encourage doctoral researchers to engage
 in dissemination and impact activities: for example, Tandan published in The Conversation and
 The Scroll; Mahmood contributed to a report published by Jammu & Kashmir Law and Public
 Policy.

 The career trajectories of doctoral students indicate the success of our programme. Of those
 graduating in this REF cycle, around half have academic positions in the UK (Hertfordshire,
 KCL, New College of the Humanities, Westminster, York) or abroad (Canberra, Doha, Lasbela,
 Melbourne, Ottawa). Others have found positions in, for example, think tanks (Barcelona Centre
 for international Affairs), BBC World Service and a sustainability consultancy.

 Our research culture extends beyond the doctoral research community. We are committed to
 breaking down the teaching/research distinction to support and co-produce research activities
 with undergraduate and masters students. The most exciting development is the Democracy
 Education Network (DEN), a unique student-led initiative established by Morady and Anand.
 DEN provides an extra-curricular vehicle through which students are mentored by staff and
 postgraduate students to develop collective research projects. DEN received significant funding
 from the Quintin Hogg Trust to extend its reach across and beyond the University and was
 shortlisted for the Guardian University Awards 2019.

 2.3 Ensuring equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)

 The UoA has a strong commitment to EDI, while recognising that it still has more work to do.
 The background of our existing staff and postgraduate researchers draws on a range of different
 social and national backgrounds. Our appointments since 2014 have increased significantly the
 proportion of women, BAME and LGBTQ+ staff within the unit. BAME representation is well
 above the national university average, including at senior level, with Anand as Head of School.
 With the retirement of Mouffe, the UoA recognises the lack of women in senior academic
 positions. In late 2020, only the second female colleague was appointed to Readership level. We
 have chosen to focus our appointments at the junior level during this REF period and so will
 continue to work with junior colleagues with protected characteristics to ensure suitable support
 is in place (e.g. identity-specific mentoring from other UoAs or universities if necessary) and to
 encourage them to participate in the active grassroots Women of Westminster (WOW), BME and
 LGBTQ+ Staff Networks. Anand is Founder and Co-Chair of the BME Network and of the
 University’s EDI Committee formed in response to Black Lives Matter, while Anand, Conway
 and Moore are active in the LGBTQ+ Network. An explicit commitment to increase diversity was
 clearly stated in the advertisement and job specification for our most recent round of staff and
 doctoral researcher appointments. Colleagues with caring responsibilities can access part
 time/flexible working hours with agreement of the Head of School.

 REF5a describes University EDI policies and practices. Diversifying the staff body and
 decolonising education have been explicit commitments within the School; the Black Lives

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Matter protests have further strengthened our resolve to act. In 2020, Smith began working with
 other School RDs to audit systematically the critical decision points where EDI in research can
 be positively affected, including appointments (staff and doctoral), career progression,
 mentoring, research funding and sabbaticals. The development of our enhanced EDI strategy
 requires more sensitivity to intersectionality and the diversity captured by terms such as BAME
 to ensure that we are focusing on the most structurally disadvantaged social groups. We are
 also powerfully aware that the impact of COVID-19 on pre-existing inequalities and the creation
 of new inequalities in research requires particular attention. The School will develop its
 enhanced EDI strategy in consultation with colleagues and with the Staff Networks.

 Dannreuther was until late 2019 Chair of the University REF2021 Subcommittee that
 established the University Code of Practice. The internal readers who evaluated outputs for this
 submission have received training in the relevant aspects of EDI. Following University policy, all
 outputs put forward by staff were graded for quality by two internal reviewers, with a large
 sample reviewed by an experienced external advisor. All outputs close to the selection cut-off
 point were reviewed by the advisor to confirm internal judgements. Where evaluation resulted in
 the same grade, representation of staff with protected characteristics was taken into
 consideration in the final selection of outputs. The review of our submission by the University’s
 REF Equality and Diversity committee indicated a lower proportion of outputs from colleagues
 who identify as female and BAME. In response, we organised a review of those outputs
 produced by colleagues with protected characteristics that were close to the selection point. We
 are satisfied that the final selection fulfils our commitment to EDI. Equality impact assessments
 have been carried out on those colleagues who are not designated as having a significant
 responsibility for research to ensure that this is a fair designation that represents the range of
 their academic activities.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income

 Since 2014, the University has invested in the creation of a new central Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO) that provides comprehensive pre- and post-award support
 for external research grants (see REF5a). A team of Research Development Partners (RDPs)
 provide tailored intelligence and expert advice on identifying sources of funding; support the
 preparation of proposals (including financial elements); organise training events on aspects of
 impact, bid writing, including day-long bid writing clinics led by external consultants and hosting
 different funding bodies; and identify and bring together potential collaborators from across the
 University to investigate interdisciplinary projects. The School RDP works with the RD to identify,
 prioritise, coordinate and support colleagues with an interest in applying for research funding.
 The RKEO is home to the University’s Impact Officer who provides dedicated support and
 advice to staff on funding opportunities for impact generation.

 A systematic and supportive process has been established to ensure quality of external funding
 bids. Colleagues are required to inform the RD if they intend to develop a proposal. Once the RD
 is clear that the idea fulfils the requirements of the funder, the colleague is cleared to work with
 an RDP to develop the proposal. A draft of the proposal is reviewed by the RD and at least one
 other member of the College-level peer review college, composed of current and former
 members of RCUK Peer Review Colleges. Colleagues are not permitted to submit applications
 without sign-off from the Head of School and College Research Director. In this way, CSD can
 ensure quality and where necessary manage demand for popular calls. All successful
 applications are required to submit an application for research ethics review before commencing
 their research projects (see REF5a).

 This more systematic support has increased noticeably the number of colleagues applying for
 and receiving funding in this REF period and, in the face of a highly competitive funding
 environment, our research income has remained stable across the last two REF periods. Over
 85 percent of colleagues have made research applications since 2014. Given the lack of

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experience of many of our colleagues, much of the emphasis has been placed on applying for
 small and medium sized grants and participating as co-investigators in project teams led by a
 more experienced researcher. Our expectation that this will lead to larger applications has been
 realised in the case of Kaul who was awarded an AHRC/GCRF International Development
 Research Networking Scheme Large Grant on narratives of biodemocracy in Bhutan having
 previously been successful with three smaller grants from British Academy and Leverhulme. We
 expect similar results in the coming years for other colleagues.

 As PIs, Smith was awarded a large project grant on the democratic qualities of argument
 mapping platforms from the John Templeton Foundation and University of Connecticut’s
 Humanities Institute; Conway a Leverhulme Research Fellowship on the global politics of Pride.
 Smaller research grants were awarded to Chandler by the Centre for Global Cooperation, at the
 University of Duisburg-Essen; Greenwood, Royal Institution for Chartered Surveyors Research
 Trust; Hehir, Robert Bosch Stifung; Frennhoff Larsén, British Academy/Leverhulme.

 Smith was Co-I on significant grants, including three from the ESRC, two of which organised
 and analysed pilot citizens assemblies; a major international collaboration on the global platform
 Participedia funded by SSHRC; and two projects funded by the Spanish Ministry of Economy
 and Competitiveness. Staddon was Co-I on a large BA DFID Anti-Corruption Evidence
 Programme grant and Anand on a University of Warwick Impact Acceleration Award.

 Anand, Hehir and Kaul have had success in competing for funds from the GCRF allocated to
 the University, which have supported significant impact activities related to Tibetan refugees,
 inclusive education in Kosovo and resilience in Bhutan.

 3.2 Facilities and Infrastructure

 All research staff and students have access to extensive, high-quality research resources
 including cutting-edge computer facilities and four libraries (one at each campus) housing an
 extensive collection of books, journals, DVDs and other specialist materials (see REF5a). Online
 access is provided to hundreds of social science journals and thousands of ebooks with
 relevance to the UoA. All staff have individual office space in our central London base. The
 Regent Library, which includes dedicated physical and online resources for social sciences and
 humanities, is located five minutes away in the University’s Little Titchfield Street Building, along
 with our University Records and Archives Service, which houses rich and detailed material from
 the University’s 180-year social history, as well as access to expertise on digital preservation
 and management.

 CSD has a dedicated state-of-the-art seminar room, ‘The Westminster Forum’, which is used for
 many of the UoA’s research activities, including our regular seminar series. The two PhD rooms,
 which accommodate up to 10 PhD students each, ensure access to up-to-date computer
 equipment and electronic resources. Outstanding campus-based facilities for research meetings,
 seminars, workshops and conferences are within 10 minutes’ walk in the impressive Regent
 Street building. This includes our historic Regent Street Cinema (often described as the
 ‘birthplace of British cinema’), which was restored in 2015 with support from the Quintin Hogg
 Trust, Heritage Lottery Fund and Garfield Weston Foundation. The Cinema can be booked by
 staff for special events and screenings.

 Our central London location also means that researchers have access to some of the best
 research resources in the world within walking distance of the University, including the British
 Library, Senate House, the Wellcome Library and Chatham House.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 A distinctive element in the UoA’s dynamic research culture is extensive collaboration with non-
 academic partners and the organization of a wide range of events that reflect our commitment to
 contribute to the discipline, to involve students and to engage with activists, practitioners, policy

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 makers and the general public. CSD has always made dedicated resources available to support
 collaborative events and networks with well-defined academic or impact objectives. Since 2014,
 CSD has organised over 250 separate events.

 4.1 Major academic events and collaborations

 Particularly significant international events organised by CSD since 2014 that have each
 attracted well over 200 attendees include:

 •   CSD 25th Anniversary Conference ‘Doing Democracy Differently’ reflecting our broad range
     of research interests with a keynote by Professor Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak
 •   Popular Culture and World Politics 8 organised by Moore in collaboration with colleagues at
     Tampere and Lund Universities
 •   Digital Objects Digital Subjects, a two-day conference organised by Chandler in
     collaboration with the Westminster Institute for Advanced Studies with keynotes including
     Jodi Dean and Antonio Negri.
 •   Perspectives in Left-Wing Populism in Europe, convened by Mouffe, with contributions from
     influential activists from Spain, Italy, France and the UK.
 •   Keynote interview with Carole Pateman by Smith at the PSA Participatory and Deliberative
     Democracy Specialist Group conference, Participatory Spaces in Perspective

 CSD continues its long tradition of organising events at the cutting edge of contemporary critical
 democratic theory, including with internationally renowned figures such as James Tully, Luc
 Boltanski and Leonardo Avritzer. A number of these events have been organised in partnership
 with the PSA Participatory and Deliberative Democracy Specialist Group and the ECPR
 Democratic Innovations Standing Group. Since 2015, CSD has been home to the Materialisms
 Old and New Reading Group, led by Chandler, which attracts researchers from across the
 London environs and from across different disciplines. The regular CSD Research Seminar has
 continued during the Covid-19 pandemic with the online context enabling larger numbers of
 participants from across the world.

 As one of the network’s founders, Smith has collaborated extensively with research centres
 around the world, including at Harvard and UBC, on Participedia – an innovative global platform
 that crowdsources data on democratic innovations – leading to numerous scholarly publications
 and successful grant applications. Other examples of collaboration include Basu with
 universities in Dacha and Delhi and Conway with two universities in Hong Kong, both funded by
 the University Research Communities. Hehir collaborated with the Centre for South East
 European Studies, LSE on a conference to mark the 20th anniversary of NATO’s intervention in
 Kosovo. Rad collaborated with the University of Tirana on a UNDP project on economic and
 social development in Albania.

 4.2 Collaborations with organisations beyond HE

 Collaborations with organisations beyond HE is a key aspect of CSD’s research strategy and is
 recognized as a crucial pathway to enhancing impact (see section 1.4) as well as the production
 of research outputs. Beyond those captured in the Impact Case Studies, examples include:

 •   Basu collaborated with the Bangladesh Public Administration Training Centre in the
     organization of two annual international conferences.
 •   Conway advised the award-winning performance artist Scottee on theories of masculinity,
     informing a performance piece and accompanying book.
 •   Chandler facilitated a Cynefin Retreat on Futures and Foresight with Cognitive Edge.
 •   Greenwood worked with the Royal Institution for Chartered Surveyors on zero and low
     carbon homes policy.
 •   Hehir collaborated with the Kosovar Centre for Security Studies and other NGOs to establish
     best practice principles for the newly established Specialist Chambers and the Kosovo


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Centre for Human Rights and Justice on the education experience of the Bosniak community
     in Kosovo.
 •   Frennhoff Larsén organised a series of Brexit-related public events with the European
     Council on Foreign Relations, European Parliament, European Commission, representatives
     from the House of Commons and the House of Lords, MyLifeMySay, Centre for Analysis of
     the Radical Right, Libération, Deutsche Welle and Die Zeit. She worked with the Foreign and
     Commonwealth Office in organising a conference on the 70th Anniversary of NATO.
 •   Kaul collaborated with a range of organisations in Bhutan funded by BA/Leverhulme and
     AHRC grants, including the Centre for Local Governance and Research (CLG) on the
     Biodemocracy and Resilience conference.
 •   Smith is collaborating with the participation charity Involve on the Democratic Response to
     Covid-19 project and was commissioned by the World Bank for a report on democratic
     innovation and community-based natural resource management.

 The collaborations undertaken by Greenwood, Hehir and Kaul have all informed subsequent
 international peer-reviewed articles.

 We have extended our visiting researcher programme to non-academic visitors. For example,
 Simon Burrall, then Director of Involve, worked under the mentorship of Smith to produce the
 influential report Room for a View: Democracy as a Deliberative System which translates cutting-
 edge theoretical developments for democracy practitioners and activists.

 4.3 Participation in open and closed policy-orientated events

 Colleagues regularly participate in policy-orientated events. Beyond those explicitly discussed in
 the Impact Case Studies, examples include Basu’s invited evidence to the House of Commons
 International Development Committee on DfID’s work in Bangladesh and Burma. Brighi gave
 evidence at a Hearing at the Italian Parliament Special Committee on the murder of Giulio
 Regeni, which generated extensive media interest and participation in a public debate with the
 Italian representative of Amnesty International on the arms trade with Egypt and Italian foreign
 policy. Chandler presented on aspects of resilience at two Expert Group Roundtables for the
 UNDP, NATO annual conference, European Commission, Czech Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
 Instituto Affair Internazional and Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst. Conway spoke on Pride to
 the APPG on Global LGBT+ Rights. Holt was invited by Westminster Foundation for Democracy
 to present at the first meeting in Amman of the subcommittee of the Arab Coalition working on
 the Arab Convention to Combat Violence against Women. Raphael provided evidence and
 ongoing research support for the North Carolina Commission of Inquiry on Torture (NCCIT), the
 world’s first citizen-led effort to establish accountability. Smith was commissioned to produce a
 paper for a DPADM/UNDESA Expert Group meeting on options for citizen engagement in the
 post-2015 development agenda and invited to participate in an International IDEA/UNDP
 workshop on random assemblies and constitution building and to give evidence to the House of
 Lords Select Committee on Democracy and Digital Technologies.

 4.4 Media engagement

 Colleagues have made extensive media appearances for outlets including Al Jazeera, BBC
 (including World Service, BBC1 and 2, Radio 4 and 5 and local TV and radio), Sky News, ABC
 Australia, DD Kashmir, Islam Channel, Rai Uno, Globo News, CAM-FM, African Broadcasting
 Corporation, Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, France 24, TRT in Turkey, MTV News.
 Beyond her media engagements documented in the Impact Case Study, Kaul has penned op
 eds for South China Morning Post, Scroll, The Wire, and The Telegraph. Since Brexit,
 Frennhoff Larsén has been in demand given her (rare) expertise in EU negotiations, with
 numerous BBC and Swedish media interviews and commissioned articles for publications
 including The Conversation, Huffington Post, Newsweek, Open Democracy, Deutsche Welle and
 Danish Daily Information. Mouffe has been interviewed extensively on the rise of populism
 across global media.


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.5 Professional service, reviewing and editorial positions

 Anand serves on the International Studies Association’s Committee on the Status of
 Representation and Diversity (2019-2022). Basu is co-convenor of the International Studies of
 Mediterranean, Middle East and Asia BISA Working Group. Hehir was on the ISA International
 Ethics Section Book Award Committee and Co-convenor of the BISA Intervention and the
 Responsibility to Protect Working Group. Cross is Coordinator of the Africa Working Group of
 the International Initiative for Promoting Political Economy. Charrett is on the board of EISA.
 Conway is on the executive board of the LGBTQA Caucus of ISA and a judge for ISA’s Global
 South, North East, Women’s, LGBTQA and Diversity and Representation sections Lee Ann Fujii
 Book Award. He served on the committee revising the British Sociological Association Research
 Ethics Guidelines. Dannreuther was BISA trustee and honorary treasurer. Smith was a
 founding member of the steering committee of the ECPR Democratic Innovations Standing
 Group.

 Colleagues are in demand to review for national and international research bodies, including
 ESRC and AHRC Peer Review Colleges and the ESRC Centres and Large Grants panel, UK
 Department for International Development, The Wellcome Trust, National Research Foundation
 of South Africa, Academy of Finland Research Council for Culture and Society, Strategic
 Research Council of the Academy of Finland, Linz Institute of Technology/Austrian Science
 Fund and Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft, EU Horizon 2020, Swiss Association,
 Independent Social Research Foundation, Norwegian Research Council, Swedish Research
 Council, Research Foundation Flanders, NordForsk.

 Four journals – Anthropocenes – Human, Inhuman, Posthuman (Chandler), Review of African
 Political Economy (Cross), Critical Studies on Terrorism (Raphael) and Journal of Deliberative
 Democracy (Smith) – and three book series – Routledge Series on Intervention and
 Statebuilding (Hehir), Routledge Advances in Democratic Theory (Tambakaki) and Routledge
 Studies in Resilience (Chandler) – are edited within the UoA. Amongst invitations to guest edit
 journals, Holt edited for Gender and Research and Kaul for Review of Women's Studies
 (RWS)/Economic and Political Weekly (EPW). Colleagues are on the editorial board of
 numerous journals including Critical Military Studies, Environmental Politics and South Asian
 Diaspora and several book series.

 Members of the UoA have acted as external examiners for over 40 doctoral students in over 20
 universities in the UK and beyond, including Australia, Belgium, Germany, India, Ireland, Italy,
 South Africa

 4.6. Keynotes and fellowships

 Members of the UoA have given numerous academic keynotes, plenary papers and public
 lectures at conferences in the UK, Europe and further afield, including Bhutan, Canada, China,
 Doha, India, Israel, New Zealand, Pakistan and the US. Significant examples include Anand’s
 keynotes at the Universities of Gothenburg, Durham and the Link Campus University
 Foundation, Rome; Chandler at the Geographisches Institut, Zurich University, International
 Catalan Institute for Peace (ICIP), Institute for Peace Research and Security Policy, University of
 Hamburg and the Bradford University Peace Studies 40th anniversary conference; Kaul at the
 Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies, Geneva, Jawaharlal Nehru
 University (JNU), Delhi, National School for Political Studies and Public Administration,
 Bucharest and appearances at numerous literary festivals including Edinburgh, Lahore, Seattle
 South Asian, Greenbelt, Bradford and the Freiraum festival organised by the Goethe-Institut;
 Hehir at various locations in Kosovo, including the Assembly of the Republic, Hope Media
 Carnival and the South East European Cooperation Process Parliamentary Assembly, as well as
 keynotes at conferences at the University of Otago, Le Monde Diplomatique, Michigan State
 University and College of Europe, Warsaw.



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Chandler was Senior Research Fellow at the Centre for Global Cooperation, University of
 Duisburg-Essen. Holt held the Hans-Robert Roemer Fellowship at Orient-Institut Beirut.
 Smith is a Senior Fellow at the Institute for Advanced Sustainability Studies, Potsdam and
 Honorary Fellow at the Centre for the Understanding of Sustainable Prosperity at the University
 of Surrey.

 4.7 Prizes

 Anand was awarded an Appreciation Award by Students for Free Tibet UK and Tibetan
 Community of Britain. Hehir won the BISA Working Group on Intervention and R2P book prize.
 Kaul was recipient of a Certificate of Special Congressional Recognition by US Congress
 Members. Smith was awarded the Democratic Innovations Prize by the Political Studies
 Association in 2016 as part of the Democracy Matters consortium.




                                                                                          Page 16
