Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: 28 (History)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

                                            Overview

 History at Edinburgh now comprises one of the largest communities of historical
 researchers in the world (75.15 FTE, an increase of 13.93 FTE from REF2014). We
 encompass research interests which run from the Fall of Rome to contemporary indigenous
 social movements in Latin America and span a range of methodologies. Building on our
 longstanding strengths in Scottish, British, Irish, North American and European history, since
 2014 we have made substantial strategic investments to develop our global research
 strengths across five continents. Through new appointments and the development of our
 Edinburgh Centre for Global History our researchers have generated pioneering new work on
 the history of medicine in the early medieval world, contested modernities in Latin America, the
 dynamics of early Islamic and modern African states, and the global histories of people, ideas,
 and material culture. This strength in breadth and depth we believe to be an essential goal for a
 community of historians based in a major European capital city, the home of national, political,
 and cultural institutions that have supported centuries of engagement with the wider world.

 Since 2014 we have made dedicated efforts to enrich our research environment for our growing
 numbers of postgraduate researchers (71% increase in doctoral completions from REF2014)
 and to develop mechanisms that support all of our historians to realise their research and impact
 ambitions. The overwhelming majority of researchers in the submission are located in the School
 of History, Classics, and Archaeology (HCA) in the College of Arts, Humanities and Social
 Sciences. The global and thematic range of historical research at Edinburgh is further
 enhanced by the work and collaboration of historians located in the departments of Asian
 Studies (6), Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies (3), both of which are located within the School
 of Languages, Literatures and Culture (LLC), and Psychology (1). Finally, within our low
 boundary environment, we have close ties with Edinburgh’s researchers in classics,
 archaeology, art and architectural history, and social and political sciences, who are returned in
 other units of assessment.

                                        Research Strategy

 Our overarching strategic goals since 2014 have been:

      To expand the chronological, geographical, and methodological range of our
       research strengths, with a focus on African history, Latin American history, late
       antique and early medieval history, and history of science and medicine.

      To build on our strengths in the history of migration and diaspora and the histories of
       consumption, material culture, and ideas to establish Edinburgh as a leader in global
       history.

      To enhance our existing international reputation in modern and contemporary history
       of Britain and Ireland, Western Europe and North America.

 We have delivered on our strategic goals by reviewing and restructuring our research
 centres (see section 1); pursuing a staffing strategy focused on renewal in areas of existing
 strength coupled with strategic appointments across our targeted areas (see section 2);
 developing a series of measures to support and integrate our postgraduate researchers
 and early career historians more effectively into our research culture and to build research and
 leadership capacity in key areas (see section 2); and making substantial investment in growing
 and professionalising our support for research, impact, and knowledge exchange

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activities (see section 3). Collectively these measures have allowed us to maintain our strong
 commitments to providing intellectual autonomy and support for scholars in developing
 ambitious intellectual goals and collaborations; to delivering focused strategic support for cutting
 edge areas of the historical discipline; and to enabling and enhancing scholarly engagement with
 communities of citizens in Edinburgh and the wider world.

 Key indicators of success include:

       Overall growth in Edinburgh’s community of historians (23% increase on REF2014)
        underpinned by key strategic appointments with recruitment to new lectureships in
        early medieval history (2), Latin American history (2), African history (2), to the William
        Robertson Chair of History, and the appointment of an historian to the Handa Chair of
        Japanese-Chinese Relations.

       49 research monographs and scholarly editions across the census period, published
        with world-leading presses (12 with OUP, 7 with CUP, 2 with Penguin, others with
        prestigious university presses of Duke, Edinburgh, Florida, Georgia, Harvard, McGill-
        Queen’s, Mississippi, North Carolina, and Yale).

       £7.9M in external awards for our research including major awards in new areas of
        strategic focus, including African history (Hunter, Nugent £2.2M), late antique history
        (Legendre £1.2M), global history (Bates, Delaney £1M), history of Britain, Ireland, Europe
        (Bloxham, Chabal, A. Jackson, L. Jackson, Nenadic £672k), and history of medicine
        (Bouras-Vallianatos, Davis, Mistry £551k).

       Success in high-quality funded postdoctoral competitions in these areas (5
        Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships, 3 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships, 1
        Wellcome University Award, 1 ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowship).

       Substantial growth in our cohort of postgraduate researchers with 122.5 doctoral
        completions in the REF period (a 71% increase from REF2014).

 The unit’s research is focused around three centres: the Edinburgh Centre for Global History,
 the Centre for the Study of Modern and Contemporary History, and the Centre for Medieval
 and Renaissance Studies. The organisation of our environment is the outcome of a
 comprehensive review and consultation after 2014, which recommended the transformation of
 our existing centres (Scottish Centre for Diaspora Studies, Centre for the Study of Modern
 Conflict, Centre for Medieval and Renaissance Studies) as a key to delivering our strategic
 goals. The centres act as hubs of shared intellectual inquiry and emphasise the growing of
 disciplinary and interdisciplinary collaborations and the integration of postgraduate research
 students in their activities. They sustain a wide range of research groups and seminar
 programmes, which constitute the grass roots of our research environment, build on existing
 areas of strength, and empower our researchers to respond flexibly to new directions in the
 discipline.

                            Global History (21.8 FTE, £2.3M awards)

 The Edinburgh Centre for Global History was inaugurated in 2019 to capitalise on the
 intersection of the developing research interests embodied in the Scottish Centre for Diaspora
 Studies and the rapidly-growing Global and Transnational History Research Group. Members of
 the Centre have produced research that drives forward critical reflection on the past histories of
 global connections and explores the limits and challenges of the global as an analytical
 category.

 Research in global history at Edinburgh has flourished on the basis of strategic decisions about
 recruitment and the organisation of our research environment. A range of appointments since

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2014 has enhanced our expertise in the theory and practice of global history, complemented our
 ongoing efforts to globalise our undergraduate programmes, and augmented other established
 areas of research strength, including intellectual history (Hunter, Dell), African history (Brownell,
 Dell, Hunter), and Latin American history (Priyadarshini), as well as ensuring methodological and
 thematic breadth with appointments in environmental history (Brownell) and gender history
 (Yildiz). Leadership in the field is provided by a strategic appointment to the William Robertson
 Chair of History (Paton) as well as by colleagues with existing and developing interests in the
 ‘global turn’ (e.g. Delaney, J. Gentz, N. Gentz, McDowall, Zahedieh).

 Our historians have made transformative interventions in the history of migration, diaspora and
 slavery. Bates’ ‘Becoming Coolies’ project (AHRC £770k), for example, focused on neglected
 subaltern perspectives in exploring the history of forced migration and indentured labour in the
 Indian Ocean region. Paton’s work on diasporic religion in the Caribbean resulted in a prize-
 winning monograph The Cultural Politics of Obeah: Religion, Colonialism and Modernity in the
 Caribbean World (CUP, 2015) and delivered impact through an important theatre-in-education
 project ‘Freedom to Believe’ (AHRC £101k). Zahedieh’s contribution to the Historical Journal
 made a critical intervention on the role of the Jamaican Sephardim in the functioning of the
 Atlantic economy, while her collaborative research with National Museums Scotland deepened
 our understandings of Scotland’s relationship with slavery and the slave trade through the use of
 material culture in public collections (RSE £8k). Several colleagues have developed research in
 the global histories of colonialism and decolonisation. Hunter’s RHS Gladstone-prize-
 winning monograph Political Thought and the Public Sphere in Tanzania: Freedom, Democracy
 and Citizenship in the Era of Decolonisation (CUP, 2015) furnished themes for a project on the
 intellectual history of global ideas in post-independence states ‘Another World? East Africa and
 the Global 1960s’ (LT £371k). Cunningham’s research on Scottish missionaries in Kenya has
 focused on the ‘everyday’ practices of colonial rule and recovering the agency of technically
 ‘colonised’ people (ESRC £119k). Material culture, production, and consumption provide a
 third strand to our work in global history, exemplified by Priyadarshini’s Chinese Porcelain in
 Colonial Mexico: The Material Worlds of an Early Modern Trade (Palgrave, 2018) and Yildiz’s
 comparative work on textile production in the Ottoman Empire and British India. Longstanding
 strengths in political violence and conflict provide a final cutting edge to our work in global
 history, for example Delaney’s innovative project bringing together research into Irish revolution
 and migration ‘A Global History of the Irish Revolution’ (AHRC £359k).

                 Modern and Contemporary History (31.65 FTE, £3.7M awards)

 The Centre for the Study of Modern and Contemporary History was established in 2017. It
 built on and expanded our existing Centre for the Study of Modern Conflict and is the hub for an
 enviably large and diverse group of colleagues with research interests in modern (post-1750)
 and contemporary history.

 Appointments since 2014 have been directed to supplementing our strengths in modern history
 with colleagues working on non-Western history. In addition to researchers working on modern
 and contemporary themes, but primarily associated with global history, new appointments have
 focused on Latin American history (Blanc, Gibbings), East Asian history (Huang, Jin, Moore,
 Stephens), and the history of medicine (Turkowska).

 Collectively our research has driven forward critical reflection on modernity from a number of
 perspectives. Cutting edge publications by Gibbings and Blanc, including Our Time is Now
 (CUP, 2020) and Before the Flood (Duke UP, 2019), and National Endowment for the
 Humanities and AHRC Leadership (£205k) Fellowships for Blanc’s work into national
 mythologies surrounding the Prestes Column rebellion in Brazil, for example, have led in
 uncovering the struggles over the meaning of modernity in twentieth-century Latin America. A
 similar concern underpins our research on Ireland (Delaney), France (Chabal), China (Huang),
 Japan (Harding), the Middle East (Gorman), and Korea (Stephens and Jin). Our research has
 included pioneering inquiries into the writing of modern history, such as Bloxham’s two long-
 range disciplinary treatments Why History? A History and History and Morality (both OUP, 2020)

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Chabal’s research into the intellectual biography of Eric Hobsbawm (AHRC £176k). Our
 scholars have pushed the boundaries of research into the histories of conflict, political
 violence, and war. Combatant and civilian experiences of war and comparative perspectives
 underpin important research such as Nugent’s comparative and interdisciplinary African study
 ‘Combatants’ Economic and Social-political Power During and After War’ (ESRC £480k),
 Bloxham’s ‘The World We Fought For? Systematic Violence in Global History since 1945’ (LT
 £145k), and key publications such as Ruiz’s, ‘Paracuellos’: The Elimination of the ‘Fifth Column’
 in Republican Madrid during the Spanish Civil War (Sussex Academic Press, 2017) and Moore’s
 Bombing the City: Civilian Accounts of the Air War in Britain and Japan, 1939-1945 (CUP, 2018).
 We have built on past successes in our world-leading work on the modern histories of politics,
 governance, and the state exemplified in A. Jackson’s comparative long-range research into
 political unions (LT £141k), Nugent’s major investigation into ‘African Governance and Space’
 (ERC £1.8M), and Boecking’s analysis of the collapse of nationalist government in China in No
 Great Wall: Trade, Tariffs, and Nationalism in Republican China, 1927-1945 (Harvard UP, 2017).
 In the history of science and medicine our work is distinguished by world-leading research into
 the history of fertility embodied in Davis’ ‘biography’ of the Abortion Act of 1967 (AHRC
 £300k), her innovative cross-disciplinary Handbook of Infertility in History: Approaches, Contexts
 and Perspectives (Palgrave, 2017), and a Marie Skłodowska-Curie postdoctoral fellowship for
 Roth (now U of Georgia) researching enslaved women’s fertility control in Brazil (£141k).

                 Medieval and Early Modern History (21.7 FTE, £1.9M awards)

 The Centre for Medieval and Renaissance Studies is a longstanding centre of excellence for
 interdisciplinary research into the medieval and early modern worlds and connects our historians
 with around 70 researchers drawn from Art History, Literatures, Law, Divinity and elsewhere.

 Appointments have focused on building expertise in early medieval history (Mistry, Sowerby)
 and on recruiting in Mediterranean world, Islamic and Byzantine history (Aščerić-Todd, Bouras-
 Vallianatos, Carr, Legendre) to maximise synergies with interdisciplinary research communities
 of classicists, ancient historians and Byzantine scholars. Recent appointments have enabled us
 to achieve a critical mass of researchers working on the crucial period between classical
 antiquity and the middle ages.

 Our strategic investment in history of medicine has seen our research opening up entirely new
 areas. Mistry has conducted pathbreaking research into fertility in the early medieval world, both
 through a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship on infertility in Carolingian Europe (£52k) and in
 an important monograph Abortion in the Early Middle Ages, c.500-900 (Boydell, 2015). Bouras-
 Vallianatos’ research for ‘Making and Consuming Drugs in the Byzantine and Italian Worlds’ is
 remapping how we think about the theory and practice of Byzantine medicine (Wellcome, £259k)
 and the first fruits of this work are embodied in a series of important publications including
 Innovation in Byzantine Medicine: The Writings of John Zacharias Aktouarios, c. 1275-c.1330
 (OUP, 2020). This sits with pioneering work by researchers on cultural exchange and conflict
 in the Mediterranean and middle east. Legendre’s prize-winning research on the state in
 Islamic Late antiquity has explored how the Umayyads mixed Byzantine and Islamic forms of
 governance and administration and she was awarded an ERC starting grant (£1.2M) for an
 ambitious programme of research into Abbasid fiscal practice. Carr’s Leverhulme ECF
 ‘Managing Otherness: Papal Permissions for trade with the “Infidel”, 1342-1394’ (£72k) has
 yielded important insights into the interaction of Latin, Greek and Islamic cultures; and Aščerić-
 Todd’s Dervishes and Islam in Bosnia: Sufi Dimensions to the Formation of Bosnian Muslim
 Society (Brill, 2015) has presented a powerful case study of Islamisation in the Ottoman Empire.
 We have built on our longstanding strengths in intellectual history and history of the book.
 Ahnert’s work, for example, in The Moral Culture of the Scottish Enlightenment, 1690-1805 (Yale
 UP, 2015) presents an innovative thesis about the relationship between enlightenment and
 religion, while Oosterhoff’s work in Making Mathematical Culture: University and Print in the
 Circle of Lefèvre D’Étaples (OUP, 2018) and elsewhere has broken new ground in historicising
 communities of knowledge in early modern Europe. Taken together Budd’s research for
 Circulating Enlightenment: The Career and Correspondence of Andrew Millar 1725-68 (OUP,

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2020, funded by AHRC 2013-15 £201k) and Fox’s important monograph Print and the People:
 Cheap Print and the Press in Scotland 1500-1785 (OUP, 2020) entirely remap our
 understanding of early modern print culture in Scotland.

                                         Impact Strategy

 Our impact strategy has focused on:

       Growing our support for knowledge exchange and impact (KEI), raising awareness
        of opportunities, and enabling all colleagues to realise their own impact ambitions.
       Deepening and widening our collaborations with communities, institutions and
        creative industries (for example, National Museums Scotland, History & Policy, games
        industries) in Edinburgh, the UK, and the world to ensure that our research challenges
        and inspires local citizens and global audiences.
       Developing strong clusters of expertise (especially through our Impact Champion
        scheme) in nurturing, planning, and delivering impact from our research.

 Our overall success is indicated in the range and reach of our impact case studies. These
 include examples of where our research has had a formative influence in challenging and
 changing public attitudes (Crang, ‘The Spirit of the Blitz’; Harding, ‘Changing How the BBC
 Covers Japan and the Relationship between Culture, Politics and Mental Health’; Ruiz,
 ‘Paracuellos: The Most Contested Atrocity of the Spanish Civil War’), engaging with industry
 (Raccagni, ‘Deepening Public Engagement in Medieval History via New Design Strategies for
 Table-top Games’), and informing and shaping important public inquiries and legal
 proceedings (L. Jackson, ‘Historicising “Historic” Child Sexual Abuse and Safeguarding
 Practices’, which won an RHS Public History Prize 2018). These case studies are part of a
 research culture in which we have actively cultivated awareness of the opportunities for and
 the benefits of impact activities, so that these are pursued and supported widely, from working
 with original participants to recover the histories of postwar historical pageants in Carlisle
 (Bartie) to a public exhibition of the history of indentured labour in New Delhi (Bates).

 These goals have been met through growing and professionalising our support for KEI
 since 2014. A Deputy Director of Research Impact (Harding) provides strategic direction,
 reflection on and discussion of KEI have been made integral to our career development
 processes, and research groups and centres consider KEI as part of their planning and review
 activities through the annual reporting mechanism. Growth and restructuring in our
 Research, Knowledge Exchange and Impact Office (see section 3) have delivered
 responsive and tailored one-to-one support for the development of KEI activities. Historians are
 kept up-to-date with opportunities in this area via a dedicated KEI mailing list; and members of
 academic staff with relevant expertise and experience lead regular ‘Learning Lunches’, themed
 around impact opportunities specifically relevant to historians (e.g. working with schools, the
 museums and heritage sectors, and theatre and media organisations) providing a valuable
 means of cultivating awareness and building capacity in this area.

 We have deepened our relationships with key institutions, in Edinburgh and beyond, which
 provide opportunities for our research to challenge and change public perceptions of the past.
 This can be seen through our successful film series at the Edinburgh Filmhouse, in which
 historians curate and comment on a season of films open to a wide public (Irish history (2014,
 2015, 2019), US history (2016), and Korean studies (2019). We have a longstanding relationship
 with National Museums Scotland and the research of our historians frequently shapes major
 public exhibitions (for example McDowall, ‘Ming: The Golden Empire’, 2014 and Nenadic and
 Pentland, ‘Wild and Majestic: Romantic Visions of Scotland’, 2019), and drives the impact
 activities of our funded research networks on ‘The Matter of Slavery’ and ‘Second World War
 Studies Network’ (Royal Society of Edinburgh Research Network Awards, 2017 and 2020). We
 have generated new partnerships, including a four-year agreement (2016-20) with History and
 Policy, which delivered policy-oriented impacts on the themes of historic child sexual abuse (L.
 Jackson) and on wealth taxes (Chick).

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 These overlapping levels of support have allowed us to develop clusters of expertise and
 breadth of experience in delivering impact in certain areas. Researchers have collaborated
 closely with creative industries to produce a range of original public outputs and impacts.
 Examples include Nenadic’s research into Scotland’s craft economy in the long nineteenth
 century (‘To Tell a Tale, to Story a Craft’ (craft workshop), Scottish Storytelling Centre 2015),
 Ugolini’s oral history research into Italian-Scottish female migration (‘A Bench on the Road’
 (play), supported by Creative Scotland for Scottish tour and Piccolo Teatro, Milan, 2016/17),
 Pentland’s research into Scottish radical politics (‘Spun’ (short story) in Protest: Stories of
 Resistance, reading and discussion at Edinburgh International Book Festival, 2017), and
 Beattie’s discovery of and research into the lost manuscripts of Alice Thornton (‘The Remarkable
 Deliverances of Alice Thornton’ (play) supported by Being Human Festival and performed at
 Scottish Storytelling Centre, 2019). Our research has informed television and film which has
 reached and challenged large international audiences. L. Jackson and her research into women
 police officers and community policing, for example, made major contributions to a range of BBC
 programming, including the documentaries A Fair Cop: A Century of British Policewomen,
 (BBC4, 2015, viewing figures 722,000) and episode 1 of The Force: The Story of Scotland’s
 Police (BBC1 Scotland, 2017, 336,000). Our collaborations with schools provide final
 examples of how our research has been used to effect change beyond academia. Paton’s work
 on religion and slavery in the Caribbean, for example, produced an AHRC-funded collaboration
 with Talawa Theatre Company to develop and pilot a series of Theatre in Education workshops
 at English secondary schools. Budd’s AHRC-funded research on the print culture of
 enlightenment Scotland underpinned his creation and delivery of a professional development
 course for teachers ‘Circulating Enlightenment: Edinburgh Then and Now’ (General Teaching
 Council Scotland recognised) and furnished teaching and assessment materials for the ‘History
 in Schools’ widening participation initiative.

 Historians at Edinburgh have thrived in particular through our Impact Champion scheme, which
 was piloted in 2014 and has been sustained annually since then. The purpose of the scheme is
 to provide workload credit to individuals to plan and carry out activities that enhance the impact
 of their research. In most cases, this has allowed colleagues either to ‘scale up’ and deliver
 impact activities (e.g. Beattie was enabled to develop impact activities from her work on Scottish
 women’s wills and from her discovery of Alice Thornton’s manuscripts, Harding developed
 successful BBC documentary pitches) or to cultivate and develop innovative activities that
 require the investment of a researcher’s time (e.g. Raccagni’s exploratory engagement with the
 tabletop wargaming and video games industries). The scheme complements rich sources of
 support elsewhere at UoE. Raccagni’s initial work, for example, was expanded with KEI grants
 (£8k) and Challenge Investment Funds (£7k). His expertise, nurtured by this support, has
 underpinned the establishment of the History and Games Lab, a hub bringing together
 researchers and practitioners to explore games as a medium for historical research and teaching
 and a key driver of future impact from our research. Ruiz (2015-16), Hilfrich (2016-17), and
 Delaney (2018-19) have been enrolled on the MediaTalent programme, which provides
 intensive and innovative media training for researchers. The active role of historians has
 ensured not only the development of their own individual KEI activities, but also wider
 engagement from their colleagues. Impact Champions, for example, have taken roles as
 advocates and mentors and have allowed us to build rich resources of expertise and experience.

                              Research Ethics and Open Research

 Historians at Edinburgh are collectively committed to the highest ethical standards in the
 planning, conduct, and dissemination of their research. Colleagues are prominent within debates
 around research ethics in their respective fields and our large group of contemporary historians,
 frequently working on living subjects and/or employing oral history as a research methodology,
 are especially active. L. Jackson’s work into the ethical dimensions of research into
 historical child sexual abuse (ESRC £133k), for example, is at the cutting edge of the field and
 generated journal articles and powerful History & Policy contributions. Bloxham’s important


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 monograph History and Morality (OUP, 2020) is a landmark disciplinary intervention dealing with
 the role of value judgements in the research and writing of history.

 These commitments inform a culture of supportive and rigorous ethical review of research. The
 Research Ethics Committee ensures that all work planned by staff or postgraduate research
 students undergoes a research ethics assessment before it begins (with further ethics
 assessments where risks are identified). Training is provided for both postgraduate research
 students (through induction and our ‘Professional Skills for Historians’ course) and staff (through
 induction and one-to-one advice and training from the Research, Knowledge Exchange and
 Impact Office) and we have agreed and published a Statement of Principles to provide
 guidelines for the conduct of ethical research. This is complemented by Edinburgh’s wider
 research ethics framework and the College Research Ethics Committee, which has provided
 detailed and responsive guidance for rethinking research activities during the ongoing COVID-19
 pandemic.

 Openness is prioritised within the UoA and we have achieved a 96% rate of compliance with
 REF2021 open access requirements. There has been substantial raising of awareness of open
 access issues since 2014, with dedicated local provision complemented by comprehensive
 Research Support Services offered by the University Library. The Research, Impact and
 Knowledge Exchange Office provides a dedicated email address for staff inquiries and one-to-
 one advice and training and information on publisher open access policies, copyright issues, and
 support for gold open access and since 2014 open access has been a key heading in our annual
 research monitoring processes. Edinburgh’s historians have been leading in discussions
 around open research, data and methods, through widespread editorial roles and
 membership of editorial boards and membership of professional bodies and peer review
 colleges. Cameron, for example, as Chair of the Trustees of Edinburgh University Press, has
 made a sustained contribution to the debate on open access. Similarly, individual research
 projects have been pioneering and ‘Mapping Edinburgh’s Social History’ (AHRC 2013-17, 633k),
 for example, used OpenStreetMap, allowing anyone to use the maps which constituted an
 important research output of the project. This combination of academic leadership and
 administrative expertise fed into HCA’s Open Research Strategy (2019) and puts us in a strong
 position to continue to support our researchers in engaging with the opportunities and
 challenges of continued movement to open access, data, and methods.

                                  Future Strategic Aims and Goals

 Our future strategic aims are:

       To drive forward our strengths in the history of medicine by growing our links with the
        wider community of medical humanities scholars in Edinburgh and building on our recent
        success to make ambitious bids for Wellcome Trust University Awards.

       To capitalise on our strong concentration of researchers working on the Mediterranean
        world and Islamic history to establish a Centre of Late Antique, Islamic and Byzantine
        Studies as one of the world’s leading interdisciplinary communities working on these
        areas.

       To empower our established research centres in Global History, Modern and
        Contemporary History, and Medieval and Renaissance Studies to expand their
        research activities and collaborations by targeted support for the development of large
        funding bids, especially to the Global Challenges Research Fund.

       To expand our collaborations with other institutions in Edinburgh and beyond, including
        existing partners such as National Museums Scotland and the National Library of
        Scotland and forge new research collaborations with, for example, the tabletop and
        video games industries and the Scottish Government.
 2. People

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                        Staffing Strategy

 The UoA has achieved sustainable expansion from our highly inclusive submission in REF2014
 (96% of eligible staff), growing from 61.22 FTE to 75.15 FTE submitted in 2021 (23% growth), so
 that Edinburgh hosts one of the largest concentrations of historical researchers in the world. We
 have committed to a staffing strategy with three key aims:

       To ensure that individual appointments further more than one of our strategic
        research goals and create opportunities for new collaborations.

       To make appointments, wherever possible, to open-ended teaching and research
        posts which further our equality and diversity goals.

       To provide dedicated and appropriate opportunities for early career researchers.

 Our appointments since 2014 have been to all levels of the profession, 7 of them appointments
 of early career staff to their first permanent academic post. We have been especially keen
 to create and support high quality opportunities for early career researchers, both through large
 research projects (e.g. Mannion, Milford) as well as through the creation and funding of
 dedicated Early Career Development Fellowships (3-year and 1-year Fennell Early Career
 Fellowships for Johannesson and Ballantyne made possible by fundraising, 1-year Teaching and
 Research Postdoctoral Fellowship in Korean Studies for Jin). Half of our new appointments
 since 2014 have been of women, including the most senior appointment (to the William
 Robertson Chair) to provide leadership in global history. In the context of sectoral concerns
 around casualisation we have made dedicated efforts to reduce the overall proportion of
 temporary contracts in our submission. These accounted for 21% of our 2014 submission
 (12.8FTE) and only 8% of the current submission (5.8FTE).

 Our attractive and supportive research environment has contributed to high levels of staff
 retention and we have seen only a very limited number of departures since REF2014. Strategic
 renewal has been made possible by 5 retirements and the movement of 4 permanent
 postholders to senior positions in Finland, Italy, USA and Canada (Professorship and Vice Head
 for Research and Innovation University of Jyväskylä, Associate Professorship University of
 Bologna, Associate Professorship Virginia Tech, Scottish Studies Foundation Chair University of
 Guelph).

 Collectively new colleagues have allowed us to make substantial progress in meeting our
 ambition of globalising our research strengths. Blanc, Hunter, Mijers, Paton, Priyardashini,
 Brownell, for example, have been active in establishing, leading, and sustaining the Global &
 Transnational Research Group and the Edinburgh Centre for Global History. These and other
 appointments have also allowed us to consolidate existing areas of research strength, e.g.
 economic history (Kosmetatos), medieval history (Mistry, Carr, Sowerby, Legendre, Bouras-
 Vallianatos), Scottish history (Bartie, Mijers), North American history (Ballantyne, Johannesson)
 and to achieve our important strategic goal of expanding the chronological, geographical,
 and methodological range of our research strengths by the creation of new clusters of
 expertise. The appointment of historians to the Handa Chair of Japanese-Chinese Relations
 (Moore), to a lectureship in Japanese and Korean Studies (Stephens), and to a Teaching and
 Research Postdoctoral Fellowship in Korean Studies (Jin) has strengthened and diversified our
 expertise in east Asian history. Two appointments within medieval history and a Wellcome
 University Award have enabled us to establish expertise in medieval science and medicine
 (Mistry, Sowerby, Bouras-Vallianatos) and a range of appointments has created strong groups of
 historians of the Islamic world (Aščerić-Todd, Legendre) and Latin American historians (Blanc,
 Gibbings, Priyadarshini).


                                      Career Development

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We aim to provide support and career development opportunities for individual researchers at
 every stage, with an especial emphasis on providing support around important transitional
 moments. New appointees, whatever their level, take part in a full induction programme
 organised at school and university level. From 2018, historians have been offered a history-
 focused ‘re-induction’ event to answer questions and discuss experiences after a semester of
 research and/or teaching. New appointees are given a reduction of one-third in their workload
 (focused on reduction of administrative tasks) for their first year in post, while postdoctoral
 researchers are not normally expected to teach as part of their duties.

 All postdoctoral researchers, research assistants and new colleagues are supported by an
 academic mentor within History as well as having access to wider university schemes (such as
 Mentoring Connections). Discussions between mentor and mentee are confidential and entirely
 discrete from annual and research reviews. In addition, and in recognition of the particular
 challenges faced by early career researchers, new colleagues themselves received support to
 establish the Post New Club in 2014, now the Early Career Researchers Forum. This provides
 a valued space for all research staff and lecturers within three years of their first appointment to
 discuss and access research support and career development opportunities.

 The organisation of our research environment around our 3 centres has proved to be an
 effective means of integrating postgraduate and early career researchers and new colleagues at
 all levels and of building capacity in research leadership. Through mentoring and research
 interviews colleagues are encouraged to identify with one or more centre and/or research group
 at an early opportunity. Colleagues appointed since 2014 have been the driving force behind the
 Edinburgh Centre for Global History and played prominent roles on the steering committee and
 as directors of the Centre for the Study of Modern and Contemporary History (Blanc, Brownell,
 Dell, Gibbings).The flatter structure of management in the research groups has empowered
 early career researchers to take prominent roles in establishing them and steering their
 activities. For example, the Gender and Sexuality, Science, Medicine and Technology, and
 Global and Transnational groups all count colleagues appointed since 2014 among their
 originators and co-ordinators. Two new colleagues (Mistry, Priyadarshini) sit on the History
 Research Committee.

 All researchers participate in an annual research review with a senior colleague
 (complementing the university’s formal appraisal mechanism through the annual review), where
 the emphasis is firmly developmental. From 2018 this annual research review was opened to
 teaching fellows as a means of supporting early career colleagues on short-term contracts.
 These reviews aim to support colleagues in planning future research, to identify specific forms of
 support that might be required (e.g. dedicated research mentoring, one-to-one meetings with
 members of the Research, Knowledge Exchange and Impact Office to identify appropriate
 external funding), and to consider any obstacles or challenges that might hinder colleagues from
 realising their research ambitions. A valued additional source of support is Edinburgh’s Institute
 for Academic Development, which provides a full range of researcher development workshops
 and programmes covering research supervision, career management, production of research
 outputs, and leadership in research.

 Managing the expansion of academic roles in a way that enables colleagues to realise their
 research potential has been a key priority in the UoA. Colleagues on research and teaching
 contracts benefit from a Workload Allocation Model (regularly reviewed to ensure that it captures
 new roles and remains appropriate), which affords an allowance of 40% for research. Radical
 improvements to our planning cycle and, in particular, the investment in a dedicated Curriculum
 and Quality Assurance team, has allowed us to manage teaching and administrative duties
 prospectively. This has meant that colleagues on teaching and research contracts in History
 have been enabled formally to identify a dedicated research day as part of our curriculum
 planning. These efforts are well supported by Edinburgh’s promotion of a range of health and
 wellbeing activities, such as the Counselling Services’ workshops on mindfulness, confidence,


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 presentations, and managing anxiety, mood, perfectionism, sleep, people, pressure,
 procrastination, and time.

 History operates its own scheme of internally-funded leave, which is generous by sectoral
 standards. Colleagues are currently entitled to apply for one semester of leave for every five
 completed semesters of full-time teaching and administration. Periods of maternity/paternity
 and/or statutory sick leave are counted toward this entitlement to apply. From 2019, the scheme
 was amended to recognise the additional challenges faced by colleagues who have taken a
 semester or more of leave for parental or other caring responsibilities. Those colleagues are now
 entitled to enhanced sabbatical accrual (x1.5) for four semesters from taking leave. In June 2020
 the scheme was amended to ensure priority was given to leave applications from those
 colleagues most affected by COVID-19, especially care-givers and BAME colleagues.

 Historians have access to generous internal funding (up to the level £4000 per annum per
 person), administered through a simple application and reporting process, to support conference
 hosting and/or attendance, research travel and expenses, publication expenses, KEI activities,
 and pump-priming projects. This internal funding has been critical in supporting research for and
 completion of key outputs (e.g. Malinowski Nazis and Nobles: The History of a Misalliance) and
 seeding larger projects (e.g. Hunter, ‘Another World? East Africa and the Global 1960s’).
 Responsive funds are supplemented by schemes that provide targeted and incentivised support
 in certain areas. For example, the annual Impact Champion Scheme ringfences a part of
 colleagues’ workload allocation for developing and delivering impact activities and sharing best
 practice more widely.

 This comprehensive package of support from academic and professional services colleagues is
 designed to assist every individual researcher to grow and realise her/his research and impact
 goals and to develop these as part of wider academic roles and careers. The effectiveness of
 our career development mechanisms is demonstrated in a strong record of promotions across
 the census period. There have been 26 promotions within the UoA (academic years 2014/15-
 2019/20). It is notable that 8 of these promotions were of colleagues within five years of their
 appointment (Bartie, Chabal, Huang, Hunter (x2), Mijers, Raffe, Silkenat). Additional evidence of
 the effectiveness with which we foster and develop early career researchers is the career
 destinations of postdoctoral research fellows. Our externally-funded early career fellows
 have been appointed to open-ended lectureships at University of Edinburgh (Carr, Mistry),
 University of St Andrews (Petrie), University of Strathclyde (Whelehan), University College Cork
 (McLaughlin), and University of Georgia (Roth). Our dedicated support for the research
 development of colleagues on temporary and/or teaching-only contracts has yielded
 similar successes, with colleagues moving to permanent posts at the universities of Huddersfield
 (Visana), Manchester (Houghton), Oslo (Nathaus), Portsmouth (Ng), Toronto (More), Yonsei and
 Aberdeen (Bow).

                                       Research Students

 We are home to a large and vibrant Graduate School and we have achieved sustainable growth
 across the census period with the completion of 122.5 doctoral degrees to academic year (up
 71% on REF2014). We currently have 80 students registered on PhD degrees in history, with a
 proportion of female PhD students (50%) higher than national and Russell Group benchmarks. A
 Graduate Director provides strategic leadership and in 2015 the post of Deputy Graduate
 Director with specific responsibility for postgraduate research (PGR) students was
 created. There has been growth in the Graduate School Office, including the appointment from
 2017-18 of a Graduate School Administrator with the specific role of providing support to PGR
 students.

 One key strategic goal since 2014 has been to enhance the training and support in place for
 our PGR community. At MScR and PhD level core courses provide a spine of training (‘Historical
 Research: Skills and Sources’ and ‘Historical Methodology’ for MScR, ‘Professional Skills for
 Historians’ for PhD, fully revised in 2015-16) and supervisors agree tailored training (in e.g.

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 languages, palaeography, statistical methods) according to students’ individual research
 programmes. Our PGR community has full access to the resources and support offered by
 Edinburgh’s Institute for Academic Development (IAD), which includes transferable skills and
 career management training, funding for researcher-led academic networks, and a recognised
 route to work towards HEA Fellowship status (the Edinburgh Teaching Award) for our PGR
 teachers. The AHRC-funded DTP Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities is a rich
 additional source of training and support, offered through its Discipline+ Catalysts, KE Hubs, and
 paid internships.

 PhD students benefit from annual review for each year of their programme at 9 to 12 month
 intervals. The assessors at the first annual review include at least one member external to the
 supervisory team (and for subsequent reviews this is normally the case as well). Assessors
 review a portfolio of written work including a 10,000+ word piece of PhD-level writing, a research
 plan, and a reflective statement of training undertaken in the previous year and/or required in
 subsequent years. From January 2019 our PGR training was expanded and formalised with the
 introduction of Training Needs Assessment for all new PhD entrants, which was extended to
 MScR and on-programme PhD students in the following academic year, 2019-20. This ensures
 that we are closely monitoring, identifying and supporting the training needs of our PGR students
 from the very beginning of their doctoral research. The training needs of each PhD student are
 then reviewed automatically as part of the annual review process.

 PGR students (both MScR and PhD) have access to the Research Student Support Fund,
 which supports UK or overseas research trips and fieldwork and additional training expenses
 and to a dedicated Conference Research Fund to support students presenting papers at
 conferences in the UK or internationally. Since academic year 2013-14 these funds have
 provided just under £100k of support. In addition, the UoA offers a Student-Led Initiative Fund,
 which supports learning and community-building projects led by our students, while PGR
 students have access to wider University funds (e.g. Innovative Initiative Grant and IAD Action
 Fund).

 We are committed to supporting and developing our student teachers. PhD students are
 offered opportunities to teach undergraduate students on a range of courses and recruitment
 has been professionalised so that Guaranteed Hours Contracts are awarded following a
 competitive interview process. Around 40 to 50 of our registered PhD students have been
 engaged in undergraduate teaching in each year of the census period. Building on training
 delivered in collaboration with IAD in 2015-16 a new training and development programme
 (supported by the newly-formed PG and Part-time Tutors Forum) was piloted in 2016-17. All
 PGR teachers in History have access to the Teaching Circle, a forum for the sharing of best
 practice in teaching through reflective seminars and presentations from external speakers.

 Our PGR students have benefited from the support of over 60 substantial scholarship awards
 from internal and external funding sources. These included 16 AHRC Scholarships (from 2014
 from the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities), 5 ESRC Studentships, 3 Wolfson
 Postgraduate Research Scholarships, 2 Leverhulme Trust Project Grants, 2 AHRC Collaborative
 Doctoral Awards, 1 AHRC Project Studentship, 1 Scottish Government PhD Studentship in
 Scottish Diaspora Studies, 1 Japan Student Services Organisation Scholarship for Long-term
 Study in a Foreign Country, and 1 Carnegie PhD Scholarship. We have devoted considerable
 effort and resources to growing our own provision of funded studentships, which was a key
 priority identified in the Graduate School Strategic Plan for 2010-15. These include the
 consolidation of our endowment income to provide 7 competitive School Doctoral Scholarships,
 which cover fees and pay an annual stipend at UKRI rates, and the addition of 5 Fennell
 Doctoral Scholarships on the same terms. These join our established awards (3 Jenny Balston,
 2 Justin Arbuthnott, and 3 William R. McFarlane Scholarships and 6 McMillan awards for on-
 programme PhD students) and competitive schemes at university level (6 Principal’s Career
 Development Scholarships, 3 College Research Awards, 1 Edinburgh Global Doctoral
 Scholarship) to broaden and diversify the range of awards available for the very best starting
 PGR students.

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The aspiration to integrate PGR students more consistently into our research community
 was central to the rationale for reforms to our research environment after 2014. Membership of
 research groups and/or centres has been strongly encouraged for PGR students and following
 dedicated information and discussion sessions in Welcome Week, most starting PGR students
 joined one or more research group or centre in 2019-20. PGR students have played central roles
 in the running of research groups and centres, which have also supported applications for
 funded studentships, where the articulation of the ‘institutional fit’ for PhD projects is an
 important consideration. The research environment provided by our centres for Global History
 and Modern and Contemporary History, for example, was key to successful doctoral applications
 to the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities scholarship competition for students
 with projects examining the radical left and nationalism in Scotland from the 1960s and Medicine
 and transatlantic slavery in the Caribbean.

 We are exceptionally proud of the many and diverse achievements of our PGR historians.
 Growing concerns around employability within and beyond academia have prompted us to
 develop provision concentrating on this theme and targeted at the PGR community. Large
 careers events have been held annually since 2017 and designed in conjunction with the
 Careers Service and Development and Alumni. Our PGR graduates have moved into senior
 positions for a range of employers, many of which appointments serve also to strengthen the
 UoA’s ties with cultural and policy-oriented bodies in Edinburgh and beyond (e.g. UK and
 Scottish Governments, Ipsos MORI, National Museums Scotland).

 Edinburgh’s PGR historians have published world-leading monographs and articles and
 engaged in knowledge exchange and impact activities and collaborations with colleagues at
 Edinburgh and beyond. PGRs who have completed PhDs since 2014 have moved into research
 and/or teaching roles in more than 25 institutions across the world, including permanent
 lectureships at the universities of Exeter, Manchester, and Liverpool John Moores, Aichi
 Prefectural University and Tojo University in Japan, and postdoctoral research positions
 including Durham, Oxford, St Andrews, Sussex, Warburg Insitute, Warwick, Maynooth, NUI
 Galway, Helsinki, Leuven, and Wuhan. They have published high quality monographs and
 research articles in journals including Historical Journal, Historical Research, History, Scottish
 Historical Review, Diplomacy & Statecraft, Studies in Church History, International History
 Review, Journal of Urban History, Radical History Review, and Urban History. Collectively, they
 make a major contribution to the sustainability of the discipline worldwide.

                                      Equality and Diversity

 We achieved an Athena Swan Bronze award in April 2016 and are currently preparing to
 apply for a Silver award in Autumn 2020 (deferred application from April 2020 due to impact of
 COVID-19). One result of these efforts has been much more consistent monitoring of and
 discussion around equality and diversity (E&D) issues within the unit and wider recognition of the
 scale of some of the challenges in this area. Preparations for the bronze application, the action
 plan to which we committed, and greater awareness and engagement with these issues by our
 community have ensured significant progress. In 2016 we appointed an E&D Director, with ex
 officio membership of the School Management Committee and a Deputy E&D Director with
 responsibility for our undergraduate and postgraduate communities. The E&D Director and the
 committee they chair develop policies and routinely collect and analyse data from the biennial
 workplace culture survey and other sources. To promote transparency and awareness, E&D
 committee minutes and survey results are posted on the staff SharePoint and regular updates
 are presented at School Forums and department meetings. We have expanded the E&D pages
 of our website to incorporate dedicated ‘Gender Equality and Athena Swan’, ‘Training’, and
 ‘Events’ pages and links to family-friendly policies, mental health and wellbeing resources, and
 disability, LGBT+ and BAME support groups.

 Progress on gender equality has been tangible around appointments and promotions, which
 have seen significant movement towards greater gender balance within the unit. Within the UoA

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as a whole the proportion of women in the submission has increased from 26% in REF2014 to
 31% in the current submission, with an improved female representation at senior grades UE09
 and 10 (now 56%). Four women were promoted or recruited to UE10 (Professor). Progress is
 measured too in an increased response rate and substantially increased positive responses to
 26 out of 32 questions on the academic staff working culture survey and 19 out of 28 questions
 on the PGR equivalent. There was a 67% increase of staff indicating that they had undertaken
 UoEs ‘Overcoming Unconscious Bias’ training, which is mandatory for office-holders and those
 involved in recruitment.

 A range of measures has contributed toward this demonstrable progress. The E&D Director is a
 member of the HCA promotions committee and there is greater communication and
 transparency about promotions procedures within the unit. A rigorous process of open
 advertisement for all school management and leadership roles has been adopted and this
 has ensured much greater representation of women in these roles and on key committees. In
 2019/20, for example, the School Management Committee embodied an even gender balance (6
 females and 6 males). Structural and procedural reforms have been accompanied by
 developments within the research environment more generally, including the introduction of a
 female PGR mentoring scheme and of group meetings for female academics and PGRs,
 held once a semester off-site, for informal conversation and mentoring. Equality and diversity
 considerations were paramount in reconsidering and reforming the structure and organisation
 of our research environment described above. For example, part of the strategic rationale for
 reconstituting the Centre for Modern Conflict as the Centre for the Study of Modern and
 Contemporary History was to encourage the engagement of a more diverse body of staff and
 PGR students. The Centre has made gender-balanced seminars and events a key part of its
 developing programme. Monitoring access to role models and the gender balance of seminar
 speakers is a substantial part of the Deputy E&D Director role and analysis indicates that since
 2015/16 the average proportion of female seminar speakers in History has risen from 41% to
 48%. Similarly, the formation of new research groups has provided key opportunities for female
 colleagues and 6 women act as conveners or co-conveners of these groups. Members of the
 UoA sit on the steering group of GenderED (L. Jackson, Mistry, Paton), which was launched in
 2017 to showcase and promote research, KE, and impact in gender and sexualities studies at
 UoE. The first challenge moving beyond 2021 is to maintain momentum in our efforts to
 address gender equality. We are conscious, for example, that at 31% the overall proportion of
 women in the unit sits below national (43%) and Russell Group (41%) benchmarks.

 The second challenge is to expand our efforts to take on other areas of equality and
 diversity. Our community is an increasingly cosmopolitan one comprising colleagues from 14
 different nationalities. The efforts to globalise our research expertise support our aspiration to
 further diversity among our staff and students and Edinburgh’s historians are making leading
 contributions to these debates. For example, Budd co-authored the influential Royal Historical
 Society Race, Ethnicity and Equality in UK History: A Report and Resource for Change in 2018,
 while the E&D Deputy Director organised an Equality and Diversity Workshop event in March
 2019 to set strategic priorities and a workshop with our PGR community in May 2019. Ahmed,
 Cunningham, Oosterhoff and Paton were founder members of the RACE.ED initiative,
 established in 2020 to act as a hub for research, teaching and knowledge exchange around
 race, ethnicity and decolonial thought. In July 2020, for example, the network hosted with the
 Edinburgh Centre for Global History a public event, ‘Historians on Dundas and Slavery’,
 providing researchers’ insights at a time of urgent public debate around the legacy and
 memorialisation of a controversial historical figure. Members of the UoA have made major
 contributions to lead the university’s engagement with Black History Month and PGR students
 led the UncoverED research project and exhibition, which aimed to produce social histories of
 the marginalised student experience at Edinburgh. The parallel effort to globalise and diversify
 the research interests represented in the UoA, the revised management structure, which
 ensures leadership on these issues from the E&D Director, and the hard work since 2014 put us
 in a good position to confront these challenges.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In line with the UoE REF2021 Code of Practice, we have adopted an inclusive approach to
 defining ‘independent researcher’ and have embraced the decision to return 100% of eligible
 academic staff, which builds on our inclusive submission to REF2014 (96% of eligible staff). We
 adopted a rigorous, fair, and transparent approach to selection of outputs, fully accounting for
 staff special circumstances which have affected their research activities. The process took full
 account of E&D considerations, building in unconscious bias and E&D training. We also
 established an independent E&D oversight group to review the distribution of outputs across
 staff by gender and career stage (noting that we were unable to access accurate data on other
 protected characteristics because of the voluntary nature of the information and constraints to
 updating personal details).

 The result of this review demonstrated a balanced spread of outputs across gender and career
 stage: 30% of outputs submitted are authored/co-authored by female staff (who comprise 31%
 of our staff, including REF1bs); 38% by ECRs and Grade 8 colleagues (40% of our staff).
 Overall 67% of our staff contributed 2 or more outputs. This we believe is evidence of how our
 inclusive approach to research support has enabled researchers to flourish, across gender and
 career stages.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
                                              Income

 Since REF2014, members of the unit have won external awards totalling £7.9M to undertake
 historical research. This comprises 53 awards, received by 39 members of staff. Our research
 income is distinguished by the wide range of funders from which it comes, the diversity of the
 research and impact activities that it supports, and the various career stages of the researchers
 to whom it has been awarded.

 Our UoA has won 20 awards in excess of £100k. The largest awards have been collaborative
 and interdisciplinary and have been built on our researchers’ links within and beyond UoE.
 Nugent’s ‘African Governance and Space (AFRIGOS)’ project (ERC £1.8M), for example,
 involved colleagues in Edinburgh’s Centre for African Studies and Bates’ ‘“Becoming Coolies”:
 Rethinking the Origins of the Indian Ocean Labour Diaspora’ (AHRC £770k) was built on a
 collaboration with colleagues at Leeds and on the interdisciplinary expertise of Edinburgh’s
 Centre for South Asian Studies.

 Other large and medium awards have been won in areas of established research strengths
 (e.g., Delaney, ‘Global History of the Irish Revolution’ (AHRC £359k); A. Jackson, ‘The Union: A
 New Political History’ (LT £141k); Nenadic, ‘The Business of Art in Scotland, 1700-1900’ (LT
 £112k)) and in areas of strategic focus (e.g. Hunter, ‘Another World: East Africa and the
 Global 1960s’ (LT £371k); Bloxham, ‘Systematic Violence in Global History since 1945’ (LT
 £145k)).

 The further development of a supportive and developmental environment where senior
 professors regard the mentoring of colleagues and peer review of their funding applications as a
 priority has ensured substantial research income generated by colleagues at comparatively
 early career stages (e.g. Legendre ‘The Finances of the Caliphate: Abbasid Fiscal Practice in
 Islamic Late Antiquity’ (ERC £1.2M); Bouras-Vallianatos, ‘Making and Consuming Drugs in the
 Byzantine and Italian Worlds’ (Wellcome £259k); Chabal, ‘An Intellectual Biography of Eric
 Hobsbawm’ (AHRC £176k)). 35% of these larger awards were won by women.

 While the bulk of these larger awards has come from a limited range of established funders the
 unit sustains a very active culture of applications for smaller grants from a much wider range
 of funders (which include Carnegie Trust, Royal Society of Edinburgh, US Embassy in London,
 Irish Department of Foreign Affairs, and Universities China Committee) something which is
 supported by the increased capacity within the local Research, Knowledge Exchange and
 Impact Office. These smaller grants are used to support discrete individual research projects
 and the production of high quality outputs (e.g. McDowell, ‘China in British Visual Culture’

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Carnegie Collaborative Research Grant £5k)); to capitalise on knowledge exchange
 opportunities and enhance the impact of our research (e.g. Zahedieh, ‘The Matter of Slavery in
 Scotland’ (Royal Society of Edinburgh Research Workshop Grant £8k)); or to scope and build
 towards larger projects (e.g. Chabal, ‘Intellectual Biography of Eric Hobsbawm’ Carnegie Grant
 £5k)).

                                          Infrastructure

 These successes are underpinned by an holistic and responsive research support
 infrastructure at Edinburgh and have been enabled through substantial investment since 2014
 in the dedicated local support from the Research, Knowledge Exchange and Impact Office
 (RKEIO). Research strategy is led by the Director of Research, by a Deputy Director of
 Research with responsibility for Impact and Knowledge Exchange, and by a History Research
 Committee.

 Professional support is centred on a substantially restructured RKEIO, which has grown from 3.5
 FTE in 2014 to 5 FTE. We have made a key investment in a senior grade 8 post of Head of
 Research, Knowledge Exchange and Impact to provide experienced leadership and enhance
 the support for the UoA’s research strategy. The RKEIO provides expert assistance for research
 centres and groups and offers tailored support across all areas of research: matching academic
 staff and potential funders, coordinating the rigorous academic peer review of funding
 applications, managing successful awards, and advising on open access and research data
 management. Colleagues are given one-to-one support in developing individual research plans,
 establishing and developing research collaborations, and making applications for external
 funding.

 This improved local support has been especially effective in empowering new colleagues to
 progress quickly to identify and secure sources of research funding (e.g. Blanc, ‘The Prestes
 Column Rebellion’ and ‘Interior History: Rethinking Space and Nation in Brazil’ (both AHRC
 £248k), Gibbings, ‘Geography, Technology, and Political Violence in Cold War Guatemala’
 (BA/LT £10k)). Professionalisation in our RKEIO and the academic leadership provided by the
 Deputy Director for Research (Impact) have ensured that our support for impact directly
 addresses the distinctive opportunities for and challenges faced by historians. These
 enhancements have enabled colleagues to respond quickly where their planned research has
 the potential to impact and inform current public debates (e.g. L. Jackson, ‘Historicizing
 “Historical Child Sexual Abuse”’ was funded under ESRC Urgency Grants Mechanism and
 Davis, ‘The Abortion Act (1967): A Biography’, was supported to impact debates around the 50th
 anniversary of the act).

 Our UoA invests more than £30k annually in direct support for research centres, seminars
 and groups and provides generous individual funding for the development of research and
 impact activities. The creation of research groups was undertaken to provide a more flexible and
 responsive means of supporting developing research interests and collaborations among
 researchers at all career stages. On establishment, each group receives a dedicated annual
 budget (up to £1,750), principally to support research workshop activities, visiting speakers, and
 PGR-led research initiatives. Light-touch set-up and reporting mechanisms ensure these groups
 can adapt to capture the existing and emerging research interests of Edinburgh’s historians. This
 responsive investment complements targeted investment in areas of strategic priority, such as
 the establishment of the Edinburgh Centre for Global History and the Centre for the Study of
 Modern and Contemporary History, each with a dedicated annual operations budget (£4,500),
 which supports workshops and seminars, PGR conferences and workshops, and an annual 3-
 month visiting fellowship in collaboration with the Institute of Advanced Studies in the
 Humanities.

 Local research support is complemented by the rich resources available elsewhere in the
 university. The Edinburgh Research Office provides information events and additional
 expertise and support (e.g. a briefing session by the EU and International Team and subsequent

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 one-to-one support were central to Legendre’s successful ERC Starting Grant, ‘The Finances of
 the Caliphate’, £1.2M). The College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences hosts a dedicated
 Knowledge Exchange and Impact team (5 FTE), whose remit is to support engagement with
 policy makers, practitioners, industry and the public, to enhance the impact of research beyond
 academia. Members of the UoA have benefitted from over £40k in KEI Grants and Challenge
 Investment Funding since 2014.

 Collectively, these changes (along with the mentoring and research review mechanisms
 described in section 2) have seen a transformation of our overall research support
 infrastructure and a shift from reactive ‘one-size-fits-all’ provision to proactive, tailored and
 individualised advice and support.

                                               Facilities

 Historians at Edinburgh have been concentrated since 2010 in the award-winning refurbished
 premises of the west wing of the Old Medical School, designed by the Victorian architect
 Robert Rowand Anderson. Growth in the UoA has seen additional expansion into David Hume
 Tower and listed Georgian buildings on Buccleuch Place. All of these sites are clustered around
 George Square and Edinburgh’s Main Library and situate our historians at the centre of a range
 of local collaborators, both within the University (the School of Social and Political Science
 adjoins our main building and the School of Literatures, Languages and Cultures and the new
 Edinburgh Futures Institute are very nearby) and within the city (we are 0.2 miles from both the
 National Museums Scotland and the National Library of Scotland). The Old Medical School
 building provides office space for all research staff; desk space, computing facilities, and
 research rooms for PGR students; and a large communal social space for staff and
 postgraduates. Our historians have hosted over 700 research events across the census period,
 ranging from small work-in-progress lunches to large international conferences. These have
 been accommodated in a wide range of different bookable and accessible spaces and receive
 administrative support. Our central location at the heart of the city’s historic centre supports our
 continued efforts to contribute to the cultural life of Edinburgh’s citizens, while our dedicated IT
 support and Edinburgh’s investment in VLE and Videoconferencing facilities enabled us to
 sustain a full range of research events following the impact of COVID-19.

 Historical research at Edinburgh benefits from world-class library facilities and a dedicated
 academic support librarian. As well as one of the largest collections of printed books (2M) and
 journals in the UK, the University Library has invested substantially in e-books (1.4M), e-journals
 (185k), and in the large electronic databases which are central to so much current historical
 research. HCA expenditure on print books and e-books has nearly tripled across the census
 period (from £74,132 in 2014-15 to £216,830 in 2019-20). We have over 600 digital primary
 source collections and focused acquisition of major databases has been especially important
 in sustaining existing areas of research strength (e.g. recent purchases of Daily Mail Historical
 Archive and Mass Observation Online for modern British history, African American Newspapers
 series 1 and 2 for modern US history) as well as in resourcing areas of emerging strength and
 strategic investment (e.g. purchases of Archives Unbound and US Foreign Office archives
 databases for global history).

 The Centre for Research Collections curates the university’s extensive collections of rare
 books (over 400,000), manuscripts, and personal and institutional archives (over 6km), which
 support research in a range of areas including Chinese history, early modern religion, the
 Enlightenment, and the history of medicine. Funded research projects (e.g. Budd, ‘Circulating
 Enlightenment’ (AHRC, 2013-15)) and world-leading research outputs (e.g. Fox, Print and the
 People: Cheap Print and the Press in Scotland 1500-1785 (OUP 2020)) make extensive use of
 the university’s own collections, which were central to the student-led collaborative decolonial
 research project UncoverEd, which aimed to produce social histories of the marginalised student
 experience. The proximity of a number of other world-class collections for historical research,
 including the National Library of Scotland, National Records of Scotland, National Museums


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scotland, National Gallery of Scotland, and the Scottish National Portrait Gallery combine with
 these university resources to create an outstanding environment for historical research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Historians at Edinburgh work within a dynamic and thriving collaborative research culture.
 Colleagues frequently engage in collaborative research and publication with historians from
 other institutions around the world, while interdisciplinary collaborations, such as Ugolini’s
 establishment of the Second World War Studies Network Scotland (RSE Research Network
 Award) with colleagues in Anthropology and National Museums Scotland, are enabled by our
 low boundary environment and responsive research support. Our range of institutional
 collaborations runs from established and fruitful partnerships with local institutions to
 leadership of wide-ranging and ambitious international research collaborations, such as Bates’
 ‘Becoming Coolies’ project (AHRC), involving partners in multiple countries. The increasingly
 global orientation of our research effort is supported by Edinburgh’s Global Academies, and
 historians work with colleagues in the Global Development Academy (Bates), and the Global
 Justice Academy (Bloxham, Crang, Gorman, Hilfrich, L. Jackson, Malinowski, Ruiz). The
 University’s Edinburgh Global and our own International Office promote collaboration and co-
 operation with universities abroad and run established and successful Visiting Scholars and
 Visiting PGR Students schemes.

 The breadth of our collaborations is illustrated by the number of our co-produced outputs.
 Edinburgh’s historians have co-authored or co-edited 58 books or journal special issues
 and co-authored 34 articles and essays across the census period. These collaborative
 outputs include path-breaking exploratory work (e.g. Paton’s co-edited special issue of Slavery
 and Abolition on motherhood, childlessness, and care of children in Atlantic slave societies,
 Bowd’s co-edited special issue of Renaissance Studies on animals in Renaissance Italy),
 collaborative co-authored monographs and articles (e.g. Oosterhoff et al, Logodaedalus: Word
 Histories of Ingenuity in Early Modern Europe, L. Jackson with Bartie, Policing Youth: Britain,
 1945-1970) and agenda-setting disciplinary overviews (e.g. Davis, Palgrave Handbook of
 Infertility in History: Approaches, Contexts and Perspectives, A. Jackson, Oxford Handbook of
 Modern Irish History, Crowcroft/Pentland, Oxford Handbook of Modern British Political History,
 1800-2000) and have involved scholars from across the globe.

 Many of these collaborative outputs had origins in seminars, conferences, workshops, or
 other events. Edinburgh benefits from a central location, state-of-the-art facilities and dedicated
 research support in the form of an events team to sustain a huge number of collaborative
 activities. Since 2013-14 we have hosted over 700 individual seminars and workshops, around
 50 public lectures, and 20 major conferences. We value the full range of these events, which run
 from small, tightly-focused workshops designed to integrate PGR students into collaborative
 research, to major international conferences and congresses.

 Formal collaborations were central to a number of large awards. Bates’ ‘Becoming Coolies’
 project (AHRC) was based on research conducted all around the Indian Ocean region with
 collaboration from local academics in Sri Lanka, Malaysia, Singapore, Myanmar, Mauritius, India
 and South Africa. Delaney’s ‘A Global History of Irish Revolution’ (AHRC) was a major
 collaboration between leading UK centres for the study of modern Irish history and involved
 scholars from Ireland, the US, Canada, Australia and New Zealand. Colleagues have been
 active in establishing and participating in collaborative research networks. Zahedieh’s ‘The
 Matter of Slavery in Scotland’ (RSE Research Workshop Grant) brought together historians,
 curators, teachers and charities to explore the material culture of Scotland’s past relationship
 with slavery and engaged wider audiences with two public lectures from Jennifer Anderson
 (Stony Brook, NY) and Beverley Lemire (Alberta). Carr’s ‘Medieval Mediterranean Exchanges:
 New Approaches and Collaborations’ (BA Rising Star Engagement Award) involves
 collaboration between PGRs, ECRs and heritage professionals. Bowd’s ‘Shadow Agents of War:
 Italy, 1480-1530’ (Edinburgh Global Partnership Collaboration Award) builds on an institutional
 partnership with Sydney to collaborate on transforming the way we think about pre-modern war.

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We see collaborative activities as a key means of enhancing the experience of PGRs at
 Edinburgh and of integrating them into our research culture. For example, Irish historians at
 Edinburgh hold regular joint PhD research workshops with the modern Irish history group at the
 University of Cambridge. American historians run an established collaboration, the Global Dome
 PhD Dissertation Accelerator programme, with the Universities of Oxford, Heidelburg and Notre
 Dame, which holds intensive workshops with the aims of developing participants’ PhD projects
 and fostering international and interdisciplinary networks.

 Links with other universities are enriched and stand alongside relationships with a range of other
 institutions in Edinburgh, the UK, and internationally. Edinburgh’s historians are in a privileged
 position through their proximity to a number of national cultural and political institutions with
 whom to develop relationships. For example, institutional-level Memoranda of Understanding
 underpin and formalise the longstanding and fruitful links between members of the UoA and the
 National Museums Scotland (2014), the National Library of Scotland, and the Edinburgh
 Filmhouse (2015). Historians have collaborated with all three of these institutions in a number of
 areas across the census period including: exhibitions and film series (Delaney, McDowall,
 Mason, Nenadic, Pentland); funded research workshops and projects (Budd, Ugolini, Zahedieh);
 publications (Ugolini); and the supervision of collaborative doctoral awards (Nenadic, Pentland).
 These collaborations enrich the research culture at Edinburgh and the focus on PGR
 employability has helped to create strong links that underpin some of these collaborations (e.g.
 recent appointments of Edinburgh PGRs to curatorial posts at NMS in Modern and
 Contemporary and Modern and Military).

 Our strong group of modern and contemporary historians has forged effective relationships
 with policy- and decision-making bodies. Collaborative projects have addressed areas of
 national and international priority (e.g. Chabal, ‘Seeing Illegal Immigrants’ (ESRC), L. Jackson,
 ‘Historicizing “Historical Child Sexual Abuse”’ (ESRC)), while Edinburgh’s historians have
 contributed regularly to discussions within the Scottish Parliament (e.g. N. Gentz as a member of
 the Scottish Cross-Party Group on China), within the UK Parliament and government bodies
 (e.g. A. Jackson lecture to Constitution Group, Cabinet Office, L. Jackson co-author of report to
 HM Prison and Probation Service, Safeguarding Children in the Secure Estate 1960-2016, Chick
 presentation to Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, Crowcroft contribution
 to Cabinet Office roundtable on the Fixed-term Parliaments Act 2011) and to other decision-
 making and policy-oriented organisations.

 Historians at Edinburgh are committed to engaging wide and diverse audiences with their
 research. Researchers regularly share their research with local schools, through local historical
 associations, and through inclusive public events. Delaney and Mason, for example, have run
 successful film series featuring Q and A sessions with historians through the Edinburgh
 Filmhouse and the Scottish Parliament’s annual Festival of Politics. L. Jackson’s collaboration
 with the British Association of Women in Policing generated an exhibition which has been
 displayed at an international policing conference in Cardiff, the British Library, and 6 other
 venues across the UK. Our historians engage wide audiences through dedicated podcasts and
 contributions to print and online media, which use research to contextualise and enhance
 understanding of pressing national and international priorities. Examples include the American
 History ‘Whiskey Rebellion’ podcast, and Chabal and Malinowski’s contributions to online and
 print media around the EU Referendum and Brexit. Some of the largest audiences for our
 research have been reached via contributions to television and film. Examples in addition to
 those included in impact case studies are Lauchlan’s contribution to the ZDF documentary on
 Russia’s secret intelligence services, The Sword and the Shield, and Crowcroft’s consultation on
 the script for the academy-award winning 2017 film Darkest Hour.

 Historians at Edinburgh play leading roles in contributing to the sustainability of the discipline.
 During all or part of the census period, colleagues were active as editors of leading scholarly
 journals, including Contemporary European History (Chabal as reviews editor), History
 Workshop Journal (Paton as member of editorial collective), Journal of Modern African Studies

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Nugent), Journal of Scottish Historical Studies (Cameron), Social History (L. Jackson), The
 Medieval Journal (Sowerby as reviews editor) and as editors of book series (e.g. Elitenwandel
 in der Moderne (Malinowski), Gender and Slavery (Paton), Mental Health in Historical
 Perspective (Davis), Passold Studies in Textile, Dress and Fashion History (Nenadic),
 Reappraisals in Irish History (Delaney)). Membership of editorial boards of journals and other
 scholarly resources is widespread (titles include British History Online, British Journal of Chinese
 Studies, Contemporary British History, Economic History Review, Early Popular Visual Culture,
 Grotiana, History of Parliament, History of Psychiatry, International Communication of Chinese
 Culture, Journal of Eastern African Studies, Journal of Modern African Studies, Modern
 Intellectual History, Slavery and Abolition, Social History, and Women’s History Review).
 Historians play crucial roles within Edinburgh University Press, one of the UKs leading
 university presses and a major publisher of books and journals in the humanities and social
 sciences. Cameron is chair and A. Jackson a member of the board of trustees, which holds
 ultimate responsibility for the conduct of the business of the press, while Newman and Pentland
 sit on the Press Committee. Collectively this involvement in academic publishing has provided
 colleagues with a powerful platform for engaging with and influencing current debates around
 open access within the humanities.

 Colleagues are similarly active in their participation as part of research councils and grants
 committees and our efforts to enhance in-house peer review has helped to build capacity in this
 area. Currently four colleagues have been appointed as academic reviewers to the AHRC peer
 review council (Mijers, Paton, Pentland, Nenadic) and Nenadic also acts as a Knowledge
 Transfer reviewer. Two colleagues are members of the ESRC peer review college (Chick and L.
 Jackson). In addition colleagues act widely for other reviewing bodies (e.g. Irish Research
 Council, European Science Foundation, British Academy East Asia Panel), with senior
 colleagues playing leading roles within these bodies. For example Davis chairs the Humanities
 and Social Science Research Resources Committee of the Wellcome Trust and serves on the
 Medical Humanities Interview Committee and A. Jackson has chaired the International
 Assessment Committee for the Irish Research Council’s postdoctoral competition, the Carnegie
 Trust’s Collaborative Research Grants competition, and the International Evaluation Panel for
 the Groeningen Research Institute for the Study of Culture. Members of the UoA play active
 roles on international advisory boards for a range of research bodies (e.g. Alliance for
 Research on East Asia, Ruhr (N. Gentz), International Center for Jefferson Studies, Monticello
 (Cogliano), International Consortium for Research in the Humanities, U of Erlangen-Nuremberg
 (J. Gentz), Merian Institute for Advanced Studies in Africa, U of Ghana (Nugent)).

 The work of Edinburgh’s historians has been recognised through the award of competitive
 visiting fellowships, research and book prizes, and membership of learned and professional
 societies. Colleagues are supported in applications for competitive visiting fellowships, which
 enhance individual research activities, and provide opportunities for collaboration and
 engagement with new audiences. Examples held across the census period include All Souls,
 Oxford (Zahedieh), Australian National University (Pentland), as Quentin Skinner Fellow in
 Modern Intellectual History, Cambridge (Hunter), Cambridge (Crowcroft), International Center for
 Jefferson Studies, Monticello (Cogliano), Monash University (Bloxham), Mount Vernon
 (Cogliano), Stanford Humanities Center (Cogliano), Wilson Center, Washington DC (Boecking).

 The work of historians has been nominated for and awarded prestigious prizes, including the
 RHS Gladstone History Book Prize (Hunter, 2015), James Alexander Robertson Prize (Gibbings,
 2016), BSECS Prize for Digital Resources (Budd, 2016), Bethwell A. Ogot Prize (Hunter, finalist,
 2016), Elsa Goveia Prize (Paton, 2017), North Caroliniana Book Prize (Silkenat, 2017), RHS
 Whitfield prize (Sowerby, shortlisted, 2017), International Society of Anglo-Saxonists Best First
 Book Prize (Sowerby, 2017), Ecclesiastical History Society Book Prize (Sowerby, 2017), RHS
 Public History Prize (L. Jackson, Public Debate and Policy category, 2018), German History
 Best Article Prize (Gibbings, 2018), Fritz Theodor Epstein Prize (Turkowska, 2018) Gilder
 Lehrman Lincoln Prize (Silkenat, finalist, 2020). 32 colleagues are Fellows of the Royal Historical
 Society and senior colleagues have been made Fellows of a number of other prestigious learned


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 societies during the census period (e.g. Academy of Social Sciences (Zahedieh), Royal Irish
 Academy (A. Jackson), Royal Society of Edinburgh (N. Gentz)).

 In sum, history at Edinburgh is distinguished by the high value placed on both academic
 interaction and on individual scholarship, the range of our impact activities and of the audiences
 we seek to engage with our research, and the consistent and widespread contributions we make
 to sustaining the discipline and nurturing the next generation of scholars.




                                                                                            Page 20
