Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Keele University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Introduction
 The Keele Law School is an exemplar of an academic research unit, producing world class, critical,
 cutting-edge and socially relevant research. A group of talented and enthusiastic academics
 explore Law from diverse methodological and theoretical frameworks, including socio-legal,
 doctrinal and philosophical perspectives. As will be demonstrated, our research is outward looking,
 compelling and innovative. It has impacted perceptibly on contemporary legal thinking and
 contributed internationally to the understanding of some of the most pressing challenges facing
 society today, ranging from the impact of Covid-19 to transgender law reform, access to justice
 and climate change.

 Unit Context and Research Structure
 At Keele, the PVC for Research and Enterprise leads the University’s overall research strategy
 alongside the Directorate of Research, Innovation and Engagement (RIE), overseen by the
 University Research Committee. At Faculty level, the Dean of Research chairs the Faculty
 Research Committee comprising Heads of School, School Research Directors, Unit of
 Assessment Leads and professional services colleagues from RIE and provides proactive support,
 at individual and School level, for development of research strategy, priorities and performance.

 The Law School has an effective and inclusive research infrastructure led by the Head of School
 (Brammer) and School Research Director (Obokata) and supported by the School Research
 Committee (comprising School Research Director, Head of School, Research Impact Lead (Raj),
 PGR Director (Emmerich), and Chair of the School Ethics Committee (Moreton). Beyond the focus
 on developing and implementing research strategy and evaluating research performance, the
 overarching emphasis is upon supporting and nurturing the full range of research activities for all
 academic colleagues. This includes guidance on research planning, informal and formal appraisal
 processes, allocation of internal research funds and integration of PGRs into School life. This
 synergy has generated a research culture that is dynamic, exciting and, moreover, thriving within
 the School.

 Individual and collaborative research is facilitated through the in-house cluster structure which
 reflects the interests and expertise of Law colleagues and supports the Faculty and University
 research strategies. The clusters provide a collegiate, interactive and egalitarian environment
 where colleagues, at all stages of their careers, can share, explore and disseminate their
 respective research pursuits in a mutually supportive atmosphere. The School is committed to
 maintaining and innovating research clusters that play to our research strengths and reflect the
 interests of changing personnel. For example, the initiative was recently taken to streamline the
 cluster structure, by a reduction from seven to five clusters, in order to better reflect the existing
 research strengths. The present research clusters are:

 • Social Justice and Human Rights (SJHR)
 SJHR members apply doctrinal, empirical and other methods to diverse legal settings, raising
 issues of social justice and human rights. The theoretical frameworks are impressively far ranging
 and include critical, feminist, queer, Marxist, materialist, and postmodern theories, alongside moral
 and political philosophies. SJHR colleagues understand law as a regulatory tool constitutive of
 broader social relations. Law is therefore approached critically as both productive of inequality and
 injustice and as a vehicle for advancing social justice.

 ● International and European Law (IEL)
 IEL is a fast-growing area of research expertise within the Law School, combining policy analyses
 with jurisprudential, critical, postcolonial and feminist theories. Members use a range of methods
 and perspectives to explore such leading-edge transnational issues as climate change, global

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pandemics, modern slavery or forced migration. The cluster is also home to academics
 specialising in European Union law and working on live questions such as data privacy, EU trade
 and investment policies, the EU judiciary and Brexit.

 ● Legal Education, Innovation and Practice (LEIP)
 LEIP members conduct research on the pedagogical and wider issues in legal education. This
 new cluster was introduced to reflect growing research strength in the area. Using interdisciplinary
 methods (sociological, anthropological, historical and philosophical), LEIP members have
 produced research that has led to direct and productive engagement with key policymakers, such
 as the Ministry of Justice, the Law Society, the Law Commission, the Solicitors Regulation
 Authority, the Bar Standards Board, the Quality Assurance Agency and the Nuffield Foundation.

 ● Ethics, Health and Social Care (EHSC)
 This cluster builds upon the School’s longstanding tradition of excellence in applied ethics and
 philosophy, socio-legal scholarship and justice as applied to areas of health and social care.
 EHSC colleagues utilise a far-reaching range of theoretical approaches to address important and
 highly germane questions of policy, ethics and healthcare governance. This coverage includes
 regulation theory, ethical theory, analytical philosophy, conceptual analysis, theories of kinship,
 analysis of legal rights discourse, theories of distributive justice, Foucauldian analysis and field
 studies.

 ● Gender, Sexuality and Law (GSL)
 Keele has deservedly enjoyed a long-established and distinguished research reputation in the
 field of Gender, Sexuality and Law. Our GSL research is highly inter-disciplinary and makes
 important theoretical and policy interventions on contemporary subjects such as transgender law
 reform, penal sociology, sexual citizenship or gender relations in the context of neoliberalism.

 Each cluster lead facilitates/coordinates research activities (SJHR – Varney, IEL – Eccleston-
 Turner, LEIP – Coyle, EHSC – Pritchard-Jones, and GSL – Raj). Many colleagues belong to more
 than one cluster, demonstrating the confluent, interconnected and interdisciplinary nature of our
 research.

 All clusters facilitate rigorous peer-review of draft publications, serve as a springboard for research
 ideas and enable more systematic research collaboration and engagement. PGR students are
 also supported by clusters and are offered opportunities to present their research and prepare for
 their viva. Clusters also host an impressive range of research seminars and public lecture series,
 including the Thornberry Annual Lectures on International Law and Human Rights; the Royal
 Institute of Philosophy Seminars on Healthcare Ethics; the Social Work Law Seminar Series and
 the Gender, Sexuality and Law Seminar Series.

 Current School Research Strategy
 The School adopted its “Research Strategy 2015-2020” immediately after REF 2014, with the
 overarching aim to “realise and improve on our position as last assessed in REF2014,
 building a vibrant and diverse research culture, with measures to support increasing
 proportion of 4* outputs, research income and externally funded PhD students.”

 At its core, the School Research Strategy has guided the unit over the assessment period to
 enhance the contribution to the subject through production of quality outputs and
 impactful research. The research clusters provide an important vehicle to enable an environment
 where these goals can be realised.

 There has been significant progress against the five priority areas identified within the strategy:

 To support staff, in a career sensitive way, to produce high-quality research publications
 with a special emphasis on increasing the proportion of 4* outputs to the range of 30% of
 submitted outputs


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In REF 2014, 60.8% of outputs were rated as internationally excellent, with 17.6% receiving a 4*
 rating. The School aims to enhance the quality of research outputs in REF 2021, by placing an
 emphasis on producing quality rather than quantity. Clearer expectations in terms of publication
 outputs have been developed and now feature in academic role expectations, appraisal
 discussions and promotion criteria.

 Under the oversight of the School Research Director, each cluster has formalized review of draft
 outputs so that colleagues can receive feedback. This review mechanism is strengthened by the
 School-wide “Work in Progress Seminars” (3 per semester), allowing colleagues to present draft
 publications to their peers for further reflection and improvement. These arrangements have
 contributed to the enhancement of research, collaboration and collegiality within the School.

 One clear achievement since REF 2014 is that the number of academic staff submitted for REF
 2021 has increased by 57%, demonstrating that the School continues to recruit and nurture
 excellent researchers. It is a testament to our research culture that the School submission has
 100% intensity.

 During the current assessment period, Law colleagues have published in an array of highly
 regarded journals in their respective fields, including: the Lancet, Medical Law Review, Yale
 Human Rights and Development Law Journal, Human Rights Law Review, Common Market Law
 Review, Criminal Law Review, European Journal of Crime, Bioethics, International Journal of
 Human Rights, Asian Journal of International Law, Criminal Law and Criminal Justice, Houston
 Journal of International Law, International Journal of Law & Psychiatry, International Journal of
 Refugee Law, Journal of Social Welfare & Family Law, Journal of Business Law and Journal of
 Medical Ethics. Colleagues have also published in high quality general journals such as the
 Modern Law Review, Cambridge Law Journal, and Northern Ireland Legal Quarterly.
 Monographs, edited collections, as well as book chapters have also been published by leading
 publishers such as Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press, Hart Publishing, Edward
 Elgar, Palgrave Macmillan, and Routledge.

 To increase research grant income, especially from UKRI grants over £100,000, in a career-
 stage sensitive way, in the context of a whole school target of £150,000 per year on average

 The total number of funding applications during the current assessment period is 71, 18% higher
 than REF 2014. This substantial increase demonstrates the heightened commitment by Law
 colleagues to facilitate funded research. Colleagues have applied to several UKRI schemes,
 charity organisations (Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome Trust, Nuffield Foundation, Dunhill Medical
 Trust, Barrow-Cadbury Trust, Open Philanthropy, John Templeton Foundation), as well as other
 bodies (Socio-Legal Studies Association, Society of Legal Scholars, European Union, Hall Smith
 Whittingham Solicitors LLP, Independent Social Research Foundation and Information
 Commissioner’s Office).

 In terms of research grant awards during the current assessment period, the School secured
 £736,778 (Spend £490,801). Aside from the LEIP research cluster which was only established in
 2019, all other clusters have been highly successful in securing external research grants.
 Examples include:

 •   Allo – ‘More Than Just Words: An Inquiry into the Transformative Promise of ‘Solidarity’ and
     ‘Medemer’ in Ethiopia’s Transition to Democracy’ (£27,172 – AHRC)
 •   Brammer, ESRC Seminar Series ‘The Care Act 2014: A New Legal Framework for
     Safeguarding Adults in Civil Society’ (£28,837 - ESRC)
 •   Eccleston-Turner, ‘Assessing the Viability of Access and Benefit-Sharing Models of Equitable
     Distribution of Vaccines in International Law’ (£130,000 – AHRC COVID-19 Rapid Response
     Call)
 •   Emmerich - ‘Swimming against the Current: Women, Prison Reform and Resistance’ (£52,203
     – Leverhulme)


                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Obokata (PI) and Ramezankhah (CoI) – ‘Sharing Good Practices in Protection of Workers and
     Victims of Modern Slavery during the COVID-19 Pandemic) (£74,287 – AHRC COVID-19
     Rapid Response Call)
 •   Pritchard-Jones (PI), Eccleston-Turner (CI) and Brammer (CI), ‘Adult Social Care and
     Safeguarding During COVID-19: A Large-Scale Mix Methods Study’ (£106,824 – The Health
     Foundation)
 •   Sharpe – ‘The Sexual Ethics of Intimacy: The Case of Nondisclosure of Gender History’
     (£42,319 – Leverhulme)
 •   Wrigley – ‘Hope and Death: Despair and Absolute Hope in the Face of Inevitable Death’
     (£46,988 – John Templeton Foundation)

 To enhance the visibility of our research to academic and non-academic audiences,
 including policymakers, relevant stakeholders, current and potential students, alumni and
 the general public; and to enhance the research impact in terms of informing policy debates
 and positively engaging with local, national and international communities

 A notable change the School has made in order to strengthen this aspect after REF 2014 is the
 creation of the post of “Research Impact Lead” (RIL). This role is assumed by a colleague (Raj)
 who has proven experience of impact generation and maximization. RIL assists colleagues in
 improving their research impact, raises awareness on wider issues including public engagement
 and contributions to economy and society, and identifies/disseminates of impact opportunities.

 This support structure has positively encouraged Law colleagues to generate and maximise
 impact. This is demonstrated through our Impact Case Studies which reflect work from 3 clusters
 (SJHR, GSL and EHSC). Sharpe’s work on prosecution of young trans people for non-disclosure
 of their gender history prior to sexual intimacies has influenced the practice and strategies of
 criminal law barristers and CPS regarding reformulation of sexual offence guidelines as they
 pertain to trans suspects. Krishnadas’ application of a “transformative methodology” designed to
 trace the lived experience of person’s seeking access to rights to housing, livelihood and family
 life, continues to enable those in need at the local level to access justice through the award-
 winning CLOCK (Community Legal Outreach Collaboration, Keele) initiative, which has now been
 taken up nationally by a number of universities, including Leicester, Oxford Brookes, Sussex,
 Wolverhampton and York. Wrigley’s research on ethics on the margins of life (beginnings and
 ends) had national and international policy impacts. A policy paper produced for the Nuffield
 Council on Bioethics (an independent body providing advice on ethical issues in biology and
 medicine) has been endorsed by ethics advisory councils in the UK, Germany and France, and
 discussed by the House of Commons Science and Technology Committee. Haley’s work on
 business tenancies was cited by counsel for both sides before the Supreme Court in S. Franses
 v Cavendish Hotel and Haley & McMurtry’s text on Equity and Trusts was relied upon both in a
 decision of the High Court of Singapore and findings of the Supreme Court of British Columbia.

 To increase the number and quality of PGRs, with a focus on externally funded PGRs and
 maximise their contributions to the School’s research environment; and to increase
 supervision capacity

 This has been achieved through:

 ●   Building effective collaborative relationships within the AHRC Centre for Doctoral Training, and
     working with Faculty on potential ESRC studentship bids
 ●   Working closely with high-achieving UG and PGT students
 ●   Maintaining regular Graduate Teaching Assistantships in the School budget
 ●   Increasing the number of trained PGR supervisors within the School

 In order to encourage PGR applications, the School informs PGT students of PhD opportunities
 regularly. The PGR Lead (Emmerich) hosts informal workshops for this purpose. Internal and
 external applicants are encouraged to contact prospective supervisors to discuss their research


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 proposals informally before application. This increases their chances of success in obtaining a
 place and in securing internal or external funding.

 During the assessment period the average number of PGR awards each year has increased by
 58%, with 31 awards in REF 2021 and 14 awards in REF 2014. PGR intake within the School
 during the current assessment period has increased with the PGR population during this REF
 period reaching 98 FTE. The School has also had success in attracting externally funded research
 students. In 2018, out of 4 studentships available from the ESRC funded North West Social
 Science Doctoral Training Programme, the School was awarded two studentships (one ESRC
 CASE studentship and one standard studentship). The School has also been awarded two AHRC
 studentships and a further ESRC CASE studentship during the assessment period. It recently
 introduced a 1+3 Programme where students undertaking an LLM in Law and Society can move
 on to do a PhD degree. The School also continues to attract high quality students internationally
 who have come from countries including Iraq, Israel, Kenya, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab
 Emirates. These demonstrate wide recognition of the School’s research expertise and its
 supportive research environment.

 To strive towards an environment that creates a robust, collegial and egalitarian research
 community, enabling high-quality researchers to thrive and progress at Keele.
 This priority underpins all research activities and vividly characterises the ethos of the School. A
 number of achievements are illustrated throughout this document.


 Interdisciplinary Research within the School

 Interdisciplinarity is central to Keele’s ethos as an institution. When it was established, the
 University espoused the breaking down of disciplinary boundaries as a founding principle. True to
 Keele’s history and intellectual tradition, the School’s research strategy rightly assumes an
 interdisciplinarity ethos.

 The School enjoys a highly distinctive profile in UK academia by bringing together legal academics
 and professional ethicists. It is home to PEAK – Centre for Professional Ethics at Keele – a leading
 centre for research and teaching in ethics for over many years and a regular funded host of the
 Royal Institute of Philosophy seminar series in Healthcare Ethics and Law. The Centre is engaged
 in vanguard research in areas of applied and professional ethics such as bioethics, new genetic
 technologies, ethics at the end of life, commercial exploitation of the human body, and ethics of
 policing and criminal justice. The School also has a long-standing reputation for research
 excellence and innovation in areas such as legal philosophy, socio-legal studies, and queer
 approaches to law, all of which are inherently interdisciplinary.

 The School aims to bridge some of the conventional divides between its core subject areas and
 (other) social science and humanities subjects. As an example, Brammer successfully led an
 ESRC Seminar Series on Care Act 2014 which brought together scholars from law, sociology,
 social work, as well as health and social care professionals working in the field.

 At Faculty level, the Keele Institute for Social Inclusion (KISI) plays a key role in facilitating
 interdisciplinary research. Law colleagues, particularly in the EHSC cluster, have taken advantage
 of various opportunities offered through KISI. For instance, Pritchard-Jones obtained financial
 assistance to organise a one-day conference on the theme of “Dementia, Disability and Human
 Rights” (June 2019), which included researchers from several disciplines as well as stakeholders
 working in relevant fields. Moreton, Wrigley and Santantzoglou, together with colleagues from
 Keele Business School and the School of Nursing and Midwifery, hosted a conference in 2018 on
 the role of compassion in decision-making when working with vulnerable people. Law colleagues
 have also collaborated with other colleagues at University level, through the Institute of Global
 Health and the Institute of Sustainable Futures. Eccleston-Turner’s work on global health law and
 regulation provides a noteworthy example.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open access

 The School is at the forefront of developing an open research environment. Research outputs are
 made openly available (this practice began in advance of the current REF policy) and ensures the
 100% open access compliance for REF 2021. The School goes beyond the REF policy by also
 making over 31 book chapters and commentary pieces openly available for others to utilise. The
 School works with partners to seek external funding for open research and, where this has not
 been possible, effectively utilises Keele's research repository.

 An exciting initiative contributing to development of an open access environment within the School
 is the establishment, in 2020, of the “Keele Law Review”. This new, open access, peer reviewed
 journal seeks to publish articles within all areas relating to law and related disciplines, including:
 moral philosophy, criminology, social work, and political theory. The scope of the Journal
 emphasising the School’s commitment to interdisciplinary research. Under the leadership of
 Nehushtan (Editor in Chief), it is to be published online biannually and its editorial board includes
 prominent international scholars. A student editorial board supports the journal and builds
 research capacity.

 Research integrity
 Keele has an Academic Lead for Research Integrity and Improvement who is also the main contact
 for the UK Reproducibility Network. This post leads Keele’s network of research integrity
 champions and works closely with the Project Assurance Research Integrity team to deliver the
 University’s research integrity and reproducibility strategy. Within the Faculty of Humanities and
 Social Sciences, there is a Lead for Research Integrity. This post ensures that there is a
 methodological and discipline appropriate approach to Research Integrity within the School and
 Faculty. Through this, the Faculty has adopted a discipline and methodology specific approach to
 research integrity. Further, CPD training for current staff, as well as PhD students in research
 integrity is available.

 The School has its own research ethics committee (headed by Moreton) for student projects. Law
 staff have served on the Faculty and University Committees on Research Governance and Ethics
 (Jacob, Bradney, Obokata, Wrigley) and have promoted changes to disciplinary based research
 ethics regulation. In addition, Eccleston-Turner was, in 2020, appointed as the Faculty Research
 Integrity Champion.

 Research projects undergo rigorous internal scrutiny in order to ensure research ethics and
 integrity are reflected in all aspects of projects.

 Research Aims and Objectives over the Next 5 Years

 The School Executive Group and Research Committee met during the academic year 2019-2020
 to review the implementation of the research strategy and set aims and objectives for the next 5
 years.

 While it has been agreed to maintain all key aims described above, the School decided to place
 focused attention on three areas in the future:
     • Intensifying efforts to increase external research income. With the support available from
         the Faculty and the University, the School will create more opportunities for Law colleagues
         to improve their grant writing skills through workshops and peer mentoring.
         Communication regarding funding opportunities will also be strengthened so that they can
         identify appropriate funding streams based on their research interests/expertise.
     • Reinvigorate the recruitment of PGRs from diverse backgrounds through more effective
         marketing and proactive communication of our research achievements, with a view to
         attracting high quality students both nationally and internationally. The School will also
         facilitate targeted recruitment by developing research and teaching links with academic
         institutions particularly from overseas. The School Research Director will work with other
         colleagues within the School, such as PGR Lead, EDI Director (Tzanous), School Directors

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        of Internationalisation (Fay) and Marketing (Prost), as well as relevant Faculty/University
        colleagues, including the newly established Keele Doctoral Academy, to fashion a
        coherent strategy and to monitor closely its implementation during the next 5 years.
    •   Intensify efforts to internationalise research activities. As evident throughout this
        document, the research activities of Law colleagues are consistently outward-looking. This
        is demonstrated, among other, via joint publications and funded projects with international
        scholars and knowledge transfer/public engagement with international beneficiaries (e.g.
        foreign governments and regional/international organisations). The School intends to build
        upon these achievements and internationalise its research activities further. The School
        Research Director will work closely with the School Director of Internationalisation to
        identify opportunities and encourage Law colleagues to engage in international research.
        The School will also work with the University’s three key research institutes: Institute for
        Global Health, Institute for Social Inclusion and Institute for Sustainable Futures to actively
        promote interdisciplinary research with international academic and non-academic
        partners.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 The School’s staffing approach focuses on its research strategy, learning and teaching priorities
 and its Athena SWAN Action Plan (updated in October 2020). The School has made regular new
 appointments during the assessment period - Moreton (2015), Ramezankhah (2015), von Papp
 (2015), Pritchard-Jones (2016), Allo (2016), Eccleston-Turner (2017), Raj (2017), Richards
 (2017), Westwood (2017), McRae (2018), Tascioglu (2019), Treloar (2019), Pearson (2019), Allen
 (2019), Saunders (2019), Cotter (2019) and Gaspar-Szilagyi (2019). Two further appointments
 were made in 2020 to start in 2021 (Faulkner and Higson-Bliss). The research expertise and
 interests of all such appointees align with key School research strengths as represented by the
 cluster structure. Four professors who retired recently (Bradney, Cocks, Cownie, and Wasik) have
 become emeritus professors and continue to contribute to the work of the School, particularly
 through publication of high-quality research outputs. The School prides itself on the international
 breadth of its research staff who presently come from 14 countries on four continents.

 The School has a long-standing and passionate commitment to gender and other forms of equality,
 evidence through our support for female colleagues in the School enrolling on the Transitions to
 Leadership Programme. Since REF 2014, it has been proactive in implementing better gender
 representation in alignment with Athena Swan principles. The School was awarded an Athena
 SWAN Bronze award in November 2017 (renewed until April 2022). The University also received
 a Race Equality Charter Bronze Award from Advance HE in May 2019, one of only 12 universities
 achieving this distinction. As of March 2020, 51% of academic staff are female; 41% are
 international and 16% come from a BAME background. All vacancies advertised on the Keele
 University website include the Disability Confident, Athena SWAN and Stonewall logos. LGBTi
 role models occupy senior positions, including the Faculty Dean for Research. Colleagues take
 part in the recruitment process regardless of their career stages and all undergo recruitment
 training (including unconscious bias, bullying and harassment and other EDI issues) which they
 update every two years. The training is designed to alert colleagues to equality issues, including
 questions relating to unconscious bias, and ways of dealing with such matters.

 The School prefers to appoint to permanent contracts. Where it is only possible to appoint to fixed-
 term contracts the School seeks to make those permanent as soon as possible. All staff submitted
 for REF have permanent contracts.

 Mentoring/Training ECRs

 The school is committed to Vitae's Concordat for Promoting Excellence in Research. ECRs are
 typically placed on probation for 2-3 years in line with the University Policy on Academic Probation.
 During this period, teaching and administrative loads are reduced, allowing an appropriate amount

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of time to be spent on research as well as on other activities necessary to pass probation. The
 Head of School assigns experienced colleagues to mentor each ECR. Research mentoring is
 acknowledged in the School’s Work Allocation Model, recognizing the importance of developing
 ECRs. Mentors provide advice and encouragement as to research opportunities and instil the
 importance of publications and grant applications from the outset. Each mentee’s progress is
 monitored by the School Research Director through the examination of annual research plans,
 and ECRs are also integrated into the research clusters where wider support is provided.

 Staff Development and Retention

 All researchers are required to submit an annual research plan. The plan sets out past and current
 achievements, documents research activities and, crucially, outlines future research planning.
 Individual plans are monitored by the School Research Director and inform annual appraisal
 processes. Appraisals provide opportunities to review research objectives and progress, set
 attainable targets and discuss the reviewee’s annual research plans. These meetings are guided
 by the University’s Academic Role Expectations, so that objectives are clear and appropriate to
 career stage. Accordingly, such appraisals establish a structured, supportive, and consistent
 approach to research and career planning over an extended period. They also enable the Head
 of School to consider EDI issues, identify training needs and allocate resources.

 Colleagues with significant responsibility for research receive an allowance (on average 20%) to
 engage in research. Additional time is allocated when colleagues prepare for and secure external
 funding to carry out major research projects or engage in other significant research activities.

 Research clusters provide opportunities for colleagues to enhance the quality of publications
 through presentations and peer review. The School also offers workshops on grant writing and
 impact generation. Outside of the School, the University’s Academic Development Team provides
 short professional development modules in relation to producing high quality outputs, grant writing,
 research methods and ethics and research supervision. All colleagues are encouraged to take
 part in these sessions, with participation monitored through appraisal of annual research plans.

 The School and Faculty have budgets allocated to support wider research activities.
 Approximately £15k is set aside annually to support external conference presentations and
 organisation of seminars and workshops internally. A large proportion of our research active staff
 benefit from this, with ECRs given preference. The School has an annual library budget of
 approximately £70k, which assists research and research-led teaching. A dedicated budget is
 ringfenced to employ research assistants. All colleagues have access to this fund (£12k during
 the assessment period), which has provided valuable support for basic research activities (e.g.
 literature review, data gathering, and editing outputs). The facility has proved popular with 30% of
 colleagues benefitting.

 Colleagues are eligible to apply for research leave for one semester every 7 to 8 semesters,
 regardless of career stage. All eligible colleagues within the School have been successful in
 securing research leave during the current assessment period (typically 2-4 colleagues per
 semester). The School also recommends research leave for colleagues who come back from
 maternity leave, one colleague has so far benefitted from this. End-of-leave reports detail the
 extent to which goals were achieved, enabling further supported career planning.

 The Faculty also assists colleagues to apply for research fellowships to enable additional time for
 research. Several Law colleagues have been successful in securing external fellowships (e.g. Allo
 – Princeton University; Eccleston-Turner – Johns Hopkins University, Emmerich, Jacob, Keren-
 Paz and Sharpe – Leverhulme Fellowships). The School regularly puts colleagues forward for the
 University's Excellence in Research Awards (renewed in 2018).

 In terms of leadership development, the School has ensured that all key administrative roles are
 allocated (and rotated) appropriately from an EDI perspective. Research related roles (HoS,
 School Research Director, Research Cluster Heads, PGR Director, Ethics Committee Chair,

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School EDI Director, School Internationalisation Director, Research Impact Lead, CLOCK
 Director, and Keele Law Review Editor) are shared equally between male and female colleagues,
 and 65% are international staff.

 Academic promotion is an important part of the staff retention strategy. Research achievements,
 including publication of high-quality outputs, externally funded projects, and impact generation and
 maximisation, feature prominently among Keele’s promotion criteria. Potential applicants are
 encouraged to think about promotions trajectories every year at their appraisal and to plan
 accordingly, supported by the Head of School. The success of this support framework is evidenced
 by the fact that during the assessment period, three colleagues have been promoted to Senior
 Lecturer (Allo, Fay, Tzanou) and 3 colleagues to Professor (Brammer, Nehushtan and Wrigley).
 From an EDI perspective, 2 are female, and 4 are male, 3 are international staff. Out of five female
 academic lecturers who took maternity leave in the last 10 years, four were subsequently
 promoted to Senior Lecturer and one then to Professor.

 Exchanges between Academia and Business, Industry, Public & Third Sector Bodies

 A great example of engagement is the award-winning Community Legal Outreach Collaboration,
 Keele (CLOCK), which is informed and strengthened by Krishnadas’s ongoing research on
 transformative methodology designed to trace the lived experiences of local people seeking
 access to justice. It brings together universities, law firms, barrister’s chambers, mediators,
 charitable and court services, all of whom contribute to the promotion of legal aid and affordable
 legal services in the area of family law (e.g. divorce and child protection), domestic and sexual
 violence, housing, and asylum matters.

 The School has also run two legal advice clinics (commercial and divorce) since September 2019.
 These are led by two solicitors (one part time, one full time) and build upon the research and
 expertise of our colleagues specialising in these areas.

 Supporting Impact

 The School Research Impact Lead (RIL) plays a pivotal role in supporting colleagues to achieve
 impact from their research. Additional support is provided by the Faculty and the University. At
 Faculty level, the Engagement, Partnerships and Impact Officer works with the School RIL and
 the School Research Director to enhance research impact. The RIL post identifies numerous
 opportunities for impact related activities and organizes regular workshops, drop-in information
 sessions as well as training for all colleagues. At University level, RIE regularly hosts training
 workshops on impact generation and public engagement. Under the UKRI funded Strategic
 Support for Expediting Embedding Public Engagement with Research (SeekPer), one colleague
 (Raj) has been trained as a Public Engagement Champion, whilst Brammer served a member of
 the Seekper Steering Committee. In addition, the University provides an “Impact Acceleration
 Fund” designed to encourage colleagues to strengthen the impact aspect of their research by
 allowing them to organize impact events and conduct further empirical research. One colleague
 (Davitti) benefitted from this.

 Approach to Well-Being of Staff

 The School supports flexible working in order to promote staff-wellbeing. The general position is
 that during teaching terms colleagues are expected to be available in the School 3 days per week
 to perform relevant duties and may work from other locations for 2 days. This flexible arrangement
 accommodates other commitments colleagues may have and reduces commuting time, which
 could otherwise detract from research activities. In addition, colleagues are able to work part-time
 for a limited period. The School also promotes a collegiate environment within which to work (e.g.
 organising group coffee mornings in its dedicated staff common room, celebrating new arrivals
 and commemorating the contribution of departing colleagues.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Outside the School, the University offers a free counselling service for staff, and other services
 such as occupational health and learning and professional development are designed to enhance
 the well-being of all colleagues. Treloar acts as school well-being champion.

 Postgraduate Research

 The achievements in terms of PGRs recruitment and capacity have been illustrated earlier. They
 were made possible through robust support mechanisms at School, Faculty and University levels.
 To begin with, research supervision, training, support, and examination of PGR students is
 governed by the regularly reviewed and updated University Code of Practice on Research
 Degrees produced by the University Postgraduate Research Degrees Committee and the recently
 formed Keele Doctoral Academy. Responsibility for PGR students lies with the Faculty’s
 Postgraduate Research Committee (chaired by Wrigley). It monitors student progress, oversees
 student support, administers supervision and examination arrangements, and manages funds for
 training and research. Working with its University-level counterpart, it ensures academic and
 pastoral needs of PGR students are met fully.

 Each PGR is allocated two supervisors: a lead and co-supervisor. The primary supervisor is
 required to have sufficient experience of supervising PGRs to completion. The second supervisor
 can gain relevant experience by working with the primary supervisor in all aspects of research
 supervision. They meet regularly with their students to feedback on written work and monitor
 research training undertaken as part of the degree requirements. New PGR supervisors may also
 be assigned a mentor – an experienced PGR supervisor - who advises them on aspects of
 supervision and formal proceedings.

 The School, Faculty and University offer support and opportunities for professional and personal
 developments of PGRs. Internally, the Faculty and the School provide a dedicated space with IT
 facilities for PGRs, where they can conduct research and write their thesis in a quiet and productive
 environment. They also encourage all PGRs to participate in research events, including
 presentation of their research at the School-wide Work-In-Progress Seminars. The PGR Lead
 also organises a 'research students presentation day' annually where students present either their
 PhD research or papers they intend to present at external conferences and workshops. In addition,
 the School organises a workshop on transitioning from PGRs to ECRs so that they can consider
 this career path after study.

 All PGRs are required to maintain a Personal Development Plan to record research training
 activities. At Faculty and University levels, professional/personal development modules are
 offered and PGRs are required to undertake research training as part of their degree requirements.
 There is an annual PGR conference event at Keele, where all PGRs may present papers and
 there is also a separate annual conference for Social Science postgraduates to which Law
 postgraduates contribute. The Faculty also provides financial support for PGRs to present their
 research at external seminars, workshops and conferences. Finally, the University established the
 Keele Doctoral Academy in April 2020. PGRs from all Schools and Faculties are members, and
 the Academy provides support, guidance and facilities for all PGRs to interact and share
 experiences in a collegiate and friendly environment, integrating them further into University life.

 PGRs are encouraged to publish in academic journals as part of their training. Supervisory teams
 provide support and advice in this regard, and some of our PGRs have been successful in
 publishing their research findings during their study. This is one of the reasons why some PGRs
 within the School have been able to secure academic jobs subsequently (e.g. Westwood, Allen
 and Pearson to Keele, Murphy to Chester).

  UoA 18        2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2016-17 2017-18 2018-19   2019-20 Total
  PhDs                 4       2       1       2       7        5        2   23
  Prof Docs            3       1       2       2       0        0        0     8
  Keele total          7       3       3       4       7        5        2   31

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Increasing the number of successful grant applications is an important aim of the School Research
 Strategy and is linked to other strategic objectives, including publication of high-quality outputs
 and impact maximisation/generation. A starting point in achieving this objective is the cluster
 structure which plays an important role in nurturing the culture of funded research. Each cluster
 meets regularly to share/generate ideas, and the cluster leads follow up on concrete actions to be
 taken in order to translate ideas into funding proposals. Within the IEL cluster, for instance,
 COVID-19 has become a topic of mutual interest, and Eccleston-Turner, Obokata, and
 Ramezankhah have been successful in securing funding to examine its various aspects.
 Colleagues from the EHSC cluster, including Moreton, Pritchard-Jones, Santatzoglou, and Wrigley
 have also been proactive in facilitating interdisciplinary and collaborative research through the
 Keele Institute for Social Inclusion’s funding scheme as highlighted earlier.

 In order to enhance the success of funding applications, colleagues with prior experience of funded
 research in each cluster offer useful discipline specific advice and assist others to write grant
 proposals. Once ideas have been developed into concrete proposals, the School Research
 Director, who has significant experience in funded research, reviews all applications. and provides
 guidance on wider technical issues such as research methods, project management and budget
 allocation. The School RIL and the Public Engagement Champion also provide additional advice
 on the impact dimensions of funding proposals.

 In order to increase the volume of grant applications, one of the changes the School made since
 REF 2014 is to allocate points for grant applications as part of the School Workload Allocation
 model. This acknowledges the amount of time and effort it takes to write grant proposals, and its
 practical effect is to reduce teaching and administrative duties. The School also organises
 workshops on funded research and impact generation, which provide important opportunities for
 colleagues to gain further insight into various aspects of funded research.

 Additional assistance for income generation is provided outside the School. At Faculty Level, the
 Dean of Research serves as an additional check on the quality of each application and provides
 in-depth feedback where appropriate. KISI also offers a dedicated funding scheme which allows
 colleagues to conduct initial research activities (e.g. scoping study and networking) with a view to
 translating them into large externally funded projects in the future. The EHSC cluster has been
 proactive in utilising this facility. In addition to colleagues already mentioned elsewhere, Brammer
 (together with colleagues from Schools of Computing and Mathematics and of Social, Political and
 Global Studies as well as other academic institutions) organised a series of workshops on the
 theme of parenting post separation/divorce through this scheme during 2017-2018. The KISI
 scheme also provides important opportunities for ECRs to gain relevant experience. Within the
 School, Pearson (The Perspective Collective, Opening a Window onto Rights and Reality: Hearing
 and Recording Experiences of Disability Rights to Shape Future Responses), Pritchard-Jones
 (Dementia, Disability and Human Rights), and Ramezankhah (Conflict, Trauma, Memory:
 Interdisciplinary Approaches) have all benefitted from this.

 At University level, professional support for grant writing, grant administration, impact activities
 and knowledge exchange and enterprise is provided by the Research and Innovation Support
 Enhancement (RaISE) team, which draws together professional services staff with expertise in
 research development, governance, integrity, ethics, contracts, public engagement,
 commercialisation and impact. Its establishment has enabled a joined-up approach to research
 and innovation support, with due consideration given to EDI dimensions, helping improve the
 quality and effectiveness of our research proposals, implementation and impact. The
 aforementioned “Impact Acceleration Fund” is also available to strengthen the impact aspect of
 research, including funded research. Finally, the PVC for Research & Enterprise has established
 a University-wide Peer Review College which scrutinizes all applications valued at more than
 £40,000.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 From an EDI perspective, all support provided at School, Faculty and University levels is available
 to all colleagues regardless of seniority, gender, or other characteristics. Of all funding applications
 made during the current assessment period, 50% have been submitted by female and BAME
 colleagues. In terms of career stages, 60% have been submitted by senior colleagues (SL and
 above).

 In addition to funded projects mentioned earlier, other important examples within the School
 include:

 •   Allo – Visiting Fellowship ($126,000) – Princeton Institute for International and Regional
     Studies)
 •   Jacob, ‘Figuring "Bad Apples": Legal-Bureaucratic Assemblages of Scientific Misconduct’
     (£48,047- Leverhulme)
 •   Brammer - ‘Mothers of Children Removed under a Care Order: Outcomes and Experiences’
     (£9,788 - British Academy)
 •   Eccleston-Turner - ‘Tackling Third Party Transfers of PIP Biological Materials’ ($22,000 –
     Open Philanthropy)
 •   Fay – ‘Why not Me? – The Extent to Which Students’ Academic Identity Impacts Their Sense
     of Community and Mental Health’ (£5,000 – Society of Research in Higher Education)
 •   Keren-Paz – ‘Privacy Law, Gender Justice and End Users Liability: 'Revenge Porn ' and
     Beyond’ (£48,078 - Leverhulme); and ESRC Seminar Series: ‘Liability v Innovation: Unpacking
     Key Connections’ (£30,300 – ESRC)
 •   Wrigley, Santatzoglou, and Read – ‘Integrating Loss and Bereavement Assessment’ (£19,735
     – Barrow-Cadbury Trust)

 The successes in securing several Leverhulme and other fellowships by Law colleagues are
 particularly impressive. These have facilitated research collaborations with, and visits to, overseas
 institutions including Cornell University and Notre Dame University (Wrigley), Princeton University
 and Addis Ababa University (Allo), and Georgetown University and Griffith University (Eccleston-
 Turner).

 Examples of cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of research infrastructure include two ESRC
 Seminar Series organised by Keren-Paz and Brammer and events sponsored by KISI where
 scholars from other higher education institutions, as well as non-academic stakeholders, have
 been brought together to the Keele campus and promoted intellectual dialogue on their respective
 topics.

 In addition to the Impact Case Studies submitted by the unit, other examples of impact include:
 Obokata’s AHRC funded research on organised crime in the island of Ireland was cited in a
 research report and a briefing paper published by the European Commission (2015) and the North-
 South Irish Parliamentary Association (2015). This represents an example of knowledge transfer
 among key research users and a contribution to ongoing policy debates in the field. Eccleston-
 Turner’s project on COVID-19 includes impact events, such as workshops involving the World
 Health Organisation and its Member States and a launch of a policy brief and guidance on the
 development of a COVID-19 vaccine allocation framework.

 Finally, it is important to stress that there is a strong link between funded research and high-quality
 publications. Sharpe’s research on sexual intimacy and gender identity fraud during her
 Leverhulme Fellowship and Obokata’s AHRC funded project were published as research
 monographs during the current assessment period. Other Law colleagues have published in
 important journals such as Australian Feminist Law Journal, Journal of Criminal Law, Ethical
 Theory and Modern Practice, and International Journal of Palliative Nursing. Collaborative
 publication arising from funded projects involving multiple colleagues is also encouraged within
 the cluster structure. In this regard, Wrigley and Santatzoglou, who were involved in a project
 “Integrating Loss and Bereavement Assessment” funded by the Barrow-Cadbury Trust, published
 jointly an edited collection, a journal article and a book chapter.


                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaboration/Networks/Partnerships

 Research collaboration, networks and partnerships have been actively facilitated by Law
 colleagues with the support of the School and Faculty. Seminars, workshops and conferences
 funded internally (e.g. Keele Institute for Social Inclusion) and externally (e.g. ESRC Seminar
 Series) involving both external academic institutions and non-academic partners represent good
 examples. Several colleagues are also engaged in research collaboration with international
 partners. Their endeavours are supported by the School Director of Internationalisation. The post
 works closely with the School Research Director as well as with the International Recruitment and
 Development Office which helps all Schools to establish research and teaching links with overseas
 academic institutions. These support mechanisms have produced tangible outcomes. Obokata,
 for instance, has established a teaching/research link with Strathmore University in Nairobi and
 submitted a major funding proposal to explore human trafficking in Kenya. International research
 collaborations and partnerships have also been supported through external funding. Allo secured
 funding from the AHRC to conduct research into democratic transition in Ethiopia with the Addis
 Ababa University and a civil society organization “Empower Africa,” and a Leverhulme Fellowship
 allowed Emmerich to conduct field research in Germany on the theme of women and penal reform
 in collaboration with Goethe University.

 Wider Contributions to Economy and Society

 In line with the School’s aim to enhance impact generation and maximisation, Law colleagues
 have been proactive in facilitating practice-oriented knowledge transfer and public engagement,
 with key research users and beneficiaries at various levels. The Community Legal Outreach
 Collaboration, Keele (CLOCK) continues to facilitate access to justice to those in need. During the
 current assessment period, over 4,000 litigants locally have been assisted by CLOCK in the Stoke
 Family Court. Through its transformative methodology developed by Krishnadas, it provides an
 important avenue for critical analysis and reflection on access to justice and ensures its future
 sustainability. The CLOCK initiative has been taken up nationally by several other academic
 institutions, as well as internationally, in India in collaboration with the Tata Institute of Social
 Science and National Law Schools of Odisha and Cochin.

 At a national level, Law colleagues are engaged in ongoing policy debates in their respective
 fields. They regularly take part in public inquiries and provide expert evidence to government and
 professional bodies (Joint Committee on National Security Strategy – Eccleston-Turner; Modern
 Slavery Bill Committee – Keren-Paz; Review of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of
 Offenders Act 2012 – Krishnadas; Ministry of Justice – Sharpe; Law Society, Solicitor’s Regulation
 Authority, Quality Assurance Agency – Bradney; Equality and Human Rights Commission –
 Tzanou; and Public Health England – Wrigley), as well as to non-governmental organizations
 (Amnesty International – Raj and Sharpe, and Nuffield Council on Bioethics and National Council
 for Palliative Care – Wrigley). Other Law colleagues regularly deliver public lectures and seminars
 to non-academic stakeholders. As an example, Fay gave a lecture to the National Genetic Forum,
 which brings together healthcare professionals, held at the Birmingham Women’s and Children’s
 NHS Trust on the theme of disclosure in clinical genetics (2019).

 At international level, Obokata has been serving as the United Nations Special Rapporteur on
 Contemporary Forms of Slavery since May 2020. In this role, he directly uses his research and
 expertise on modern slavery in drafting official UN reports which are widely read and utilised by
 relevant governmental, non-governmental and inter-governmental stakeholders, and in providing
 relevant policy advice in order to tackle this crime. In recognition of her expertise, Tzanou has
 been appointed and serving as a member of the Permanent Committee on Personal Data
 Protection in Greece since 2020 which advises the Greek Ministry of Justice on issues relating to
 data protection, including preparation of statutory frameworks. Further, Sharpe has provided a
 written submission on prosecution of trans people for non-disclosure of gender history to the


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Commission of Jurists, a renowned international non-governmental organization
 (2019).

 The School has made vital contributions to wider knowledge transfer and public engagement and
 debates, especially through various media platforms: political situation and human rights in
 Ethiopia - BBC World Service, Al Jazeera and CNN (Allo); human rights of the LGBT community
 - Channel 4 News (Raj); coronavirus epidemic - Sky and BBC News (Eccleston-Turner); BBC
 Radio 4 (Fay and Krishnadas); Assisted Dying Bill - BBC Radio (Hughes); prosecutions for non-
 disclosure of gender history - New Statesman, Legal Voice, Inherently Human (Sharpe); and AI
 and LGBT facial profiling - The Conversation (Raj and Sharpe).

 In August 2020, Emmerich and Adams (PGR student) launched a multi-layered public
 engagement platform on transformative justice www.read-and-resist.org. Together they are co-
 facilitators of this new abolitionist feminist web platform, a collective and collaborative forum
 bringing together a host of community, activist, and academic voices on all things transformative
 justice. As part of their web platform, they have a monthly open digital reading group (Read and
 Resist), a blog (Write and Resist), a podcast (Listen and Resist), and a YouTube Channel (Watch
 and Resist). The platform is developing global reach with people from the UK, US, China and other
 European countries regularly visiting the site.

 Further, research outputs by colleagues have been cited or endorsed by governmental, non-
 governmental and international organisations: Legal counsel for both sides in the Supreme Court
 case Franses v Cavendish Hotel (2018) (Haley); the High Court of Singapore and the Supreme
 Court of British Colombia (Haley & McMurtry); Australian Senate Inquiry into the Use of
 Mitochondrial Replacement Technologies (Wrigley); Indian Department of People with Disability
 (2016)(Varney); European Commission (2015) and International Organisation for Migration (2018)
 (Obokata); and the United Nations International Law Commission and the European Parliament’s
 Committee on Constitutional Affairs (Prost).

 These examples clearly demonstrate multi-level impacts arising from research conducted and
 publications produced by Law colleagues through facilitation of knowledge transfer and public
 engagement with a diverse group of research users and beneficiaries such as policymakers, legal
 profession, public bodies, international organisations, as well as the wider general public.

 Sustainability of Respective Disciplines and Fields

 Law colleagues have been making important contributions to sustaining their respective
 disciplines and fields in a number of ways. For example, many have assumed leadership roles
 within in scholarly societies in the field of law. Bradney was a long-standing member of the
 Executive Committee and Honorary Membership Secretary of the Society of Legal Scholars, and
 Cownie served as the Chair of its Legal Education Committee. Moreton was the Royal Institute of
 Philosophy Lecture Series Coordinator (2016-2019). At international level, Prost was elected on
 the Executive Board of the European Society of International Law, a renowned learned society in
 the field of international law, and Allen has been serving as a member of the International Law
 Association Committee on International Law and Sea Level Rise.

 Several Law colleagues serve as the editorial board members of important academic journals in
 their respective fields, including: McGill Journal of Sustainable Development Law (Prost), Journal
 of Medical Law & Ethics (Hughes and Wrigley), International Criminal Law Review (Obokata),
 Journal of Sexual Ethics (Sharpe), Journal of Law & Society (Bradney), Law Teacher (Cownie),
 Journal of Adult Protection (Brammer), and Property & Compensation Reports (Haley).

 Outside of formal editorial board responsibilities, Law colleagues regularly review book proposals
 for publishers, including: Cambridge University Press, Oxford University Press, Hart Publishing,
 Sweet & Maxwell, Macmillan Publishers, Pearson, Routledge, Edward Elgar Press) and journal
 articles (Modern Law Review, Cambridge Law Journal, Legal Studies; Journal of Law and Society,
 Leiden Journal of International Law; International Journal of Law in Context; World Trade Review,

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Medical Law Review; Bioethics, Journal of Medical Ethics; Ethical Theory and Moral Practice;
 American Journal of Bioethics; Theoretical Medicine and Bioethics; Health Care Analysis; and
 Child & Family Law Quarterly.

 Through these activities, Law colleagues have been contributing to the identification and
 development of new and cutting-edge research ideas to be taken up and widely shared by the
 relevant academic audience in their respective fields.

 Indicator of Wider Influence/Recognition by Research Base

 The research expertise of Law colleagues is recognized nationally, regionally and internationally.
 One clear indicator is membership of grant committees in addition to journal editorship noted
 above. Obokata, Jacob and Keren-Paz have served as members of the AHRC Peer Review
 College, and Obokata reviews funding applications for other bodies including the ESRC and the
 European Commission. Other examples include Cownie and Bradney (Hong Kong Research
 Grant Board), Prost (Agence Nationale de la Recherche Peer Review College, France), and
 Varney (Czech Science Foundation).

 Another indicator of recognition is Fellowships awarded during the current assessment period,
 including: Academy of Social Sciences and Royal Society of Arts (Bradney and Cownie) and
 Leverhulme (Jacob, Emmerich, Keren-Paz and Sharpe). At international level, Eccleston-Turner
 has secured an internationally competitive “Emerging Leader in Biosecurity Fellowship” (2019)
 from the Johns Hopkins University, as well as visiting fellowship from the O’Neill Institute for Global
 Health Law at Georgetown University (2020) to conduct research on global health. Allo has been
 awarded the prestigious Fung Global Fellowship from Princeton University (2020-2021) to conduct
 research on ethic and politics of inter-ethnic solidarity, which arose from his AHRC project. Further,
 Sharpe held fellowships at the Institute of Criminology at University of Sydney and Queensland
 University of Technology, Wrigley a research fellowship jointly held at Cornell and Notre Dame
 Universities in the USA, and Bradney and Cownie have been serving as Senior Associate
 Research Fellows at the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies (University of London).

 Several Law colleagues have been invited to deliver keynote addresses and public lectures to
 governmental bodies and at prestigious academic institutions. Obokata delivered a lecture on
 migration crimes in 2016 for the Hague Academy of International Law. Gaspar-Szilagyi delivered
 a lecture to the European Parliament on the themes of international and European
 trade/investment law (2019). Sharpe delivered the keynote address to the World Professional
 Association of Transgender Health (Rome 2019) and presented the annual Law and Society public
 lecture (Edinburgh 2017). Other colleagues have also been invited by academic institutions to
 deliver seminars or lectures. Notable examples include Allo (University of York 2017 and
 University of Minnesota 2018), Nehushtan (University of St. Gallen and Oxford University 2018),
 Prost (Paris Nanterre University 2019; Aix-Marseille University 2014; Tel Aviv University 2017),
 Raj (Cambridge University 2019 and Amnesty International 2020), Tascioglu (Northwestern
 University 2017), and Wrigley (University of Sydney 2015 and National Council for Palliative Care
 2016).

 Finally, in recognition of their expertise, several colleagues have received Prizes and Awards,
 including: Society of Legal Scholars Best Poster Prize (2014 - Moreton); UK Administrative Justice
 Institution Prize for New Voices in Administrative Law for paper ‘Legal Consciousness and
 Administrative Justice’ (2017 - Richards); Hart-SLSA Book Prize for Early Career Academics
 (2017 - Westwood); and the Socio-Legal Studies Association Prize for Contribution to the Socio-
 Legal Community (2018 - Cownie and Bradney). In addition to individual recognitions, CLOCK
 also won various awards during the assessment period (West Midlands Social Enterprise Peoples
 Award 2016, Access to Justice Foundations Award 2016, and Green Gown Award 2019).




                                                                                                Page 15
