Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Bolton
 Unit of Assessment (UoA): D 32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research in Art and Design is conducted principally in the School of Arts and Creative
 Technologies, with a small number of topics involving researchers in other faculties. Several
 researchers are also practicing artists; accordingly, research outputs across the School
 include not only papers and monographs but exhibitions and art works. In many instances
 print and practice outputs are complementary. The number of active researchers within the
 School has increased markedly since REF 2014 and this has enabled the School to make
 its first submission to UoA D32.

 The research strategy is determined by the University of Bolton’s overarching strategic aim
 of delivering a Teaching Intensive Research Informed (TIRI) curriculum. Research
 accordingly informs teaching practice within the School, evidence of which is provided
 below. This strategy has evolved significantly over the last 5 years facilitating a move away
 from individualised, independent research activity towards collegial and collaborative
 interactions with a wide range of stakeholders both within the organisation and with external
 partners. Some dominant, and potentially complementary, themes have emerged during
 the last 3 years. These inform the REF 2021 submission but will also provide a
 conceptual framework for the organisation of research across the School in anticipation of
 REF2026. Individual research activity will continue to be encouraged but larger projects will
 typically reside within one of these spaces thereby enabling collaborative and
 interdisciplinary dialogue to flourish within and across departments. The School of Arts
 Research Strategy has also broadened its focus as, following recent internal restructure,
 the School now encompasses a wide spectrum of Creative Technology programmes
 alongside the Arts. This has served to accelerate research-related conversations regarding
 the crucial role of transformative technologies within the Arts and the use of virtual platforms
 to facilitate creative experimentation.

 Research in Art and Design in the School of Arts is currently organised under five themes:
 (1) Textile and Surface Design, (2) Worktown, (3) Documentary Photography, (4) The
 History of Leisure as a field of Cultural Policy in Britain 1880-1939, 5) Animation and
 Character Design. While categorised within these distinctive thematic sub-fields, much
 research has been integrated across them, benefiting from the cross-disciplinary
 perspectives and methodological approaches employed in other fields, notably in Creative
 Writing and in Creative Technologies. Researchers in Art and Design also benefit from
 cross-faculty research, particularly the School of Psychology’s work on the impacts of
 engagement in the arts on subjective well-being. This is coordinated by Professor Jerome
 Carson in the School of Psychology.

 1.b Structure

 The School of Arts Research Group is led by Head of School Samantha Johnson, supported
 by Dr Jill Marsden, Professor Robert Snape, and Professor Paul Hollins. Dr Angela Tinwell,
 occupies a senior research role within the University Research and Graduate School as
 coordinator of postgraduate research development.

 The Research Group meets on a monthly basis to plan, monitor and support research
 activity and to address any issues arising. The research themes, as detailed above, are led
 by the School's two Research Professors, Paul Hollins, Professor of Cultural Research
 Development and Dr. Robert Snape, Professor of Cultural History. Research is further
 supported by Dr. Paul Salveson, Visiting Professor in Worktown Studies. Coordination of
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 research is managed by the School’s research coordinator, Dr Jill Marsden. The School is
 home to the Centre for Worktown Studies. This cross-disciplinary Centre was established
 in 2009 in partnership with Bolton Museum, specifically to promote and undertake research
 relating to Bolton's identity as Mass Observation's 'Worktown'. The director of the Centre,
 Professor Snape, plays a major role in coordinating research activities within the UoA.

 Over the period of the research evaluation 2014-2020 the School has a supported number
 of thematic research groups as detailed below.

 Research Theme 1: Textile and Surface Design (Donna Claypool, Tom Sutton, Faye
 Power)

 The principal researcher in textile design is Donna Claypool. Her research explores the
 historical application of art to design and manufacture in the mid-nineteenth century,
 through which museum exhibits became industrial objects rather than objects of art. This
 research informed the impact case study ‘Cotton Queens’ community arts projects and the
 research project 'Making Textiles. Designers for Industry' presented at the online Festival
 of Worktown, organised in partnership with the University of Bolton's Centre for Worktown
 Studies in July 2020.
 Donna Claypool also curated a major exhibition Making Textiles: History> Identity >
 Innovation’ (2019) involving collaborations between academic colleagues and students.
 Tom Sutton’s contribution to this exhibition involved a reinterpretation of designs of mid-
 century textile designer, Constance Howarth, which was applied to the Cox & Co tubular
 bandstand chair (‘For Constance’). This was also a key piece within his own research
 project, ‘The Maker Project’. Faye Power’s contribution to the exhibition was a textile collage
 which drew on Bolton’s historic identity as a leading textile producing town and which
 responded to the physical and metaphorical mill building, particularly the repetitive patterns
 and practice of stitching.

 Research Theme 2: Worktown (Robert Snape, Ian Glover, Keith Roberts, Donna
 Claypool, Faye Power)

 Led by Professor Robert Snape, founder and Director of the Centre of Worktown Studies,
 Worktown has provided an inspirational basis for research both in the School of Arts and
 across the University. Researchers in the School, including Donna Claypool, Faye Power,
 Dr. Keith Roberts and Dr Ian Glover, have all drawn on the Worktown archives in their
 research-informed teaching activities. Claypool, Glover and Roberts recently presented
 their research at the University Festival of Worktown (14th July, 2020).

 Research informed community engagement projects, based on the theme of Worktown,
 have re-connected the public of Bolton to Mass Observation’s covert inter-war study of the
 town. By actively engaging people with the Mass Observation Worktown Archive and Bolton
 Museum's Humphrey Spender Worktown Collection of Documentary Photography,
 research undertaken in the Centre of Worktown Studies has enabled Bolton Council to meet
 strategic objectives of the Greater Manchester Cultural Strategy 2020. This is documented
 in more detail in the case study A Festival of Worktown: Using local archives to achieve
 cultural policy objectives through community arts engagement.

 Research Theme 3: Documentary and Social Photography (David Gledhill, Ian
 Glover, Keith Roberts, Martina Mullaney)

 Research in photography encompasses the work of a number of academics situated within
 the School of Arts including Dr. David Gledhill, Dr. Ian Glover, Dr. Keith Roberts and Martina
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Mullaney. Dr. Gledhill’s research in documentary photography underpinned exhibitions in
 Berlin concerning the Athlete’s Village designed and built for the 1936 Berlin Olympic
 Games (The Berlin Olympic Village Project, 2016-17). Dr. Gledhill’s work has also explored
 newspaper images pertaining to the ‘House Un-American Activities Committee’
 (McCarthyism, 2016) and amateur snapshots from Poland, Germany and Czechoslovakia
 in the 1930s-1940s (the experience of history, 2019-2020).

 Research in Documentary Photography in the School has made extensive use of Humphrey
 Spender’s 'Worktown' collection of photographs which formed part of the Mass
 Observation's study of Bolton. In early 2020 Dr. Ian Glover and Dr. Keith Roberts curated
 an exhibition of Northern Photography based on Dr. Glover's work over recent decades and
 work produced by other photographers nationally (Photographing the English North 1890-
 1990, 2020). This also included work from Dr. Roberts’ research on the Edward
 Chambré Hardman archive. The exhibition was the core element of their joint presentation
 to the Festival of Worktown in summer 2020.

 Martina Mullaney has also developed a major body of research involving documenting the
 ‘missing mother’ in contemporary art and culture. Her photographic work has been exhibited
 in two major exhibitions (Usually she is disappointed) in Prague (2019) and Middleborough
 (2020).

 Research Theme 4: The history of leisure as a field arts policy in Britain 1880-1939
 (Robert Snape)

 Professor Snape has published a body of work on the history of social policy on leisure and
 the arts in Britain 1880-1939. This includes a number of peer-reviewed journal articles and
 a monograph published by Bloomsbury Academic in 2018. Through an analysis of the
 cultural critiques of nineteenth century political economy by John Ruskin, William Morris
 and John Hobson, Prof. Snape shows how leisure became articulated as a social good and
 a field of human welfare. Prof. Snape explains how reforming movements, for example the
 university and social settlements, socialist organisations and adult education, adopted
 leisure as a sphere in which to engage working-class populations in cultural practice.
 Voluntary associations promoted social change through cultural practice; examples include
 the Clarion arts and recreation groups, the Kibbo Kift Kindred, Woodcraft Folk and the Unity
 Theatre.

 This research now supports Prof. Snape's teaching on the MA in Applied and Community
 Arts which started in September 2020. His monograph has also been recommended by the
 Voluntary Action History Society as an important contribution to the historiography of
 voluntary action and social service.

 Research Theme 5: Animation and Character Design (Angela Tinwell)

 Dr. Angela Tinwell is the leading researcher in Animation and Character Design. Her work
 is based on a series of empirical studies conducted to establish how aspects of facial
 expression and speech may be manipulated to control ‘the uncanny valley’ phenomenon in
 character design. Her work assesses the biological and social roots of the uncanny and its
 implications for computer-graphics animation. In addition to leading the BA Animation and
 Illustration programme, Dr. Tinwell has collaborated with colleagues in Games and Creative
 Technologies. Due to the recent merger between The School of the Arts and Creative
 Technologies, it is anticipated that interdisciplinary research between Arts and Creative
 Technologies will be a growth area for REF 2026.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Emerging Research Themes

 New collaborative themes are emerging through practice-led research undertaken by
 researchers in the UoA. An example of this is ‘The Missing Mother’, a cross disciplinary
 project involving colleagues in Creative Writing and Psychology. ‘The Missing Mother’ aims
 to problematise and politicise the mother. It emanates from Mullaney’s research which
 interrogates the exclusion of art works and writing on maternity from the discourses of
 feminism and art history. The Missing Mother, as a series of research events, will situate
 the mother as experience and enquiry at the core of the project.

 Other emerging themes are ‘Anarchy and the Aesthetic’, ‘Digital Landscapes/Revolutionary
 Technologies’, Disability visibility’ and ‘Re-envisaging the Archive’. In addition, the School
 of the Arts has identified an Arts and Social Regeneration’ agenda as an impact priority and
 this will also inform research planning and Jenkinson bids going forward.


 Research and Impact Strategy

 The unit’s strategy for achieving impact from research is informed by i) TIRI and ii) Research
 funding (Jenkinson and ACE).

 i) TIRI

 As a small team who collaborate and co-teach across a range of research-informed
 modules, the UoA is well placed to devise impactful research projects that will feed back in
 to the curriculum. These close links to teaching at undergraduate and postgraduate level
 ensure the sustainability of research provision and the vitality of the research environment.

 ii) Research funding

 The principal mechanism within the university for enabling the achievement of impact from
 research is the Jenkinson Award scheme. In making a bid for funding, applicants must
 explicitly demonstrate how the research will achieve impact. Staff in the UoA have been
 very successful at winning awards to support their research and there is a direct correlation
 between these successes and the unit’s impact case studies. In addition to the Jenkinson
 Awards, the UoA has also secured Arts Council England funding for selected projects.

 Case Studies

 The unit’s approach to achieving impact from research is exemplified by its two impact case
 studies: Raising Awareness of the Berlin Olympic Village: Art, Place and History and A
 Festival of Worktown: Using local archives to achieve cultural policy objectives through
 community arts engagement. Both case studies were supported by successive streams of
 Jenkinson funding, a considerable achievement given the competitive nature of the
 scheme.

 Dr. David Gledhill and Peter Lewis were able to use to the Jenkinson funding to support a
 three day study visit to the site of the 1936 Olympic Village at Elstal, Berlin in 2016. Their
 research at the site led to a wide range of outputs in painting, photography, film, ceramics
 and collage which were shown at three major exhibitions and led to two publications. Prof.
 Robert Snape contributed an essay to the second of these publications when the exhibition
 was curated by Dr. Gledhill in Bolton in 2017. Both Dr. Gledhill and Peter Lewis used the
 Berlin work in subsequent HE6 critical modules.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Professor Snape used the Jenkinson funding to support a broad range of initiatives in the
 School of the Arts which made creative use of the ‘Worktown’ archive. These included
 projects in photography and textile and surface design in addition to collaborative outreach
 work with colleagues in Creative Writing and Media on the ‘Cotton Queens’ project. Once
 again, this research informed teaching practice within the School and the students benefited
 from the opportunity to engage with the Worktown projects in their studies.


 Strategic aims

 In addition to the strategic aim of pursuing research which supports teaching, the UoA has
 a strong commitment to ‘outward facing’ research which engages with the public. This
 strategy has been shaped by the School's excellent, and in several cases, long-standing
 partnership arrangements with cultural organisations in Bolton and Greater Manchester. As
 these organisations tend to have social and community-based aims and objectives, it has
 made sense, with reference to impact, to undertake research that contributes to the
 achievement of these objectives. The Centre for Worktown Studies typifies this approach,
 being a research centre based on a memorandum of co-operation with Bolton Museum.

 The importance of the University's partnerships with Bolton Council's cultural organisations
 to enabling research with social impact is recognised and valued by them. Samantha Elliott,
 Head of Service, Bolton Library and Museum Service has stated that this partnership,
 working through the Centre for Worktown Studies, has been a ‘hugely valuable mechanism
 for promoting access to and the use of the museum’s Worktown Collection of photographs
 by Humphrey Spender. The past five years have seen an incredibly diverse range of activity
 take place under the auspices of the centre, from practice-based PhDs (including, for
 example, Donna Claypool’s research into the museum’s historic pattern book collection) to
 exhibitions, to community projects’ (Impact Statement, 2020).

 Future research strategy

 In addition to developing the existing and emerging research themes discussed above, the
 School has a five-year plan to unite a range of research projects around the theme of ‘Arts
 and Social Regeneration.’ The School of the Arts is a key partner in the Bolton Station
 Community Partnership and envisages using The Platform 5 gallery and associated station
 facilities as a research hub in which professional and community artists and creative
 practitioners can produce and exhibit their work. This will also be a space for research
 students to become involved with local regeneration projects

 A further priority for the next five years is the cultivation of a vibrant postgraduate research
 community in the Art and Design unit. This work commenced in 2020 with the launch of an
 innovative and dynamic suite of Masters programmes in The School of the Arts, including
 MA (Specialist Title) via Creative Practice, MA Creative industries and MA in Applied and
 Community Arts. Students pursuing the MA via Creative Practice have the opportunity to
 specialise in a single discipline (e.g. Textiles) or follow an interdisciplinary route (e.g.
 Photography and Graphic Design). It is anticipated that students pursuing the MA in Applied
 and Community Arts will work with some of our community arts partners.

 Within the context of the University’s TIRI strategy to engage with the community in
 knowledge transfer, the unit is progressing towards an open and inclusive research
 environment in which research is more transparent and collaborative. In this context, the
 effective sharing of research data takes a number of forms, and UoA have a range of
 mechanisms to share research openly. For example, dissemination of research takes place
 locally at the annual University TIRI conference in addition to public events such as The
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 School of the Arts Commemorative Show (2018) and The Festival of Worktown (2020), and
 in events with community groups including the University of the Third Age and the ‘Wonder
 Women’ group, supported by Bolton at Home.

 The unit supports a culture of research integrity, and ensures that research is conducted
 according to appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and
 standards. This was exemplified when working with community groups on the impact case
 study A Festival of Worktown as the research involved collecting data from human
 participants in the form of Wellbeing surveys. The project was subject to obtaining ethical
 approval from the University Ethics committee and was rigorously monitored by Professor
 Robert Snape.

 With respect to research governance, all research projects are scrutinised for ethical issues
 at the proposal stage, and, if necessary, considered at local level by the School of Arts
 Research Committee prior to university endorsement through the Research and Graduate
 School. Any member of research staff suspected of research misconduct (e.g. plagiarism,
 abuse of confidentiality, misappropriation of resources, falsification/fabrication of data) is
 dealt with by a disciplinary process that judges people according to the University's Code
 of Policy and Procedures for Investigating and Resolving Allegations of Misconduct in
 Research (based on the 7 principles identified by The Nolan Committee on Standards in
 Public Life as having relevance to best practice in the conduct of research: selflessness,
 integrity, objectivity, accountability, openness, honesty and leadership).


 Section 2: People

 The School of the Arts Research Group comprises Samantha Johnson (Head of School),
 Professor Paul Hollins, Professor Robert Snape and Dr. Jill Marsden. Collectively, the
 Group oversees the development of the research culture of the School of the Arts. Each
 staff member has a Personal Development Plan reviewed annually by Sam Johnson, in
 which research objectives are discussed. In line with the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, researchers are provided with the opportunities and
 structured support to engage in a minimum of 10 days professional development pro rata
 per year. As Research Coordinator for the School, Dr. Jill Marsden oversees staff
 development sessions for both the School in general and for those new to research and it
 is her role to ensure appropriate mentoring is in place for all researchers. In addition, she
 monitors the provision of support for research students in liaison with the University’s central
 support facilities. She also sits on the Board of Studies for Research Degrees and, in
 conjunction with Professor Snape, oversees Research Ethics for the School.

 The School's staffing and recruitment policy is geared towards supporting and sustaining a
 vibrant and thriving research culture, building on existing strengths in Fine Art, Photography
 and Textile and Surface Design. The effectiveness of this strategy is evidenced by the staff
 recruitment pattern over the assessment period which demonstrates significant stability in
 core staffing, complemented by investment in the recruitment of excellent researchers.

 This full complement of staff on permanent teaching and research contracts gives the unit
 excellent stability and enables work on long term, sustainable plans for future research
 projects.

 Staff members who carry out research and who achieve impact are recognised at the
 annual Jenkinson Awards ceremony. As noted in section one, Jenkinson Award winners
 are members of staff who have successfully bid for funding and who are able to demonstrate
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 how their research supports the TIRI agenda, contributes to the creation of new knowledge
 in the discipline and makes an impact beyond the wider academic community.

 Staff Training and Development

 During the accounting period, a number of staff members have completed their doctoral
 research. These include Dr. David Gledhill, Dr. Ian Glover and Dr. Keith Roberts. Martina
 Mullaney has also completed her PhD and is currently awaiting her viva. Staff currently
 undertaking PhD studies include Donna Claypool, Tom Sutton and Faye Power.

 Staff enrolled on a PhD programme are eligible to engage fully in the University's Post-
 Graduate Research Student Training Scheme (details below). Additionally, Dr Angela
 Tinwell works closely with Staff and ECRs in Academic Schools across the University to
 deliver a Master’s level module that prepares ECRs for taking on the role of a PhD
 Supervisor. Entitled ‘Research Degree Supervision’ this twenty-credit module provides the
 opportunity for ECRs to gain invaluable experience in providing feedback to PhD students
 at all levels, including the initial Postgraduate Skills Record, the R1 and R2 assessments
 and preparing for the Viva. Feedback from those ECRs that have taken this module states
 that they are better prepared to take on the role of a Supervisor having completed this
 module and that it is of great benefit to their career progression and research goals.


 Staff Research Support

 Time for individual scholarly and research activities is embedded within the University’s
 Research Workload Allocation Model (WAM) to ensure alignment with overarching
 Strategic Plan goals. The TIRI context is explicit within the application of the model.
 Additionally, the School promotes a research mentoring scheme drawing on best practice.
 Early-career researchers are supported in the School of Arts through mentoring by senior
 colleagues. To support staff and PGR students in undertaking research and journal
 publication, more established researchers in the School of Arts work with less experienced
 researchers.

 Equality and diversity

 The University is strongly committed to equality and diversity across its staff and student
 community. The institution is one of the most ethnically diverse in the United Kingdom and
 this diversity is reflected in both the student and staff population.

 All members of staff are required to undertake mandatory online training in Equality and
 Diversity Awareness; The Bribery Act; PREVENT duty; GDPR. In addition, research
 coordinators and those in management roles must complete the module “Challenging
 Unconscious Bias”. The University is committed to the advancement of equality of
 opportunity and the fostering of good relations between persons who share a relevant
 protected characteristic and persons who do not share it. Reasonable adjustments are
 made to ensure that research students with disabilities are not disadvantaged in any way
 in their research journey.

 Post Graduate Research Activities and Support

 Research students are supervised by a research team comprising 2-3 staff: A Director of
 Studies, the regular point of contact, and up to 2 others with appropriate expertise.
 Research students are allowed to attend any other classes/modules that they feel would
 benefit their studies. Students are encouraged to present at the annual University TIRI
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Conference and at the annual Postgraduate Research Day Conference. Both of these
 provide the chance for students to learn how to present their research in a supportive
 environment. Research students are also encouraged to attend and present at external
 venues (e.g. research conferences, readings) wherever possible.

 The University of Bolton is committed to the highest level of researcher development at a
 personal and professional level to allow home and international researchers to reach their
 full potential. Working closely with the Academic School, the Research & Graduate School
 offers a comprehensive Research Degree Student Development Programme that includes:
 An induction programme to life at the university and as a research degree student; Weekly
 webinars and workshops to enhance a student’s research skills delivered by research staff
 from the Academic School and from across the university; Research methods webinars and
 workshops; Online resources available through the virtual learning environment for all
 webinars, workshops and training programmes; Progress monitoring and development
 review; An annual research degree student conference and an Annual Research Summer
 School. All Art and Design research degree students are encouraged to engage with the
 Researcher webinars and workshops. The Research and Graduate Schools works closely
 with external speakers such as the publishers Elsevier and IEEE Xplore to ensure that
 researchers at all levels have the opportunity to fully understand the publication process
 and to seek support to publish their work. The university encourages all researchers to
 make use of the VITAE Researcher Development Planner and the VITAE Researcher
 Development Framework.

 Where feasible, research degree students are encouraged to get involved with teaching
 and mentoring activities in the academic School by taking the ‘Planning for Teaching’
 module. Run by the School of Education, this module provides the initial training and skills
 required to take on the role of a variable hours lecturer in a relevant research area. This
 also serves as a worthwhile qualification to help those researchers who wish to pursue an
 academic career in a HE institution.


 Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding

 The principal strategy for generating research income in the UoA is to develop impactful
 research that will also inform teaching. As mentioned previously, the key funding route is
 through the University Jenkinson Award scheme. During the accounting period, staff
 members in the Art and Design team have been extremely successful in securing
 competitive Jenkinson Awards. The success of this strategy is evidenced by the direct
 correlation between award winners and the research outputs and case studies comprising
 the UoA submission.

 Jenkinson Award Funded Research 2016-2020:

 2016
 Peter Lewis - Berlin Olympic Games Project
 Robert Snape -The Centre for Worktown Studies
 2017
 Peter Lewis – Berlin Olympic Games Project (Phase 2).
 Donna Claypool – Originals A collaborative and creative project responding to the
 history of textiles in Bolton.
 2018
 Robert Snape - The Centre for Worktown Studies
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2019
 Robert Snape – A Festival of Worktown
 Ian Glover - Reframing views of Worktown
 2020
 Robert Snape – Slumming, Spying or Science A Radical Reading of Mass Observation’
 Worktown study
 Ian Glover – 21st Century Northern Voices
 Martina Mullaney – The Missing Mother

 Additionally, some research projects included in this REF submission have secured Arts
 Council England funding. These include Peter Lewis’s successful bid for ‘The Art of
 Remembering’ conference, Rheged Gallery in 2014 and Ian Glover’s collaboration with
 Mary Cooper (Creative Writing) for the ‘..But not forgotten’ exhibition at Leeds City Museum
 in 2014 (Details in REF 2). This project also received funding from the Heritage Lottery and
 Leeds City Council.

 The Centre for Worktown Studies has attracted funding from the Arts and Humanities
 Research Council for a doctoral studentship in documentary photography based on the
 Museum’s Humphrey Spender Worktown Collection. This funding was awarded to the
 Centre in 2010 with Bolton Museum as a collaborative partner. The resulting thesis
 ‘Creating a Collaborative Worktown Archive: Photography, Place and Community’ was
 completed in 2017. The Centre has also received funding from the Bolton Rotary Club to
 establish a Humphrey Spender scholarship in social documentary photography.

 In addition to the AHRC funding, a recent PhD bursary was awarded to the UoA through
 the University's Ainsworth Awards scheme. This has supported a first class honours
 undergraduate to study the contribution of community arts to subjective well-being. The
 project has been greatly facilitated by UoA partnership arrangements, in this case with the
 Octagon Theatre and Bolton at Home.

 Facilities

 The School of Arts has excellent facilities dedicated to supporting scholarly activities.
 These include dedicated art studios, with specialist studio provision for visual arts,
 photography and computer animation. The Photography department offers outstanding
 facilities including darkrooms, a dedicated computer suite with a high output printing facility
 and four studios with specialist lighting. Research students on the MA Photography have
 made ample use of these specialist facilities when working on their portfolios. The Textile
 and Fashion department hosts professional design studios equipped with open access
 individual workspaces and high-specification facilities including digital fabric and paper
 printing, computer-aided design (CAD) software, Mimaki TX fabric printer and laser cutting
 equipment.

 All research staff are provided with dedicated workstation spaces and library facilities and
 a virtual research space within the Universities Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) Moodle.
 A variety of software is available to support research activity and access to relevant e-
 journals and e-books via the Athens system.

 The Art and Design team are supported by the Research and Graduate School when
 engaged in research activities involving external participants and when hosting large scale
 events such as the Bolton School of the Arts Commemorative Show (2018) at the Bolton
 Museum Art Gallery. The latter event involved drawing on the expertise of university
 technical and support staff as well as community partners at the Bolton Library and Museum
 Service who supported the exhibition and reception.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The School of the Arts is a principal partner in the two million pound development of
 ‘Platform Five,’ at Bolton Station as a community arts centre and research hub. Developed
 in collaboration with Bolton Station Community Partnership, Bolton and South Lancashire
 Community Rail Partnership, Bolton at Home, Northern and Network Rail, the Bolton Station
 (Platform 5) Development project reflects key priorities of the neighbourhood renewal
 agenda by radically reengineering station spaces to engage communities with the aim of
 promoting social inclusion, mental wellbeing and sustainable travel in the Bolton and
 Farnworth area. The Platform 5 gallery and associated station facilities are being redefined
 as agile, multi-purpose and multi-user spaces in which university researchers, professional
 and community artists and creative practitioners can produce and exhibit their work. A range
 of community arts research projects are envisaged in collaboration with station and
 community stakeholders. In short, this represents a significant investment in the ‘outward
 facing’ community arts research objectives of the UoA,



 Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations and partnerships

 A key aspect of the School of Arts research strategy is to develop and maintain close
 working relationships with external partners and key research users including community
 groups and voluntary organisations. In addition to the Bolton Station Community
 Partnership mentioned above, existing partnership arrangements include:

    •   Bolton Council Museums and Gallery Services.
    •   Bolton Wanderers Football Club
    •   Bolton Wanderers Community Trust
    •   Design Manchester
    •   The Octagon Theatre
    •   Bolton University of the Third Age.
    •   Punk Scholars Network

 The most enduring partnership to date has been with Bolton Library, Museum and Archive
 service through the Centre for Worktown Studies.

 The Centre for Worktown Studies is a major community-university partnership. Launched
 in 2009 as a collaboration between the university and Bolton Library, Museum and Archive
 Service, it is a virtual research centre dedicated to the promotion of the Humphey Spender
 archive of 1930s Mass Observation photographs. In addition to a range of research
 activities hosted within the Centre, Worktown Studies collaborates with the citizens of Bolton
 to document the collection. Advertisements in the local newspaper, as well as internet-
 based publicity, invite the public to share their memories of Bolton and help identify where
 some of the Spender photographs were taken and what they show.

 On behalf of the university, The Centre for Worktown Studies concluded a Memorandum of
 Understanding with Bolton University of the Third Age in 2018, designed to facilitate
 synergies between the two organisations in the development of their shared interest in life-
 long learning. The Chairperson, Tony Pearson has commented on how ‘the university has
 reached out to U3A, as an important community player, to provide talks by university staff,
 access to exhibitions, and opportunities for U3A interest groups to work alongside
 academics on specific projects’. He noted in particular that the Worktown Festival enabled
 four different Bolton U3A interest groups – Local History; ‘Stitch and Craft’; Digital
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Photography and ‘Art Creators’ – to contribute collective work over a period of months to a
 very worthwhile research initiative’ (U3A Impact Statement, 2020).

 As mentioned previously, research undertaken in the Centre of Worktown Studies has
 enabled Bolton Council to meet strategic objectives of the Greater Manchester Cultural
 Strategy 2020. Specifically, these objectives include the celebration of the distinctive
 identity of Manchester's cities and towns and the development of cultural programmes that
 reflect and respond to place. Key beneficiaries have been young people, asylum seekers
 and socially disadvantaged women. Of note is the ‘Cotton Queens’ project, a skills
 development initiative for Bolton women ‘in the third age’ undertaken in collaboration with
 Per Cent for Art, Bolton Council's Community Arts Service Cotton Queens | Worktown
 (worktownfestival.com). Bolton at Home joined with the University as a strategic partner and
 successfully bid for funds from ‘Ambition for Ageing’. As noted in our case study A Festival
 of Worktown, the participants wrote and performed a radio play based on the inter-war
 Lancashire cotton industry's 'Cotton Queen' competition. Extracts from the play were read
 at the Festival of Worktown.

 Interdisciplinary research is also buoyant in the unit. Martina Mullaney is currently
 collaborating with Dr Valerie O’Riordan (Creative Writing) and Dr Julie Prescott (Reader in
 Psychology) at Bolton and Dr. Amber Jacobs of Birkbeck University of London and Dr
 Andrea O'Reilly of York University Toronto, to develop her Jenkinson-funded conference,
 ‘The Missing Mother’, scheduled for April 2021.

 Staff have also been involved in research collaborations with colleagues at other academic
 institutions. David Gledhill has collaborated with Nicolas Royle, Reader in Creative Writing
 at the Manchester Writing School at Manchester Metropolitan University on an
 interdisciplinary art book In Camera (Negative Press, 2016) and with Dr Abigail Gilmore
 (University of Manchester) and Dr Ivan Rajković (University of Vienna) on research in visual
 arts and the creative economy (see REF 2). Dr Angela Tinwell has collaborated with a range
 of colleagues both nationally and internationally on her publications in animation and the
 uncanny valley phenomenon. These include Dr. Robin J. S. Sloan, Abertay University (See
 REF 2), Prof. Theresa Jean Tanenbaum at the University of California, Irvine and Prof.
 Magy Seif El-Nasr, Vice Chair of the Serious Games program in Computational Media at
 the University of California at Santa Cruz (Interaction Studies, Volume 16, Issue 2, Jan
 2015, p. 180 – 185). Rebecca Sitar contributed artwork to Fully Awake 5.6 (2019) Freelands
 Foundation London, a cycle of exhibitions involving academics, artists and art educators in
 the UK which focuses on teaching painting. It will be staged across 5 venues (2019-2021)
 and will involve 180 exhibitors and 60 UK institutions.

 Additional contributions to the economy and society include the Art and Design annual
 programme of activities for the National Saturday Club for 13-16 year old local
 schoolchildren (2015-2020). Each year there is a theme for the club which enables staff
 to connect their practice to the team’s broader community projects and research
 expertise. All members of the core staff team contribute sessions to the club and the
 work produced by the children is exhibited at the National Saturday Club exhibition at
 Somerset House.

 Indicators of wider Influence

 Dr. Angela Tinwell's research on the Uncanny Valley in human-like characters has been
 recognized at an international level. As well as British media coverage on BBC television
 and radio, her work has been featured in news articles for The Guardian and Times Higher
 Education and in the American magazines Smithsonian, New Yorker, and IEEE Spectrum
 Magazine. She has contributed to The Oxford Handbook of Virtuality edited by Mark
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Grimshaw (2014) and as part of the Digital Human League she has worked with visual
 effects professionals at Chaos Group (creators of V-Ray rendering software).

 Donna Claypool is currently Chair of the North-West Craft Network. The North-West Craft
 Network is a gathering of curators, galleries, museums, art and design educators, Arts
 organisations, collectors and makers based in the North West of England, UK. Founded in
 2012, the aim is to strengthen and promote collectable and critically engaged craft within
 the North West. The network is driven by the shared vision of its members to build a
 strong regional identity and healthy craft ecology in the North West.

 During the REF period Prof. Snape served as Chair of the Leisure Studies Association
 (2013-2017) and was on the Executive Committee of the Voluntary Action History Society
 (2014-2019). He was invited by Adam Matthew Digital to write the Introductory Essay to
 the on-line Mass Observation Worktown Collection. He was also guest Co-Editor with
 Prof. K. Spracklen on the special issue of Leisure/Loisir “Histories of Modern
 Leisure” 43:2, 155-158, 2019 DOI: 10.1080/14927713.2019.1613315 and was principal
 organiser of the ‘Recording Leisure Lives’ history conferences presented by the University
 of Bolton and Bolton Museum in partnership with the Leisure Studies Association (2008 –
 2018).

 Keynotes and Presentations

 In addition to a number of international exhibitions in Berlin (Dr. Gledhill, Peter Lewis),
 Prague (Martina Mullaney) and St. Petersburg (Rebecca Sitar), the UoA have delivered a
 range of presentations to the wider research community.

 David Gledhill has disseminated his substantial research on ‘The Politics of Focus in
 Contemporary Photo-derived painting’ at The Left Conference: Film and Photography
 Criticism at the Fine Art faculty of the University of Lisbon November 9-11, 2018.

 Donna Claypool presented a positioning paper on her research using textiles archives at
 the Popular Culture Association/American Culture Association conference April 12-17,
 2017, San Diego California. She also chaired the ‘Remembering the Archive and the
 Materiality of Sentiment’ section.

 Dr Keith Roberts has disseminated his research on the Edward Chambré Hardman archive
 at the University of Liverpool PROVOKE: Research Methods (2014), AHRC Exploring
 Identity, University of Liverpool (October 2017), Open College of Arts, Photography Matters
 Doncaster (CAST) (May 2016).

 Tom Sutton has presented his research on ‘The Maker Project’ at NWCN North West Crafts
 Network (2018). Prior to lockdown he was scheduled to showcase the exhibition at the
 KISMIF Conference and Festival in Porto, Portugal July (2020).

 Fay Power has presented her research on ‘Movement Maps’ at The University of
 Huddersfield (2018) and at Manchester Metropolitan University (2018).

 Martina Mullaney has spoken about her research at WOMAN UP! PODCAST SERIES 2,
 EPISODE 1 – MARTINA MULLANEY (artreading.org)

 Prizes

 Rebecca Sitar’s ‘Under the Tree’ was selected for John Moores Painting Prize 2014.
 Dubbed the ‘Oscars of the painting world’, the Prize is organised in partnership with the
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 John Moores Liverpool Exhibition Trust. Past winners include David Hockney (1967), Mary
 Martin (1969), Peter Doig (1993).
