Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northampton

 Unit of Assessment: Engineering (UoA12)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 Since REF2014 there have been major institutional restructures moving from an academic school
 to a faculty structure. Engineering has been largely unaffected by these structural revisions and
 now forms part of the Faculty of Arts, Science and Technology (FAST). Research within this
 subject area organises itself around three groups:

    1. The Advanced Technologies Research Group (ATRG)
    2. The Intelligent Digital Infrastructure Group (IDI)
    3. The Institute for Creative Leather Technologies (ICLT)


 The ATRG is an interdisciplinary group which includes staff from both Computer Science and
 Engineering. Within the ATRG research is focussed on two key areas:

    1. Lift Technology and High-Performance Engineering (LTHPE)
    2. Non-Destructive Testing (NDT)


 LTHPE (Al-Esawi, Ghaleeh, Kaczmarczyk, Khandan, Mills, Su and Torres Perez) is focused
 on mathematical modelling, computer simulation, vibration testing, prediction and monitoring of
 the dynamic performance of vertical transportation (VT) systems, intelligent fault detection/artificial
 intelligent methods and asset management in the building of transportation systems, structures
 and materials, manufacturing, and corrosion engineering. These staff have strong national and
 international links that includes the Partnership for Research and Innovation and a joint research
 programme agreement with thyssenkrupp Elevator AG (tkE AG), Chartered Institution of Building
 Services Engineers (CIBSE) Lifts Group and the Lift and Escalator Industry Association (LEIA).

 NDT (Bennecer and Kaczmarczyk) is centred on condition monitoring and fatigue life prediction
 of engineering structures, fibre optics, ultrasonic and electromagnetic testing techniques,
 structural health monitoring and non-destructive training networks. Key national and international
 links include collaboration with the British Institute of Non-Destructive Testing (BINDT), with
 Hindustan Institute of Technology and Science (India), Federal University of ABC (Brazil) and
 University of Biskra (Algeria).

 IDI (Ajit, Al-Sherbaz, Bakaoukas, Hill, Johnson, Kanakis, Mu, Opoku Agyeman, Turner, Xue
 and Zhang) focusses on artificial intelligence, human-computer interaction, low power-high
 performance computer architecture (HPCA) design, future networks, embedded systems, Internet
 of Things (IoT), augmented reality, virtual reality and sustaining the future of computing through
 innovative STEAM education. The groups’ focus is incorporated into four interweaved research
 themes: Intelligent networks, Smart and connected systems, Hub for creative technologies, and
 Immersive environment for education to apply research and development of intelligent digital
 infrastructure that directly benefits societies and businesses through consumer or business
 applications. Key national and international links include collaborations with the Hewlett Packard,
 IBM Cloud (UK), Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration (GIMPA, Ghana),
 University of Babylon (Iraq) and GE Aviation Systems (USA).

 ICLT (Ballantyne, Davis and Wise) has a focus on responding to the scientific and technological
 needs of the automotive, fashion, footwear and allied leather industries. This area has a large
 remit and a highly diverse research portfolio including investigations into the fundamental
 mechanisms underpinning the types of protein modification associated with the leather industry
 and associated biomaterials, as well as addressing the environmental sustainability of leather

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 manufacture. Improving understanding is key to the sustainability of the global industry and
 pushing leather to the extremes of performance for high-added-value applications. ICLT is only
 one of a handful of globally renowned centres delivering world class teaching and research.

 1.2 Research objectives

 Previous objectives for this area were:

    1. To build interdisciplinary research in the area of modelling, simulation, testing,
       prediction of behaviour of mechanical systems, artificial intelligence, high
       performance computing, embedded and distributed systems, 5G networks, IoT and,
       augmented and virtual reality.


 We have built upon our research activities focusing on collaborative industrial networks in
 mathematical modelling, testing, computer simulation of mechanical/mechatronic systems, natural
 language and image processing, IoT for medical applications, smart farming and smart cities, VLSI
 and Systems-on-Chp for HPCA, 5G, future networks, augmented and virtual reality. New
 academic staff have been recruited to develop these themes (Al-Esawi, Ghaleeh and Khandan
 for Engineering; Bakaoukas, Kanakis, Mu and Opoku Agyeman for Computer Science)
 alongside a new research associate to support modelling and simulation in the areas of
 Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD), Finite Element Method (FEM) and Manufacturing.

 tkE AG, a key strategic partner for the unit, have funded a number of research projects totalling
 GBP350,000 in the area of dynamics of VT systems with a focus on Lift Technologies. This has
 led to the development of new design guidelines implemented in high-rise projects worldwide
 (Kaczmarczyk, design guidelines for the world’s first rope-less system that moves both vertically
 and horizontally (Kaczmarczyk) and new traffic control algorithms were developed to build novel
 controllers for circulating multi car lift systems taking passengers’ perception into consideration
 (Kaczmarczyk). A further project has been funded through Microgen Engine Corporation resulting
 in the development of a novel control law to attenuate the engine vibrations at the fundamental
 operating frequency (Torres Perez).
 Two of our four KTP’s won over the period relate to the above themes: Innovative Design of New
 Range of Energy Efficient ‘Green’ Lift Systems (Kaczmarczyk) and ‘The Modelling, Design and
 Development of a Fire-Proof Gate for the Installation, Modernisation and Servicing of Lifts’
 (Kaczmarczyk) partnering with ACE Lifts Ltd and Elevator Engineering Services UK Ltd
 respectively.

    2. To develop research into monitoring and testing of engineering systems and
       structures.


 The NDT and LTHPE have developed research into the field of asset management and structural
 integrity of engineering systems. Several projects have been developed in this area including a
 project funded through tkE AG resulting in predictive maintenance strategies detecting damage
 early to prevent faults developing (Kaczmarczyk), a Newton-Bhabha Fund project that produced
 a set of training materials for foundry workers in India in the application of non-destructive testing
 techniques involving novel 3-D ultrasonic measuring technology (Bennecer), a Science without
 Borders research scheme resulting in the development of a computer simulation model to predict
 thermal behaviour to ascertain it’s safety (Bennecer, Kaczmarczyk) and an ongoing project with
 TfL/London Underground involving a novel distributed fibre optic sensor-based condition
 monitoring system (Bennecer, Kaczmarczyk).

    3. To create new theoretical models of the mechanisms of tanning to translate the
       understanding into new processes and reagents.




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ICLT has been a part of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) that were solely focused on
 technology transfer from one industry into the leather industry; particularly the transfer of a novel
 water reducing process used in the industrial laundry sector. These projects were successful in
 part because they utilised our understanding of the fundamental processes (including the tanning
 mechanism) to develop and exploit the inherent properties of the new reaction media. Our partner
 on these KTPs, Xeros, have commercialised this process and are now running full scale
 commercial trials in a number of tanneries.

    4. To enhance and develop national and international research collaborations,
       ensuring we seek opportunities to work with key national and international
       industrial partners through partnership agreements, KTPs and the licencing of
       patented technology.


 Members of LTHPE have developed national collaborations involving the CIBSE Lifts Group and
 the LEIA. Relationships have been developed with these partners in a number of ways including
 KTP knowledge base supervision, PhD supervision, Visiting Professorships and Visiting
 Fellowships. These collaborations have culminated in the formation of the Symposium on Lift and
 Escalator Technologies, an international annual conference series organised by LTHPE members,
 CIBSE Lifts Group and LEIA. This series brings together experts from the field of VT and has been
 running since 2011. The 12th event is planned to take place in Shanghai, China, in 2021 in
 partnership with Shanghai Jiao Tong University and Schindler Elevator Ltd. A strategic partnership
 has been formed with tkE AG, a leading international company in passenger transportation in
 buildings, in the area of Lift Technology (LT) and related scientific disciplines. This partnership
 involves a range of co-operation from sponsorship of PG projects (4 Doctorate and 5 Masters),
 visiting professorships (Dr Meier and Dr Smith), contracted research and consultancy projects.
 Alongside this key partnership we have carried out KTP projects with Ace Lifts Ltd, Elevator
 Engineering Services and EES Ltd UK.

 Members of IDI have developed national and international collaborations with IRIS IoT, GE
 Aviation Systems, CityFibre, IBM Cloud and Dajo Solutions. These collaborations have resulted
 in the formation of the IoT Workshop’s in 2016 designed to bring researchers and businesses
 together towards building a wider industrial network and infrastructure development. Relationships
 with Northampton County Council have resulted in the formation of Digital Northampton, an
 initiative that aims to make the county a home to vibrant digital ecosystem with a wide range of
 specialist digital companies. Digital Northampton holds the Merged Futures, an annual technology
 innovation showcase that brings together digital and technology experts in business, education,
 healthcare. Key partners include ASL, Intamac Systems, Irisys, Humley, Inferret, All Things Code,
 Full Metal Software, Novacroft, NT Assure and BTS UK. Merged Futures has been running since
 2019 and hosted 600 participants in 2020. Our strategic partnership with GE Aviation Systems,
 GIMPA, Hewlett Packard and University of Babylon have resulted in sponsored PhD projects and
 joint supervisions.

 As global experts in leather research, ICLT has an extensive collaborative network of industrial
 partners such as [text removed for publication]. These partners can form any part of the supply
 chain from chemical manufacturers, machine manufacturers to tanneries and manufacturers of
 leather goods in a range of sectors. The network of collaborative partnerships that ICLT has is
 constantly expanding as the research delivered continues to diversify. We have utilised our
 research outputs to foster relationships with industrial partners such as [text removed for
 publication]. There is demonstratable success through successful KTP projects; two with the same
 company addressing interindustry technology transfer and exploring the limits of what is
 achievable in a non-aqueous processing medium – both projects were highly rated by Innovate
 UK. IP that is developed by the ICLT team is routinely exploited; the process may involve
 protection such as patents and subsequent licencing deals, or it could be achieved by setting up
 collaborative research on mutually beneficial terms. An example of this is patent is
 PCT/GB2015/050915 which involves the processing of a biological substrate using at least one



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ionic liquid or deep eutectic solvent, commonly designed to aid in the processing steps in
 converting animal skin into leather.

 1.3 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 At the start of 2021, a restructure took place within the faculty merging the Engineering and
 Computer Science disciplines under the subject area ‘Technology’. This enables these disciplines
 to continue to work together on a number of often overlapping research projects. Based on the
 University Research Plan for 2020 – 2025 the following key goals have been formed:

   i.    Expand interdisciplinary research in modelling, simulation and testing with a focus on
         mechanical systems and new material technologies (the Finite Element Method (FEM),
         Discrete Element Method (DEM), Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) and
         Manufacturing). The recent recruitment of Ghaleeh, Al-Esawi and Khandan, whose
         expertise is in FEM/CFD and Manufacturing forms the backbone of this goal with plans to
         expand staff recruitment further in this area. We will be upgrading existing laboratory and
         investing in new sensor technologies such as fibre optics sensors and continue to invest
         in commercial software licences (COMSOL Multiphysics, ANSYS, EDEM, MATLAB).

   ii.   To further develop research in the areas of artificial intelligence (AI), IoT, HPCA,
         Embedded Systems (ES), augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR), with a focus on
         both theoretical and applied research in low power and intelligent systems, data science,
         user experience and industrial application. The recent recruitment of Bakaoukas,
         Kanakis, Mu and Opoku Agyeman who specialise in AI, IoT, HPCA, ES, AR and VR has
         been strategic towards the achievement of this goal. Furthermore, late 2020, we recruited
         two new staff (Eldaw and Bahja) who are experts in natural language processing, internet
         programming and data science to strengthen our research in AI. Plans are in place to
         invest into state-of-the-art high performance computers, IoT sensors such as LoRAWan
         Gateways, sensor nodes and to invest in commercial software licences (e.g. Unity).


  iii.   To increase the number of active researchers – PhD students and postdoctoral
         researchers – to support delivery of research projects with a focus on industry facing
         projects in particular. We will be utilising industrial contacts to sponsor researchers for
         industry focused project in the first instance, followed by an increase in applications to
         funding bodies to increase funding.


 1.4 Open research

 Staff receive training and support in open access, copyright and data-management. In 2019 the
 University launched its CRIS (Current Research Information System) enabling greater visibility of
 not only research outputs, but also research activities and datasets. In 2020 the University
 purchased a platform for digital preservation, and staff are now moving towards a more open
 research environment, where open research has progressed from being encouraged, to
 becoming an integral part of the research life-cycle. Staff within the computing area are
 encouraged to share their coding in Git Hub. Datasets are uploaded to the CRIS on submission,
 where they are checked for replicability and long-term digital preservation. A data management
 plan is required for all research projects as part of the ethical approval prior to any research
 being carried out. To facilitate this, staff are encouraged to use DMPonline and examples of
 well-written data management plans, and one-to-one training sessions are available to all staff.
 A strong emphasis is placed on ensuring that our data adheres to the FAIR (findable, accessible,
 interoperable and reasonable) principles of sharing of data, striving to be as open as possible,
 but understanding when necessary restrictions are required.

 Staff have been provided with training in the selection of places for publication, use tools such as
 Sherpa/Romeo and the creative commons to check funder requirements, restrictions relating to
 copyright, and the selection of appropriate licencing of research outputs. An institutional fund is

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 available to cover the cost of open access where a green (non-payment) route is either not an
 option, or where the embargo period is extensive. This fund covers the payments for articles,
 chapters and monographs. This fund covers the payments for articles, chapters and
 monographs. Where publisher policies allow, scholarly chapters are made open access and
 disseminated through our public research portal. Research activities, such as presentations at
 conferences, workshops and educational resources are made available under a creative
 commons licence.

 Our annual Symposium on Lift and Escalator Technologies promotes open research and
 innovation in the area of VT. The conference proceedings and presentations are published open
 access on the Symposium resources pages. Extended Symposium papers and new research
 articles on the subjects balancing the theoretical advances and practical new technologies and
 techniques in the area of VT systems in built environment and associated areas are published in
 our OA peer-reviewed journal Transportation Systems in Buildings (TSIB) which is edited
 jointly by Kaczmarczyk, CIBSE Lifts Group and LEIA.

 1.5 Research integrity

 Engineers support a culture of research integrity. It works within the UoN’s Research Integrity
 Policy, which seeks to: maintain the highest standards of rigour and integrity in all aspects of
 research; ensure that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards; support a research environment that is
 underpinned by a culture of integrity and based on good governance, best practice and support
 for the development of researchers; use transparent, robust and fair processes to deal with
 allegations of research misconduct should they arise; and work together to strengthen the integrity
 of research and to reviewing progress regularly and openly. Engineering engages with the
 university’s processes for providing ethical approval for research by staff and postgraduates.
 Bennecer represents Engineering at the Faculty’s Research Ethic Committee and acts as the first
 contact concerning any ethical issues that may arise.

 1.6 Research impact

 Our impact strategy in Engineering is to engage with non-academic users and beneficiaries of our
 work. These interactions with non-academic users and potential beneficiaries are through contract
 research and consultancy projects as well through running specialist seminar/conference events
 (such as the annual Symposium on Lift and Escalator Technologies), as well as R&D training
 programmes and spin out CPD courses such as the recently developed training provision in the
 Finite Element Method / Analysis for Elevator Product Design (Ghaleeh, Kaczmarczyk, Al-Esawi,
 commissioned by tkE AG/ Asia Pacific to train their R&D staff) and the Lift Technology
 Familiarization (Kaczmarczyk, commissioned periodically by the Health and Safety Executive to
 train their inspectors). Examples of impact being delivered can be seen in our case studies being
 submitted:

 The Development of New Design Guidelines for High-Rise Vertical Transportation Projects
 Worldwide has its origins in the long-standing relationship between the University and the Lift
 Industry through partnership with the national industry association (LEIA) . This has led to the
 research / consultancy programme and the formation of the Partnership for Research and
 Innovation with a leading international elevator company (tkE AG).

 The second case study on the Application of Non-Destructive Testing for Metal Castings and
 Developing the Skills of Indian Foundry Workers exemplifies the outcome of the Unit’s NDT
 programme that has attracted users from within the international NDT academic community and
 their industrial beneficiaries.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 While still a small Unit of Assessment, there has been considerable expansion in the number of
 staff submitted, increasing from 6.75 FTE in REF2014 to 20.8 FTE in REF2021. Appointing staff
 that develop the unit’s research and teaching has been important in delivering teaching modules
 through the application of research-informed delivery. Staff recruitment criteria involve being close
 to completion or having earned a PhD (or equivalent), a robust publication record, a record of
 research bids, an ability to demonstrate an ambitious research plan and to enhance the knowledge
 of one of key areas of research.

 New staff are welcomed to the centre by the Faculty Research Leader who signposts them
 towards discipline-specific research events and opportunities, fosters a friendly and inclusive
 disciplinary research culture and facilitates access to networks of external partners and
 organisations. Additionally, support is provided within the team through dedicated mentorship to
 help develop their research skills. Mentors are appointed on the basis of the staff member’s
 research expertise and their career stage. New staff also have a lower workload to enable them
 to settle in and to begin establishing their research with the teaching timetable devised so that at
 least one day a week is allocated towards research activities.

 Early Career Researchers (ECRs) are supported within the team through dedicated mentorship
 to help develop their research skills. The mentorship programme runs through a series of informal
 meetings where developmental matters are discussed, and appropriate support mechanisms are
 put in place. Further to this unit level support the centrally located Graduate School offers 40
 sessions specifically targeted at ECRs (although these are available for all staff and PGR students
 to attend).

 Recognising the need for senior research leadership to develop the university has the framework
 of the Associate Professorship scheme whereby colleagues are appointed to Associate Professor.
 This title recognises the achievements of individuals and provides a supported development
 pathway for academic staff to gain a full professorial role. Support includes a substantial
 institutional staff development programme focused on research leadership with ring-fenced hours
 for research leadership available on request and mentoring from a Professorial colleague from
 within their discipline (internal or external). As a unit we have had 3 staff appointed to Associate
 Professor (Wise, Opoku Agyeman and Mu) in the latest round of applications in 2020. Wise and
 Opoku Agyeman have already taken on research leadership position since appointment such as
 Research Degree Board Chair, Representative of Research Community at Senate and Faculty
 PGR lead.

 For all colleagues, researcher development is principally managed and audited through the
 University’s PDR process, whereby individual objectives and key performance indicators are agreed
 annually with line managers and appraised after six and twelve months. Since 2015, all colleagues
 are allocated at least one specific research-focused objective each year (objectives reflect current
 Faculty/institutional research KPIs and typically include targeted activity in terms of bidding,
 publications, impact or sectoral and international network-building). The PDR is also the process
 through which individual research training needs are identified and plans are made for dedicated
 ‘research and scholarly activity’ hours.

 Supervisory teams are balanced around providing experience, subject expertise and a history of
 prior completions. All supervisors must complete the mandatory Graduate School ran Supervisory
 Training before they can form part of a supervisory team, with new supervisors initially joining
 research teams with experience colleagues. To date 16 members of the unit have completed the
 Supervisory Training with Opoku Agyeman completing the optional Post Graduate Certificate in
 Research Degree Supervision. This training includes attending workshops, observing and
 interviewing other supervisory teams, giving written feedback to PGRs and engaging in the
 pedagogical literature regarding research supervision and teaching practice.

 An integral part of the unit’s strategy has been to ensure that our work crosses traditional
 disciplinary boundaries. As such we have worked with colleagues in Education, Waste

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Management, Geography, Fashion, Chemistry and Health. Alongside these internal collaborations
 we have also worked with external organisations such as the University of Leicester’s Chemistry
 department (polymer and biopolymer research), Universities of Lancaster and Huddersfield as
 well as the Cockroft Institute on applied accelerator research.

 We hold regular series of seminars attracting both staff and students with internal and external
 researchers encouraged to present. These seminars are led by a variety of different stakeholders
 including internal staff members, external academics and members of industry. This diverse
 delivery gives staff a wider understanding of the research landscapes we work in and
 contextualises the research being conducted. Highlights over the recent period include Professor
 Adali of the University of KwaZulu-Natal presenting on the optimization of nanocomposite
 structures and Professor Jarzębowska of Warsaw University of Technology discussing
 collaborations on projects in the area of multibody system dynamics modelling, simulation and
 control.

 Engineering ‘Champion’ groups looking after several important areas within the subject area.
 These include the Research and Knowledge Transfer (RKT) group which is a collection of both
 NDT and LTHPE staff. It operates at a more strategic level with regular meetings taking place to
 discuss and plan RKT activities. The group has recently formulated an annual plan which is aligned
 with the Unit’s REF strategic objectives.

 A number of Visiting and Emeritus Professors have been appointed over the period to strategically
 develop areas of interest within Engineering. Visiting Professors include So, of the Asian Institute
 of Built Environment (AIBE), who facilitated international research collaborations with China and
 Hong Kong in the area of Lift Engineering, Askar develops and supports research in Building
 Information Modelling (BMI), Smith provides a direct link with the Lift Industry to support research
 projects and supervises PhD students and Redwood has acted as an ambassador for leather
 research to external organisations. Our most recent appointment Cooper is supporting the
 development of research in safety of VT systems facilitating national and internal links in this area.
 Picton, a former member of the Engineering staff, was appointed Emeritus Professor to provide
 support for research in NDT and AI/ Machine Learning.

 2.2 Postgraduate research students

 We have supervised 45 PGRs (14 completions, 31 ongoing) which represents a significant
 increase in the number of PGRs within the unit when compared to the 7.5 completions submitted
 to REF2014. This increase can largely be attributed to our focus on governmental partnerships,
 most notably a partnership with Iraqi universities (University of Babylon and University of Mosul),
 with 21 of the students over the period registered as a result of our strong partnerships. In addition
 to these government funded PhDs, we have a PGR funded through an EPSRC grant, a PGR
 funded through a university-industry Partnership, a PGR funded through international partnership
 with GIMPA, a PGR match-funded PhD with tkE AG, a PGR funded through the AHRC and British
 Museum, A PGR funded through a Knowledge Transfer Partnership and the remaining PhDs are
 self-funded students.

 All research students undertake a comprehensive training programme to assist them in the
 successful completion of their research projects and to develop the skills to become independent
 researchers. The Graduate School offers a programme of practical workshops delivered by
 internal and external academics. Engineering has supported these central programmes providing
 guest facilitators from our international industry partner institutes (e.g. tkE AG) and consulting
 company. PGRs are encouraged to take part in software training seminars organised by research
 software providers (e.g. COMSOL, MATLAB, EDEM). In addition to these external and central
 workshops, we provide local training on all relevant equipment (e.g. analytical laboratory
 equipment, the microscopy suite and the pilot scale tannery), Health and Safety training,
 introducing students to staff beyond the remits of their research areas.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2018 all Post Graduate Researchers across the university were relocated to a designated space
 within the new Senate building. This has given them a dedicated research suite on campus
 facilitating a strong sense of community and contributed to collaborative works between them.
 Alongside this space Engineering PGRs have a specialist research laboratory where they can
 come together as a discipline base. This facilitates a greater discipline focus, and, in the lab, they
 have access to research hardware and computing facilities with specialist software tools. Within
 the ICLT building there is a write-up room, dedicated laboratory space for wet chemistry and full
 access to other lab equipment that is usually restricted to taught students (e.g. analytical lab).

 We have invested in interdisciplinary research in a number of specialist areas, including support
 from industrial partners, resulting in an improved research environment for PGR students. This
 includes new software tools (such as ANSYS Finite Element Method package GBP7,500; EDEM
 Discrete Element Method software GBP9,000) and hardware equipment (B&K LAN-XI vibration
 DAQ system GBP25,000 and Fiber Bragg Gratings (FBG) sensor and DAQ system GBP6,500) to
 conduct research in LT and NDT.

 Research workshops, seminar series and small conferences are held at unit level where PGRs
 are expected, and are encouraged, to contribute to these programmes. We organise an annual
 Internet of Things workshop for PGRs within the University with speakers from industry invited to
 present. Through these workshops, the academic-business partnership with IRIS IOT, CityFibre,
 IBM Cloud and DAJO Solutions have helped local businesses to build a wider industrial network
 and develop their infrastructure. The workshop provides PGR students the opportunity to build
 their wider research community and event organisation skills by providing them with the
 opportunity to get actively involved in the organisation and chairing sessions. Our PGR students
 are involved with the organisation of the Symposium on Lift and Escalator Technologies with the
 papers being published in the proceedings.

 The University has a range of teaching training and opportunities for our PGR students to
 strengthen their theoretical underpinnings while developing skills to improve their career
 prospects. For example, our PGR students have assisted in teaching various computing modules
 (computer systems, networking, media technology, databases and computer architectures) at the
 Postgraduate and Undergraduate levels. Furthermore, our students have the opportunity of
 working as Academic Teaching Staff at University of Northampton International College (UNIC).

 The university organises an annual research conference where PGRs are encouraged to actively
 participate, present and network. This conference gives PGRs an opportunity to improve their
 presentation skills receiving constructive critique from fellow students and supervisors. The series
 also features presentations from invited speakers and staff creating a forum for Engineering
 students to network and meet fellow student researchers and leading scientists across a broad
 spectrum of disciplines. UoN is a member of the East Midlands Doctoral Network (EMDoc) and
 the Midlands Doctoral Researcher Forum (MDRF) providing access to annual conferences,
 networking and support across universities in the East Midlands region.

 The University of Northampton has a strong record of achievement in the Advance HE’s
 Postgraduate Researcher Experience Survey ranking 1st overall in 2020 and 4th overall in 2018.
 We received excellent scores in the surveyed areas: 87% for overall, 93% for supervision, 86%
 for resources, 88% for progression, 91% for responsibilities, 93% for research skills and 91% for
 professional development (for purposes of PRES Computer Science and Engineering are
 separated out thus we have done a weighted average across the two for this submission).

 Final year PGRs are encouraged to present their research findings at international conferences.
 Engineering students benefit from the university’s annual allowance for all PGRs (GBP500 for FT,
 GBP300 for PT), to contribute to the costs of travel and other research expenses. The university
 runs a range of competitive bursaries. An example of this funding benefitting and being utilised
 within this area is an externally funded PGR student being awarded grant allowances to travel to
 attend and present a paper at the 10th International Conference on Mathematical Problems in
 Engineering, Aerospace and Sciences. The university provides several competitive bursaries,

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scholarships and awards that are available annually or biannually (for example, the Chancellors
 fund, Dr Mike Daniel Research Degree Scholarship and T D Lewis Scholarship).

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 Engineering is committed to Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI) in both recruitment and support
 of staff with significant responsibility for research and research students, whilst recognising and
 committed to developing further. Colleagues regularly participate in workshops on equalities and
 inclusion within termly Faculty staff development days and are signposted to focused institutional
 training on unconscious bias and other equality and inclusion topics via individual PDR objectives.
 Opoku Agyeman is a member of the University’s Global Ethnic Majority (GEM formerly BAME)
 staff network and leads the Research & Evaluation strand of the University’s Professional Learning
 Community (PLC) dedicated to Decolonising Education within the University.

 In addition, many colleagues participate in a growing number of colleague-led institutional support
 and advocacy groups such as the BAME Staff Network, LGBTQ+ group and Staff Disability
 Network. Colleagues have also benefited from the University’s Navigator (men and
 transmasculine) and ‘Springboard+’ (women, trans and non-binary) staff development
 programme for colleagues in academic or professional services roles which provides an
 opportunity for staff to undertake personal and professional development and support for
 leadership, goal-setting and strategic visioning skills.

 The individual needs and wellbeing of all colleagues are supported through the PDR process, with
 sensitive, bespoke arrangements in place in the faculty to support, for example, flexible and
 remote working, career development for part-time and fixed-term researchers, purchases of
 assistive technologies, conference attendance for colleagues and PGRs with caring
 responsibilities, and appropriate adjustments for colleagues with disabilities, long-term illnesses,
 caring responsibilities and returning from leave periods. An example of this support is the
 department making adaptions to equipment and activities for a PGR undertaking a challenging
 Engineering project to help with and stimulate their condition.

 We actively participated regularly each year in STEAM activities to encourage young people and
 women to pursue a career in computing. Turner and Hill have initiated code clubs and national
 coding competitions to help pupils develop their computing skills. Alongside this, Turner and Ajit
 have been involved in a funded ‘Junkbots’ project spawning workshops ran in local schools. We
 have an active involvement in the WISE Campaign (Women into Science and Engineering)
 working with the faculty to run a range of WISE outreach events. The unit staff contributed to the
 success of this campaign by running STEM/laboratory workshops and demonstrations for
 schoolgirls (the ‘Any Way, Any How, Any Time, Any Place – Girls Can Do It Too’ events). This
 resulted in the University being awarded the Best Engineering Event Award from National Science
 and Engineering Week (in 2015).

 Gender diversity is an area that the team are keen to address with only 1 female staff member
 being submitted out of a total of 22. As such, a number of strategies are in place to address this
 issue. This includes supporting female staff to undertake PhDs to increase the research capacity
 within the unit and building on the teaching focused research that has been ongoing and published
 by female staff.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 As a unit we have won GBP1,185,374 over the REF period which is a small increase on the
 GBP894,306 won in REF2014. Over the REF period we have been awarded prestigious grants
 such as Mu’s EPSRC First Grant of GBP99,772 to work on Software Defined Cognitive


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Networking and Bennecer’s Newton Bhabha Fund project worth GBP49,500 to perform
 Ultrasonic Non-Destructive testing of austempered ductile iron castings.

 Our strategy for generating research income has largely been based on collaborative contracted
 research and enterprise projects with industrial partners both nationally and internationally. In the
 current cycle this includes KTP work with Ace Lifts (GBP101,746), EES Ltd (GBP94,899) and tkE
 AG with the latter bringing in a steady research income stream.

 Another strategy the unit has employed has been to bid for regular internal opportunities at an
 institutional level (e.g. Big Ideas Fund, Innovation Fund, URB@N Bursaries) and use these to
 establish collaborations and develop external funding opportunities. Examples of successes in
 these areas are Big Ideas project with Wise winning money to form a project with [text removed
 for publication] and Opoku Agyeman working with Kilimo to develop an initial prototype of the
 LoRAWan enabled IoT solution for hydroponics.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 During the current REF period, all colleagues and PGRs moved to the new, purpose-built, GBP330
 million, multi-award-winning Waterside Campus. Relocating the university involved the relocation
 and integration of its two main sites into one state-of-the-art centre for academic excellence. This
 investment in institutional infrastructure and facilities has fostered collegiate dialogue through
 physically locating staff closer together into relevant research groups.

 A benefit of the new Campus estate has been the transformation of the experience and working
 environment of the PGR community. Previously PGRs would be across the campus and siloed
 away from each other, whereas now the new campus provides an impressive, purpose-built, co-
 designed suite for the University’s whole multidisciplinary community.

 As part of the university investment in facilities, the ICLT Building worth a total of GBP7 million
 was developed providing a dedicated space for leather specialisms in particular, but also for other
 engineering topics. This facility is equipped with a Microscopy suite, including a new Scanning
 Electron Microscope and a high magnification light microscope which both can be used by
 Engineering to powerfully supplement their non-destructive testing. We also have a pilot scale
 tannery, that is regularly used by industry, which is fully equipped to take raw skin/hide through to
 a finished piece of leather. Further facilities include an analytical suite which has a range of thermal
 analysis equipment, chromatographic techniques and UV/Vis and IR spectroscopy and a
 Potentiostat for looking into redox reductions. We have a Physical Testing Lab for testing all
 materials. This equipment is regularly rented out to industry with the most significant of these
 coming from [text removed for publication].

 The campus includes a new laboratory room to house our vibration and non-destructive testing
 research facilities. We have 17 computer labs including one for computer networks. These
 facilities now all being on one site has had the advantage of having staff and research students in
 one physical area. Further laboratory space includes a wet chemistry lab with two fume cupboards
 allowing space for 14 researchers at any one time.

 We have at our disposal laboratory hardware and computational facilities necessary for conducting
 high quality research in several key areas such as corrosion engineering, dynamics and vibration,
 LT and NDT. For example, the specialist hardware and software research tools include the B&K
 PulseTM and LAN-XI task-oriented systems for dynamic signal measurement, data acquisition and
 analysis. Our vibration testing facilities include LDS V406/PA500L and V721/PA1000L and TIRA
 TV51165-IN/BAA 1000 electrodynamic/ inertial shaker systems. These are complemented by
 LaserUSB vibration control system and Polytec PDV-100 Portable Laser Vibrometer. Portable
 analyser tools include PMT EVA-625 and Henning LiftPC mobile diagnosis systems for lift ride
 quality measurement and analysis. Staff conducting research in NDT, Corrosion Engineering and
 protective coating technologies have at their disposal computer-controlled testing equipment
 provided for measurements of electrochemical Impedance spectroscopy (EIS), Electrochemical

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Noise (ENM) and polarisation resistance. COMSOL Multiphysics and ANSYS FEM as well as
 EDEM Discrete Element Method modelling and simulation software are available to conduct
 simulation tests of complex Engineering and Multiphysics systems. Specialist computer simulation
 software tools include ELEVATETM to conduct advanced studies in the area of elevator traffic
 control and dispatching technologies.

 The team has a range of computing and gaming equipment including 5 NAO robots, a range of
 small robots, wired and wireless networking equipment (including Software Defined Networking)
 and Virtual Reality equipment. These are all used for both research and teaching. In addition,
 three leading organisations: Altera (now part of Intel), ARM, and Texas Instruments have donated
 hardware and software which is worth collectively over GBP553,000. They have been used for
 research in the areas of Embedded Systems, Internet of Things and High-Performance
 Computing. Specifically, they have been utilised in evaluating reconfigurable hardware solutions
 for emerging multi-core architectures and low power solutions.

 Engineering staff are supported within the unit by technical and support staff composing of one
 full time and one part-time technician. This underpins the team’s current activities and effort are
 being made to increase the support staff numbers by employing additional technical staff through
 contract appointments (funded from the research project budgets).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Members of the Engineering subject have developed a range of collaborations with academic
 institutions in the UK and across the world. Bennecer and Kaczmarczyk developed international
 collaboration links with the Federal University of ABC, Sao Paulo, Brazil, which attracted Science
 Without Borders (Brazil) and Santander researcher grants. Bennecer worked with Hindustan
 University to carry out an international research project “Application of Non-Destructive Testing
 for Metal Castings and Developing the Skills of Indian Foundry Workers” funded by the Royal
 Academy of Engineering. He has also collaborated with the University of Biskra (Algeria). Mills
 has strong links with the Technical University of Gdansk, with which the University has an Erasmus
 exchange agreement. Ghaleeh has Individual research collaborations with researchers at the UK
 universities in the area of FEM/ CAD. His partners include Gulf University Bahrain, Leeds,
 Coventry, Aston, Heriot Watt, Wolverhampton. Su established cooperation with City University
 working on the development of the Dynamic Stiffness Method (DSM) for the structural analysis of
 Engineering systems.

 Mu is collaborating with BBC R&D on a research project developing a range of innovative
 immersive media and human-centred designs to enable visual artists to create new forms of
 interactive artwork. Mu worked on the Software Defined Cognitive Networking (SDCN) project
 supported by EPSRC with Hewlett Packard and Lancaster University. Ajit has collaborated with
 BAE Systems and the University of York in the area of modelling and simulation of tactical data
 links for the defence sector. Ajit has collaborated with the SQUIRE Research Institute in Germany
 involving research on scoring models for group and peer assessment in software engineering
 education. Opoku Agyeman developed international collaboration with GIMPA, Ghana, which
 has attracted a funded PhD as well as Santander mobility and research grants. Opoku Agyeman
 has collaborated with and published recently in the areas of HPCA design with colleagues from a
 number of international and national institutions including California State University San Marcos,
 The Chinese University of Hong Kong, South China University of Technology, University of
 California, University of Southampton, University College London, Middlesex University and
 Newcastle University. Bakaoukas has been working with a local school on a Royal Society funded
 “Virtual Reality in Education” project. Xue has worked on joint projects with University of Warwick
 on developing mining association rules for e-commerce applications. Al-Sherbaz worked with
 colleagues in the University of Buckingham and secured a patent entitled “Method and process
 for Routing and Node addressing in Wireless Mesh Networks”. Al-Sherbaz has also worked


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboratively and published in the area of 5G Wireless systems with universities in Algeria (El-
 Oued and Biskra).

 Kaczmarczyk has been leading a collaborative network in the area of mechanics of slender
 structures running under the auspices of the Institute of Physics (IoP) Applied Mechanics Group
 Committee. This network organises the international symposium series - the Symposium on the
 Mechanics of Slender Structures (MoSS). These activities resulted in collaborative links with
 universities in China and Spain (Hunan, Extremadura).

 Kaczmarczyk and colleagues within the LT team (Su and Torrez Perez) continued collaboration
 with the CIBSE Lifts Group and LEIA to organize the Symposium on Lift and Escalator
 Technologies conference series. The series brings together national and international academic
 and industrial experts from within the field of VT engineering and resulted in a number of academic
 and industrial national and international links. This has led to collaboration with Changshu Institute
 of Technology (CIT) in China with Kaczmarczyk and Su being appointed Visiting Professors.
 Research in the area of systems design and dynamics of VT systems has resulted in the extension
 of the Partnership for Research and Innovation agreement with tkE AG, a leading international
 company in passenger transportation in buildings. This agreement has facilitated collaborative
 research work in the area of LT, NDT and related scientific disciplines.

 Research activities have resulted in interactions and relationships with our industrial partners
 through consulting activities and knowledge transfer projects. Bennecer initiated a number of
 industrial links through his work with BINDT. Ghaleeh collaborated with Skyships Automotive Ltd
 UK on the design project to deliver a unique, innovative electric vehicle (EV) drivetrain package.
 His other collaborations involved the oil & gas sector: IK UK Ltd & Online Electronics Ltd (the
 development of high-pressure hydrocarbon pipe and Quick Opening Closure for a large diameter
 and high-pressure pipelines); CIRCOR Pipeline Engineering & Supply Co. Ltd (the development
 of pipeline pig signaller). Kaczmarczyk has been involved in a number of consulting contracts
 with international partners (Patriot Elevator Services in the US, tkE AG at their international project
 sites (Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, UAE, USA) as well as KTP projects with partners in the
 UK (EES Ltd). Khandan developed collaboration with Classic Cuisine of Northampton Ltd to
 enable their business to operate at its maximum efficiency, implementing a programme of lean
 manufacturing. Mills has facilitated industrial cooperation in the area of protective coatings with
 leading UK companies, including DC Voltage Gradient Technology and Supply Ltd. (the
 ProCoMeter development for Non-destructive Testing of the Painting/Coating of industrial objects
 such as bridges, tanks, ships, cars, aeroplanes, gates, metal fences). Wise has worked with [text
 removed for publication] and KTPs with Xeros.

 4.2 Contributions to research base, economy and society

 Engineering have contributed to several prestigious journals such as Mu on the Editorial Board
 for the Springer Journal on Multimedia Systems. Turner was editor for Enhancing the Learner
 Experience and was an editorial review board member for the International Journal of Distributed
 Systems and Technologies and The Journal of Social Media for Learning. Turner was invited to
 guest edit an edition of Research in Education and Learning Innovation Archives. Further
 experience of editorships involves Ajit forming part of the editorial board membership of Computer
 Software and Media Applications, Topic Editor of MDPI Sustainability Journal, Opoku Agyeman
 guest editing EAI Endorsed Transactions on Industrial Networks and Intelligent Systems and Topic
 Editor of MDPI Micromachines. Kaczmarczyk has been serving as a member of the Advisory
 Board on the Scientific Board of the Transactions of the Institute of Fluid-Flow Machinery (IFFM)
 journal. Mills served as Editorial Board Member for the Journal Corrosion Engineering, Science
 and Technology. Bennecer is a Member of the Education and Qualification Committee at BINDT.
 Kaczmarczyk is a member of the national BSI MHE/004 (Lifts, Hoists and Escalators) Committee.
 Mills is a member of the ISO committee TC 35 SC9 WG 29 developing standards for examination
 of anti-corrosive paints using AC Impedance (ISO 16773).



                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Several staff have been interviewed and given keynote speeches at conferences and other events.
 For example, Mu was interviewed by New Scientist magazine on ultrasound communications and
 was a guest speaker at the Westminster Higher Education Forum: Technology in higher education.
 Kaczmarczyk was invited and delivered a range of keynote/invited lectures including: the 13th
 International Conference on Dynamical Systems: Theory and Applications (DSTA), Poland,
 December 2015; the VIII Mechanical and Industrial Engineering Rio Grande do Sul Seminar –
 SEEMI and VI Materials and Industrial Processes Seminar at Feevale University in Novo
 Hamburgo, November 2014; invited lecture series in Brazil: Universidade Federal do ABC
 (UFABC), Santo Andre; Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP), Bauru, and at Pontifícia
 Universidade Católica (PUC) in Rio de Janeiro (March 2014).

 Kaczmarczyk served as reviewer for a range of high impact scientific journals (including journals
 such as Computers & Structures, Engineering Structures, International Journal of Mechanical
 Sciences, Journal of Sound and Vibration, Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing).
 Kaczmarczyk has also been invited to chair technical sessions/mini-symposia and to sit on the
 Organizing/Scientific/Technical Committees of a number of international conferences and
 meetings.

 Kaczmarczyk served as a member of the Scientific Committee of the DSTA conference in 2015
 and 2019. He organized and chaired a technical session at the 10th International Conference on
 Mathematical Problems in Engineering, Aerospace and Sciences (Norway, 2014) and was a
 session chair at the International Conference on Modern Practice in Stress and Vibration Analysis,
 held at the University of Cambridge, UK in 2018.

 Bennecer served as Vice Chair and evaluator for Horizon 2020 European funded projects. He
 also acted as an evaluator of Brazilian funded projects CNPq ‘Science without Borders’. Bennecer
 and Kaczmarczyk served as reviewers of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research
 Council (EPSRC) funded projects. Kaczmarczyk was invited and nominated as an assessor for
 The National Research Foundation (NRF) in South Africa.

 Ali is a member of the British Computer Society, IEEE (Institute of Electrical and Electronic
 Engineering), IEEE Communication Society, IEEE Standards Associations and Member in the
 Institution Engineering and Technology IET. Davis is a member of the Royal Society of Chemistry
 and American Leather Chemists Association and a Council Member of the Society of Leather
 Technologists and Chemists. Hill is a chartered IT Professional, a Fellow of the British Computer
 Society and on the Council of Professors and Heads of Computing. Kaczmarczyk is a Chartered
 Engineer (CEng) and a Fellow of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers. Mills is a Fellow of the
 Institute of Corrosion. Opoku Agyeman is a Senior Member of the IEEE, a Chartered Engineer
 of the IET and a Chartered Manager of CMI. Torres Perez is a chartered Engineer and a Member
 of the Institution of Engineering and Technology.

 Kaczmarczyk and Su have been appointed Visiting Professor at Changshu Institute of
 Technology (CIT), China. These roles are aligned to the memorandum of understanding we have
 with CIT, collaborating in joint research projects, publications, seminar presentations and lectures.




                                                                                              Page 13
