Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Institution: University of East Anglia

 Unit of Assessment: 8 – Chemistry


 SECTION 1. UNIT CONTEXT, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

 1.1 CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE OF THE UNIT.
 This UoA8 return summarises research and related activities of 35 staff (34.2 FTE) working within
 the chemical sciences. The majority of these staff are based in the School of Chemistry which
 celebrated its 50th Anniversary in 2014 and today stands as a mature and dynamic research-
 intensive department. Also included are five materials scientists and three physicists from UEA’s
 emerging Schools of Engineering (2021) and of Physics. All components of the Unit are physically
 co-joined, being within five minutes’ walk of one another. They form part of UEA’s Faculty of
 Science located on the Norwich Research Park (NRP). The Park comprises a partnership between
 UEA, the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital and four independent research institutes – the
 John Innes Centre, the Quadram Institute, The Earlham Institute (all supported in part by the
 BBSRC), and the Sainsbury Laboratory (funded largely by the Gatsby Foundation). These
 partners form an extended campus containing one of the Europe's largest concentrations of
 researchers in the life sciences and the Unit plays an integral role in its activities.
 The Unit’s research is structured as three vibrant overarching themes chosen to be deliberately
 interdisciplinary and reflecting the breadth of our research activities: Chemistry of Light and
 Energy; Chemistry of Materials and Catalysis; and Chemistry of Life Processes. Our dynamic
 research community has a strategy to combine the pursuit of research excellence across the
 chemical sciences, with a focus on particular areas of strength, and productive collaboration
 across the Unit and beyond. Our staff enjoy excellent collaborative relationships with colleagues
 in sister Schools of UEA’s Faculty of Science and Faculty of Medicine; and play integral roles in
 across-UEA and NRP-wide research centres.
 Within each of its research themes the Unit connects chemistry at all scales, from molecules to
 materials and organisms, using state-of-the-art tools and approaches. Our work achieves
 significant impact and we value our excellent industrial links. Building on the successes of
 REF2014, the Unit has grown over this REF period through investment and income-generating
 success; for example, the number of academic research staff has increased from 25 to 35. In a
 competitive environment we have maintained an annual grant income of £2.7m and our outputs
 continue to be published in high-impact journals, including Nature, Science, Cell, Advanced
 Science, Science Advances, Nature Commun and PNAS, as well as the leading chemistry journals
 e.g., Nature Chem, JACS, ACS Catalysis, Angew Chem and Chem Sci. Over 70% of the outputs
 returned are in this group of journals.

 1.2 RESEARCH STRATEGY AND PROGRESS AGAINST REF 2014 PLANS.
 Our research has developed significantly over the assessment period, broadly in line with the
 plans laid out in the REF2014 submission and aided by a University-wide strategic root-and-
 branch review of our research and impact strategy led by the Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research
 & Innovation in 2015. To meet REF2014 plans there has been strategic investment through new
 appointments and infrastructure. Several significant interdisciplinary initiatives have emerged that
 cut across the core research themes e.g. energy materials, therapeutics/diagnostics, and synthetic
 biology.
 Strategic research goals and successes, by theme
 Chemistry of Light and Energy led by Meech aimed to:
    • develop ultrafast laser spectroscopy and photonics;

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    • advance theoretical approaches to energy transfer and structured light;
    • develop light-activated electron transfer systems.
 Success in each of these areas is illustrated by the highlights of Box 1.


 Box 1. Research Highlights: Chemistry of Light and Energy
  • the discovery by Meech of the mechanism of off-to-on-state switching in the reversibly
    photoactivatable fluorescent protein dronpa, which is commonly used in super-resolution
    microscopy. Nature Chem, 2018
  • theory from Forbes and Andrews describing the non-localised generation of correlated
    photon pairs during degenerate down conversion, with applications in quantum optics and
    imaging. Phys Rev Lett, 2017
  • Jones’ theory describing the importance of quantum coherence in condensed phase
    electronic resonance energy transfer, a fundamental process of energy capture in
    photosynthesis. J Phys Chem Lett, 2019
  • measurement of heme-heme electron transfer dynamics in a bacterial nanowire protein by
    Butt and Meech. JACS, 2019


 Chemistry of Materials and Catalysis led by Bochmann, Cammidge and Hui aimed to:
      • increase capability in organic and inorganic synthesis;
      • address major challenges in meeting future energy needs with focus on novel inorganic
          and/or bioinspired catalysts;
      • develop and exploit materials for energy applications and therapeutics/diagnostics.
 Illustrative successes of meeting these objectives are given in Box 2. The discovery and
 exploitation of materials with, e.g. novel fluorescence or thermoelectric properties, has developed
 significantly over the REF period.


 Box 2. Research Highlights: Chemistry of Materials and Catalysis
 Organic Synthesis and Catalysis
  • Bew’s ‘one size fits all’ asymmetric synthesis protocol for incorporating stable isotopes into
    aziridines for new pharmaceutics. Chem, 2016
   • Munoz’s work on tandem cyclization/C-X coupling reactions through a novel Pt-Au
     heterobimetallic catalyst system. Angew Chem, 2018
   • development by Cammidge of a simple synthetic route to hybrid systems intermediate
     between subphthalocyanine and porphyrin opening the way to further functionalisation of
     the parent systems, of growing importance in materials chemistry. Angew Chem, 2015
 Next Generation Materials
  • the discovery by Romanov and Bochmann of novel high-performance light-emitting diodes
    based on carbene-metal-amides, with applications in next generating electronic screen
    devices. Science, 2017
   • Chao’s work in developing magnetic nanocomposite thermoelectric materials that
     overcome previously limiting performance deterioration problems. Nat Nanotechnol, 2017
   • Hui’s strategies to deliver supercapacitors with enhanced mechanical and chemical stability
     for solid-state flexible energy storage. Adv Sci, 2018




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Inorganic Synthesis and Catalysis
   • Wright and Bochmann reported the first CO and CO2 complexes of gold(III), with key
     relevance to the water-gas shift reaction for H2 production. Sci Adv, 2015
   • development of pioneering novel gold(III) chemistry resulting from Rochigiani and
     Bochmann’s synthesis of multiple examples of previously rare gold(III) hydrides, and the
     observation of their unprecedented reactivity in alkyne hydrometallation reactions. Angew
     Chem, 2016
   • Wright and Pickett’s studies of protonation rates of Fe-Fe bonds in complexes relevant to
     the function of hydrogenases and nitrogenases. JACS, 2014



 Chemistry of Life Processes led by Le Brun, and embracing the Chemistry-led Centre for
 Molecular and Structural Biochemistry (CMSB), had the strategic goals to:
   ● further the application of novel biophysical approaches, including native mass spectrometry,
   pulsed EPR spectroscopy and protein film voltammetry, to understand biological mechanism;
   ● develop synthetic biology to engineer natural systems to perform new functions, with
   applications, for example in medicine and the energy economy as a new focus of research.
 These were met as illustrated by the highlights in Box 3.


 Box 3. Research Highlights - Chemistry of Life Processes
  • the application of pulsed EPR by MacMillan to particulate methane monooxygenase,
    establishing that, contrary to previous reports, this enzyme contains two mononuclear copper
    centres with methane oxidation catalysed at one. Science, 2019
  • pioneering work by Le Brun on the application of native mass spectrometry to provide
    unprecedented resolution of reactions at iron-sulfur clusters of regulatory proteins which
    underpin the ability of bacteria to thrive in e.g. the human body. PNAS, 2017
  • Butt’s protein film electrochemistry revealing the distal His orients substrate for N-O bond
    cleavage in the wide-spread family of cytochrome c nitrite reductases. JACS, 2015
  • Sachdeva’s development of photoactive antibody fragments, by genetic insertion of
    photocaged tyrosine, delivered to cancer cells in a light-dependent manner. Angew Chem,
    2019


 1.3 RESEARCH VISION FOR THE NEXT 5 YEARS.
 Building on the Unit’s tradition of inter/multi-disciplinary activities, our research structure provides
 a strong framework for progress in the next REF period in which we aim to advance fundamental
 understanding and address global challenges through activities that align well with both NRP and
 UKRI strategies. We are well placed to continue to attract funding from alternative sources
 including charities, industry and the EU (as developments permit) and to progress our research
 despite the challenges presented by COVID.
 Research aims for Chemistry of Light and Energy build on the Ultrafast Laser Laboratory’s track-
 record of attracting significant investment from EPSRC for multidimensional nonlinear optical
 spectroscopy. Meech plans to develop ultrabroadband sources capable of probing coherence in
 simple chemical reactions with sub 5 fs time resolution in collaboration with the fast developing
 work of Jones in theoretical and computational excited state dynamics. Computational chemistry
 will continue to expand; in photonics and structured light through the recent arrival of Forbes, and
 through critical mass of theoretical expertise that includes coupled quantum and classical
 molecular dynamics (Oganesyan), and nanophotonics and radiation-matter interactions
 (Andrews).




                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strong developments in multiple areas are planned for research in Materials and Catalysis. The
 Energy Materials Laboratory, led by Wright and Fielden, will continue to drive growth with, for
 example, Fielden building on his pioneering development of polyoxometalate non-linear optical
 chromophores through development of new, switchable bulk materials with potential applications in
 optical telecommunications and computing. The Unit's profile across organic and organometallic
 chemistry will strengthen in catalysis (Munoz, Bew, Richards, Storr) and synthesis (Cammidge,
 Stephenson). Developments in diagnostics and therapeutics will be driven by our new
 appointments, including Lord’s studies of novel vanadium compounds for cancer treatment.
 Detailed 2D and 3D characterisation of material deposition, layering, and phase-separation are
 expected to advance printed electronics (Alexander, Askounis, Mayes), liquid crystal security
 films (Cammidge) and chemical sensors (Melendi-Espina, Hernaez, Marin). Mayes’
 development of novel methods for the detection of microplastics in marine (and other)
 environments is planned to advance significantly, at least in part, through UEA’s strategic
 partnership with the Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science (Cefas), a world
 leader in marine science and technology.
 The CMSB will remain central to research in Chemistry of Life Processes. Research led by Le
 Brun will see further development of novel mass spectrometry to reveal new aspects of the
 enzymology underpinning bioelemental cycles. MacMillan will lead the application of pulsed EPR
 methods to transmembrane transporters important to health. Sachdeva will drive growth of
 synthetic biology towards application in therapeutics and, with Butt, for the production of ‘green’
 electricity and chemicals. Collaboration with the NRP's newest institute, the Quadram Institute, is
 anticipated in analytical tool development for food and health studies (Mayes with Kemsley) and
 mineral/cofactor nutrition stimulated by their recent appointment of Warren and the new Norwich
 Institute for Healthy Ageing.

 1.4 IMPACT: STRATEGIC GOALS, MECHANISMS AND ACHIEVEMENTS.
 Regarding impact, our central strategic goal from REF2014 was to engender a complete culture
 change to embed impact from research as integral to our mission. This has been achieved
 through a variety of mechanisms and approaches, and with the support of UEA’s central Research
 and Innovation Services, as evidenced by:
   • Chemistry’s Director of Innovation (Oganesyan) has active industrial links and regularly
     meets with ICS leads for progress updates, to offer guidance and signpost resources
     (financial and supporting) such that we have secured £393k impact funding from UEA’s
     internal competitions;
   • growth in the Unit’s registered Impact Case Studies (ICS) from 5 to 16 over the assessment
     period. These are nurtured through discussion of impact activity in appraisal of all academic
     staff and by annual ICS review at both School and Pro-Vice Chancellor level in a dedicated
     University-wide process;
   • protection of our intellectual property with 40 patent applications, 12 granted patents and 15
     licensing agreements in the assessment period;
   • the breadth and variety of our impact activities, which occur across multiple sectors including
     Agri-Tech (Stephenson, Jayasooriya), Energy Storage (Chao), Environmental (Mayes),
     Healthcare (Russell), and Display Technology (Bochmann, Cammidge);
   • active encouragement and support of staff to establish and develop spin-out companies,
     e.g., Russell’s Iceni Diagnostics Ltd and Intelligent Fingerprinting as featured in two of our
     submitted ICS;
   • active support of staff to pursue industry-related funding, for example Romanov and
     Bochmann secured major investment from Samsung;
   • support, recognition and rewards for impact success through workload adjustments that
     reduce other duties and encouragement to enter UEA's annual Innovation and Impact
     Awards: Russell in 2018 was made one of only two UEA Innovation Fellows for outstanding
     achievements underpinning two of our ICS; Mayes won the ESRC Impact Accelerator
     Account Award (2019) for detection of microplastics in water; Romanov was shortlisted for

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Outstanding Commercialisation of Research Award (2020) for the development of novel
       materials for organic light emitting diodes technology.
 These contacts and collaborations have substantially enriched the Unit’s environment by
 providing support (direct or in-kind) for ongoing research, the basis for grant and impact funding
 applications, and direction to individual research projects of benefit to the researcher and the
 potential end-user.

 1.5 IMPACT VISION FOR THE NEXT FIVE YEARS.
 Alongside our three presented ICS, we have 13 case studies that exemplify the Unit’s wider
 contributions to economy and society and which we are nurturing. These ICS illustrate
 engagement with a wide range of actors supported by the suite of mechanisms outlined above.
 Highlights for progress in the next REF period include:
   • Cammidge working with OpSec Ltd and BASF to exploit his liquid crystal security materials
      (Patented in 2015) for use in next generation anti-forgery banknotes;
   • Chao working with Changzhou Tonghui Solar Electricity Ltd (China) to exploit his research in
      silicon nanoparticles to enhance anodes for energy storage and with Biotronik SE & Co. KG
      (Germany) for implantable medical devices;
   • Mayes developing technologies for detecting marine microplastic pollution. This has already
      influenced global policy. Mayes’ technology was used to highlight the presence of
      microplastics in bottled water which led to a WHO global review of possible risks to human
      health;
   • Stephenson developing water-resistant cellulose-based biocomposites for fibreglass
      replacement in the automobile sector, in conjunction with Heathcoat Fabrics, Coventive
      Composites and Element Materials Technology.
 Our portfolio of case studies can be added to at any stage, is centrally managed and has access
 to substantial funding sources. Thus, we will retain our agile response to new opportunities.

 1.6 APPROACH TO INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH.
 The Unit wholeheartedly encourages interdisciplinary research. This is facilitated by specific
 features and mechanisms within the Unit, for example:
   • joint, across-School staff appointments (0.5 FTE in each School), with Hemmings and
     Butt each holding joint appointments between Chemistry and the School of Biological
     Sciences;
   • facilitation of across-School and across-NRP collaborations via joint meetings and 'speed
     dating' events leading to interdisciplinary projects including Fielden’s collaboration with
     Waller (Pharmacy) and Le Brun’s collaborations with Balk and Buttner (John Innes Centre);
   • membership of across-School and NRP-wide research centres each of which hosts a variety
     of workshops and seminars promoting interdisciplinary collaboration: the CMSB (linking to the
     School of Biological Sciences and School of Pharmacy); the Earth and Life Systems Alliance
     (a strategic research priority of the NRP linking to the School of Environmental Sciences, the
     John Innes Centre and other NRP institutes); the Norwich Cancer Research Network (linking
     to the Medical School, School of Pharmacy, and Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital).

 1.7 RESEARCH INTEGRITY WITHIN AN OPEN RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT.
 The Unit strives for exemplary standards of research integrity through a combination of
 University-level processes and the Unit's own activities. At University level, UEA maintains a
 Research Integrity Office and is a signatory of the revised 2019 Universities UK Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity and the Concordat on Openness in Animal Research. The University
 recently revised its Research Ethics Policy and all staff are bound by it and held to its
 requirements. At Unit level, we have sought to instil automatic compliance with the highest
 research integrity and ethical standards through strong emphasis of its paramount importance in
 all PGR student and Research Associate (RA) inductions.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We actively support an open research environment. This includes making our diverse research
 publications available to as wide an audience as possible, in line with UEA’s Institutional Open
 Access Policy, through Open Access Journals and the UEA Digital Repository (>750 peer-
 reviewed journal/conference outputs appearing in >220 journals). In addition, data has been made
 available to all through the Open Science Framework and UEA’s Digital Repository.

 SECTION 2. PEOPLE

 2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT.
 Our staffing strategy aims to create a sustainable and thriving research environment to
 facilitate the career development of existing research staff at every level, and to recruit outstanding
 new staff in open, fair competition. This includes attracting external fellowship holders and/or
 mentoring candidates as they apply for fellowships to be hosted by us. We aim to provide the
 highest standards of equality and diversity such that we attract, develop and retain high-achieving
 research staff and students.
 2.1.1 Staff Development
 To implement our staff development strategy we deploy a suite of mechanisms at University,
 Faculty and School levels:
  • Annual appraisal for staff in all categories involved in research as follows:
        For academic staff, including research fellows, annual appraisal is combined with the
        University’s Research Activity Planning meeting in a single discussion led by the Head of
        School (Le Brun), Director of Research (here covering research and impact, Butt) and the
        Director of Learning and Teaching (Lancaster). The approach is supportive: achievements
        and readiness for career advancement are celebrated, and opportunities for support,
        training and career advancement are identified. Past record and future plans are discussed
        in detail, and goals agreed for the coming year in a process which encourages individuals
        to set realistic targets given the various demands on their time and energies;
        For contract research staff and research technicians, annual appraisal is typically by
        the project’s PI, but this can be changed on request. These appraisals also celebrate
        achievements and include career development and training needs. There is a focus on
        optimising career development for further employment when these staff are on short-
        term contracts. RAs are encouraged, where appropriate, to advance to fellowships or
        faculty positions (within the School and elsewhere), as exemplified most recently by
        Hernaez, Marin and Rocchigiani;
  • The Faculty of Science has a bridging fund to cover short-term funding gaps of up to three
    months employment. This has provided continuity of employment for Butt’s RA, van
    Wonderen, in a transition from EPSRC- to BBSRC-funded research;
  • At University level, training and continuing professional development needs are provided by
    the Centre for Staff and Educational Development, which offers over 200 courses. It includes
    an individual development funding scheme, in place since 2014, for off-site specialised
    training requirements;
  • The Unit fully supports UEA’s Code of Practice for the Management of Research Staff,
    including management guidelines for Principal Investigators, that was recently revised to
    comply with the new Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. UEA
    now offers financial relocation assistance to new contract research staff. It has also
    introduced a merit-based promotions process for contract research staff that accords with
    the revised Concordat, such that the University will fund any shortfall in funding for merit-
    based promotions and salary progression awards;
  • Flexible working arrangements, updated comprehensively in 2019, are available to assist
    staff and include explicit criteria accommodating part-time roles and special circumstances
    (e.g. adoption/maternity/parental leave);

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  • Chemistry’s Promotions Committee considers cases for confirmation of appointment and
    promotion of academic and contract research staff by implementing UEA’s processes in the
    context of the standards of a thriving Chemistry department. The Committee, chaired by the
    Head of School, includes the Directors of Research, Innovation and PGR, as well as other
    senior staff in the School and an external member drawn from the Science Faculty. Supportive
    feedback on all applications, with general guidance for career advancement, is provided by
    the Head of School. We are keen to reward all staff for outstanding performance and collegiate
    activities within the School. Timely promotion applications are encouraged by e.g. a prompt
    to discuss promotion in the Appraiser Checklist that all staff receive. The effectiveness of our
    approaches is evidenced by the success of 12 (of 17) applications for promotion and all 10
    applications for confirmation of appointment.

 2.1.2 Staffing and Recruitment Policy.
 We aim to recruit outstanding new research staff in open, fair competition. To this end, all staff
 undergo separate and mandatory training on: Recruitment and Selection; Diversity in the
 Workplace; and Understanding Unconscious Bias.
 In accord with our strategy to ‘grow’ our own research talent by appointing at lecturer level, we
 have appointed 12 staff in the REF period to develop: novel ultrafast laser spectroscopy (Bull from
 University of Melbourne, Australia); medical diagnostics/therapeutics (Marin from within
 Chemistry and Lord from University of Bradford); synthetic chemistry (Storr from University of
 Nottingham, Rocchigiani from within Chemistry); synthetic biology (Sachdeva from MRC
 Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Cambridge); carbon nanomaterials (Melendi-Espina from the
 University of Nottingham, Hernaez from within Chemistry) and surface-patterning (Askounis from
 Kyushu University, Japan). Additional appointments included in this UoA8 are physicists affiliated
 with the School of Chemistry with expertise in: Bose-Einstein condensates (Borgh from University
 of Southampton), observational astrophysics (Ferdman from McGill University, Canada) and
 theoretical astrophysics (Lander from the Polish Academy of Sciences, Warsaw). Research and
 teaching in physics are spread across several Schools in the Faculty of Science including strong
 contributions from researchers in our Chemistry of Light and Energy theme.
 We encourage research fellows to join the Unit and support their applications through mentoring,
 internal peer review and feedback. During the REF period we are proud to have hosted 4 Marie
 Curie Individual Fellows, a Newton International Fellow and a Daphne Jackson Trust Fellow.
 Independent research fellowships have also been won from highly competitive and prestigious
 schemes by Romanov (Royal Society URF), Forbes, (Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship) and
 Lord (UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship).
 New appointments are provided with a mentor who guides them through UEA processes and
 supports them during their probation process. In common with all staff, they receive annual
 appraisal and access to the full range of staff development processes described above. Following
 successful confirmation of appointment, staff are free to retain their mentor, and senior staff are
 always available for additional advice and support.
 There were three retirements during the assessment period (Page, Pickett, Russell) and
 replacement appointments were made in each of the corresponding themes. In addition, O’Connor
 moved initially to the John Innes Centre, NRP and then on to the Directorship of the Max Planck
 Institute for Chemical Ecology, Germany, while Wildgoose moved to a position in industry and
 Heisler to the Federal University of Paraná, Brazil. For succession planning, five of the staff
 submitted will be at traditional retirement age by 2027/28. Although the exact number choosing to
 retire is not known, our plan, founded on the continued success of the Unit, will be to replace each
 of these posts as they arise. For example, recent appointment of Rocchigiani is in preparation
 for Bochmann’s retirement.

 2.1.3 Support for Individuals at the Beginning of their Research Careers.
 Those at the beginning of their research careers are integral to the strategy, culture and success
 of the Unit. Accordingly, we provide them with support through multiple mechanisms:


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  • New faculty appointments receive a formal induction led by the Head of School. They are
    mentored by a senior colleague, receive continued support through start-up funding provided
    by the School in accord with research need (£30k for lab-based, £15k for other), have priority
    in a Faculty-led PhD student competition that provides non-DTP-funded studentships; and
    have access to our DTP competitions. New staff benefit from participation in the MA in Higher
    Education Practice, and a lighter teaching load (building from approx. 30% to 100% over three
    years). These activities complement the support provided to all staff;
  • Newly-appointed contract research staff receive formal induction led by the Principal
    Investigator of their project, which includes an induction to the School. A follow-up meeting at
    3-6 months ensures ‘all is well’. Mentorship by the PI continues throughout the individual's
    employment, reinforced by the annual appraisal. All contract research staff are offered the
    opportunity to be mentored in career development by a person other than their line manager.
    Mentorship and training include advice on preparing manuscripts for publication, grant writing
    and project management. Several of our contract research staff have been mentored in
    successful applications for grants as Researcher Co-Investigators (e.g. Bradley, Crack, van
    Wonderen). Others have been mentored to faculty positions (Marin, Rocchigiani, Hernaez)
    and prestigious independent fellowships (Forbes, Leverhulme ECF; Romanov, Royal
    Society URF);
  • Chemistry uses indicative research job descriptions to ensure that RA jobs are costed at the
    correct level on grant applications and that appointments are made on an appropriate salary
    grade to reflect the level of knowledge and expertise required in the role;
  • Chemistry’s Contract Research Staff Coordinator (Oganesyan) acts as a point of contact
    and mentor for research staff and additionally represents their interests at meetings of the
    School’s Executive Committee;
  • The Unit encourages contract research staff to become, where appropriate, members of the
    supervisory teams of PhD students;
  • The Unit supports contract research staff in presenting their work at dedicated slots in
    Chemistry’s Annual Research Day and the University-wide Annual Researcher Summit,
    and the many opportunities to give research talks within the Unit, across the NRP and at
    national and international events.


 2.2 RESEARCH STUDENTS.
 Post-graduate research (PGR) students, PhD and Masters by Research, make an essential
 contribution to research in the Unit, and a significant contribution to its intellectual viability and
 vibrancy. Their supervisory programmes represent the means by which we train the next
 generation of confident, skilled research practitioners. Students have been funded from sources,
 including EPSRC, the Norwich Research Park BBSRC-funded DTP (in which Chemistry is a
 partner applicant), EU ITNs, Leverhulme Trust, The Big C, and institutional support via the Science
 Faculty. Our international PGRs are generally supported by overseas scholarships. All staff
 involved in PGR supervision and recruitment are trained in equality issues through mandatory
 training, reinforced by a requirement for PGR supervisors to undertake training in Best Practice in
 Research Supervision every 3 years as stipulated by UEA’s Code of Practice for Research
 Degrees.

 2.2.1 Approach to Recruitment.
 The recruitment of PGR students adheres to UEA's policies on recruitment and Equality and
 Diversity including its Codes of Practice with respect to Protected Characteristics. We aim to
 recruit excellent students from as wide and diverse a pool of candidates as possible. Recruitment
 is via open calls followed by a formal selection process involving, as well as the proposed
 supervisory team, independent interview panels, Head of School, Director of PGR and the PGR
 Service. Recruitment panels are diverse and drawn from the full breadth of academic colleagues.
 Hence recruitment of PGR students is merit-based with full awareness of the requirement to


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 guarantee equality of opportunity to all. Evidencing the outcomes of this approach, within the Unit
 there is a good gender balance among PGR students (48% F for 2018/19).

 2.2.2 Monitoring and Support for Research Students.
 PGR students within the Unit are generally registered in the School of Chemistry. Their
 programmes are overseen by the Faculty of Science Graduate School and the UEA Doctoral
 College. In addition to frequent informal meetings, formal progress meetings mandated by the
 Doctoral College occur every 4 months and include an Initial Meeting, at the outset, and a
 Probationary Meeting within 12 months of starting. The Probationary Meeting has an independent
 chair and permits formal progression to the PhD programme.
 Students have access to a number of sources of support and routes to have their voice heard:
 through their supervisory teams; Chemistry’s PGR Director (Sachdeva) and Deputy Director
 (Munoz) appointed to retain gender balance; Chemistry’s Disability Officer; the Science Faculty’s
 embedded Well-being Team; Student Support Services at University level, and the UEA-wide
 Courage Project, an initiative of the UEA Students' Union to support PGR students with a
 particular focus on well-being and mental health.
 PGR students have representation on the Faculty of Science PGR Committee, providing direct
 access to the Associate Dean of PGR and enabling students to shape PGR policy and culture.
 They are also supported through cohort-level events and activities. We place great emphasis on
 developing each year's intake as a cohesive group, providing students with a ready-made peer
 support group. All PGR students have a dedicated personal workspace, computer and lab space
 as required. More generally, we celebrate PGR achievements as an integral part of Chemistry’s
 activities including: our Annual Research Day, a lively forum featuring talks and posters from
 PGRs; lunch with external speakers providing diverse role models; contributions to events such
 as the annual Norwich Science Festival, Royal Norfolk Show, Norwich Pint of Science and the
 Norwich-based Teacher-Scientist Network. Furthermore our PGRs can expect to present their
 work at 1 international conference, funded through their research training account which may be
 supplemented by the School. The Science Faculty’s Return to Work and Family Support Fund
 offers additional funds to students with carer responsibilities.
 There is high satisfaction among our PGR students demonstrated through the biennial
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey where we significantly exceeded national averages
 in all questions. Averaging over the 2017 and 2019 surveys, Chemistry’s PGRs reported 97%
 overall satisfaction and 95% satisfaction with the quality of supervision. Significantly, 98% felt
 confident in their skills development over their project.

 2.2.3 Skills and Career Development for Research Students.
 The UEA Code of Practice for Research Degrees ensures a commitment to the provision of
 transferable skills and employability training for all PGR students. Thus, as well as receiving
 bespoke research training from their supervisory teams, each PGR student follows a bespoke
 Training Pathway from the Faculty of Science or their DTP. These pathways outline mandatory
 requirements as well as setting out proposals for broader development, which are tailored to
 individual student needs. Students complete a Training Needs Analysis, on arrival and this is
 revised on an annual basis in a reflective process supported by their supervisory team and two
 dedicated Faculty of Science Training Coordinators.
 Training is provided by a variety of qualified staff including: academics from across the NRP; two
 dedicated Faculty of Science Training Coordinators; staff from UEA’s CareersCentral and the
 Centre for Staff and Educational Development. It takes a multiplicity of forms, ranging from
 advanced quantitative and/or technical skills training (e.g., NMR, High Performance Computing),
 through training in teaching, to broader professional skills (e.g., effective oral and written
 communication, project management, report writing, critical thinking and leadership). The training
 is evidence-based, responsive to students’ needs (e.g., via feedback surveys for each event) and
 inclusive, with, for example, some events being delivered as webinars. Specific support for impact
 and employability is provided through mandatory external placements for students on projects

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 co-designed with external partners under the iCASE model and through Professional Internships
 for PhD students (PIPS) unrelated to their research for BBSRC-DTP students.
 We are proud of both the research achievements of our PGR students and the broader skillsets
 that they acquire as a result of their training. Our PGR students co-authored 34% of our returned
 outputs and performed research that underpins our portfolio of ICS.

 2.3. EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY (E&D).
 The Unit is fully supportive of UEA's overall strategy and policies on E&D. In line with these
 frameworks, all staff undergo appropriately tailored training, refreshed every two years and that
 includes Diversity in the Workplace training.
 E&D considerations formed an important part of the workload model, developed and
 implemented by the Faculty of Science in 2019 to replace the School based models. Using a
 consistent methodology, the new model allocates time for research which is transparent to all and
 accounts for part-time working. Taking a strategic approach the model allocates 30% of staff time
 to core research activities (proposal writing, responding to new opportunities, output writing and
 impact development), as well as protecting funding success by ensuring all awarded Investigator
 time is included as workload.
 Through a mix of formal and informal approaches, the Unit strives to achieve a professional,
 supportive and inclusive research environment for all.

 2.3.1 Specific E&D Measures within the Unit.
 Beyond UEA’s requirements, Chemistry is proud to hold Athena SWAN Bronze Status, awarded
 in 2016 and renewed in 2020 with recognition of ‘the very clear internal checklists for planned
 leave, appraisals and induction’. We have embedded Athena SWAN principles within our
 processes. For example, aiming to increase the number of female academic staff, two of three
 appointments in 2019 were female, and we are committed to further increasing the diversity of our
 faculty. Moving forward, ‘Bias Interrupters’’ will be used prior to all shortlisting and interview panels.
 As well as implementing the Action Plan, the School routinely collects data and conducts surveys
 of the views and experiences of staff and students with the aim of continually improving its E&D
 culture. These activities are overseen by Chemistry’s E&D
 Committee. Composed of representatives at all levels, including
 the Director of Research (Butt), this committee meets every six
 weeks and the Chair (Jones) sits on, and reports directly to,
 Chemistry’s Executive. Jones works with the Faculty's Athena
 SWAN E&D Project Coordinator to ensure the sharing of best
 practice and new ideas. Jones also sits on the Science Faculty’s
 BAME committee for Physical Sciences.
 The Unit seeks to achieve an inclusive and supportive culture. Flexible working and core hours
 accommodate personal need, maintain a healthy work-life balance and recognise the role of
 carers. Flexible working, in line with University policy, can be requested by all staff. School-level
 meetings (e.g. committees) and research talks are timetabled to fall within the designated core
 working hours of 10:00-16:00. Academic staff, researchers and PGRs also have autonomy to
 schedule their work around required attendance (e.g. teaching, training, meetings) and as allowed
 within safe-working practices.
 Staff and PGRs with dependants, children or elderly relatives, can apply to the Science Faculty’s
 Return to Work and Family Support Fund (a ring-fenced £10k p.a.) for e.g., help with care costs
 while attending conferences. This fund supported ad-hoc childcare for Chemistry faculty returning
 from parental leave, and an accompanying person to assist with child care during RA visits to the
 Central Laser Facility. The Science Faculty provided 12 months fixed-term cover to support the
 research, and deliver the teaching, of Chemistry academic staff during maternity leave and
 subsequent return to work. To enable return to work after a career break, the Unit supported the
 successful application from RA Ahire for a Daphne Jackson Trust Fellowship co-sponsored by
 the Science Faculty and Royal Society of Chemistry.


                                                                                                   Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our supportive approach to well-being is reflected in our aforementioned celebration of, and
 reward for, achievements in research, innovation and positive culture change. Appointment to
 senior roles is normally based on discussions at appraisal about the roles staff are interested in,
 with follow on discussion and consideration of workload. In some cases, open calls are used. This
 approach has broadened take-up of these roles, such that the gender balance of the Chemistry
 Executive (3F, 8M) is currently representative of the School’s faculty.
 All staff have access to ResNet, a UEA-supported network promoting equality and fairness across
 the NRP. Blumenschein and Munoz received Science Faculty financial
 support to attend Aurora, a women-only leadership development programme
 run by the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education. We observe well-
 being events (e.g. Time to Talk Day, World Mental Health Day), host
 seminars to enhance inclusivity (e.g. Decolonising Science), and solicit
 suggestions for well-being and inclusivity actions from staff and students. We
 celebrate International Women’s Day, have held two seminars on
 decolonising the curriculum, and celebrate Black History Month with daily
 posts about BAME scientists.

 2.3.2 Construction of the REF Submission.
 This submission was constructed to present the quality of our research and impact while
 recognising, in compliance with UEA's agreed REF2021 Code of Practice, the need to maintain
 fairness and eliminate potential unconscious bias (all REF2021 decision-makers received
 Unconscious Bias training). Selection of Category A staff took two forms. Firstly, all staff employed
 on UEA contracts with significant responsibility for research were automatically included.
 Secondly, as per the Code of Practice, an open call across UEA solicited applications for
 Independent Researcher status. Applicants were assessed by the Pro-Vice Chancellor for
 Research & Innovation, aided by colleagues in the Research and Innovation Office, and added to
 the staff list as appropriate.
 Selection of outputs from staff on the finalised staff list followed the procedures in UEA’s Code of
 Practice. Outputs for potential submission were solicited from 2017 onwards by open calls, i.e.
 self-nomination. These outputs were considered at least twice in a series of assessments involving
 a combination of internal and/or external assessors. Internal assessment was carried out
 collectively, with each academic staff member contributing (6F:29M at the time of submission).
 External assessment was by senior researchers (1F:2M) to calibrate internal scores and gain
 additional opinion where internal scores diverged. All assessors received instruction to assess the
 output itself, were advised on how to minimise unconscious bias, and the process and outcomes
 were discussed by Chemistry’s E&D Committee. Anonymised assessment scores were returned
 to staff, giving them the opportunity to reflect on and challenge them if desired.
 Output selection in accordance with REF2021 rules was then based on quality both within and
 between each author's outputs by a panel of Chemistry’s senior academics (2F:3M). The gender
 profile of attributed authors’ outputs (14% F), reflects that of the Unit as a whole (17% F).
 ICS selection was on the basis of a series of annual review meetings conducted by the School
 Directors and Faculty Associate Deans of Research and Innovation, the PVC Research and
 Innovation, and the Impact managers (typically 4F:3M). Constructive feedback was returned to
 authors at each stage.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 SECTION 3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

 3.1 INCOME HIGHLIGHTS
 The Unit’s research income was £18.6m over the REF period. We secured >£21.1m during the
 REF period with major funders including the EPSRC, BBSRC, NERC, Leverhulme Trust and ERC.
 For example: Meech won £1.25m (EPSRC) to develop ultrafast spectroscopy to probe dynamics
 in complex systems from materials to proteins, e.g. Nature Chem, 2018; Oganesyan won £700k
 (EPSRC) to develop computational methods for predicting EPR spectra from molecular dynamics
 relevant to lipid membranes, liquid crystals, DNA fragments and proteins e.g. ChemPhysChem,
 2018. Bochmann won a prestigious ERC Advanced Grant ‘GOCAT - Gold(III) Chemistry:
 Structures, Bonding, Reactivity and Catalysis’ (£1.7m) facilitating e.g. JACS, 2018; Butt led
 studies of light-driven electron transfer in biohybrid assemblies, e.g. JACS 2016 & 2019, with
 collaborators in Leeds, Cambridge and UCL funded by BBSRC & EPSRC (£2.7m total, £1.2m to
 UEA). Le Brun won >£2m (BBSRC) to determine how bacteria, including pathogens, sense their
 environment through iron-sulfur cluster regulators, e.g. JACS 2019 & 2020.
 The Unit’s externally funded active awards supporting impact during the assessment period
 totalled £4.5m. Major external sources included from Samsung (£860k) to Romanov and
 Bochmann. Internal funding benefited Bew’s spin-out company, IsochemiX, for high-value
 isotope synthesis; £28k from the PVC Strategic fund and £17k from UEA’s Industrial Strategy fund
 to explore business growth opportunities in UK, EU and US. Russell’s spin-out company Iceni
 Diagnostics Ltd, a submitted ICS, benefitted from approx. £50k of internal impact funding to
 develop methods for detection and discrimination of human and avian influenza. In addition,
 faculty received >£170k from the Innovation Proof of Concept Fund, >£60k from the Innovation
 Development Fund, >£215k from the NRP Translation Fund, >£35k from the HE Impact Fund.
 Other notable successes include awards totalling >£450k from CERES an Agri-Tech partnership
 funded by Research England (Stephenson, Jayasooriya), BBSRC NIBB awards (including >£80k
 to Le Brun) and a BBSRC Sparking Impact award (Le Brun).

 3.2 STRATEGY AND SUPPORT FOR GENERATING RESEARCH INCOME AND IMPACT.
 Our strategy is to develop a sustainable income stream for research and impact activities by
 mentoring and supporting staff to develop their research agenda and to help identify funding
 opportunities with UKRI and beyond. For those that are less established we facilitate strong
 collaborations with leading peer research groups and make introductions to our industrial contacts,
 and we also actively encourage interdisciplinary and collaborative proposals. Future strategy
 is to grow our funding from EPSRC (e.g. though our new appointments), from UKRI consortia, and
 to continue to diversify our funding streams through e.g. commerce/industry and central
 government sources.
 Staff are supported by internal review of grant proposals >£50k, a formal process performed
 by staff with a history of funding success. For example, applications to EPSRC are considered
 within the School, and to BBSRC are reviewed by a UEA-wide panel. To inform and encourage
 new applications, the Faculty regularly host research and funding workshops, for example, we
 had an EPSRC theme day in 2018 with a programme leader giving a keynote talk, presentations
 on ‘tips to winning funding’, a Q&A panel and a networking poster event. Such events provide an
 excellent way of developing a positive research culture: one that is looking ahead strategically
 for future opportunities for success. In 2019, a series of Innovation networking events brought
 together researchers from across the Faculty of Science to initiate collaborative research, and
 underpin UEA strategy, to address priority themes of healthy ageing, clean growth and future
 materials. Chemistry provides a modest budget (~£500 p.a.) to assist participation in conferences
 and industry networking events when alternative sources are not available.
 Faculty are actively encouraged to apply for study leave, fellowships and secondments to allow
 extended focus on research and impact: e.g. Lord was awarded a UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowship; Mayes secured study leave to concentrate on microplastics research; and Butt held

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a Royal Society Leverhulme Trust Senior Research Fellowship. In accord with University policy,
 faculty can apply for a semester of study leave (at a frequency of approx. one in six semesters).
 Our new workload model includes strategic adjustments to allocate staff time for impact generation
 where appropriate.

 3.3 INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORTING RESEARCH AND IMPACT.
 Our research infrastructure, comprising a range of core and specialist facilities reflects a
 modern, research-intensive Unit. Facilities are housed in individual research laboratories and in
 centrally managed Instrument Platforms of which six are of particular significance to the Unit: X-
 Ray, NMR, Mass Spectrometry, Elemental Analysis, Bio-Imaging and Structural Imaging. The
 Science Faculty also has extensive mechanical and electronics workshops.
 Platform instruments are centrally bookable, available to researchers across the NRP, and used
 for consultancy work with external partners. Each Instrument Platform has dedicated technical
 staff, a platform manager and an academic lead providing a direct link to researchers and a de
 facto lead to inform investment strategies and lead strategic equipment proposals. Substantial
 investment has been made in the platforms during the REF period using a combination of
 externally-raised funding, UKRI capital equipment awards and matched funding from UEA. For
 example, the Mass Spectrometry platform underpinned Le Brun’s mechanistic studies of
 regulatory iron-sulfur cluster proteins e.g. Nature Commun 2017, Chem Sci 2017. The platform
 was enhanced by Le Brun leading two successful bids to the BBSRC ALERT fund providing an
 Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometer (£349k in 2017) and funds for a high resolution
 hybrid MS/MS instrument (BBSRC/UEA, £690k in 2020). Funds for a new MALDI-TOF instrument
 (EPSRC, £328k in 2020) have been secured.
 The Bio-Imaging platform benefitted from new confocal and widefield microscopes (UKRI/UEA,
 £500k in 2019); the Structural Imaging platform was boosted through a new Scanning Electron
 Microscope (£700k, UKRI Capital Award, 2019), and upgraded Transmission Electron
 Microscope (TEM) facilities (UEA, 2015) with a second TEM and scanning electron microscope
 available under the NRP sharing framework. The X-ray platform was revitalised by the purchase
 of new facilities for small molecule X-ray crystallography (EPSRC, £616k, 2018) and powder
 diffraction (UKRI, £170k, 2019). This instrumentation has already supported high profile
 publications e.g. from Fielden (JACS 2020) and Bochmann (Chem Eur J 2020, Chem Mater
 2020). The NMR platform includes a solid state 400 MHz NMR (upgraded with fast MAS capability
 in 2016, EPSRC, £75 K) and 500 MHz spectrometer, the latter with its console upgraded in 2020.
 These sit alongside excellent facilities for biomolecular NMR, including an 800 MHz spectrometer
 upgraded to allow multinuclear solid-state measurements (UKRI, £107k in 2020). Funds have
 been secured to equip a second 500 MHz instrument with a new triple-resonance probe (UKRI,
 £84k in 2020).
 The University's IT and Computing Service provides centralised support for research
 computing needs assisting >25 outputs in the REF period from Jones and Oganesyan on theory
 and computation. High Performance Computing has seen £520k investment year on year since
 2014. It now consists of 425 computer nodes, 10 GPU nodes and 6 huge memory nodes, providing
 8312 CPU cores powered by Intel Xeon processors.
 Alongside the platforms, specific infrastructural facilities benefit clusters of researchers. For
 example, synthetic chemists benefit from GC-MS (EPSRC/UEA, £50k, 2019) and have secured
 funds for semi- and preparative HPLC (UKRI, £80k, 2020). Analytical chemistry facilities
 include stopped-flow FT-IR, stopped-flow UV-visible and time resolved spectro-electrochemistry,
 attenuated total reflectance FT-IR and new fluorescence spectrometers (Fielden, EPSRC/UEA,
 £61k, 2019) allowing life-time and anisotropy measurements that have supported several
 publications e.g., JACS, 2020 (Fielden), Nature Commun, 2020 (Romanov/Bochmann). Funding
 was awarded for a new Raman microscope (EPSRC, £250k in 2020) for microplastics research
 and materials science. The Ultrafast Laser Laboratory led by Meech houses a multi-dimensional
 multi-frequency ultrafast laser spectroscopy facility. The above facilities are maintained by
 recurrent inward investment from the Unit for running and maintenance costs, and technical
 support.


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Centre for Molecular and Structural Biochemistry (CMSB) laboratories are equipped with
 facilities for cell culture through to a unique array of advanced spectroscopic techniques. These
 include: room temperature circular dichroism (CD) and magnetic CD (Cheesman Nucleic Acids
 Res, 2018); pulsed multi-frequency, time domain EPR (upgraded with a new console £377k, 2020
 and 6T superconducting magnet £302k, 2014) and multi-frequency continuous wave EPR and
 ENDOR spectroscopies (MacMillan Science, 2019). The protein electrochemistry suite has
 provided novel perspectives of enzyme activity e.g., JACS, 2015 (Butt). An LC-Q-TOF MS
 instrument with ESI source provides facilities for high resolution mass data (including folded
 proteins) underpinning studies of photosensitiser:cytochrome biohybrids e.g., JACS, 2019 (Butt).
 Researchers have ready access to facilities for rapid reaction kinetics, calorimetry and
 ultracentrifugation. Extensive advanced proteomics facilities are available through the NRP
 sharing framework. Funds for a new isothermal titration calorimeter (UKRI, £120k) were secured
 in 2020.
 We are supported by skilful technicians (11.6 FTE) that provide a wide variety of services, from
 glass-blowing to NMR expertise. Recognising that some essential ‘core’ research equipment is
 difficult to fund through external grants, the Faculty of Science has a ‘well-found laboratory’ fund,
 typically spending £200-£300k p.a. on repairing, replacing or upgrading workhorse equipment.
 UEA’s Institutional strategy for replacement of ageing equipment includes the PVC-Research
 Capital Fund, with a budget of £500k p.a. for co-funding with external bids e.g., for Chemistry’s
 protein purification systems (BBSRC/UEA Butt, LeBrun) and the aforementioned MS facilities.
 Chemistry has also benefitted from Estates funding (>£2.8m) to upgrade Science Faculty
 infrastructure including fumehoods, refrigeration units, and the central nitrogen and argon
 supplies.

 3.4 COLLABORATIVE USE OF RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE.
 Unit members are collegiate providers and users of shared facilities. For example, our EPR
 facility underpinned MacMillan’s collaboration with Northwestern University’s Hoffmann and
 Rozenzweig on methane monoxygenase (Science, 2019). The ultra-fast laser facility has
 underpinned Meech’s collaborations with Tonge (Stony Brook) and Miyawaki (RIKEN, Japan) to
 reveal the interplay of chromophore and protein dynamics in photoactive proteins (Nature Chem,
 2018) and with Feringa (Groningen) to show excited state structural dynamics in molecular motors
 (JACS, 2014). Regarding usage of others' facilities, Le Brun's work on protein structures relies on
 time bought on the Diamond Light Source national synchrotron facility at Harwell (PNAS, 2019),
 as well as synchrotron facilities at Grenoble (Nature Commun, 2017; JACS 2019). In addition, we
 secured £1.6m of in-kind contributions for research on facilities including the Central Laser Facility
 (Meech, Butt), ISIS Neutron and Muon Source (Chao, Wright) (e.g. Angew Chem, 2016).

 3.5 E&D CONSIDERATIONS IN ACCESSING RESEARCH AND IMPACT FUNDING AND
 INFRASTRUCTURE.
 Access to research and impact funding, as well as the infrastructure and equipment of the
 Instrument Platforms and elsewhere, is open to all and is based on need and merit. All staff may
 therefore benefit from the mechanisms by which the Unit encourages research and impact, and
 have equal access to the Instrument Platform leads and, for impact, to the Business Relationship
 managers of the University's Research and Innovation services. Nonetheless, in line with the Unit's
 overall approach to E&D, we are mindful of avoiding unconscious bias in all decision-making for
 resource allocation. We provide targeted assistance to ECRs in grant preparation and facilities
 access. This includes through mentorship and access to Platform instrumentation to complete
 high impact research or pump-prime applications, in a process overseen by Science Faculty
 Research Executive.




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 SECTION 4. COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE,
 ECONOMY AND SOCIETY


 4.1 RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
 Collaborative, multi-disciplinary research is a central strategy for the Unit to meets its aims of
 addressing major scientific challenges through contributions that cannot be tackled by individuals
 or smaller teams. During the assessment period we published with researchers in 50 different
 countries (>55% of our outputs have an international collaborator), with numerous UK universities,
 and locally with researchers in other Schools at UEA and institutes within the NRP. Notable
 examples include:
   • Bochmann, Romanov with Friend and Credginton (Cambridge) on high-performance light-
     emitting diodes based on carbene-metal-amides (e.g. Nature Commun, 2020; Science, 2017).
   • Le Brun’s work on iron-sulfur cluster global regulatory proteins involving collaborations with
     microbiologists including Todd (Biology, UEA, e.g. eLife, 2019), Green (Sheffield, e.g. 2017.
     Nat Commun), Hutchings and Buttner (both JIC, e.g. J Biol Chem, 2020), a structural biologist
     (Fontecilla-Camps, Grenoble, France, e.g. JACS, 2020), a resonance Raman spectroscopist
     (Johnson, Georgia, USA, J Biol Chem, 2015), a nuclear resonance vibrational spectroscopist
     (Cramer, UC Davis, USA), a Mössbauer spectroscopist (Kamali, Tennessee, USA) (Angew
     Chem, 2016)
   • Butt’s work on extracellular cytochrome electron transfer has led to a series of collaborative
     papers involving microbiologist Richardson and structural biologist Clarke (both Biology,
     UEA), biophysicist (Jeuken, Leeds), chemist (Reisner, Cambridge), computational physicist
     (Blumberger, UCL) and theoretician Cahen (Weizman Institute) with outputs including Cell
     2020, JACS, 2019, Chem Sci 2018, and ACS Catalysis, 2017.
   • Stephenson’s work underpinned the 2018 launch of Open Lab Africa a consortium to build
     sustainable collaborative research capacity in sub-Saharan Africa and address the intractable
     problems of Neglected Tropical and Poverty related diseases. Academics from Tanzania,
     Uganda, Kenya, Ghana, Cameroon, Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of the Congo
     collaborate with UEA’s Schools of Chemistry, International Development, Medicine,
     Pharmacy and Biology, and specialists in natural products networks (South Africa) and
     anticompetitive misuse of IP in the pharmaceutical sector (Australia). As a UEA Vice-
     Chancellor’s Global Challenges Research Fellow Ngameni’s (Cameroon) visit to
     Chemistry has resulted in 3 publications to date.
 Collaborations are facilitated by all previously mentioned mechanisms for encouraging research
 and impact generation, support of interdisciplinarity, and underpinned by our overall philosophy
 of mutual help and collegiality. Logistically they are aided by the University's Research and
 Innovation Services and International Office.


 4.2 RESEARCH IMPACT AND ENRICHMENT OF RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT
 Our three submitted ICS were selected from a portfolio of 16 active ICS that exemplify the Unit's
 wider contributions to the economy and society. The contacts and collaborations engaged in these
 ICS, and nascent impact activities, substantially enrich the Unit's research environment by
 providing funding for staff research programmes, supporting bids for enhanced infrastructure,
 employing contract research staff to the benefit of both research teams and potential end-users,
 stimulating new lines of research, and enabling communication of our research with diverse
 communities.
 Mayes’ research in microplastics detection provides an impressive illustration of these
 synergistic benefits to our research environment, and evidence of the success of our culture of
 embedded support for impact. Mayes’ new, rapid approach to microplastic detection (Sci Rep
 2017), involved regional collaboration with Cefas. This methodology underpinned a study of
 microplastics in bottled water that led to a WHO review of risks to drinking water safety.


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Subsequently, Mayes’ study leave supported his contributions to a UEA/UKRI Global Research
 Translation Award in which he established the Malaysian Microplastics Network “MyMiP”
 (http://mmp.umt.edu.my/) to promote microplastics analysis and translate knowledge to policy and
 impact in a region heavily affected by plastic waste. NERC-funded infrastructure development for
 microplastics research at UEA (£250k), including laminar flow cabinets, enhanced the training
 received by network coordinator, Dr. Yet Yin Hee, during her visit to Chemistry as a UEA Vice-
 Chancellor’s Global Challenges Research Fellow. Industrial engagement led to >£17K in
 microplastics-related consultancy and he was successful with competitive bids for >£43K of UEA
 proof-of-concept and impact funding. Mayes’ ongoing research benefits from a senior research
 associated funded through the NERC Highlight Topics consortium grant MINIMISE: current and
 future effects of microplastics on marine ecosystems led by Galloway (Exeter), and funding
 secured for a Raman Microscope (EPSRC, £250k) to enhance microplastic analysis capability,
 among other projects.


 4.3 ENGAGEMENT WITH DIVERSE COMMUNITIES
 The Unit runs a full and varied programme of public engagement delivered by researchers at all
 career levels. By means of events, Facebook page and Twitter feed we aim to communicate our
 research and impact achievements to as wide an audience as possible. Moreover, in line with
 UEA policy, we demonstrate the high value we place on engagement activities by including them
 as one of the criteria considered in promotion. Individual engagement events and staff are too
 numerous to mention, but some highlights over the assessment period include:
    •   Ashworth: received the Royal Society of Chemistry Inspirational Member Award 2018 for
        outstanding dedication to inspiring school students and the public. He sits on the advisory
        committee for Scifest Africa, an NGO, served on OPEN (formerly Schools Outreach
        Support Network Advisory Group) group for the Institute of Physics, and was recently
        appointed to the Norwich Science Festival Steering Committee. He has performed Kitchen
        Chemistry demonstrations in >12 countries to a total audience >10 000 with members from
        all age groups. With the RSC’s Spectroscopy in a Suitcase he has reached approximately
        700 sixth form students to showcase our research in physical chemistry while offering
        practical experience of IR and UV spectroscopy;
    •   Butt’s exhibits in 2018 on biomolecular wires at the Latitude Festival and Norwich Science
        Festival attracted >2 000 participants;
    •   FutureLearn MOOC “Biochemistry: The Molecules of Life” in collaboration with the
        Biochemical Society (£20k, 2015) draws on MacMillan’s expertise in membrane proteins.
        This 3-week course, for 15-19 year olds, held 15x has >30000 learners from >190
        countries.
    •   Marin’s presentation for MPs as part of SET for Britain at the House of Commons (2014)
        was awarded the Roscoe Medal and Westminster Gold Medal in Chemistry and featured
        research underpinning one of our submitted ICS;
    •   Mayes won a UEA Engagement award (2018) and ESRC Impact Accelerator Account
        Award (2019) for diverse work in science engagement and communication, e.g. Scientist
        in Residence in Groundwork Gallery, a story on BBC One’s News at 10 (reported by >500
        media channels world-wide within 24 hours), demonstrating plastic in tea bags in BBC’s
        ‘War on Plastic with Hugh and Anita – The Fight Goes On’ (broadcast in 2020, >3.5 million
        views).
    •   Mayes organised the WWT Water Quality Conference Preconference workshop on
        Microplastics (2020) where an audience of >50 water quality and regulatory professionals
        explored the implications of microplastic pollution to the UK drinking water industry.




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.4 PROFESSIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE DISCIPLINE, ESTEEM AND RECOGNITION.
 Service on grant committees includes: Cammidge as expert evaluator for EU Marie S Curie
 International Training Networks and Individual Fellowships programmes, Le Brun as a core
 member of BBSRC grants committees and the Royal Society’s International Exchanges and
 Newton Advanced Fellowships panel; Meech as Chair of EPSRC Panels (Fellowships, Strategic
 Equipment). In addition the Unit has provided expert reviews to >25 overseas funders of research
 personnel and facilities, and >140 journals.
 Contributions to learned societies, include: Andrews as Chair-elect of the International Society
 for Optical Engineering (SPIE); Blumenschein as Secretary of the British Biophysical Society;
 Cammidge as elected member of RSC Materials Division Council; Le Brun as Chair of the RSC’s
 Inorganic Biochemistry Discussion Group and member of Dalton Council.
 Faculty have given numerous invited lectures over the REF period covering the full range of the
 discipline. Our leading roles in conference organisation included as chair: LeBrun for Dalton
 2016, a biannual joint Interest Group meeting of the RSC Dalton Council, ~350 attendees; Butt
 for the international conference ‘Extracellular Electron Transfer: Mechanisms and Opportunities’
 (UEA, 2017 sponsored by the Biochemical Society and EPSRC); Munoz for RSC Organic Division
 South East Regional Meeting 2016, ~100 delegates from academia and industries. We also
 contributed to organisation of: 18th International Conference on Time-resolved Vibrational
 Spectroscopy (2017) ~170 attendees (Meech); 2017 Joint Congress of the International Union for
 Pure and Applied Biophysics, Institute of Physics and British Biophysical Society
 (Blumenschein); RSC’s Chemical Nanoscience and Nanotechnology Symposia in London (2018)
 and at UEA (2019) (Chao); 5th World Congress on Chemical Engineering and Catalysis held in
 Tokyo, Japan in 2018 (Hui).
 Our contributions to training of PGR students and RAs included: an Industrial Summer School
 and Public-Private Cooperation Workshop for PGRs from 5 of Chemistry’s organic chemistry
 groups through the EU Interreg-funded (€988k) ‘Academy-Industry Chemistry Channel’; a
 Biochemical Society sponsored workshop ‘Biophysical Techniques for Probing Metals in Biology’
 for UK PGRs (Cheesman, MacMillan, Le Brun); modules on advanced EPR methods at >6
 COST-EU Training Schools (MacMillan); protein electrochemistry within the EU Horizon 2020
 ‘BISON’ project (Butt).
 Faculty have held editorial roles with many journals. Senior examples include: Andrews, Applied
 Sciences, European Journal of Physics and Symmetry; Le Brun, Microbiology, J. Biol. Inorg.
 Chem.; Mayes, Chemosensors; Meech, Journal of Photochemistry and Photobiology A
 Chemistry. Andrews was also Editor-in-Chief of ‘Comprehensive NanoScience and
 Nanotechnology’ 2nd Edition, Elsevier, 2019 and the ‘Nanophotonics’, Elsevier book series.
 Authorative reviews from the Unit include those by: Rocchigiani & Bochmann (Chem Rev,
 2020); Munoz (Chem Soc Rev, 2014, >100 citations), Hui (Adv Sci, 2018, >60 citations and
 Materials Horizons, 2020), Sachdeva (Nature Rev Chemistry, 2020), Le Brun (Acc Chem Res,
 2014, >70 citations), Butt (Royal Society Interface, 2015 >100 citations).
 Faculty who have won prizes evidencing leadership in their disciplines include:
   • Cammidge, Hilsum Medal 2016 from the British Liquid Crystal Society for contributions to
      the development and understanding of the chemistry of discotic liquid crystals;
   • Bochmann, RSC Applied Inorganic Chemistry Award, 2017 for insightful contributions to
      industry-relevant catalysis research leading to significant economic and environmental
      impact in industrial olefin polymerisation processes;
   • Le Brun, RSC Joseph Chatt Award 2018 for contributions to the understanding of molecular
      mechanisms of bacterial gene regulation by environmental levels of oxygen, nitric oxide and
      iron employing iron-sulphur clusters.




                                                                                         Page 17
