Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Canterbury Christ Church University (CCCU)

 Unit of Assessment: 34. Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information
 Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure
 Research is a core part of our identity, through which we aim to promote the public good, make a
 difference in the lives of the communities we engage with, and create a distinctive student
 experience. Our research is diverse, applying, media, film, cultural studies and artistic approaches,
 and humanities, practice based and social science methodologies. During the census period we
 have focused on three consolidating themes: communities and cultures, screen cultures and
 living environments. Since REF 2014, which was our first submission, major developments in
 the Unit included the launch of the Faculty based Centre for Practice Based Research in the Arts
 (2014) and the School based Centre for Research on Communities and Cultures (2015), which
 were set up to support and amplify the impact of our research as well as to foster collaborations
 and interdisciplinary research. Recently, our research specialisms were boosted and celebrated
 in the purpose-built £12M Daphne Oram building, opening in 2019, offering state of the art
 research and teaching facilities as well as spaces for collaborative activities and public
 engagement.

 The Unit was based in the former School of Media, Art and Design for most of the census period,
 but since 2019 it is part of the larger School of Creative Arts and Industries, which itself is located
 within the Faculty of Arts and Humanities. Our research informs our pedagogy and we strive to
 foster a positive and nurturing learning environment where students have opportunities for co-
 creation of research. The School currently runs 15 undergraduate programmes, 4 MAs and 4 PhD
 programmes, promoting a multi- and cross-disciplinary culture.

 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy
 Building on our previous achievements the Unit’s strategic aims in this census period were to
 foster high quality research (A1); facilitate impactful research (A2); enhance the sustainability of
 the research environment (A3); and grow the community of research students (A4). The unit has
 achieved these aims via:

 •   Strategically prioritising and consolidating our research around three themes (A1-4)
     which has led to new collaborations, focused research events and activities resulting in quality
     outputs as well as targeted development of high impact research and enhanced vitality and
     sustainability of research environment:
        Our communities and cultures theme involved research on cultural practices and heritage
     of local communities (Sanz Sabido’s research on cultural memory of local communities in
     Spain; Ball, Meades and Shepherdson’s work on cultures of coastal communities), news and
     communication practices in communities (Gulyas’ work on local media and journalism as well
     as on digital media technologies and communities; Biernacka-Ligieza’s research on local
     public sphere), and Blackman’s contributions on subcultures.
        Our research within the screen cultures theme explored landscapes in film and animation
     (Fox, Hawkins and Pallant), screen industries (Meades and Pallant), screen heritage and
     history (Jones’ work on early amateur film makers; Butler’s studies on science fiction films in
     different eras), and sound in film (Birtwistle).


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Living environments is an emerging theme that members of the Unit explored via practice
     based research examining environmental issues (Hall’s Tree Radio and Transmission Spores)
     and urban lived environments (McLean’s projects on urban smellscapes).

 •   Setting up two research centres (A1-4) to support the development of research capacity in
     thematic areas, boost impact activities, organise multi and interdisciplinary research events,
     develop collaborations and partnerships with academic and non-academic partners and foster
     income generation.
        The Centre for Practice Based Research in the Arts (CPBRA) was set up to galvanise
     practice based research in the Faculty as well as to contribute to advancing this research
     approach nationally and internationally. The CPBRA has organised workshops (12),
     conferences (7), and public performance lectures (19) to support practice based research
     within and across disciplinary areas. Members of the CPBRA were part of interdisciplinary
     projects, such as Hawkins’ collaboration with historians and archaeologists on Finding
     Eanswythe, a community heritage project, funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund, that brought
     new insights into the historical and cultural context of early medieval Folkestone.
        The Centre for Research on Communities and Cultures (CRCC) was set up to facilitate
     collaborations and develop impact and income generation activities in relation to the
     communities and cultures theme. CRCC has supported 17 research projects, leading to 24
     research outputs and 32 presentations at national and international events. The Centre
     organised 35 national and international research and public engagement events, including the
     Annual Conference of MeCCSA (Media, Communication and Cultural Studies Association) in
     2016 on the multi- and interdisciplinary theme of ‘Communities’ which led to Sanz Sabido’s
     2017 edited volume Representing Communities: Discourse and Contexts. To support
     interdisciplinary research both centres have organised facilitating events and collaborations
     (section 4.2).

 •   Facilitating impact in four targeted areas (A2,3): preservation and presentation of cultural
     heritage of communities (Impact Area 1, IA1); giving voices to marginalised groups and
     communities (IA2); increasing cultural participation and co-creation in new forms of cultural
     and artistic expression (IA3); and enhancing understanding of opportunities and impacts of
     digital media technologies (IA4) (see 4.1 for details). Our submitted impact case studies reflect
     three of these areas and represent examples of impact leading to deep local and targeted
     national impact regarding cultures of coastal communities (REF3, ICS34.02), as well as
     focused international impact in relation to cultural memory and the Spanish Civil War (REF3,
     ICS34.01). We have achieved impact through identifying and prioritising research that
     responded to the needs of our stakeholders; developing partnerships facilitated by our
     Research Centres; securing funding that supported impact initiatives (see 3.1); enhancing
     research impact capacity through staff development (see 2.2); using internal funding to employ
     a dedicated Faculty Impact Officer and enabling staff to have additional research time to carry
     out impact activities. A key approach to impact has been the development of archives that
     have allowed the preservation and presentation of cultural heritage as well as voices in
     communities. Researchers in the Unit have developed four archives with more than 11,000
     items in total: South East Archive of Seaside Photography (SEAS Photography) (Shepherdson
     and Ball), George Wilson archive of seaside amusement arcades (Meades), Canterbury
     Amateur Film Archive (Jones), Herencias del 36 (archive for memories of the Spanish Civil
     War in local communities) (Sanz Sabido). We provided access to the archives via exhibitions,
     screenings, publications and open access online presence benefitting regional, national and
     international audiences. For example, the webpages of Jones’ amateur film archive attracted
     111,418 pageviews between 2017 and 2021, 78% of those from the UK and the rest from nine

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     other countries. Another approach to impact we prioritised was co-creation and other forms of
     beneficiary involvement leading to increased cultural participation. For example, Shepherdson
     collaborated with the Kent-based social enterprise Project Moorhouse to work with school
     students in Thanet (a deprived area in East Kent) on the documentation and interpretation of
     the photographic heritage of seaside communities funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund; Hall
     worked with Tate Community Learning on the project Reclaim the Waves engaging older
     audiences (65+) in the creation of a collaborative radio installation subsequently exhibited at
     Tate Britain; and McLean’s internationally exhibited research on urban smellscapes included
     123 ‘smellwalks’ with 1174 participants in 17 countries co-creating ‘smellmaps’ of their
     neighbourhoods and cities.

 •   Increasing research capacity (A1-4) by targeted funding support for high quality outputs;
     consolidation of our research on focused themes; allocation of research time to all staff;
     mentorship and researcher development initiatives (see 2.2). As a result the proportion of staff
     in the Unit with significant responsibility for independent research grew from 39% in REF 2014
     to 55% in the current cycle. Submitted staff have produced a total 121 outputs during the
     census period, compared to 80 in the previous REF cycle. The number of full book publications
     particularly increased (from 8% to 40%), reflecting our focus on major projects leading to
     quality research outputs.

 •   Increasing external research income (A1-4) via diversifying funding sources; boosting
     capacity by targeted staff development; and using internal funding to kick start and support
     income generation activities (see 2.2 and 3.1). External funding recorded in HESA returns has
     increased from zero in REF 2014 submission to £202,166 in this census period. Our research
     outputs, impact and knowledge exchange activities have been also supported through more
     than £260,000 funding from sources not reported as research income in HESA.

 •   Growing the community of research students (A3,4) via launching new postgraduate
     provision; providing high quality support; integrating research students into the research
     environment of the Unit; and securing funding (see 2.3). The number of PhD completions has
     nearly doubled from 6 in REF2014 to 11 in the current cycle. Our postgraduate research
     community was boosted with the introduction of a new PhD programme in Film Studies and a
     Master by Research degree, which was completed by 23 students in the census period.
     Currently there are 21 PhD and 19 MA by Research students registered. The institution
     provided six PhD scholarships in the Unit with full bursaries and seven PhD students were
     funded by external grant.

 1.3 Future research objectives
 Keeping our general aims (A1-4) but building on a strengthened research base and utilising the
 support mechanisms and infrastructures we have built, the Unit’s key research objectives for the
 next period are:

 •   Further our research in the three themes via targeted support to build staff expertise and
     allowing emerging researchers to develop specialism. For example, to consolidate our
     expertise in screen cultures we are supporting long-term projects including Butler’s monograph
     on ‘Electric Dreams: Science Fiction in the Eighties’ and Birtwistle’s new book on ‘Film Sound
     Modernism’.

 •   Cultivate research collaborations, especially with international partners, to carry out major
     projects, produce high quality outputs, enrich vitality of the environment and increase external

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     income, in particular in relation to the communities and cultures theme. Work already in
     progress includes Blackman’s international project on youth austerity funded by the Danish
     Independent Research Council; and Meades’ collaboration with Stanford University on arcade
     cultures. To facilitate collaborations we will host at least three visiting fellows as well as
     organise international conferences.

 •   Further develop impact in the four targeted areas by cultivating partnerships and securing
     funding. Our impact in relation to (IA4) opportunities and impacts of digital media technologies
     will be significantly enhanced by recent funding success for an interdisciplinary project aiming
     to stimulate growth and innovation in the screen industries in the South East. The Hi3 Network
     is funded by the European Regional Development Fund (2020-2023, £6.1 million award with
     CCCU share of £751,115 led by Pallant) in collaboration with London South Bank University,
     Creative Folkestone, Screen South and Maidstone Studios. We will also utilize our new
     facilities, especially the purpose-built Daphne Oram building, to foster a regionally influential
     creative industries hub that supports impact and new partnership activities, and to host public
     engagement events. We will develop new partnerships and deepen our collaborations with
     existing local and regional non-academic stakeholders, such as Turner Contemporary and the
     Canterbury Festival, especially in relation to our living environments research theme and
     practice based research projects. As an example of new partnership development, we are now
     contributing, with a range of partners, to the Medway 2025 UK City of Culture bid.

 •   Bolster the community of our research students by expanding our postgraduate provision,
     continued investment, and securing funding. We will be launching a new PGT suite in 2021
     which will elevate our postgraduate environment. In terms of funding we plan to apply for
     AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnership (CDP) grants, which will also contribute to achieving
     our partnership and impact aims.

 1.4 Open Access and Research Integrity
 We are committed to the principles of openness and transparency of research and have 100%
 compliance with REF 2021 open access requirements. Our contribution to the development of an
 open research culture included providing public access to our archives and different output types
 beyond journal articles, such as practice based research outputs and sample book chapters,
 where this was possible. For example, the CPBRA has provided open online access to its work,
 including 22 video recordings of performance lectures through its own webpages, as well as 66
 videos via its YouTube channel, amounting to 32.5 hours of content. The videos have received
 21,861 plays from 22 countries. We publish and publicise variety of outcomes of our research,
 including reports, support materials and resources. For example, the CPBRA produced and made
 openly available ‘An annotated bibliography and webography of sources related to practice
 research’ (2017), which in turn was shared widely for example via the national PRAG-UK
 resources list, supporting the broader community of Practice Researchers. The Unit’s contribution
 to building open research culture also includes membership of editorial panels of Open Access
 journals (Gulyas and Pallant who was a founding editor of Open Screens) and promotion of open
 access (e.g. Pallant’s contribution to BFI forum).

 Research is undertaken under the auspices of the University’s Research Governance and Ethics
 Framework and the Unit actively supports a culture of research integrity via the appointment of a
 School ethics coordinator, who oversees both staff and student research conduct; embedding
 research integrity in researcher development initiatives (e.g. peer review and mentoring;
 designated workshops on new legal frameworks such as GDPR); and taking on leadership roles

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 regarding research governance within the institution (Blackman served on the Faculty research
 ethics panel alongside Gulyas, who was Chair of that panel, and served also on the University’s
 Research Quality Enhancement & Excellence Group).

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 The Unit’s overall staffing strategy is to foster and support research career progression and
 development at all levels underpinned by a culture where we actively promote equality, diversity,
 and respect. As part of this all staff are appointed on research and teaching or research only
 contracts, the vast majority (96%) of which are permanent posts. At the time of the census date,
 the Unit had 16 staff with significant responsibility for independent research (SRIR) and eight
 developing researchers (see definition in REF 5a). This submission comprises two Professors
 (Blackman, Gulyas), four Readers (Birtwistle, Pallant, Sanz Sabido, Shepherdson), two Principal
 Lecturers (Fox and Meades), one Principal Research Fellow (Biernacka-Ligieza) and nine Senior
 Lecturers (Ball, Butler, Hall, Hawkins, Jones, Kim, McLean, Stefanovski, Vale). One member of
 staff (Shepherdson) left the institution in 2020 and one staff member (Stefanovski) sadly deceased
 in 2018. To bolster capacity we have strategically appointed new staff to strengthen our research
 themes. Biernacka-Ligięza, whose role is funded by an EU Horizon 2020 grant, was appointed to
 contribute to research on communities and cultures, while six new staff are developing
 researchers linked to one of our core themes.

 Early career and developing researchers (who typically enter academia from another professional
 career) have access to all staff development resources (see 2.2), but in addition our strategy
 provides tailored support. New staff are given a reduced teaching load for their first year. They
 were also prioritised when awarding additional research time and small research grants. This has
 led, for example, to the first book publications by Ball and by Vale. For developing researchers
 support is provided to gain a research degree qualification, including fee weaving as well as
 teaching remission which was given to two staff during the census period to secure PhD
 completion. There is a clear process by which developing researchers can apply for SRIR status
 and we mentor colleagues regarding their applications. During the assessment period six staff
 have gained SRIR status (Ball, Hall, Hawkins, Jones, Kim, Vale), three staff have completed PhDs
 (Hall, McLean, Vale), and a further three currently are undertaking a PhD. Through these
 measures we have increased our research capacity, shown in the increase in staff with SRIR from
 39% in REF 2014 to 55% in REF 2021.

 Our staffing strategy aimed to provide all staff adequate research time and access to funding to
 support research. Reflecting our equality and diversity strategy, all staff, including developing
 researchers, were allocated 20%-30% of total workload for research. Teaching activities are
 timetabled so that staff have at least one day a week to conduct research, and co-production of
 research with students is enabled and encouraged. Additional research time (partial study leaves)
 and small research grants were awarded through a competitive process using devolved internal
 funding (see 3.1). These were awarded for substantial research outputs, impact or income
 generation activities. The Unit operated a transparent system with clear criteria for allocating these
 awards, which varied depending on the scale of the activity (up to an additional 20% research
 time). The flexibility allowed staff at different stages of their career, and with varied personal
 circumstances, to apply. Equality and diversity considerations were also applied in the constitution
 of the awarding School QR committee, which was chaired by the Director of Research and had a
 diverse membership regarding gender and career stage. 14 submitted staff benefitted from partial

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 study leaves during the census period, all of which led to a research output or a bid, including
 monographs by Meades and Sanz Sabido. In addition, 49 small research grants were awarded,
 amounting to £45,591 in total funding. Both of our impact case studies, as well as other impact
 activities, have been supported through this internal funding mechanism. Six staff projects also
 benefitted from the University funded research internships scheme, which covered the costs of a
 research assistant, leading to an output or a bid, including a forthcoming publication on local news
 deserts by Gulyas.

 We foster research careers and support progression at all levels via appraisal and mentorship
 systems. During the assessment period one new Professor (Gulyas), three Reader (Pallant, Sanz
 Sabido, Shepherdson), one Principal Lecturer (Meades) and one Senior Lecturer (Kim) positions
 were awarded in the Unit. Our staffing strategy also included the employment of professional staff.
 Five technical staff supported researchers and research students, especially in relation to practice
 based research. The Unit also benefitted from the work of a dedicated Faculty impact officer who
 has contributed to the development of impact activities as well as staff training. We also had
 administrative support in relation to research events and management. To enrich the Unit’s
 research environment we hosted one visiting research fellow and one visiting artist who
 contributed to the work of our research centres.

 2.2 Staff development
 We are committed to the Concordat to support the career development of researchers which is
 embedded in institutional researcher development initiatives (REF 5a). At Unit level our strategy
 has been to provide tailored support for our researchers, a key mechanism of which is the annual
 individual research report, which sets clear expectations and aligns individual research activity
 with the Unit’s strategic objectives. The process is part of the appraisal system and identifies
 individual support needs and ways in which to address them, such as through our mentoring
 system. Where a collective need is identified, it is attended to either at Faculty or School level. For
 example, we organised workshops on impact, how to improve the quality of research outputs, and
 on developing research bids. Staff have also been supported through our research centres, which
 provided infrastructure and help with collaborative initiatives, intellectual synergy and outward
 facing activities. For example, CPBRA organised practice based research skills workshops and
 three interdisciplinary colloquia exploring the relationship between practice, pedagogy and
 research. The School has run regular research seminar series, offering opportunities for staff to
 present work in progress, and the Faculty organised annual research conferences where staff
 could explore cross- and interdisciplinary collaborations. In addition, we enabled staff to engage
 with researcher development activities organised by the University. For example, we identified
 four ECRs (Ball, Kim, McLean and Vale) to participate in the Supporting Progression in Academic
 Research Careers programme (Ref 5a), which provided them with additional research time,
 targeted support and a designated mentor to develop a research output.

 We provided staff support specifically in relation to impact and income generation via dedicated
 mentoring, peer review system, internal and external bid development training support, workshops
 and through the work of the University’s Research and Innovation Funding Unit (REF 5a). Staff
 are encouraged and supported to gain relevant peer review experience and membership of Peer
 Review College of Research Council bodies (Birtwistle, Blackman, Gulyas, Shepherdson). We
 also supported staff to enhance their research profile and develop collaborations. Staff have
 access to conference support, networking and project seed funding. To stimulate exchange
 between academia and external partners we provided targeted funding for knowledge exchange


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 initiatives (see 3.2), organised public events with the participation of non-academic partners (see
 4.1), and incentivised staff by Faculty Awards for successful KE projects. For example,
 Shepherdson was supported to develop a collaboration with Turner Contemporary that led to the
 Seaside: Photographed project.

 Our School has an inclusive research culture, where researchers at all stages of their careers are
 encouraged to participate in regular research meetings and contribute to development of research
 strategy. Early and mid-career researchers were supported to become integrated into research
 management structures and processes. For example, membership of the Unit’s QR committee
 (see 2.1) included researchers at different stages of their careers, and thus allowing for succession
 planning. We also provided mid-career researchers leadership opportunities. For example, Sanz
 Sabido was tasked to run the peer review system in the Unit, Butler has led on the organisation of
 the School research seminar series, and the Unit’s REF Steering Committee included a mixture
 of senior and mid-career colleagues. Staff’s research and impact achievements have been
 recognised both formally and informally, for example via the Faculty’s annual peer-reviewed
 Research and Knowledge Exchange awards (Gulyas, Hall, Jones, Meades, Pallant and Sanz
 Sabido all received awards and accompanying £500 additional research funding).

 2.3 Research Students
 We have grown the community of our research students (A4) which we achieved by strengthening
 research student support; capitalising on institutional resources; launching new postgraduate
 research provisions (PhD in film and MA by Research); providing opportunities for research
 students to engage and gain experience in research activities outside their own research; and
 securing funding for the provision. In relation to the latter, we have obtained seven PhD
 scholarships externally (one from the Leverhume Trust and six from the Algerian Ministry of
 Education) and the University provided six scholarships with full bursaries and one fee-waiver.

 Our research students have access to increased resources and support via the University’s
 Graduate College (Ref 5a), including a new dedicated workspace. The School provides subject
 specific resources and facilities, including video production and post production, photography
 equipment and studios, print making facilities, and sound recording studios. Recruitment is based
 on a transparent equal opportunities approach that takes into account a candidates’ broader
 experience including education, paid and voluntary work, interests and protected characteristics.
 The Graduate College oversees PGR supervision and progression (Ref 5a). To achieve
 successful completion students have access to support and mentorship, including peer support
 and the annual research student conference. Our staff contribute to the Graduate College’s
 researcher training programme, which is mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework. There is a clear criteria and process by which staff can become supervisors, as well
 as a Supervisor Training and Development Programme. To achieve our Unit aims (A1, 4) we
 increased our supervisory capacity from 16 in 2014 to 21 in 2021. We also capitalise on wider
 supervisory capacity within the institution, especially for interdisciplinary research projects.

 We consider research students to be an integral part of our vibrant research environment. They
 are invited to attend as well as present at the School’s research seminars, as well as to become
 members of our Centres. They are represented in the School’s committee structure and thus in
 decision making. In terms of broader researcher development, students are encouraged to
 develop their academic profiles via our institutional membership of national and international
 subject associations (e.g. MeCCSA, ECREA), have access to support to develop research


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outputs, as well as funding to attend conferences or specialist training events (£500 per year) (e.g.
 we supported Readshaw to attend ECREA Summer School). During the census period, we
 supported all 11 PhD graduates to present at least at one conference and they published 14
 outputs in total. Students are also encouraged and enabled to get involved in national and
 international networks. For example, Graves was the Chair of MeCCSA Postgraduate network
 and we hosted the MeCCSA Postgraduate Network conference in 2018.

 We support research students not just to complete their degree but also to prepare them for
 careers after their studies. We provided support in finding research and employment opportunities
 (seven out of the 11 PhD graduates now work in HE, four at CCCU), organised a tailored Vitae
 Leadership Workshop and encouraged students to complete the free of charge Certificate in
 Academic Practice. We offer opportunities for part-time research or teaching posts, such as
 sessional teaching and paid research assistantship (e.g. Readshaw and Arnold worked with
 Gulyas, and Graves with Sanz Sabido). Co-authorship of research publications with members of
 staff also offers opportunities for mentoring and skills development. Blackman co-authored
 publications with Doherty, Draganova and McPherson, and Sanz Sabido worked with Graves as
 well as Gulyas with Arnold on joint outputs. We also support research students to develop skills
 and experience in the organisation of research and public engagement events. For example, they
 helped us to organise MeCCSA 2016, our IAMCR Pre-Conference and the Glitch conference.

 2.4 Equality and diversity
 Our ambition is to foster a working, learning and social environment that is inclusive and supportive
 and where there are no unfavourable treatment or harassment. We strictly follow institutional
 policies and initiatives in relation to equality and diversity as well as wellbeing and mental health
 (REF 5a). Our Unit’s approach has four key objectives: to ensure that equality and diversity are
 reflected in our decision-making processes and committees as well as in our wider work and
 strategies; to attract, retain and develop a diverse staff and student body; to be flexible and
 adaptive to the needs of our staff and students; and to raise awareness of equality and diversity
 considerations, and ensure that all staff and students understand their responsibilities to foster an
 inclusive working, learning and social environment. We addressed these objectives in the following
 ways:

 Throughout the assessment period the Unit has had an Equality and Diversity coordinator, who
 oversaw how equality and diversity are embedded in our wider work and regularly reported in
 School meetings. There were four ways in which equality and diversity considerations were taken
 into account in decisions about funding applications, including conference attendance, study
 leaves and researcher development support. First, all staff, including developing researchers,
 were eligible to apply for all of these opportunities. Second, we ensured that our School QR
 Committee, which made decisions about funding applications, had a diverse membership
 reflecting the broader staff body. Third, mentorship was available prior to submission of
 applications, especially for new researchers. Fourth, ECRs and developing researchers were
 prioritised in funding applications. Equality and diversity are embedded in promotional procedures
 and to address historical underrepresentation of women in research leadership positions, we have
 actively supported leadership development of female staff. Three staff were enabled and
 supported to participate in the national Aurora programme, and in turn all three have acted as
 mentors during the assessment period. Subsequently, Sanz Sabido and Shepherdson were
 appointed as Readers, and Shepherdson took up the position as Co-Director for the CRCC.
 Gulyas, who was Co-Director of Research during the cycle as well as Interim Head of School for


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a shorter period, was also supported to complete a year long internal leadership programme as
 well as attend leadership events of the Council for Higher Education in Art & Design.

 In terms of the construction of this REF submission, the processes described in the REF Unit Code
 of Conduct were strictly adhered to, and this was independently audited by REF Panel convenors.
 All panel members had completed the University’s training course on avoiding bias in evaluating
 research. The criteria for inclusion and process of inclusion in REF was made transparent to staff
 through staff meetings, individual meetings, and dissemination of written material.

 In line with institutional policy we ensured that our recruitment and admission processes are fair
 and inclusive; that recruitment and marketing materials reflect our ambition; that our decision
 making panels are as diverse as possible; and that staff on these panel were required to complete
 unconscious bias training, supplemented by additional workshops at Faculty level. We actively
 contribute to promoting equality and inclusive practice. Members of the Unit have contributed to
 institutional wide initiatives, including ‘Expect Respect’ (promoting inclusive campuses, free from
 harassment) and ‘Closing the Gap’ (addressing BAME inequalities and decolonising the
 curriculum). We have been flexible and adaptive to the needs of our staff and students. For
 example, through individual research plans and the appraisal system we offered tailored support
 for staff, including those with protected characteristics. We organise meetings for times in the day
 that fit in the schedule of staff and research students with caring responsibilities.

 As a result of these strategies diversity indicators have improved; BAME representation among
 our PhD student body has increased from 0 to 29% over the census period; and in terms of gender
 representation in REF 2014 29% of our staff were female, which grew to 39% in this submission,
 which is close to our general staff profile ratio (44%). Furthermore, according to the Unit’s
 preliminary Athena Swan analysis, that was carried out in preparation for our School submission
 for Athena SWAN Bronze award in 2021, there is no gender bias in terms of career progression
 in the Unit. 50% of our Readers and Professors are female, whereas in the previous REF cycle
 this ratio was 33% for Readers, and no female Professors. The Unit has no part-time staff and
 one fixed-term member of staff, who already has secured another academic post for when they
 finish their contract with us.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 We have increased external research income significantly during the census period, which was
 one of our key strategic aims (A3). HESA research income has increased from zero in our first
 REF submission in 2014 to £202,166 in this period. The main sources for this were British
 Academy/Leverhume (Sanz Sabido’s research on cultural memories of the Spanish Civil War);
 Leverhume Trust (Pallant’s Smallfilms Animation project); contract research with industry (Gulyas’
 work on social media and journalism); UKRI Research Councils (Gulyas’ two projects on social
 media and local communities, McLean’s work on multi-sensory environments); and EU Horizon
 2020 (Biernacka-Ligięza with Gulyas Digital Local Public Sphere and Local Communication
 online). These projects not only lead to research outputs (e.g. Gulyas’ ‘Hybridity and Social Media
 Adoption by Journalists’ (2016)) and Biernacka-Ligięza’s ‘The importance of digital media in local
 public space crisis management – the case of Poland, UK and Italy’ (2021)), but also supported
 our impact activities, such as Pallant’s work on preserving and presenting the heritage of the
 influential Smallfilms animation studio. Outputs and impact activities have also benefited from
 external funding from income sources not returned as research in HESA, including Shepherdson’s
 Seaside: Photographed, which in partnership with Turner Contemporary, was awarded £223,725


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by Arts Council England; Hall’s Reclaim the Waves was supported by Tate Britain (£1,200), her
 Dream Space and Forest Radio by the Jerwood Open Forest Commission (£2,000), Waves of
 Resistance by the Irish Arts Council (£4,300) and her Transmission Spores, Dreamspace 2,
 Voicing Gender and Spiritual Radio works have all received funding from Arts Council England
 (total £6,500); Ball’s Itinerant project received Arts Council England funding (£3,500), while his
 Dreamlands (2015) and Funland (2019) outputs were supported by Dewi Lewis Publishing
 (£4,000); Vale’s Typology of British Cherry Blossom monograph was supported by the Finnis Scott
 Foundation (£9,681). Other external income that supported our impact and knowledge exchange
 activities includes Pallant’s ‘Fulbright Frontiers’ Lecture series in collaboration with the Fulbright
 Commission (£9,200 U.S. Embassy Outreach Grant) which organised a number of public
 engagement activities including one on disability and the arts hosted by the Unit. These different
 grants helped us to achieve our aims and objectives (section 1.2) including capacity building,
 producing quality research outputs in our research themes, enhancing the environment for our
 research students, and elevating our collaborations and partnerships.

 Our key strategies for generating research income were: diversifying funding sources; boosting
 capacity by targeted staff development initiatives; and using internal funding to kickstart and
 support income generation activities, including partial study leaves (see 2.1). We have also utilised
 infrastructural support provided by the University’s Research and Innovation Funding Unit which
 involves a structured bid development process and formal peer reviewing (REF 5a). As the list
 above demonstrates staff have applied to different funding bodies, and for varied sizes of grants.
 The Unit made 32 applications over the assessment period, 14 of which were successful: a rate
 that shows a well supported and strategic process. We have been particularly successful in
 research bids in our communities and cultures themes, as well as recently in relation to the digital
 media technologies impact target area. Moving forward, we are putting more emphasis on bids in
 these areas, on collaborative projects, and in responding directly to the priorities of funding bodies.
 Current successes of this strategy, which also illustrate the trajectory of our income generation
 activities, are Blackman’s international project funded by the Danish Independent Research
 Council (2020-21, CCCU share £15,326); and the Hi3 Network project funded by the European
 Regional Development Fund (2020-2023, £6.1 million award with CCCU share of £751,115 led by
 Pallant) in collaboration with London South Bank University, Creative Folkestone, Screen South
 and Maidstone Studios.

 As outlined in REF5a, the organisational infrastructure is fostered at the institutional level by the
 Pro Vice Chancellor (Research and Enterprise), at Faculty level by the Faculty Research and
 Enterprise Committee, at the School level by the Research and Enterprise Committee, at the UoA
 level via the UoA Steering Group. The University has increased internal funding to support
 research in the Unit which we have used to support research outputs, and kickstart impact and
 income generation activities. Internal funding via the devolved REQIE and FREPP processes
 (REF5a) grew significantly from £132,500 during REF 2014 census period to £445,151 in the
 current cycle. The School’s QR Committee has allocated these funds in line with our equality and
 diversity objectives to support strategic aims and objectives (see 1.2). To grow research income
 we have allocated partial study leaves and funded pump-prime initiatives that have led to
 applications for external funding or impact activities. For example, Sanz Sabido and Vale were
 supported with internal funding to attend research funding masterclass at the Missenden Centre,
 which then resulted in two successful external funding bids. Internally funded small research
 grants were also awarded for the generation of research outputs to meet the cost of materials,
 travel expenses, research interns, or the use of research facilities. For example, Ball’s projects
 Dreamlands, Coney Island and Funland were supported through funding for photographic

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 equipment and materials. Travel expenses and the costs associated with the use of film archives
 have facilitated the production of outputs by Pallant and Birtwistle. Funding for research interns
 has led to co-authored publications by Gulyas and Blackman.

 The University has made consistent investment in resources for the Unit. Notably, the £12M
 Daphne Oram Building, which opened in 2019, provides extensive specialist media production
 and arts facilities. The University also invested in the development of a new £65m specialist STEM
 and related facilities building, opened early 2021, which provides state-of-the-art digital facilities
 and collaborative spaces for the Unit’s subject areas. Over the assessment period, our School has
 also been supported with approximately £1M capital investment to develop its specialist facilities.
 These include two photographic studios, two darkrooms, printing facilities supported by a
 specialist technician, animation and gaming computer workshops, a printmaking studio, exhibition
 space, video and sound editing facilities, TV studio, and sound recording studios. Professional
 film, video and stills cameras, sound recording equipment, lighting, and industry standard media
 and arts production and post production software are also available, alongside a team of six
 technical staff who support the work of researchers and research students in the Unit. These
 resources were important in the production of number of outputs, including the preservation of the
 at-risk photographic heritage in Ball and Shepherdson’s SEAS archive (REF3, ICS.34.02); the
 documentary Herencias del 36, produced as part of Sanz Sabido’s research on cultural memory
 (REF3, ICS.34.01); Vale’s photographic project on the typology of British cherry blossom; and
 McLean’s smell mapping projects.

 The University also has excellent infrastructure and facilities to create impact through engagement
 with audiences for media and arts. With the support of the University’s Arts and Culture Team, the
 Unit has used the facilities of both the Sidney Cooper Gallery and the new Daphne Oram Building
 to reach audiences for arts and culture in the East Kent area and beyond. Birtwistle, Hawkins,
 Mclean and Vale have exhibited practice based research outputs in the gallery, and Birtwistle
 organised a one-day conference on the relationship between the gallery and film (White
 Cube/Dark Cube, 2014). Ball and Shepherdson’s first exhibition of images from the SEAS archive,
 Beyond the View (2014) also engaged audiences in East Kent through the Sidney Cooper Gallery,
 providing the foundation for the later development of the Seaside: Photographed in collaboration
 with Turner Contemporary. Technical infrastructure and facilities located within the Unit have been
 central to the development and success of the both the SEAS and Canterbury Amateur Film
 archives and the impact they have generated. Researchers and research students within the Unit
 have access to a wide range of print and electronic resources hosted by the University’s Library,
 such as over 19,300 academic journals.

 In-kind donations have played an important role in relation to the development of the research
 projects and archives undertaken by Ball, Jones, Meades and Shepherdson, and are the result of
 the Unit’s strategy to develop a deep and diverse network of connections and collaborations locally
 and regionally. The core collection of the SEAS photographic archive features photographs from
 the Sunbeam Photographic Company, donated by Thanet District Council. Additionally, 500 family
 photographs were given by the public, and the Dreamland Trust donated collections of photos on
 arcade cultures by the photographer George Wilson. Jones’ research on amateur films has also
 benefitted from the in-kind support represented by hundreds of donations of amateur films from
 residents of Kent.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.1 Non-academic partnerships and contributions
 In line with institutional strategy (REF 5a), we aim to deliver deep local and regional impact and
 focused national and international influence with our research, and we have done this in four
 targeted areas (see IA1-4 in 1.2) via supporting and enabling mechanisms described in sections
 2.2 and 3.

 In terms of local and regional context, we achieved impact through collaborations with a range
 of non-academic partners, a variety of public engagement activities, and the use of archives. In
 addition to the examples presented in our Coastal Communities impact case study (REF3,
 ICS.34.02), Shepherdson has collaborated with Thanet District council and charities Project
 Motorhouse, Better Cliftonville and People United in the creation of impact relating to research on
 the cultures of coastal communities in disadvantaged areas (IA1, 2 and 3); members of CPBRA
 collaborated with the award winning Canterbury based arts charity Free Range to organise public
 performances and screenings of their work; Gulyas has collaborated with non-profit organisations
 in Kent to enhance communication and engagement with local communities using social media
 platforms - the outcomes of which benefitted 140 local charities (work partly funded by UKRI Digital
 Economy Communities & Culture Network+) (IA4); and Blackman has worked with the addiction
 charity Addaction to co-create and share research on drug and alcohol use and he is also a
 Trustee at Dreamland Margate. To address IA3 we have organised a variety of public engagement
 activities, including the annual animation festival Canterbury Anifest, directed by Pallant and
 Samuel, which has featured workshops, presentations and screenings that attracted a total
 audience of 1,765 between 2016 and 2020. Jones’ amateur films archive has engaged local
 beneficiaries through 29 public screenings in different parts of East Kent, attracting a total
 audience of over 4,000. We have also participated in, and showcased our research as part of the
 annual Canterbury Festival, including Hawkins’ art installation City of the Imagination in
 Canterbury Cathedral’s Chapter House, and Blackman’s public talk on the Canterbury Sound.
 Gulyas organised a public debate about future of local news (IA4) with the Head of Canterbury
 City Council, Editorial Director of the KM media group, local journalists, bloggers and citizens.

 In terms of the national and international influence of our research, Sanz Sabido has
 collaborated with a number of non-academic organisations, including six Memory Associations in
 Spain and the International Brigades Memorial Trust, to achieve impact in relation to unearthing
 silenced voices of the Spanish Civil War (REF3, ICS.34.01). McLean’s research involved 14
 exhibitions in nine countries, reaching national and international audiences of nearly 2.2 million
 (IA3), and seven collaborations, including with International Flavors & Fragrances Inc., New York
 City Department of Transportation, Smithsonian, and Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois
 (Switzerland). Hall’s research reached audiences through more than 40 exhibitions and festivals,
 including Mutek Festival, Place De Arts, Montreal, The Barbican, Tate Modern, Museum of
 Science and Industry, Victoria and Albert Museum, and the Yorkshire Sculpture Park. Hall also
 led on the international collaborative ‘Dreamlands’ project which commissioned 15 radio artists,
 funded by a £15,000 ACE award. The commissioned works were broadcasted via 12 partner
 stations in six countries, including ABC National Radio Australia, RTÉ, and via online streaming.
 Other examples of collaborations include The Photographers’ Gallery (Ball) and Allingham Festival
 (Co. Donegal, Ireland) (Fox), while Butler’s research reached audiences through his BFI Classics
 series publication on Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, and regular presentations at
 international science fiction conventions. Butler was also an Arthur C. Clarke Award judge, and is
 now a member of the Serendip Foundation, which administers the award. Meades’ research on
 arcade culture reached an audience of more than 4,000 audiences via his innovative Arcade Tales

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 comic books, as well as presenting a talk to industry practitioners at Play Expo (7,000 attendees),
 and an invited keynote address at the annual meeting of the British Amusement Catering Trade
 Association. The aforementioned Canterbury Anifest engaged international audiences via its
 annual short film competition, to which a total of 1759 films have been submitted since 2016 from
 over 50 countries. Gulyas has partnered with the global media and PR company Gorkana & Cision,
 who funded the project to produce a series of industry reports (IA4) on the ways in which the
 growth and adoption of social media has impacted on journalism; the results of the 2014/15 study
 were reported in 128 industry publications achieving a combined reach of 67 million online.

 International and national awards from non-academic bodies demonstrate the wider contribution
 of our research. Jones’ documentary films on the history of amateur filmmaking has garnered
 awards from four international film festivals, including Cinema World Fest Awards - Award of
 Excellence (2016) and Hollywood International Independent Film Festival – Award Winner (2019).
 Hall was a finalist in the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors (BASCA) 2016
 British Composer Award for Sonic Art, for her installation Tree Radio, and she was also selected
 as Arts for Environment Research Resident at the Yorkshire Sculpture Park. McLean’s work on
 urban environments has been recognised by the British Cartographic Association’s Avenza award
 (2014) for Smellmap: Amsterdam, while Ball’s photographic monograph Coney Island (Dewi
 Lewis, 2017) was long listed for the 2017 Deutsche Borse Photography Foundation Prize, and
 Vale’s practice based outputs have been long listed for the Aesthetica Art Prize (2018) and
 Recontres D’ Arles book prize (2019).

 4.2 Academic collaborations and contributions
 We have contributed to the sustainability of our disciplines in different ways. The Unit has
 facilitated interdisciplinary research via the organisation of interdisciplinary conferences (see
 below) as well as targeted internal funding and staff development activities (2.2). For example,
 McLean’s urban smellscape projects, as well as Sanz Sabido’s outputs on the postcolonial and
 Palestine, have been supported this way. We are actively engaged in a wide-range of national
 and international collaborations with researchers, academic communities and networks. The
 following are examples of collaborations which have led to grant applications and/or publications
 and include work in the areas of: local news and communication (Gulyas: Newcastle University,
 Birmingham City University); animation and screen industries (Pallant: Bangor University); sound
 and screen (Birtwistle: University of Applied Arts Vienna); arcade cultures and games studies
 (Meades: Stanford University, University of Bergen); seaside photography (Shepherdson:
 University of the Arts London); local communication and the public sphere (Biernacka-Ligięza:
 University of Oslo, University of Urbino); and discourse analysis and communities (Sanz Sabido:
 Universitat Rovira i Virgili in Tarragona, De Montfort University).

 We have provided leadership and participated in the work of subject associations. Gulyas and
 Sanz Sabido are members of the Executive Committee of MeCCSA and Gulyas is Convenor of
 its Association Activities Committee; Sanz Sabido is the founding Chair of MeCCSA’s Social
 Movements Network and was IAMCR Mentorship Programme Coordinator; Pallant serves as
 President of the Society for Animation Studies, is a member of the Executive Committee and
 Acting Vice-Chair of the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies (BAFTSS), and
 Treasurer of the British Fulbright Scholars Association; Biernacka-Ligięza is Head of Local Media
 Section of the Polish Communication Association; and Gulyas is founding member and Vice-Chair
 of MeCCSA’s Local and Community Media Network.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit has contributed to the sustainability of its disciplinary areas through the organisation of
 conferences, that led to the development of collaborations and publications. We have hosted 14
 conferences including for subject associations and research networks: MeCCSA annual
 conference (2016); 27th Annual Conference of the Society for Animation Studies (2015); Sites of
 Protest, organised with the MeCCSA Social Movements Network (2014); International Association
 for Media and Communication pre-conference (2016); Nostalgias: Visualising Longing (2013 in
 collaboration with UAL) and the MeCCSA Post Graduate Network annual conference (2018). The
 Unit has also contributed to discussions relating to practice based research through the
 organisation by CPBRA of four national interdisciplinary conferences: White Cube / Dark Cube:
 Experimental film and the gallery (2014); Glitch – the politics of failure, error, disorder and noise
 (2015); Practices and Processes of Practice-Research: Interdisciplinary and Methodological
 Critique (2016); and Practices, Processes and Materials (2017). Other conferences organised
 within the Unit include 2001: A Clarke Centenary (2017), Approaches to Postmemory Analysis
 (2018), and Interactive Animation and Video Games (2019).

 Staff within the Unit are active as members of the editorial boards of 13 international and national
 peer-reviewed journals, including: Journal of Youth Studies (Blackman), YOUNG Nordic Journal
 of Youth Research (Blackman), Digital Journalism (Gulyas), Media and Communications (Gulyas),
 and Extrapolation (Butler). Pallant is founding editor of the book series Animation: Key
 Films/Filmmakers (Bloomsbury), and Sanz Sabido for Protest, Media and Culture (Rowman and
 Littlefield). In addition, members have been guest editors of special issues for six journals. We
 have refereed for over 85 journals reflecting our multi and interdisciplinary reach. Staff have also
 participated on grants committees, including the Leverhulme Trust (Blackman, Pallant), Fulbright
 Commission (Pallant), NAWA National Commission of International Exchange, EU Horizon 2020
 Programme, Ministry of Higher Education, Poland (Biernacka-Ligięza), AHRC (Birtwistle, Gulyas,
 Shepherdson), ESRC (Blackman, Gulyas, Sanz Sabido), UKRI specific calls (Gulyas, Sanz
 Sabido), British Academy, HERA (Sanz Sabido), Research Foundation Flanders (Gulyas), Royal
 Society of Edinburgh (Birtwistle), and Academy of Finland (Blackman).

 Staff gave over 29 keynotes at a variety of conferences, including La Fabrique de l'animation,
 University of Paris III: Sorbonne Nouvelle (Pallant); World Journalism Congress, Auckland
 (Gulyas); International Federation for Theatre Research Conference, Belgrade (Stefanovski);
 Messengers from the Stars IV, University of Lisbon (Butler); A Matter of Historicity, University of
 Applied Arts, Vienna (Birtwistle); Institute of Amateur Cinematographers AGM (Jones); and Youth
 in Society, New University of Lisbon, (Blackman). We have presented at over 160 national and
 international conferences. Staff also hold honorary appointments, including Biernacka-Ligięza’s
 visiting fellowship at University of Macerata and Chapel Hill and visiting professorship at Masaryk
 University; Blackman’s visiting fellowship at The Danish National Centre for Social Research; and
 Stefanovski’ honorary doctorate from the National Academy for Theatre and Film Arts, Bulgaria.
 We have examined 32 PhDs at other Universities in the UK and internationally.




                                                                                              Page 14
