Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: 10007140 Birmingham City University

 Unit of Assessment: 04: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 With the support from the university and its extensive investment, in the past six years we have
 fostered a rapid and sustainable expansion of research in Psychology. In REF2014 our UoA
 made no submissions as six staff from Psychology were returned to UoA3, UoA22 or UoA25.
 We are now in a position to return 32 staff, who represent 63% of all the staff in the
 Department of Psychology. This is due to our inclusive research strategy that has nurtured a
 strong research community that produces internationally-esteemed research in different areas of
 psychology. Evidence of the strengthening of our research commitment comes also from the
 size of our PGR community, which has grown immensely from two full-time PhD students in
 2014 to its current size of 26; during the same time frame, PhD completions have increased from
 zero to seven. Reflecting our inclusive and supportive research ethos, we fostered numerous
 internal, external and interdisciplinary collaborations, which widened research impact and
 intensified grant-seeking activities.

 Unit structure
 The submission is based on the Department of Psychology, which is based in the School of
 Social Sciences within the Faculty of Business, Law and Social Sciences (BLSS) within
 Birmingham City University (BCU). The Department of Psychology was founded in 2008 and at
 the end of 2014 it successfully set up a dedicated research centre, the Centre for Applied
 Psychological research (henceforth CAPr). Initial internal appointments of Research Directors
 (Mavritsaki and Tonkin) in 2014 was followed by a re-structure of CAPr and by appointments in
 2016 of CAPr Research Director (Aldrovandi) and CAPr Deputy Research Director (Rentzelas);
 oversight of the different UoAs across the School of Social Sciences was offered by the School
 of Social Sciences Director of Research (Mavritsaki).
 The diverse nature of the research activity in the Department of Psychology was captured in its
 organisational structure. We devised a structure that recognised six core clusters of research
 activity. Each cluster devised a clear strategy that was formalised by a Statement of Intent that
 summarised its research aims and priorities. Underpinning these six clusters was a commitment
 to the development and application of high-quality research that sought to make a significant
 contribution to the local and national economy, to society, culture and the successful functioning
 of different public bodies, organisations, individuals and communities:

    1. Applied Cognition and Technology (Leads: Bridger and Carter). The cluster explored
       how insights from the forefront of cognitive science can meaningfully be applied to
       understand real-world problems and environments. Core to this approach was the
       investigation of the role that technology plays within Psychology and human behaviour.
    2. Applications and Interventions in Positive Psychology (Leads: Egan and Mantzios).
       The cluster was aligned to the applied nature of the department and developed research
       into ways into which constructs and concepts within positive psychology (e.g.,
       mindfulness) can be applied to a broad spectrum of issues within applied psychological
       research.
    3. Health and Well-Being (Lead: Kamal). The cluster drew on scientific processes as a
       means of understanding the relationship between both physiological and psychological
       symptomatology within healthy lifestyle behaviours, illness onset, help-seeking, illness
       adaptation, and health outcomes. The cluster also researched social factors and the
       wider environmental determinants of health such as health services and policy making.
    4. Inequalities (Lead: Brown). With a view to achieve positive societal impact for all, the
       cluster identified inequalities in Birmingham and the UK and examined the role of
       inequalities within wider psychological practice. The cluster incorporated applied
       psychologists across specialities and sub-disciplines (e.g., health, cognition, and
       sexuality) to explore the relationship between psychology and inequalities for a range of
       outcomes (e.g., mental health and psychological intervention effectiveness).

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    5. Psychological Research in Development and Education (Lead: Harrison, Emily). The
       cluster investigated and developed the understanding of the psychological processes
       that underlie an individual’s physical, cognitive, social and emotional development
       throughout the lifetime. Research explored how development in each of these areas
       applies to the fields of education, community, health and quality of life.
    6. Applied Forensic Psychology (Leads: Pornari and Hammond). The cluster conducted
       high quality and impactful research that enhanced and furthered the understanding of
       offending behaviour, victimisation, and that contributed to the successful functioning of
       the Criminal Justice System at all levels, including criminal investigations, the courts,
       prison, probation and forensic healthcare services.

 Research Strategy
 • Fostering an inclusive research community. At early stages of developing research in the
    Department of Psychology, CAPr utilised an inclusive strategy. All staff actively contributed
    to activities that led to a whole day event organised by CAPr at the end of 2016 in order to
    establish its research clusters. Thus, the organisation of CAPr took advantage of the synergy
    between bottom-up processes and the co-ordination from the CAPr infrastructure, which led
    to a participative environment. Further extensive consultation amongst colleagues within
    each cluster led to the development of a Statement of Intent that summarised the research
    aims and priorities of each cluster and that led to the identification of cluster leaders. Under
    the oversight of the CAPr director and deputy research director, the cluster leaders were
    responsible for fostering research activity within their respective clusters, keeping track of
    ongoing work and assisting staff where they needed additional support (e.g., access to
    internal and external funding, identification of training needs). These processes went hand-
    in-hand with the ethos of the Department, which aimed to include all staff in the decision-
    making processes related to research, including, for example, the mechanisms to determine
    funding allocation for conference attendance and budget underspend (see Section 2 below).
 • Nurturing a collaborative research environment and promoting impact. From its
    inception, CAPr was designed to be inclusive and to foster collaborative research that led to
    impact. For example, Mantzios and Egan (Applications and Interventions in Positive
    Psychology) collaborated with Keyte, an ECR from the Health and Well-Being cluster, thus
    augmenting the significance and reach of the impact relating to the application of
    mindfulness techniques to various health-related outcomes. Similarly, the collaboration
    between Harrison, Emily, a developmental psychologist, and Rentzelas, a social
    psychologist, explored the innovative application of findings on intrinsic and extrinsic
    motivation to the development of initiatives aimed at improving academic engagement and
    satisfaction in students attending Higher Education. Embedding research impact within
    current projects was also aided by the activities of CAPr, which facilitated training workshops
    within biannual research ‘away days’, where staff were encouraged to participate in directed
    sessions and in writing up sessions. In order to further foster the impact of our research, we
    are continually developing ways of engaging with research users and the community. As
    detailed below, we work to extend the significance and reach of our work by public
    engagement initiatives and by building collaborations with NHS staff, charities, and
    educational service providers. Public engagement initiatives include use of the print,
    broadcast, social media and public events (e.g., participation at Science Fairs hosted at the
    National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham, open day events at the university and workshops in
    the community, see Section 4 below).
    Furthermore, intra-cluster collaborations led to the development of novel research such as
    the application of a computational model of attention devised, amongst other scholars, by
    Mavritsaki, to the domain of judgment and decision-making, with the aid of the expertise from
    Aldrovandi and Bridger. The flexible and inter-disciplinary ethos of the research clusters
    facilitated the development of research collaborations with colleagues from different faculties,
    as exemplified by the project run by Carter in collaboration with the School of English
    (Faculty of Arts, Design and Media) on discourses and practices of bought sex and sexuality
    online, a corpus-based critical discourse analysis of conversations in online forums and
    communities. Additionally, Carter has recently been awarded an ESRC grant in collaboration
    with Professor Imran Awan (Department of Criminology and Sociology) for a project

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     investigating the drivers of Islamophobia on social media. Such examples demonstrate the
     strong interdisciplinary and collaborative focus of CAPr as generating leading research and
     impact.
 •   Developing the research infrastructure and pursuing financial sustainability. In order to
     increase the pool of highly trained researchers, we appointed a number of new research
     active members who complemented our existing research strengths (see Section 2).
     Transparent and competitive processes were set up to make strategic directorship
     appointments, which supported the development of research impact—as evidenced in
     REF3—together with the production of a high volume of research outputs (over 230 outputs
     during this assessment period) and an emergent activity in securing competitive external
     funding (see Section 3). We fostered the latter by providing additional support, including
     ‘away days’ for colleagues to review funding opportunities and develop ideas collaboratively,
     with experienced researchers facilitating these sessions. We increased external funding
     applications targeting funding sources that correspond with our best-rated research. In
     particular, across several projects, between 2015 and 2019 we sought a total of funding bid
     nearing £2.2 million. These objectives were achieved also by consolidating and enriching the
     network with external collaborators, partner institutions and external organisations (see
     Section 4).
 •   Expanding our PGR community, retaining student research talent, and promoting
     sustainability of the student research community. We consider students as co-creators
     of research; this principle applies to all our students, from undergraduate to PhD students.
     PGR are included in all research initiatives available to staff, including research centre
     membership, research development workshops and relevant funding calls. As such, PGRs
     have opportunities for involvement in bid writing, ongoing research projects, research
     dissemination, conference organisation and attendance at national and international
     conferences. The department has invested in appointing new staff and developing existing
     colleagues, including PGR students who are now staff members (e.g., Keyte). This reflects
     our sustainable approach to building our friendly and supportive research community,
     evidenced in our recruitment and promotions since 2014. PGR students are further
     supported in their academic development through the monthly Community of Practice for
     research students, organised by the Director of Research for PGR studies (Mavritsaki) and
     Deputy Director (Carter). It is also worth noting that students who have studied at
     undergraduate or graduate level at BCU are more frequently registering to research degrees.
     Since 2014, registrations have increased from zero to 34. This increase reflects our
     collective effort to foster a strong research environment and ethos within the department
     (e.g., see Careers Conference in Section 2). Similarly, all of the PhD research opportunities
     are advertised widely (e.g., on Jobs.ac.uk and the University jobs portal), to attract
     researchers from other institutions. Several initiatives are set up in order to foster
     participation in research activities for undergraduate and Master level students, too (see
     Section 2).

 Building on for the future
 Structure. In an effort to further capitalise on the expanding collaborative and interdisciplinary
 research we fostered, in December 2019 the School of Social Sciences established five
 interdisciplinary research centres. The re-structure aimed to generate more nuanced
 multidimensional insights into contemporary challenges through the collaboration between
 researchers from disciplines of psychology, sociology and criminology. The new centres build on
 the strong base developed by CAPr during the assessment period to encompass diverse
 perspectives.
 Reflecting the strength of our research community, Psychology staff are represented within
 the leadership of four of the five School Research Centres as follows:
 (1) Identities and Inequalities (Deputy Research Director: Fotakopoulou). This research centre
     builds on the insight gathered by the Inequalities research cluster.
 (2) Crime and Society (Centre Director: Hammond). This research centre fosters collaboration
     between members of the Applied Forensic Psychology cluster and colleagues in the
     Department of Criminology and Sociology.


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (3) Health and Wellbeing (Centre Director: Wallis; Deputy Research Director: Hewett). The
     research that is carried in this centre encompasses the work carried out by the Applications
     and Interventions in Positive Psychology and the Health and Well-Being research clusters.
 (4) Lifespan and Behavioural Science (Centre Director: Wood; Deputy Research Director:
     Harrison, Emily). Researchers from the Applied Cognition and Technology and the
     Psychological Research in Development and Education collaborate within this recently
     established Research Centre.

 Fostering sustainability and impact. At the end of 2019, the School of Social Sciences
 launched a programme of initiatives to foster research activities that involve colleagues and
 students across BCU locally as well as globally. One of these is Birmingham 2029, a
 transformational research programme that engages with students and communities as peer
 researchers to map change in the city of Birmingham. Established in 2019, the programme sits
 within the context of significant changes to the city during the next 10 years, including
 infrastructure projects such as the new HS2 Station and major events including the 2022
 Commonwealth Games in the context of an increasing ethnically diverse and youthful city facing
 challenges such as health and social inequalities, making community voices heard and working
 with the public and private sectors (see Section 4). To this end, BCU and BLSS have been
 providing seed funding for Birmingham 2029 from the academic year 2019-20 (c£150,000) and it
 has allowed for external funding to be generated from 2020-21 (e.g., EMBRACE grant, secured
 by an interdisciplinary team that included Rentzelas and Fotakopoulou, who will work with
 universities across Europe as a consortium research team), which offers a platform for
 academics to conduct research. In addition, a Social Sciences Data Lab was established with
 the aim to help organisations make sense of data to improve policy and practice, locally and
 globally. The project uses existing large-scale datasets which exist and work with organisations
 in the private and public sectors to maximise collaborative opportunities. The School has also
 established a Research Grant Mentorship Scheme whereby more junior and mid-career staff are
 paired up with more experienced staff who have a successful track record of securing external
 funding to increase the number of staff submitting external funding applications.

 Targets. Our strategy for research thus allows us to confidently formulate measurable,
 attainable and realistic goals over the next REF time frame. In the next five years, the
 Department within which the UoA is located aims to:
 • Increase the percentage of staff with Significant Responsibility for Research – from the
     current level of 63% to 80% in 2024-2025.
 • Strengthen our financial sustainability. Hitherto, the funding we have attracted reflects our
     status as a young and growing department, being recently established and therefore absent
     from previous RAE/REFs exercises. Our specific target to attract over £300,000 by 2024-
     2025 represents a steady and realistic increase of funding success. We will be well-served in
     this activity by a fit-for-purpose infrastructure and processes. These developments will
     enable even a larger portion of colleagues’ work to be supported across the research
     lifecycle at departmental and School level.
 • Grow further our PGR community. We aim to have capacity to support over 50 PGR
     researchers by 2024-2025. This will be achieved by the enhanced funding and a year-on-
     year increase in PGR supervisory capacity, through training, supervision of existing PGRs
     and recruitment of staff who already have such experience.
 • To consolidate and enhance our external links with other HEIs, organisations, agencies, and
     partners (see Section 4).


 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our approach to staff development has created a highly trained community of researchers
 working across a diverse range of research topics. Our structured development strategy for
 researchers at all stages of their career includes mentoring, skills development and financial
 provision. During the REF period the department has invested in appointing new staff and

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developing existing colleagues. This reflects our sustainable approach to our expanding
 research community, which is evidenced in our recruitment and promotion since 2014.

 Recruitment and promotion. The department has invested substantially in the recruitment of
 research active staff during the REF period, by both appointing established and early career
 researchers. These include, for example, Wallis as Senior Lecturer (then promoted to Reader),
 who has a strong research profile in eating-related behaviour; Wood, specialist in language
 processing and cognition; and Mundy, Rebecca, an early career applied forensic psychologist.
 Research specific posts include Research Fellows Bridger, who examines cognitive and social
 domains to understand how these intersect to impact wellbeing, and Farooqi, whose research
 revolves around occupational health and health psychology. Since 2014, several colleagues
 have successfully applied for conferment based on their research profiles. Bridger was regraded
 to Senior Research Fellow, Mavritsaki to Professor, Wallis, Hammond, Egan and Mantzios to
 Reader. These promotions are indicative of the departments’ strengths in supporting staff career
 progression and strengthening the research profile of Psychology.

 Fostering and monitoring progress. Academics with significant responsibility for research
 (SRR) are allocated at the Departmental level to one of three research bandings, usually in line
 with their career stage, through the university’s Workload Allocation Model (WAM). In addition to
 the 180 hours Scholarly Activity Allowance (SAA) allocated to all staff, Band 1 staff are allocated
 a research allowance of 226 hours, Band 2 staff are allocated 388 hours and Band 3 staff are
 allocated 632 hours. The discussion of career stage and negotiation of assigned research time is
 undertaken through the annual Personal Research Review (PRR), the outcome of which is then
 negotiable between staff and Line Manager (LM) at multiple points within the year during the
 Individual Performance Review (IPR). This flexible process allows for in-year increases in
 research time allocation, dependent on staff’s needs. As part of the appraisal process, staff are
 required to report on their research activities and discuss their progress and upcoming plans
 with their LM at six-month intervals. Subsequent appraisals then evaluate this progress,
 facilitating a cycle of accountability and the identification of support needs where required.

 Support and development for researchers at all stages of careers. Research time allocation
 is a ring-fenced entitlement recognised through the WAM framework. Additional time is allocated
 to externally funded research, knowledge exchange projects, pilot project awarding funding and
 sabbaticals. The Director of Research in the School of Social Sciences, in liaison with the Head
 of Department, Head of School and Research Directors, monitor this process to ensure that all
 allocations are transparent and form part of the IPR discussion between staff and their LM.
 Emergent researchers (ER) – academics without SRR – are usually staff who are completing or
 have recently completed their doctoral studies. They are allocated the standard SAA allowance
 (180 hours) to undertake activities that contribute to their field and support their professional and
 academic learning. An additional 162 hours may be allocated to support the completion of a
 part-time doctoral programme, up to a maximum of seven years of study as per University
 regulations. On successful completion of a doctorate, a one-year post-doc allocation of 162
 hours can be negotiated to support early publication development towards becoming an
 independent researcher with SRR. The Faculty further supported the professional development
 by funding fees for staff to undertake further MSc or PhD programmes; this value totalled
 £36,500 from 2014 to 2020. Sabbaticals are available to all psychology staff, ranging from one
 month to an entire semester. These are awarded via a competitive process to between two and
 six members of staff per year and are funded by the Faculty. Psychology has been instrumental
 in the set-up of the scheme as it promoted its establishment within the Faculty Research
 Committee and drafted the scheme’s guidelines, which were then approved by BLSS. UoA4 has
 received two such sabbaticals in the last three years; these have resulted in the generation of six
 REF outputs to date, together with considerable progress on interdisciplinary projects (e.g.,
 Carter’s work on a corpus-based critical discourse analysis of conversations in online forums, in
 collaboration with the School of English). Psychology has also taken the lead in additional
 processes that run at the Faculty level. For example, through the Chair of the Faculty Academic
 Ethics Committee (FAEC; Brown), the Department of Psychology played a fundamental role in
 updating the ethical procedures related to the conduct of research across the Faculty, in

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facilitating the implementation of more accessible, multi-disciplinary, and regular review
 processes, and in ensuring a rigorous screening of the ethical standards of all the Faculty’s
 research projects. Similarly, through the work Farooqi, Psychology contributed considerably to
 establishing robust procedures for the management of research data.
 Additional support schemes offered by the Faculty each semester are wide-ranging and are
 available to all staff. Examples of training opportunities for Early Careers Researchers (ECRs)
 range from networking-facilitation workshops to training aimed at understanding research
 finance and developing research ideas or questions into a project. Other opportunities enable
 staff to understand and engage with the generation of impact, including embedding impact in
 research proposals and identifying and collating impact evidence. For more experienced
 researchers, workshops including ‘Research Finance’ and ‘Step up to PI’ aim to develop staff’s
 ability to bid for project funding and develop skills in project governance. Further training
 opportunities enable staff to discuss their strategies to gain new skills and to prepare for
 promotion. All staff also benefit from recurring writing retreats that foster collaborations and
 specific activities such as grant writing. The writing retreats have been organised both at Faculty
 level—annual retreats at the Woodbroke study centre in Birmingham—and locally in Psychology,
 including bi-monthly writing retreats and occasional themed writing retreats (e.g., on grant
 writing, led by external advisors including Alan Dent, a professional grant writing consultant with
 experience working with several UK Research Councils).
 Departmental engagement in the university’s annual internal and interdisciplinary RESCON
 research conference is encouraged for all staff, including ECRs and PGRs. Psychology
 colleagues are strongly represented in the RESCON proceedings each year, including
 collaborative cross-School work (e.g., Scanlon’s presentation with Dr Sarah Cooper in the
 School of Law at RESCON 2017).

 Additional dissemination activities include frequent research seminars. The seminars are open to
 all staff and research students in Social Sciences and enable colleagues to present and discuss
 their work, providing a sounding board for ideas, practice before conference presentations and a
 means of facilitating collaborative work. Prominent external researchers have presented their
 work, including Professor Sotaro Kita (University of Warwick), Professor Ray Bull (University of
 Leicester), Professor Martin Hagger (University of California) and Sean Cunningham (former
 Head of Scotland Yard’s Hostage and Crisis Negotiation Unit). Approximately 10 to 12 seminars
 were organised yearly by CAPr until the end of 2019, with these being now organised by the
 School of Social Sciences as bi-monthly interdisciplinary seminar series.
 All staff can access funding to support attendance at external seminars and conferences both in
 the UK and internationally via the Psychology Departmental budget. Allocation of these funds
 are made in a transparent manner, with processes monitored by the Department of Psychology.
 Established mentoring processes developed by CAPr and the wider Psychology department aim
 to integrate junior staff into the research community whilst developing their research skills.
 These include the appointment of external Visiting Professors to mentor more junior staff in grant
 writing and provide greater collaborative opportunities for members of CAPr, including Dr Dean
 Burnett, Professor Hugh Koch and Professor Martin Bowles. At the departmental level, all staff
 are encouraged to identify another member of staff to act as their mentor. Mentors help staff with
 research career guidance, grant applications and publications and more general research
 planning. Additional mentorship in Psychology is provided via LMs, who hold a comprehensive
 view of each staff’s progress and are responsible for the more formal yearly appraisal exercises
 (IPRs).

 Financial support for research. The Faculty provides financial support for research in the form
 of annual Small Development Grants (SDGs) of up to £1,000 available to any academic member
 of staff. Over 90 grants of this nature were funded over the REF period and allowed staff to
 collect pilot data and perform background research work to foster the application for larger,
 external amounts. This process has yielded results in a number of occasions, including the
 successful external applications from Bridger (Applied Cognition and Technology) and Wyler
 (Applied Forensic Psychology) and the support of impact case studies (Egan, Mantzios and
 Keyte, Applications and Interventions in Positive Psychology).


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Colleagues are also provided with support in identifying appropriate funding sources through
 both CAPr and the wider Faculty. A process for alerting staff to new funding calls and tenders
 has been set up in order leave staff with sufficient time to develop high quality bids. These
 processes are reinforced at University level by Research, Innovation, Enterprise and
 Employability (RIEE) who offer support with grant writing and applications through one-to-one
 support and regular workshop provision


 Research students

 Recruitment
 All PGR students are recruited to PhD programmes, and upon registering are eligible to join any
 of the research clusters. Similar to staff, PGR students can belong to multiple clusters, reflecting
 the diversity of expertise and collaborative spirit of the wider department. Supervisory teams are
 often made up of academics from other faculties and disciplines (e.g., colleagues in the School
 of Education), reflecting the value placed on multidisciplinary research within the department.
 Applications for PhD study are made via the Faculty Doctoral Research College (DRC) and are
 subsequently reviewed by Psychology staff with relevant expertise and the capacity to provide
 research supervision. Applicants are invited to discuss their proposed project and allow potential
 supervisors to assess interviewees’ suitability for postgraduate research study. Offers are issued
 via the DRC, who assist students and supervisors with the applications, admissions and
 enrolment process. The DRC is a professional service based within RIEE that functions as a
 point of contact and communication for all PGRs from application through to completion of their
 PhD.
 Funded students receive a fee waiver and monthly stipend during their studies reflecting UKRI
 rates. PGRs are also able to take up to six hours a week of paid teaching work related to their
 emerging expertise and area of study, an opportunity which enables them to further their
 understanding of the relationship between research and teaching. These opportunities have
 attracted PGRs with a variety of backgrounds, including clinical practice and research.
 Additionally, local initiatives such as the Careers Conference (where established researchers
 present to undergraduate students an overview of working life as an academic, and the
 associated skills, experience and qualifications required) have secured excellent students from
 our own cohort; as of 2020, six of our PhD students had completed their undergraduate study at
 BCU. Further evidence of our success in developing our own students is evidenced in the
 appointment (after a competitive recruitment process) of a number of our PhD researchers as
 departmental staff members (Keyte, Hussain, Lloyd, Pierce and Lally).
 Reflecting the department’s sustainable approach to PGR recruitment, Psychology has
 pioneered a scheme to involve students in research as early as from their first year of
 undergraduate study. The Volunteer Research Assistantship (VRA) scheme for
 undergraduates develops their interest in research, whilst encouraging them to consider a
 research career. Staff members and PhD students submit small research projects that are
 advertised to students who can apply via a competitive process. The successful students (a total
 of 179 from 2014 to 2020) are then assigned to a project and work closely with a member of staff
 for a five-week period on the research project, which provides students with a wide range of
 research experiences, including literature review and synthesis, writing ethics proposals, data
 collection, analysis and verbal presentation skills.
 In addition to the VRA, the Student Researcher Scheme recruits a pool of students who are
 then ready to be called upon as research assistants in funded research, and thus are fully
 integrated in the research environment, further fostering its sustainability.

 PGR student training
 All new research degree students are expected to attend and complete the Postgraduate
 Certificate in Research Practice (PCRP) during the first year of their PhD, complementing the
 traditional practice of PhD supervision. The program informs students about the PhD ‘journey’
 and provides training in fundamental research skills in addition to support and guidance from
 academic staff and professional services teams. As part of the course, students are given an


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 induction to both the PhD and the PCRP, along with a Research Degrees Handbook that details
 their course information.
 Further training opportunities are provided for their development as emergent academics; these
 include presenting at the research seminar series and RESCON, attending researcher away
 days and writing retreats, and working collaboratively on research projects with the staff. Senior
 PhDs students (in their third year of study and beyond) can take part in a PhD peer mentorship
 scheme, through which they provide support and advice to first and second year PhD
 colleagues. Along with the PhD student Community of Practice mentioned above in Section 1,
 these systems are effective forms of support during students’ time with the University.
 Collectively, each of these measures facilitates the integration of our PGRs into the University’s
 research culture as well as developing important skills. The Centre of Academic Success
 (Education Development Services from 2018) provides additional support as part of the Faculty
 research infrastructure on academic writing and presentation skills. Dedicated base-rooms with
 computer access are provided for PGRs as communal working space through which they can
 access peer support and act as a social hub to foster a collaborative research environment.
 Students are also able to apply to the DRC (who administer the allocated budget for PGR
 activities each year) for funding for conference and event attendance, travel and wider research
 related expenses, including participant remuneration and study recruitment advertising. For
 instance, across the REF period 2014 to 2020, a total of £21,700 has been allocated to PGR
 student conference support.

 PhD supervision and skills development
 Skills development and monitoring of PhD students’ progress are managed through the Faculty
 Research Degrees Committee, which meets monthly. The Faculty has adopted the Vitae
 researcher development framework to support the maturation of its research community and this
 is embedded in the Annual Review of Progress (APR) which takes place annually in June. This
 is a review process involving in-depth self-assessment by the student, the supervisory team and
 an independent third party. Students are also encouraged to take part in satisfaction surveys,
 which allow us to evaluate the vibrant research environment for PGRs and to identify and
 address potential issues. Representatives from the growing Psychology PGR community are
 invited to sit on University, Faculty, and Departmental research committees. PGR students are
 supported by their supervisors who are also provided with additional training to strengthen their
 PGR supervision competency. An increasing number of staff are being trained to be PhD
 supervisors or Director of Studies; currently there are 36 members of staff supervising PhD
 students and 25 are Director of Studies (out of 51 members of staff in the Department). The
 University runs an accredited professional development programme for research degree
 supervisors known as a Community of Practice (CofP) accredited by the Staff and Educational
 Development Association (SEDA). The CofP provides peer support and guidance through the
 supervision process as well as sharing the best practice methods for PhD supervision. The CofP
 consists of workshops, during which participants share experiences and explore different
 strategies and approaches to PhD supervision. The program scaffolds supervisory practice with
 an understanding of the theory, resources available, and commonly experienced challenges
 within supervision. As of the end of 2019, a total of 15 Psychology staff attended this SEDA
 course, whilst 14 attended the in-house training for Research Supervision training offered at the
 Faculty level. These have contributed positively to the community of PhD supervisors in
 Psychology, as six staff attended the VIVA chair training and two staff chaired VIVAs.
 Our PGR community’s successes reflect the effectiveness of the above processes, ranging from
 securing external positions both in (e.g., Pierce, now a lecturer at Arden University) and outside
 academia (e.g., Knowles, now a Higher Statistical Officer at the Department for Education) to
 contributing to the research community through extensive publications (e.g., Hussain, Henna,
 Keyte and Knowles).

 Equality and diversity
 The Department of Psychology is strongly committed to fairness and transparency in its
 decision-making processes and employment and working conditions, which ensure that equality
 and inclusivity are fostered and that diversity is encouraged. These principles are of integral
 importance in developing the Department’s research environment. A proportion of 62% of new

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointments from 2014 to 2019 were women, reflecting the Department’s overall composition
 (see below). Five female academics have been promoted to Senior Research Fellow, Reader or
 Professor since 2014.
 In May 2020, the University announced the development of an extensive programme of EDI
 work, including working towards the Race Equality Charter Mark. BCU is also a signatory to the
 10 Athena SWAN (AS) principles and it secured the Institutional Bronze award in May 2016.
 Under the leadership of Abbott (Inequalities research cluster), the School Athena SWAN Lead
 and Faculty co-lead, the School of Social Sciences successfully pursued the Departmental
 Bronze award. Abbott successfully completed the Aurora leadership programme for women
 academics in 2017/18; this programme is now being undertaken by Fotakopoulou.
 The fairness of the processes leading to staff recruitment is underpinned by a series of
 mechanisms set out by the university and closely followed by the Department. These include, for
 example, the anonymisation of applications and shortlisting and the use of established selection
 criteria. Research-relevant responsibility roles are advertised to the whole academic community
 who then have a significant amount of time (usually 2-3 weeks) to consider whether to apply,
 discuss this decision with their mentor and LM, and be offered support in their application.
 Applications are then scored independently on pre-defined and available criteria ratings by at
 least three experienced staff members (e.g., Director of Research for the School of Social
 Sciences) and then discussed during moderation meetings held at the Departmental and School
 levels. Management roles undergo a further step whereby candidates are interviewed in a
 competitive and transparent manner according to pre-defined criteria made available in advance
 to all the Department staff.
 As an outcome of the above processes, the gender composition of the staff with Significant
 Responsibility for Research reflects the make-up of the Department’s broader academic
 community. For example, 64% of staff with SRR are female; this figure is 66% when we consider
 the whole Psychology Department. The proportion of about 2 out of 3 female staff can be
 observed across different roles, for example Reader or Associate Professor (63%), Senior
 Lecturer or Senior Research Fellow (67%), ECR (67%) and PhD students (74%); this proportion
 drops to 50% at the Professorial level, although this group includes only two members of staff at
 the moment. Going forward, three of the five current School-level Research Centres are led by
 women: Crime and Society (Hammond), Health and Well-Being (Wallis), and Identity and
 Inequalities (Prof Lee Tre-week, from the Department of Criminology and Sociology). Similarly,
 women are Deputy Research Directors for three out of the five of the School-level Research
 Centres: Hewett (Health and Well-Being), Fotakopoulou (Identity and Inequalities) and Harrison,
 Emily (Lifespan Behavioural Science).
 A total of 6% of staff with SRR declared a disability, compared to an overall rate of 4%. Only 6%
 of staff with SRR are on fixed-term contract, whilst this proportion is 8% when considering all the
 staff in the Department. A total of 21% of the UoA staff comes from Black, Asian or other
 Minority Ethnic (BAME) backgrounds, this rate for staff with SRR is 15%.
 The BCU LGBT+ staff network is open to all BCU colleagues who identify as identity member of
 a gender, sexual, and/or romantic minority group. Colleagues who are LGBT+ allies (i.e.,
 individuals who may not identify as LGBT+ themselves but are active supporters of the
 community) are also invited to participate in the network. The University also acknowledges the
 social model of disability, in which disability is defined as the barriers perpetuated by society,
 including prejudice, stereotyping, unaccommodating policies and inaccessible buildings. The
 contribution of disabled staff is valued and recognised across the University, and the department
 practices this inclusive approach through provision of individualised support for training and
 development and research activity, including promotion opportunities.
 Nested within the Inequalities cluster, research projects have been exploring the impact of
 inequality in different domains and have been also resulted in collaboration and active dialogues
 with external associations (see Section 4). Some examples include studies into ethnic
 differences in innocent suspects’ behaviour when using the Strategic Use of Evidence
 Technique (Wyler, Abbott and Pornari), and investigations on (a) the role of cognitive inequalities
 in health and wellbeing outcomes (Bridger), (b) cross-cultural interventions in IAPT services
 (Ahmed, a PhD candidate, Akhtar and Rentzelas), and (c) barriers to STI information gain in
 men who have sex with men (Pierce, Abbott and Brown).


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income. Investment from the University and BLSS has been used to develop a responsive
 research structure that led to intensified research-income activities. Even though income
 generation in this REF period has been modest, there has been a considerable increase in the
 bids’ submission rate for external funds. For example, in 2018 Psychology staff submitted 24
 applications for research or enterprise.
 Through the collaborative research environment we fostered we now have an emerging
 record of success in applications to the British Academy, Leverhulme Trust and the ESRC. A
 recent example is Carter’s (Applied Cognition and Technology cluster) interdisciplinary ESRC
 grant (£142,000) in collaboration with Dr Imran Awan (Department of Criminology and
 Sociology, BCU) for their project ‘What are the Drivers of the Islamophobic Infodemic
 Communications on social media?’
 Bridger, Aldrovandi, and Mavritsaki (Applied Cognition and Technology cluster) received a grant
 from the British Academy/Leverhulme Trust (£8,000) to explore the role of individual and
 domain differences in attentional processes underpinning decision-making. Further income has
 been brought in by the Applied Forensic Psychology cluster by Pornari and Abbott (£9,900) as a
 British Academy/Leverhulme Trust small grant—led by Wyler, formerly at BCU—in order to
 explore potential ethnical differences in suspects’ responses in an investigative interview.
 Tonkin and Burrell, formerly at BCU and now external supervisors to two of our PhD students,
 were awarded funding from (a) the British Academy (£5,000) that enabled them to engage in
 cross-disciplinary research that combined the disciplines of machine learning and forensic
 psychology together with a collaborator from the Engineering Department at Vrij Universiteit
 Brussel in Belgium, (b) the Leverhulme Trust (£30,000) and (c) the BPS (£3,000) to establish
 networks that brought together researchers and practitioners of crime linkage from seven
 countries around the world, which also attracted £1,000 from the ESRC as a Training Bursary to
 conduct a meta-analysis. Further ESRC awards include £1,000 to Mantzios (Applications and
 Interventions in Positive Psychology) as PI for a project on mindfulness and mental health in
 schools.
 Our collaborations with external national and international agencies allowed us to secure
 additional income; for example, Age UK Sandwell awarded £7,000 to Jackson within the Health
 and Well-Being research cluster. Farooqi (Health and Well-Being) received funds from the
 European Union Agency for Railways for her role as PI on a Human and Organisational
 factors and system thinking project (£4,900), and as PI for a programme in collaboration with
 East Leicester General Medical Practice supporting the development and implementation
 work on a Black and Minority Ethnic Research Toolkit (£5,000). Rentzelas and Mavritsaki
 received external funding as part from a University wide team from Meridian to study attitudes
 toward Magnesium (£2,000). Moreover, Jalil, now a Visiting Fellow in Forensic Psychology,
 secured an AHRC/Community-University Partnership Initiative funding worth £1,000.
 Funding was also secured for enterprise activities, including Farooqi’s consultancy fee for a
 speech therapy programme project in collaboration with Prof John Clibbens and Dr Helen
 Jenkins (from the Health, Education, and Life Sciences Faculty), and the University Hospital
 Birmingham (£4,900), and Harrison, Emily’s ABRACADABRA programme, during which she
 delivered training for school teachers (£22,000; The Education Endowment Foundation), within
 the Psychological Research in Development and Education research cluster.
 In order to further consolidate these activities and to recognise that the scale and intensity of
 research in the Faculty are considerably increasing, the Research Development Strategic
 Officers (RDSOs) at the Faculty level carry out the role of supplying accurate and regular
 bulletins to all academics on funding opportunities to respond with bids. A Grant Mentorship
 Scheme was set up in 2019 whereby more experienced researchers are paired with staff at an
 earlier research career stage to establish frequent and supportive sessions, which are
 formalised and overseen within a Community of Practice and Mentoring for grant writing, a
 formal series of meeting and workshops open to researchers in order to offer support to the
 development of grant proposals. Mentoring for grant writing is offered by senior academics with
 experience in preparing and securing external funding to less experienced colleagues who are
 interested to pursue external funds. These processes also provide support for the finance and


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 budgeting elements of bid submission, as well as a peer review process and ensuring that bids
 are submitted on time.

 Infrastructure and support. Staff in our Unit have received funding amounting to £90,000 since
 2014 from the Department to facilitate the launch of the Centre and the attendance of staff at key
 conferences. The funding for our Unit is in addition to monies available in the general staff
 development fund that is accessible by all members of staff (see Section 2); this is intended for
 general staff development purposes but also includes research activities.
 All staff are expected and encouraged to seek external funding: Income expectations from staff
 are calibrated to their seniority and HEI experience. As mentioned in Section 2 above, the
 Faculty’s offers competitive internal grants to staff for the generation, preparatory work and
 development of plans and to provide appropriate support to put them into effect; within their
 application, staff are required to isolate how the funds will lead to a further, external grant
 application. The School’s recent and significant development exemplifies its commitment to
 developing and sustaining external collaboration to expand its potential to attract external
 funding. Moreover, dedicated support staff have been appointed at School and Faculty level to
 support staff seeking research funding, including the Research Grant Mentorship Scheme
 mentioned above.

 Equipment and facilities. The university strongly supported the development of our Unit
 through the purchase of and access to specialist equipment, which significantly enhanced the
 facilities within CAPr. Equipment that was purchased includes two EEGs, three eye-trackers, a
 Bio-Pac, and tDCS. This provision enabled activity within the Applied Cognition and Technology
 cluster; for example, eye-tracker pilot data led to the successful application for the
 BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grant from Bridger.
 Improvements to the IT systems that support research have been implemented, including the
 purchase of licences for software that supports data collection and analysis activities for all
 research active staff, such as E-Prime, NVivo, MATLAB, Gorilla, and Qualtrics. Together, these
 facilities will enable staff to design and implement a wide range of cutting-edge research during
 the next REF period, providing all staff with the infrastructure needed to build and maintain their
 research capacity.
 Apart from the Psychology-dedicated laboratory space for individual testing and group testing,
 the Faculty has facilitated inter-disciplinary research through negotiating the use of space
 allocated to other Schools. For example, qualitative data during mock jury studies were collected
 on multiple occasions from members of the Applied Forensic Psychology cluster in the court
 room, which is allocated to the School of Law.

 Research management and governance. Each of the research clusters meets on a regular
 basis to review members’ research activity and review progress against its strategic aims.
 Cluster leads report to and work closely with the CAPr research director and deputy research
 director, who also offer a strategic oversight of the research activities. The support mechanisms
 in place for ECRs mentioned in Section 2 are also overseen by the research director and deputy
 research director in liaison with the School research director. Effective research governance is
 managed strategically at Faculty level by the Faculty Research Committee (FRC) and the
 Faculty Research Degrees and Environment Committee (FREDEC) who hold regular meetings.
 The Faculty Academic Ethics Committee (FAEC) has cross faculty responsibility for ethical
 approval and compliance and it reports to the University Research Ethics Governance and
 Compliance Committee (UREGCC), which then reports to the University Research Committee
 (URC).
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We fostered a strong ethos of collaboration and active contribution to psychological research
 and practice, reflecting our commitment to partnership working across each research cluster.
 Psychology has strong links with external partners, including NHS services, schools and prisons
 across Birmingham and the West Midlands, in addition to a growing network of alliances in
 national and international contexts, including international law enforcement agencies,
 universities and the UK government. Staff also contribute significantly to peer review and

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 editorial activities within their specialist fields, in addition to holding seats on Research Council
 funding and British Psychological Society committees. Several colleagues hold external
 honorary appointments at leading universities (e.g., Jackson at the University of Birmingham,
 Mavritsaki at Cambridge University), and recent awards won by staff (e.g., Tecwyn was awarded
 the Frank Beach Award by Division 6 of the American Psychological Association for the best
 article published in the Journal of Comparative Psychology in 2019) indicate the expertise
 present within our UoA, and the high esteem in which we are held.

 Collaboration network. As mentioned, collaborative work is a particular strength of CAPr, both
 internally and involving external collaborators and organisations relating to applied practice.
 Within and across research clusters, colleagues are engaged in several projects; for
 example, Mavritsaki (Applied Cognition and Technology) and Rentzelas (Inequalities cluster)
 examine cross-cultural differences in perception, Abbott (Inequalities) and Egan (Applications
 and Interventions in Positive Psychology) focused on the area of sexual health and relationships
 in adolescence, Brown (Inequalities) and Aldrovandi (Applied Cognition and Technology)
 investigated cognitive heuristics and social norms within the context of health message
 processing. Such collaborations strengthen our publication record – recent papers include
 Abbott, Weckesser and Egan (2020) and Knowles, Brown and Aldrovandi (2020).
 Cross-faculty collaborations are particularly strong across the Centre. These include
 Fotakopoulou (Psychological Research in Development and Education) who, in collaboration
 with Dr Jane O’Connor in the Faculty of Health Education and Life Sciences (HELS), has
 developed an international project exploring parental and early year’s educators’ attitudes and
 experiences to young children’s use of technology. Collaborators in Sweden, Australia, Portugal,
 Greece, China, Japan and Norway have used Fotakopoulou and O’Connor’s Technobabies
 questionnaire to contribute data, resulting in the publication of three journal papers and two book
 chapters. As part of this work, Fotakopoulou was significantly involved in in establishing a
 European Early Childhood Education Special Interest Group on digital childhoods, whose
 membership includes academics across the UK, Europe (including Finland and Norway) and
 internationally (including Australia). Brown is collaborating with colleagues in Health on a project
 examining the impact of graphic warnings on cigarette packaging on smoking outcomes.
 Our external collaborations (see Figure 1 below) are equally strong and include national and
 international partnerships.
 Our PhD students are supervised by collaborative teams, which include cross-faculty and cross-
 institution supervisory members. For example, Mavritsaki and Rentzelas supervise Chua in
 collaboration with Professor Kourtzi at the University of Cambridge.
 In keeping with our commitment to applied to research, colleagues also collaborate on projects
 with a range of external agencies, including the National Union of Students, private and
 public sector prisons (e.g., HMPs Birmingham, Grendon and Dovegate), police forces and
 law enforcement agencies (e.g. West Midlands Police, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police,
 the South African Police Service, the Metropolitan Police, the Dutch and Belgian National Police
 and the Serious Crime Analysis Section of the UK National Crime Agency), forensic and non-
 forensic healthcare providers (e.g. Lighthouse Healthcare, Partnerships in Care, Russell Hall
 hospital, Worcestershire Health and Care Trust and the Bamford Centre for Mental Health and
 Wellbeing, Heartlands hospital, and IAPT services) educational agencies (e.g. the TITAN
 partnership of schools, OASIS academy, and local schools), and business partners (e.g.,
 Meridian Lightweight technology).




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Work with government and evidence-based policy. Our research contributes to the
 understanding of nationally and internationally important issues, most recently the covid-19
 pandemic. Reflecting the national importance of our colleagues’ work, Kamal (Health and Well-
 Being cluster) was appointed as a member and core participant in the Ethnicity Subgroup of the
 Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) and she also contributes to the Scientific
 Pandemic Insight Group on Behaviours (SPI-B), a behavioural science sub-group of SAGE.
 Kamal contributes her expertise to advising on the Government’s COVID-19 response also by
 leading a SAGE document titled “Public Health Messaging for Communities from Different
 Cultural Backgrounds”, published on 22/07/2020; she also contributed to other two documents:
 “SPI-B Consensus Statement on Local Interventions” and “Areas of intervention ('local lockdown’
 measures) to control outbreaks of COVID during the national release phase”, both published on
 29/07/2020 – her contribution is ongoing.
 Our contribution to government policy and decision making also extends to work on online
 extremism. Carter (Applied Cognition and Technology), PGR student Sutch and Professor Imran
 Awan (Professor of Criminology at BCU) produced a report for the UK Government
 Commission for Countering Extremism, examining the role of online extremism through
 differences between general online discussion of extremism and discussion inspired by offline
 events.
 We are also developing our expertise in evidenced based policy: Bedwell (Applied Cognition and
 Technology) was selected through a competitive process to take part in the Royal Society
 Pairing Scheme, through which she spent time shadowing a specialist scientific advisor in the
 House of Commons Science and Technology Committee. Bedwell was able to develop her
 knowledge of evidence-based policy and decision making and subsequently share this with
 colleagues across the department, demonstrating our committed focus to applied research and
 the robust knowledge dissemination processes within the department.

 Contribution to the research base
 Most colleagues are active as peer reviewers in journals in their research area; examples
 include Tecwyn for Cognition and Cognitive Development, Scanlon for the Journal of Social and
 Political Psychology, Galvin for the Journal of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing, and
 Psycho-Oncology, Coyne-Umfreville for the Journal of Research in Reading, and Computers in
 Education, Harrison, Natalie for the Journal of interpersonal violence and the International
 Journal of Prisoner Health, and Bedwell for Neuropsychology.
 Some of the Psychology staff are also members of editorial boards. For example, Jackson sits
 on as a board member for the Journal of Advances in School Mental Health Promotion, Tecwyn
 for Psychological Science and Mavritsaki for Frontiers in Psychology. Other staff served as


                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Guest Editors for special issues; Mantzios and Egan for a special issues in Frontiers in
 Psychology, Mavritsaki and Rentzelas for another issue of Frontiers in Psychology, Harrison,
 Emily for a Special Issue in Psychology Teaching Review and Hammond for special issues of
 both the Journal of Criminal Psychology and Journal of Investigative Psychology and Offender
 Profiling, or are Associated Editors; Mavritsaki, Frontiers in Computational Neuroscience and
 Mundy, Ian, Journal of Research in Reading.

 Awards and esteem
 The research of CAPr’s members has attracted a number of awards, including Tecwyn receiving
 the American Psychological Association (Society for Behavioral Neuroscience and Comparative
 Psychology) Frank Beach Award for the best article published in the Journal of Comparative
 Psychology in 2019 and Bedwell being awarded a Cognitive Neuroscience Society Postdoctoral
 Fellowship in March 2018. These internationally competitive awards evidence the growing profile
 of the research taking place within the department and the expertise of its staff. This expertise is
 also recognised through the Honorary or Visiting Academic posts held by staff at other
 institutions; Mavritsaki was a visiting academic in the Experimental Psychology department at
 the University of Oxford (2012-2016), visiting academic in the Psychology department at the
 University of Cambridge and an honorary lecturer of the Psychology Department at the
 University of Birmingham; Jackson is a member of the Oxford Institute of Ageing Study Group
 and Honorary Senior Lecturer in the Institute of Occupational and Environmental Medicine at the
 University of Birmingham.
 CAPr members are also involved with several committees with regional and national remits.
 McDonald is a member of the West Midlands branch of the British Psychological Society (BPS),
 for which role she organised the BPS Conference and the Conference of the Division of
 Academics, Researchers and Teachers in Psychology (DART-P), and Pierce is a member of
 Midlands Health Psychology Network committee, an organisation that aims to support and foster
 aspiring and early career health psychology professionals across the region. Emeritus Professor
 John Clibbens is a member of BPS and ESRC committees, and Professor Jackson is a member
 of the Institute of Directors and of the ERC Peer Review College.

 Contribution to society and the economy
 Colleagues are strongly engaged with the public and the wider society, and regularly organise
 and participate in a range of initiatives that improve and promote the civic understanding and
 application of psychology.
 Bridger (Applied Cognition and Technology) and Hewett (Health and Well-Being) co-organised
 an event launching the Make My City Fair (MMCF) initiative, which has since been developed
 into a seminar programme linked to Birmingham 2029 (outlined above). As long term project
 MMCF aims include (1) moving towards alternative models/features of local government which
 enable investment in what matters to people locally (building on the ‘Preston Model’), (2)
 bringing citizens together and build on existing networks to determine what matters for the
 people of Birmingham (Citizen’s Jury; Birmingham Poverty Truth Commission, (3) identifying and
 developing city-wide community/service networks which will counter the impact of austerity on
 services, (4) challenging and re-framing the existing narratives surrounding austerity in
 Birmingham, (5) counting and mapping the real cost of austerity in Birmingham, (6) developing
 infographics which convey, simply and quickly, the multi-pronged impact of austerity (and
 conversely, the social value in investment in people and services). Bridger has also been
 involved in discussions with the Director of Implementation at West Midlands Mental Health
 Commission, on the integration of regional and local public health data within the Birmingham
 2029 project.
 Fotakopoulou (Psychological Research in Development and Education) and Rentzelas
 (Inequalities) are members of a collaborative EU Erasmus project – EMBRACE HE – addressing
 poor mental health and wellbeing in higher education students (2019 – 2022). EMBRACE HE
 developed and uses an innovative open access toolkit to share models of innovative best
 practice and embedded curricular, extracurricular, pedagogical, pastoral and collaborative
 activities (with Students’ Unions, external stakeholders etc.) designed to improve student
 wellbeing. The project engages with all HE staff groups as an international research consortium


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 team, including policy makers and aims to engage over 50,000 participants in using EMBRACE
 HE resources over the project lifetime.
 Parker (Inequalities) produced ‘Forced to Leave to the Unknown’, a book of stories by refugees
 and asylum seekers in Cardiff, funded by the Big Lottery and in partnership with Space4U
 Cardiff, raising awareness of the experiences of these vulnerable groups and the impact of their
 life experiences. Furthermore, Abbott (Inequalities), in collaboration with colleagues from the
 Health, Education and Life Sciences (HELS) Faculty leads the Vagina Quotient (VQ), an
 interdisciplinary, collaborative and sex positive research project that promotes female sexual
 agency, pleasure and health. The VQ is a social enterprise, research and impact initiative, which
 run in partnership with local enterprise, government, and 3rd sector agencies, providing a
 significant and pioneering form of public engagement. The aim of this initiative is to improve
 women’s access to sexual health information, products and services through community pop-
 ups and events. The pop-ups bring together female-led social enterprises, artists and
 organisations in and around Birmingham, reflecting the wide range of expertise and approaches
 underpinning the project.
 Earnshaw (Inequalities) and Harrison, Natalie’s (Applied Forensic Psychology) Community-
 University Partnership Initiative (CUPI) project with Sport Birmingham and FASTN (Family
 Stability Network) on sports-based mentoring programmes for ‘at-risk’ children in schools. The
 benefits of such activities for these children, including helping them to recognise and develop
 healthy relationships, have been positively noted in TeacherToolkit, a professional resource for
 educators, and will be supported by a forthcoming paper by Earnshaw and Harrison, Natalie.
 Further local outreach was conducted by Tecwyn (Applied Cognition and Technology) and
 Fotakopoulou (Psychological Research in Development and Education), who partnered with the
 Birmingham ThinkTank Science Museum for a ‘Meet the Expert’ programme, a series of STEM
 engagement and involvement, comprising ‘hands-on’ activities led by ‘professional scientists’ for
 families. Finally, Hammond (Applied Forensic Psychology) acts as an academic advisor for the
 Office of the Police and Crime Commissioner, and has worked extensively with them and the
 Association of Police and Crime Commissioners in developing national responses for tackling
 fraud in the UK. Hammond’s work in this area also includes consultancy for West Midlands
 Police (January 2018 onwards), where she is an academic lead for their Evidence-Based
 Practice Team, and work with various local organisations and charities, including Support After
 Murder and Manslaughter (SAMM), The Precious Trust, and various local domestic violence
 support agencies.
 To summarise, we have provided evidence that, since 2014, we have put in place structures and
 processes that nurtured a growing, inclusive and thriving research community. The devised
 strategy and structure will ensure that the Department will continually assess and improve its
 research profile in the long-term, with the aim to extend our reputation as a research unit, to
 consolidate our strengths, and to increase our external research income.




                                                                                           Page 15
