Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Canterbury Christ Church University (CCCU)

 Unit of Assessment: 27. English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and Structure
 Our submission comprises research in three broad subject areas: English literature, cultural
 history, and creative writing. During the census period the Unit has strategically focused on the
 consolidating theme of ‘Challenging the Canon’, noted in our REF2014 submission, and has
 maintained a concentration on recovering neglected texts and authors and celebrating ‘locality’.
 With the disestablishment of the Department of English and Language Studies and the creation
 of the School of Humanities in 2015, a key development has been the movement of Applied
 Linguistics staff to another Unit. The School of Humanities has enabled and enriched collaboration
 with colleagues in History and in Archaeology, allowing greater strategic focus on interdisciplinary
 research and on the cultural histories and narratives of place and location.

 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy
 In the submitting period the Unit has realised and sustained the aims outlined in our REF2014
 submission. We have continued to generate high quality research on subjects that are
 chronologically disparate but thematically coherent; extended research networks and international
 collaborations; engaged diverse audiences with our research, both within and outside the
 academy; and expanded our community of research students. The School of Humanities context
 has enabled the Unit to work collaboratively with a broader range of regional and national partners,
 including ‘new’ archives and libraries, local heritage and historical associations. Our growing
 expertise in the use of digital technologies and platforms supports our commitment to research
 that is accessible and available to all, bringing benefit both within and beyond academia. Our
 strategy has delivered more than 90 outputs in the census period, including: 5 monographs, 3
 edited collections, 2 poetry collections,1 novel, as well as 10 PhD completions in English (up from
 2 in REF 2014 cycle) and generated external income (see section 3) to support research and
 impact activities. The Unit has achieved these via:

 1.2.1 Setting ‘Challenging the Canon’ as a research priority including a focus on location,
 place and space
 Over the census period, our strategic focus on ‘Challenging the Canon’ has facilitated research
 investigating literary hierarchies with a focus on recovering forgotten or under-represented writers,
 particularly in the context of specific localities; commemorating locality and literary and cultural
 heritage; and exploring the relationships and tensions between location, landscape, place and
 movement. Research on trees in medieval literature (Bintley), fictional towns in the US South
 (Lennon), Early Modern Scottish literary culture (Stilma) and local football fandom (Rhodes)
 explore different forms of ‘rootedness’, while research that explores migration from the Caribbean
 to the US (Ciocia), walking as a means of interpreting place (Overall), transnational literary
 networks during the Romantic era (Civale), and war’s violent internationalism (Palmer) pay
 attention to mobility and perambulation as modes of literary praxis. Bringing together these
 seemingly disparate modes of engaging with literature, the Unit collectively theorises new ways of
 engaging with place and space in literature in English.

 The Unit has maintained the commitment to chronological coverage set out in 2014, and has
 supported research that challenges canonical boundaries and asks provocative questions relating

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to social division and marginalisation. We have curated, commemorated, and reinterpreted
 neglected literary heritage for new audiences in projects, including our fully working, historic
 printing press (acquired in 2014, using internal funds). This enabled the Heritage Lottery funded
 project ‘Letterpress Reimagined’ (Oulton, Palmer), recovering an out-of-print poem ‘Sissinghurst’
 by Kent-based poet, Vita Sackville-West. The Unit was approached to curate the Mary Braddon,
 Sarah Grand and Henrietta Stannard archives. These collections attract international researchers,
 including postgraduate research students, generate opportunities for external collaboration and
 feed into events run by the International Centre for Victorian Women Writers (ICVWW) (see 1.2.3
 below). Our long-established and internationally recognised research strengths in women’s writing
 1800-1900 have generated outputs, conferences, and a substantial open access online database
 of Victorian women writers (Not Your Average Josephine).

 1.2.2 Promoting interdisciplinary research
 Our location in a multidisciplinary School spanning three Units of Assessment has been of
 considerable benefit to the development of interdisciplinary research. Collaborations with
 colleagues in history and in archaeology (Bartram, Bintley, Oulton) have consolidated research
 strengths in literary heritage and have led to a greater focus on research that explores the
 significance of sites, objects, images and texts in shaping memory and belonging (REF3,
 ICS27.01 & ICS27.02). Interdisciplinary collaborations also involved academics at other
 institutions as well as practitioners and artists. For example, Overall set up the international
 ‘Women Who Walk’ network that connects over 100 creative and academic women internationally
 working across a range of subjects and fields including art, creative writing, archaeology and
 ecology. The benefit of undertaking research from a position at the interface of different traditions,
 disciplines and methodologies is evident in the outputs of Bartram, Bintley, and Overall and the
 evolving strand in ‘memory’ (cultural connection and creation) will feature in our future strategic
 aims.

 1.2.3 Enhancing local and international profile, facilitating impact and building
 collaborations and research networks, through two research centres:

 (a) International Centre for Victorian Women Writers (ICVWW), led by Oulton and Civale, is
 the only centre devoted to Victorian women writers in the UK (established in 2012). It is the hub
 for an international scholarly network of 136 scholars from 28 countries, recovering forgotten
 female authors in order to challenge both canonical and period boundaries. It has a Research
 Associate and provides a hub for research students. The ICVWW’s initiative, From Brontë to
 Bloomsbury: Realism, Sensation and the New in Women’s Writing from the 1840s to the 1930s,
 comprised five international conferences, research collaborations and a book series with Palgrave
 Macmillan leading to two edited volumes to date, with contributions from circa 80 scholars from
 around the world. Home to the Mary Braddon Archive, the Centre acquired the Sarah Grand
 collection of personalia in 2019 in order to boost further research collaborations and research
 student recruitment. The ICVWW provides the focal point for the development of strategic
 partnerships with heritage and cultural organisations such as the National Trust, Canterbury
 Cathedral and a growing number of local businesses and schools. It delivers a range of public
 engagement activities with a specific focus on the Kent area. For example, the ‘Letterpress
 Reimagined’ project, funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund (2014), raised awareness of Vita
 Sackville-West’s scholarly importance and trained National Trust volunteers in letterpress
 techniques.



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (b) Centre for Kent History and Heritage (CKHH), co-led by Bartram, is an interdisciplinary
 Centre exploring both historical and literary heritage with extensive partnership networks
 (including Canterbury Cathedral; Kent Archaeological Society; Kent History Federation; University
 of Kent) and undertaking a range of collaborative activities in the region. The Centre aims to
 curate, commemorate and reinterpret heritage for new audiences and to foreground marginalised
 voices. Members of the Unit have contributed to a number of the Centre’s collaborative activities
 leading to both research outputs (Bartram’s Kentish Book Culture: Writers, Archives, Libraries and
 Literary Sociability 1400-1600) and public engagement activities (creative writing materials for the
 Virtual Medieval Canterbury Pageant by Overall and her PhD student Waterman-Scrase;
 Bartram’s public lecture on ‘Locating Dover in the Early Modern Imagination’ in partnership with
 Canterbury History and Archaeological Society; Bartram, Oulton and Overall’s contributions to the
 Heritage A-Z, a multidisciplinary output). The Centre provides financial support to postgraduate
 research students working on Kent research topics through the Ian Coulson Memorial
 Postgraduate Award fund (to date 12 postgraduates aided).

 1.2.4 Facilitating research impact
 Impact has been realised through targeting of funding opportunities to support impact activities,
 an emphasis on creative writing research and practice, collaboration with a wide range of non-
 academic partners and a focus on locality. To deliver a wide range of engagement activities to the
 benefit of our local communities and organisations has been a priority. Additionally, a thematic
 focus on the ways in which we remember has emerged during this REF cycle as a feature of both
 the Unit’s research and its impact.

 Targeting of external funding to support impact activities
 The Unit has experienced considerable success in achieving support from the Being Human
 Festival (see section 4) led by the School of Advanced Study, University of London, partnered by
 the Arts & Humanities Research Council and the British Academy. Over five successive years we
 have contributed 16 funded public engagement events to this national celebration of the
 humanities. This has provided the opportunity to extend the audiences for our research,
 strengthen ongoing partnerships and create new ones and bring together new interdisciplinary
 groupings. The Unit’s contribution in 2018, ‘Canterbury Tales: From the City to the Sea’, was
 selected as a case study for the Being Human festival website. An element of one of the Unit’s
 impact case studies (REF3, ICS27.01), O What We Ben! (2017), was also realised through Being
 Human funding. Additionally, impact has been supported by successful funding bids to the
 Heritage Lottery Fund (‘Letterpress Reimagined’, 2014; ‘Walking Heritage’, 2016; ‘Finding
 Eanswythe’, 2017-20) and the Arts Council of England (‘Gates to the Glorious and the Unknown’,
 2015) (see section 3).

 Enriching cultural life and bringing new perspectives through creative writing
 We recognise the potential of both the outcomes and methods of the outward looking medium of
 creative writing to enrich cultural life, bring new perspectives and understandings and influence
 creative practice. As such, creative writing has been a key feature of our public engagement
 activities. For example the Being Human-funded ‘Canterbury Tales’ (2018) and ‘Hidden Margate’
 projects (2019), allowed student-authored, place-specific creative writing including a play
 (professionally performed and filmed) and a murder mystery (supported by university
 ambassadors and Tudor House, Margate) to be built into projects and shared with new audiences.
 Each of our submitted impact case studies incorporates elements of creative writing research.
 Rhodes’s semi-autobiographical novel FAN: a novel brings new insights into the Hillsborough


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disaster and has had a powerful impact on its readership including those directly affected by the
 tragedy (REF3, ICS27.02). Overall’s integration of psychogeography within the creative process
 and examination of the relationship between walking and writing, supports creative thinking and
 bring new perspectives on landscape, literature and heritage (REF3, ICS27.01).

 Enhancing understanding and experience of local heritage and literature
 The Kent literary history project Gates to the Glorious and the Unknown, funded by the Arts
 Council (£4,000), provided interactive experiences for participants and featured as one of four
 Being Human festival events bringing ‘humanities to life with a strong digital flavour’ according to
 The Guardian (Nov 2015). The interactive, open access ‘Kent Maps Online’ project, set up in 2017
 in partnership with JSTOR Labs, has also enhanced understanding and experience of local
 heritage by enabling users to do their own research into Kent’s literature, geography and history.
 This focus is reflected in the impact case studies and includes work with English Heritage to
 enhance visitor experience at St Augustine’ Abbey in Canterbury (REF3, ICS27.01), and in the
 Heritage Lottery funded interdisciplinary community heritage project Finding Eanswythe, which
 incorporated a significant programme of public engagement in order to increase understanding
 and local appreciation of Folkestone’s history and heritage (REF3, ICS27.01).

 A thematic focus on ‘memory’
 This has been an emerging theme that is evident in aspects of the programme of activities for
 Being Human (2015-2019), which often include an examination of how we remember and provide
 a challenge to established cultural narratives. This includes work with The National Trust on
 ‘Letterpress Reimagined’ (2014) which incorporated the memories of those who had worked in the
 printing trade; and FAN (REF3, ICS27.02) which located individual memory within an institutional
 context. The 2014 exhibition ‘Remembering: we Forget’ drew on Palmer’s research on poetry and
 war and memorialising practices, exploring these themes in dialogue with the local community.
 Via the rediscovery of privately held archival material, the exhibition and related public talks
 considered what is at stake in war memorialising and allowed the community to reflect on
 remembrance, memorialisation and their personal stories of war. 1,302 people attended the
 resulting exhibition at the Sidney Cooper Gallery.

 1.3 Growing the community of research students
 The number of PhD completions in English Literature has increased fivefold since REF 2014 from
 2 to 10 in the current cycle. Our postgraduate research community was boosted with the
 introduction of a new Masters by Research degree alongside our two pre-existing taught Masters
 degrees. Currently there are 9 PhD and 3 MA by Research students registered. The institution
 provided two PhD fee waivers and four PhD scholarships in the Unit with full bursaries, and one
 of our PhD students was externally funded. ICVWW played an important role in integrating
 research students into the Unit’s research environment, as has CKHH whose bursary-funded
 research students are actively involved in the Centre’s public engagement activities.

 1.4 Open Access and Research Integrity
 The Unit is fully compliant with REF 2021 open access requirements as well as with institutional
 policy. We have engaged with initiatives to promote an open research environment and the diverse
 range of our public-facing activity reflects the importance we place on communicating the research
 findings and outcomes with immediacy and transparency. Staff are encouraged to publish in, and
 to serve on, the editorial boards of open-access journals (Bintley, Ciocia, Oulton); and to publish
 research in accessible formats. The online presence of our Centres (ICVWW and CKHH) and
 network (‘Women Who Walk’ set up by Overall) provides open public access resources to

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic and non-academic beneficiaries. For example, ICVWW produced and made openly
 available its ‘Not Your Average Josephine’ digital database about Victorian woman writers.
 Funding bids have included open access resources: the Arts Council England funded ‘Gates to
 the Glorious and the Unknown’ project involved setting up an online interactive site that is publicly
 available.

 Research is undertaken under the auspices of the University’s Research Governance and Ethics
 Framework (see REF5a). The Unit actively supports a culture of research integrity and regards it
 as fundamental that research be conducted, and the results of research disseminated, honestly,
 accurately and in accordance with the professional research standards of the Concordat.

 1.5 Future Strategy
 We will continue to apply our research to important cultural challenges, including canon formation,
 and to exploring the role of writing in negotiating the past, finding a place in the present, and
 projecting multiple futures. We will be targeting external funders that are keen to support research
 with regional impact, and scale up our ambitions for interdisciplinary and collaborative research,
 with established and new partners.

 Our research and impact strategy post 2021 has four strands:

   •   Evolve the ‘Challenging the Canon’ theme with a focus on location, landscape, place and
       movement, but give greater prominence, through targeted support, to the emerging memory
       strand, drawing on internal funds for collaborative research across subjects and disciplines.
       We will do this by continuing to produce high quality research which impacts on creativity,
       culture and society, supporting public engagement activities, and by targeted PhD
       scholarships.

   •   Increase the use of the Unit’s archives to enhance the research environment and increase
       research student numbers. Plans to digitise the archives (under negotiation with JSTOR
       Labs) will provide further research opportunities for research students and staff both internal
       and external to the university.

   •   Further develop partnerships with non-academic stakeholders in order to enhance
       research impact and ensure the sustainability of the research environment. We will deepen
       our collaborations with existing local and regional partners, such as Canterbury
       Commemoration Society; Canterbury Medieval Pageant; educational organisations and
       initiatives (for example, the Unit is now an Approved Activities Provider for the Duke of
       Edinburgh’s Award, offering digital research skills, from 2021). We will also work with new
       partners on funding bids (e.g. current bid to Being Human 2021 with Barham Church) to
       strengthen our local presence.

   •   Continue with our targeted areas for impact, placing more emphasis on using digital
       technologies. The Unit has increasingly utilised, especially during the pandemic, digital
       technologies to reach new audiences and engage the public with our research. Projects
       included #DistanceDrift (Overall) which uses creative writing methodologies to engage
       audiences with their own landscape resulting in 375,000 impressions of the hashtag on
       Twitter and 20,615 direct engagements (to December 2020); Kent Maps Online (Oulton)
       which currently provides 115 themed essays by 40 contributors about the region’s literary
       heritage; and Canterbury’s Virtual Medieval Pageant (2020) (contributions from Bartram and


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Overall) had a combined online reach over 20,000 with nearly 3,000 interactions. Our
       ambition is to work with global research networks facilitated by digital media.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 The Unit’s overall staffing strategy is to foster and support research career progression and
 development at all levels and a culture where we actively promote equality, diversity, and respect.
 All submitted staff have been appointed on research and teaching contracts, and all are on
 permanent posts. At the time of the census date, the Unit had 9 staff with significant responsibility
 for independent research (SRIR) and two developing researchers (see definitions in REF 5a). This
 submission comprises 1 Professor (Oulton), 1 Reader (Ciocia), 2 Principal Lecturers, (Merchant,
 Palmer), 5 Senior Lecturers (Bartram, Bintley, Civale, Lennon, Overall) and 1 Lecturer (Rhodes).
 One staff member (Bintley) left the institution in 2018. To strengthen capacity in the Unit’s creative
 writing strand, three appointments have been made. Two (Overall, Rhodes) feature in this
 submission and one is currently being supported to gain SRIR status.

 New Unit members, if Early Career or developing researchers, are given reduced workload for
 their first year. They are also provided opportunities for collaborative activities. For example,
 Overall collaborated with Bintley on developing and promoting new and creative approaches to
 literature and landscape (REF3, ICS27.01). Early career and developing researchers are
 supported in applying for internal and external funding. For example, Lennon (PhD 2016) was
 supported in a successful application for British Library (Eccles Centre) funding in 2018 to develop
 further research on the #BlackLivesMatter movement. Practitioners who have joined the Unit
 without a research degree qualification are funded to achieve this to support their career
 progression. There is an open annual process by which developing researchers can apply for
 SRIR status and we mentor colleagues in their applications. During the assessment period two
 members of staff have gained SRIR status (Overall, Rhodes), and three staff have completed
 postgraduate research degrees (Lennon, Overall, Rhodes).

 All members of the Unit are allocated time for research in their Academic Workload Profile. In
 addition, during the census period the Unit operated a transparent and inclusive system of
 research leave, supported by internal funding (see section 3), whereby all staff were eligible to
 apply for leave every three years and each individual application was judged on its merits by
 members of the School Research Committee. 8 submitted staff benefitted from periods of study
 leave during the census period, all of which led to outputs including monographs from Palmer,
 Oulton and Civale. Teaching activities are timetabled so that staff have at least one day a week to
 conduct research.

 We foster research careers and support progression at all levels via appraisal and mentorship
 systems. In the current cycle Civale and Overall have been promoted to Senior Lecturer, Ciocia
 has been promoted to Reader 2, Oulton has been promoted to Professor, and Palmer has been
 promoted to Principal Lecturer. To bolster the Unit’s research environment we hosted 11 visiting
 scholars contributing to the research and impact activities of our research centres. CKHH had one
 visiting professor (Bennett), one visiting research fellow (Draper) and 8 associate fellows. ICVWW
 had one visiting PhD researcher (Di Nisio).




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Staff development
 We are committed to the Concordat to support the career development of researchers which is
 embedded in institutional researcher development initiatives (REF 5a). At Unit level our strategy
 has been to provide tailored support for our researchers, a key mechanism of which is the annual
 individual research interview with the School Director of Research and Unit Research Lead
 (Oulton). These developmental interviews set clear expectations and steer individual research
 activity to meet the Unit’s strategic objectives. The process is part of the appraisal system and
 identifies individual support needs and research aspirations. Mentoring is strategically embedded
 in the co-production of projects and collaboration; for example, on funding bids (Being Human
 funding bids by Bintley, Ciocia, Overall and Oulton) and support for bid writing is also provided at
 Faculty level. The School runs regular research seminars for staff to present work in progress,
 and the Faculty organised annual research conferences offering opportunities to showcase and
 exploring cross- and interdisciplinary collaborations.

 Specific staff training on impact and income generation is provided via dedicated mentoring, peer
 review, workshops and bespoke support from the Faculty impact officer as well as from the
 University's Research and Innovation Funding Unit (REF 5a). We also support staff to enhance
 their research profile and develop collaborations within and outside academia. Staff have access
 to conference support, networking and project seed funding. To stimulate exchange between
 academia and external partners we provided targeted funding for knowledge exchange projects
 and activities and organised public events with participation of non-academic partners (see section
 4).

 Our School has an inclusive research culture, where researchers at all stages of their careers are
 encouraged to participate in regular research meetings and contribute to the development of the
 research strategy. Early and mid-career researchers are encouraged to become integrated into
 research management structures and processes. For example, the Unit’s REF Steering
 Committee included a mixture of senior and mid-career colleagues. Staff research and impact
 achievements have been recognised both formally and informally, for example via the Faculty’s
 annual peer-reviewed Research and Knowledge Exchange awards (awards to Civale in 2016;
 Overall in 2017). Each prize winner was provided £500 in additional research funding.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 We are fully committed to fostering a working, learning and social environment that is collegiate,
 inclusive and supportive, and free of harassment or discrimination. We follow institutional policies
 and initiatives in relation to equality and diversity as well as wellbeing and mental health (REF 5a).
 The School Equality and Diversity Committee oversaw the development and implementation of
 School/Unit specific initiatives. Members of the Unit have contributed to institution-wide initiatives,
 including ‘Expect Respect’ (promoting inclusive campuses, free from harassment) and ‘Closing
 Our Gap’ (addressing BAME inequalities and decolonising the curriculum), as well as undergoing
 Mental Health First Aid Awareness training. In line with institutional policy, we ensured that our
 recruitment and admission processes are fair and inclusive; that recruitment and marketing
 materials reflect our ambition; that our decision-making panels are as diverse as possible; and
 that staff on these panels are required to complete unconscious bias training.

 We have been flexible and adaptive to the needs of our staff and students. For example, through
 individual research plans and the appraisal system we offered tailored support for staff, including
 those with protected characteristics. The School is committed to the development of a positive
 working environment which supports staff to achieve an appropriate work life balance in

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 accordance with the Flexible Working Policy at CCCU. Our institution has been an Athena SWAN
 Charter Member since 2015, and earned a Bronze award in 2016. Staff in the Unit contributed to
 the School of Humanities gaining an Athena SWAN Bronze award, which was granted in April
 2020. Ciocia led the submission and Bartram and the Unit programme administrator (Panayiotou)
 both served on the Self-Assessment team. Gender equality is a priority of the Unit, and we have
 actively supported career development of female staff (Bartram and Civale participated in the
 Aurora programme in 2017). Strategies identified in the Athena Submission for addressing
 imbalances include reviewing annually the gender balance on School Board and in leadership
 roles, ensuring diversity of role models at research seminars and public engagement activities;
 capturing more data and raising awareness of flexible working.

 In constructing this REF submission, the processes described in the REF Unit Code of Conduct
 were strictly adhered to, and this was independently audited by REF Panel convenors. All panel
 members completed the University’s online module about avoiding bias in evaluating research.
 The criteria for and process of inclusion in REF were made transparent to staff through staff
 meetings, individual meetings, and dissemination of written material. Our steering group was
 strategically devised to include colleagues across career stages: Professor, Reader, and Senior
 Lecturer.

 We also contribute to wider debates on equality and diversity through our research on excluded
 voices: for example, the fiction of Dominican-American migrants to the US (Ciocia); non-
 combatant poets of WW1 (Palmer); the fiction of the US civil rights movement and the poetry of
 the ongoing #BlackLivesMatter movement (Lennon). The Unit has been a leader in the institution
 in developing a decolonised, inclusive curriculum, based on wide-ranging research on social
 inclusion in literature. Research-inspired modules on social exclusion in the Romantic period
 (Civale), contemporary racial minority literature in the US (Ciocia and Lennon), and African
 American Literature (Lennon) evidence a commitment to research-inspired and inclusive teaching
 practices. This reputation for a commitment to diversity and inclusion in education led to one
 member of the Unit (Lennon) serving as chair of the Institution’s “Inclusive Curriculum Working
 Group,” which advises colleagues throughout the University on how to integrate inclusive research
 into their curricula. Lennon also contributed to a roundtable on inclusive teaching practices during
 the Coronavirus pandemic hosted by the Journal of American Studies.

 2.4 Research students
 We consider research students to be an integral part of our research environment. One of the
 aims for this REF cycle was to increase the number of PhD completions in line with the university’s
 educational and research objectives. In the census period, 10 students completed their PhDs,
 which is a fivefold increase in comparison with REF2014, and 6 completed a Masters by Research.
 Topics included literature of the fin de siècle vivisection debate, forgotten authors, the female
 Gothic in modernism, and gendered representations of female missionaries. In line with the Unit’s
 focus on ‘Challenging the Canon’, student interest focused on interrogating literary history, both in
 its privileging of particular lines of enquiry and in its enforcement of period boundaries.

 The rise in completion rates was achieved by strategic recruitment, an effective system of progress
 monitoring and an annual review with a clear working plan for the following year. Progress of
 research students is monitored through regular supervisions and annual reviews, and through
 engagement with the Research Development Programme offered through the Graduate College,
 to which members of the Unit contribute. We have increased our supervisory capacity during the


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 census period and also capitalised on wider supervisory capacity within the School and from
 across the institution, with some interdisciplinary research being co-supervised by researchers
 from other Units. The recruitment strategy has utilised our research and impact expertise and
 specialism in relation to locality, local literary and cultural heritage, offering access to the Unit’s
 special collections and archives, and has built on our international reputation for championing
 women’s literature and lesser-known authors. For example, the Unit was given a substantial John
 Strange Winter (Henrietta Stannard) archive and a Canterbury pharmacist’s prescription book
 which will enable future PG research projects; and Merchant’s specialism on lesser known authors
 Haweis and Anstey Guthrie attracted two research students.

 Students are supported through scholarships (four in the census period) and fee waivers (two PhD
 and two MA by Research in the census period). In terms of broader researcher development,
 students are encouraged and enabled to develop their academic profiles via our research centres,
 support to develop research outputs, as well as funding to attend conferences or specialist training
 events (£500 per year). For example, Hunt contributed an essay to the ICVWW Brontë to
 Bloomsbury series, Adams was integral to managing the Heritage Lottery Fund funded
 ‘Letterpress Reimagined’ project and four other students have contributed to Kent Maps Online.
 Students contribute to and edit the ICVWW newsletter and both centres have provided systematic
 opportunities for the involvement of postgraduate research students in its activities. Students have
 also helped in organising and running impact and public engagement activities, such as Being
 Human Festival 2018-19 (Hockley, Cowling, Alimodian). All postgraduate researchers have
 opportunities to work on the Unit’s literary archives in partnership with the university library. We
 have also hosted a visiting PhD scholar from Università degli Studi G. d’Annunzio, Chieti in 2016.
 The Centre for Kent History and Heritage’s events act as fundraisers for the postgraduate Ian
 Coulson Memorial Prize Fund which provides additional support to students, and which has also
 benefited from a donation of £4,250 from the Kent History Federation.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Within the submitting period, the activities of the Unit were directly supported by HESA-related
 income of £1,500 and a further £24,615 from income sources not returned as research in HESA.
 We strategically sought external income to support our impact activities and have been successful
 in securing funding for nine projects that impact on culture and creativity and enhance
 understanding, interpretation and experience of local heritage and literature. For example, a grant
 from the Heritage Lottery Fund (£8,900) supported the ‘Letterpress Reimagined’ project (Oulton,
 Palmer) with a variety of public engagement activities including training volunteers to use
 ICVWW's Victorian printing press, producing 100 hand-printed copies of Vita Sackville West's
 'Sissinghurst' and organising a symposium. The Being Human funded ‘Lady Audley on
 Trial’ project (£1,950) organised innovative public engagement activities including an exhibition,
 screening, and trial of a literary character under modern case law, as well as leading to a
 forthcoming research output by Oulton. The ‘Walking Heritage’ project funded by the Heritage
 Lottery Fund (£4,000) enabled Overall to organise Sandwich walks, workshops and trails, applying
 psychogeography to the experience of heritage sites in East Kent. Apart from this direct income,
 the Unit also contributed to interdisciplinary projects that were supported by external funding.
 Notably, Bintley, in collaboration with historians and archaeologists, played a key role in securing
 funding for Finding Eanswythe, a community heritage project, funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund
 (£93,500), that brought new insights into the history and heritage associated with Eanswythe, an
 Anglo-Saxon Princess and patron saint of Folkestone (see REF3, ICS27.01).


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our key strategies for generating research income were: boosting capacity via targeted staff
 development initiatives; using internal funding to kickstart and support income generation
 activities, including study leaves (see 2.1); staff collaboration and mentoring (Bintley, Overall and
 Ciocia mentored by Oulton for Being Human bids); responding to the agenda of funding bodies
 (e.g. AHRC and British Academy supported Being Human festival); and building partnerships with
 organisations seeking to develop dynamic new projects (JSTOR Labs). Applications have targeted
 funders with a heritage remit and/or those that focus on activities orientated towards creating
 impact. Networking opportunities are enhanced by the university’s involvement with local and
 regional heritage organisations that fit strategically with the Unit’s focus on local heritage.

 We have boosted our capacity for income generation by providing research time and targeted staff
 development initiatives including workshops on bid writing and mentoring (see 2.2). We have also
 utilised infrastructural support provided by the University’s Research and Innovation Funding Unit
 which involves a structured bid development process and formal peer reviewing (REF 5a). The
 Unit provides specialist support for bid development, including planning budgets and submitting
 applications. Successful grant holders actively advise and mentor ECRs and all applications
 undergo internal and external peer review and scrutiny prior to submission.

 Strategic use has been made of internal funding devolved to the Unit to support development of
 research outputs, capacity building and impact activities, including funding for: pilot projects;
 pump-priming and match-funding; conference/workshop attendance; research assistance;
 equipment, software and resources; and study leaves. Reflecting institutional commitment to
 research in the Unit, internal funding to support research in English Literature and Creative Writing
 via the devolved Research and Enterprise Quality Improvement and Enhancement (REQIE) and
 Faculty Research and Enterprise Portfolio Plan (FREPP) processes (REF5a) grew from £119,382
 during REF 2014 census period to £241,791 in the current cycle. The Unit received an annual
 budget and had autonomy in allocating the money, based on applications from individual members
 of staff, their specific research plans and their fit with the overall research strategy of the Unit. To
 develop impact we have allocated study leave to support research with strong impact potential.
 For example, the underpinning research in our ‘Moving through Landscape’ impact case
 study (REF3, ICS27.01) was supported by teaching remission and internal research funding for
 Overall, enabling her to bring about new perspectives on literature and heritage and support
 creative thinking and practice. This resulted in enhanced understanding and experience of Kent’s
 heritage and provided social connection during COVID-19 lockdowns (see REF3, ICS27.01).
 Funding has also been used to develop other impact focussed projects (e.g. ‘Gates to the Glorious’
 project, Kent Maps Online), and to support ECR colleagues to develop outputs. For example,
 Rhodes was supported to present at an international conference a paper from which was later
 turned into his first academic book chapter (in the anthology Horror Literature from Gothic to Post-
 Modern). Internal funding was also used to support the activities of the research centres. For
 example Civale and Oulton received teaching remission for leading on ICVWW, and the centre
 also benefitted from 200 hours per year for a Research Associate to develop projects during the
 census period. Additionally, staff could access conference funding support to further research and
 establish networks.

 As outlined in REF5a, the organisational infrastructure is fostered at the institutional level by the
 Pro Vice-Chancellor (Research and Enterprise), at Faculty level by the Faculty Research and
 Enterprise Committee, at the School level by the Research and Enterprise Committee, and at the
 UOA level via the UOA Steering Group. The Unit’s objectives are supported by our organisational


                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 infrastructure and the cutting-edge facilities on our UNESCO World Heritage site, that includes
 historic assets such as the medieval priory, nineteenth-century prison and courtroom, and archival
 collections.

 The University has made consistent investment in resources for the Unit. Notably, in 2016 the then
 newly formed School of Humanities was co-located to the refurbished Thorne and Fynden building
 in the centre of our Canterbury campus. Thorne and Fynden provide individual offices, with high-
 spec computing facilities, alongside study spaces for postgraduates, meeting rooms, specialist
 study facilities, and resource collections. The University also invested in the development of the
 £12M Daphne Oram Building, which opened in 2019, providing exhibition and collaborative spaces
 for the Unit’s research and impact activities. The Daphne Oram building has already been used to
 house exhibitions run by the Kent Centre for History and Heritage (KCHH) and hosted a Fearless
 Writing panel (including writers Lucy Durneen and Antonella Gambotto-Burke) in 2019. With the
 support of the University’s Arts and Culture Team, the Unit has used the facilities of both the
 Sidney Cooper Gallery and the Daphne Oram Building. For example, Palmer co-curated the
 ‘Remembering, we Forget: Poets, Artists and the First World War’ exhibition and public events in
 the gallery in 2014 as part of collaborative research and impact activities on memory, processes
 of commemoration and acts of remembrance.

 To boost quality research across the Unit scholarly infrastructure includes the contemporary
 £23.5M Augustine House Library, which won the prestigious Society of College, National and
 University Libraries Design Award in 2013. Researchers and research students within the Unit
 have access to a wide range of print and electronic resources hosted by the University’s Library,
 such as over 19,300 academic journals. Research students and staff also benefit from the
 expertise of a dedicated Humanities librarian. Unit staff and research students have access to the
 Canterbury Cathedral Archives, an unrivalled medieval resource deemed as having “outstanding
 significance to the UK” and internationally recognised with a UNESCO Memory of the World Award
 in 2016. Digital infrastructure includes the CCCU Research Space Repository, supporting over
 9,000 outputs from University staff.

 External funding bids have been supported through match funding and funding in kind from
 heritage and community partners (National Trust at Sissinghurst, Canterbury Cathedral Archives,
 Dreamland Trust, Margate Caves, Margate Museum, Margate Tudor House, Folkestone Museum
 and Margate Bookshop). A number of project partners have provided appropriate space for
 activities relating to literature and landscape and allocated staff time; for example, during Being
 Human 2018, Dreamland Trust provided facilities for the session on Dreamland, Cathedral
 Archives hosted a round table and Folkestone Museum co-mentored participants. During Being
 Human 2019 our project on ‘Hidden Margate’ was staged in carefully chosen historical and touristic
 venues: the Caves for immersive writing, the museum and bookshop for literature events, and the
 Tudor House for a mystery trail requiring different rooms across two stories. This strategy
 enhances PG recruitment as well as creating impact through partnership activities. The approach
 has enabled the Unit to raise the profile of local sites through uncovering ‘lost’ literary associations,
 especially those in areas targeted for regeneration (e.g. Thanet district). Funding for events has
 also enabled us to showcase the university’s own historic buildings and special collections, as well
 as creating opportunities for co-production with students (including through an Applied Humanities
 employability module) that preserves literary heritage and enhances understanding.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1 Academic collaborations and contributions
 We have contributed to the sustainability of our disciplines in different ways including
 collaboration with academics nationally and internationally, and organisation of research
 events. For example, the International Centre for Victorian Women’s Writing contributes to global
 research in women’s writing through research collaborations, organisation of conferences and
 provision of online resources (see 1.2.3). The Centre has an international reputation as the only
 research centre in the UK to focus on Victorian women writers and is described by a leading
 Victorianist as ‘one of the most productive and interesting centres for research into non-canonical
 women’s writing of the nineteenth century’, one that is establishing itself as ‘a centre of world-
 leading excellence in research into women’s writing’ (Prof Kate Newey, Exeter). Staff have been
 invited to give talks at other institutions (e.g. Oulton at the City University of New York Victorian
 seminar in 2017 and an international conference at Università degli Studi G. d’Annunzio, Chieti in
 2018). Overall’s work on psychogeography has contributed to the development of a new approach
 to creative practice and to the organisation of the fourth World Congress of Psychogeography.
 She has also set up the international ‘Women Who Walk’ network that connects over 100 creative
 and academic women internationally and led to research events and publications.

 We are actively engaged in a wide range of national and international collaborations with
 researchers, academic communities and networks. The following are examples of collaborations
 which have led to publications and include work in the areas of: Dickens and the imagined child
 (Merchant: University of Kent); Victorian women writers (Oulton: University of Auckland); real and
 imagined mobilities in Children's literature (Overall: University of Brighton); Kentish book culture
 (Bartram: British Association for Local History, Durham University); romantic novels in 1817 and
 1818 (Civale: University of Greenwich); Old English literature (Bintley: University College London).
 The Unit has hosted or contributed to the organisation of 30 research seminars and symposia.
 ICVWW organised five international conferences during the census period which led to
 collaborative research activities and outputs (e.g. From Brontë to Bloomsbury). Internal funding
 was used to support the organisation of these events, for example the ‘Romantic Novels 1817 and
 1818’ London and Southeast Romanticism Seminar series (Civale in collaboration with the
 University of Greenwich), and ICVWW seminar series, ‘Women’s Writing in the Nineteenth
 Century’.

 Staff have been especially active in research networks that link to the Unit’s theme of ‘Challenging
 the Canon’ including popular and non-canonical literature, gender studies, women’s writing and
 landscape studies. The submitting Unit has also contributed to the sustainability of its disciplinary
 areas through various association, editorial and reviewing roles for a number of journals,
 academic and literary organisations. We have provided leadership and participated in the work of
 subject associations and societies: Viking Society for Northern Research (Bintley, council
 member), Victorian Popular Fiction Association (Oulton, editorial board), International Society for
 Literary Juvenilia (Merchant, board of directors), and Anglia Ruskin Nineteenth-century research
 Unit (Oulton, consultancy role). We have carried out editorial work for diverse publications
 reflecting our multi and interdisciplinary reach: Victorian Secrets (Oulton, Literary Editor), Penguin
 (Oulton), Wordsworth Editions (Ciocia), Cogent Arts and Humanities (Ciocia, Bintley, Associate
 Editor), Nineteenth Century Gender Studies (Oulton, Reviews Editor), Humanities (Oulton,
 editorial board), Victorian Popular Fictions Journal (Oulton, editorial board), Journal of Juvenilia
 Studies (Merchant, editorial board). We have refereed for a variety of journals, including Critical
 Studies on Security (Ciocia), Landscape History (Bintley), New Medieval Literatures (Bintley),
 MELUS: Multi-Ethnic Literature of the United States (Ciocia), ARIEL: A Review of International


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 English Literature (Ciocia), Journal of American Studies (Ciocia), Eighteenth-Century Life
 (Merchant), Studies in the Novel (Merchant), Word and Image (Palmer), European Journal of
 American Studies (Ciocia), Genre (Civale), English Studies (Palmer), Studies in American Fiction
 (Ciocia), Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature (Civale), M/C Journal (Overall), Victorian Popular
 Fiction Journal (Oulton), and ACME International Journal of Critical Geographies (Overall). We
 have reviewed manuscripts and book proposals for a variety of publishers including: Boydell and
 Brewer (Bintley), Edinburgh University Press (Oulton), Palgrave (Oulton), Cambridge University
 Press (Palmer), Anthem Press (Civale), Manchester University Press (Overall). Oulton is a peer
 reviewer for AHRC Peer Review College, and has supported colleagues in bids to the Being
 Human festival, as well as contributing to a Being Human Masterclass.

 Staff have also held fellowships at the Royal Historical Society (Bintley), Chawton House Library
 (Civale) and Eccles Centre for American Studies at the British Library (Lennon, with £2,000
 external funding). Ciocia is core member of The Paul Auster Research Library at the University of
 Copenhagen. Lennon’s monograph, Living Jim Crow, was awarded the Arthur Miller Institute’s
 first book award by the British Association for American Studies. Staff have delivered six keynote
 lectures (Bintley - Arizona Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies; Ciocia - University of
 Copenhagen; Civale – Edge Hill University; Lennon - Royal Holloway, University of London;
 Merchant - Université Catholique de Lille; Oulton - Victorian Popular Fiction Association, Senate
 House, London) and 23 papers at conferences and symposia. Staff have acted as external
 examiners for 6 PhD thesis and 3 MAs, and as internal examiners for 3 MAs and 2 PhDs. They
 have also served as external examiners for Liverpool Hope University, University of Hertfordshire
 (Oulton), University of Bedfordshire (Bintley; Oulton), University of Portsmouth (Ciocia), and
 Kingston University (Overall).

 4.2 Non-academic partnerships, collaborations and contributions
 In line with institutional strategy (REF 5a), we aim to deliver deep local and regional impact and
 focused national and international influence with our research. As noted in section 1.2 we have
 achieved impact through targeting of funding opportunities to support activities, an emphasis on
 creative writing research and practice, collaboration with a wide range of non-academic partners
 and a focus on locality. A strategic focus for impact in this UoA has been development of
 relationships within our Kent community, to deliver a wide range of engagement activities to the
 benefit of our local communities and organisations. Partner organisations include Canterbury
 Cathedral Archives, Beaney House of Art and Knowledge, National Trust, English Heritage,
 Margate Caves, Margate Museum and Tudor House, Dreamland Trust and Folkestone Museum.
 Examples of partnership activities and collaborations are detailed below:

 Public engagement activities for the Being Human festival 2015-2019 (Bintley, Ciocia, Oulton,
 Overall) have been a catalyst for the development of strategic partnerships with local organisations
 in order to explore the relationship between literature and heritage. Events have involved
 collaboration with organisations in London (City of Westminster Archives Centre), Canterbury
 (Canterbury Cathedral, Simon Langton Boy’s Grammar School); Margate (Dreamland Trust,
 Margate Caves, Margate Museum) and Folkestone (Folkestone Museum, Canterbury
 Archaeological Trust, Harvey Boys’ Grammar School). Specific examples include: Gates to the
 Glorious and the Unknown (2015) providing the focus for a study day at the City of Westminster
 Archives Centre; Canterbury Tales: From the City to the Sea (2018) developed in collaboration
 with Canterbury Cathedral Archives; Westgate Prison, Canterbury; Handmade Theatre;
 Folkestone Museum and local schools; and Telling Secrets: Hidden Margate (2019) (Ciocia,


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Oulton, Overall) which included music, creative writing and a guided mystery trail to promote and
 interpret the rich heritage of Margate, including the newly reopened Margate Caves and historic
 Margate Museum.

 Letterpress Reimagined: Sissinghurst, 2014 (Oulton, Palmer) in collaboration with the National
 Trust was based at the home of Vita Sackville-West, which holds the original Hogarth press used
 by Virginia Woolf for printing most of Sackville-West’s works. This three-month Heritage Lottery
 Funded (£8,900) project promoted awareness of Kent’s literary heritage. The project trained 10
 volunteers to use ICVWW’s historic printing press. 100 copies of Sackville-West’s poem
 ‘Sissinghurst’ (previously available only in anthologies) were printed and sold at Sissinghurst.
 Reprinted by the National Trust, the poem sold in the region of 300 per year. A 2015 article co-
 authored by National Trust curator Claire Reed cites it as an example of 'a growing trend within
 the Trust' which has increasingly 'embraced academic collaboration in multiple forms'.

 The application of psychogeography to creative practice, walking and experience of literature
 (Overall) has resulted in the creation of the ‘Women Who Walk’ network. As mentioned above,
 this international network established in 2015 brings together over 100 walking creative and
 academic women. Overall’s walking practices have also been utilised via consultancy with English
 Heritage to bring new ways of looking at local heritage (Walmer Castle, St Augustine’s Abbey) as
 well as resulting in contributions to the Royal Geographical Society website and magazine.

 For the exhibition and talks Remembering, we Forget: Poets, Artists and the First World War
 (Sidney Cooper Gallery, 2014), Palmer collaborated with the local community and artists to
 explore the ways in which memorialisation of the war and its dead has been enacted, represented
 and interrogated in poetry and art. An open call to share narratives and images resulted in a very
 positive response from the public, and in two days over 200 images were brought in by local
 residents, depicting their ancestors who took part in WWI. These were scanned and stories related
 to them collated, with a collage of the photographs exhibited in the show alongside responses to
 the war made through poetry, sculpture, print, drawing, photography and film. 1,302 people visited
 the exhibition, with 70% of visitors describing the exhibition as ‘moving’. Comments include:
 ‘sensitive and thought-provoking exhibition’, ‘immensely powerful’; ‘Excellent exhibition! This is
 how it should be remembered’; ‘Thought provoking, moving and interesting in the interplay
 between local and nationally significant works’; ‘Beautifully evocatively presented and totally
 harrowing’; ‘A moving evocation of the horror and sorrow of war. It brought home what my
 grandfather must have gone through at Verdun and in the trenches.’

 The Unit has had wider contribution through acting as advisors, contributors, consultants and
 judges on local and national cultural and literary events and initiatives. This includes involvement
 with: Folkestone Book Festival (Ciocia, Merchant, Oulton, Overall), Canterbury Festival (CCCU
 Poetry Prize for SaveAs Writers sponsored by the UoA since 2018), Dickens Fellowship
 (Merchant, Oulton), Edinburgh Fringe (Overall), POW (Power of Women) festival (Oulton, Overall),
 Young Writers’ Awards: Sandwich competition judge (Overall). The profile of the Unit led to
 invitations to judge SaveAs International Writing and U3A competitions (Overall), and for Oulton
 to join the reading panel of national writing magazine Aesthetica for the annual competition in
 2020. Ciocia has been a regular contributor to Wordsworth Editions blog; and Oulton was featured
 in an episode of Who Do You Think You Are? with Australian politician Julie Bishop in Broadstairs
 (aired spring 2020), in acknowledgement of her expertise in both Dickens and local seaside
 studies. Lennon was invited to the “Summer Scholars” series of public talks at the British Library
 in 2019 about his work on the literature of the #BlackLivesMatter movement. The Unit contributed

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to BBC Radio 3 broadcasting as part of the Being Human Festival in 2017 (Overall/Bintley) and
 2019 (Oulton).




                                                                                       Page 15
