Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 13: Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
 Section 1 (S1). Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1.   Unit context and structure
 The Welsh School of Architecture (WSA) is one of seven schools in the College of Physical
 Sciences and Engineering and has 32.3FTE category A staff. It has an ethos of collaborative,
 diverse research and dialogue with communities of practice. The School has a strong relationship
 with the Welsh Government (see SOLCER, Section 1.5), underpinned by a long-standing
 reputation for sustainability research and impact-delivering projects. Since REF2014, in which we
 submitted 14.80 of 20FTE category A staff, the WSA has grown, recruiting 21 researchers and
 expanding our key research areas into urbanism, heritage, and architectural computation.
 In 2019, the School secured ~£20M investment from Cardiff University (CU) for our ambitious plan
 for growth, WIDER-BE (Well Informed Design and Education through Research in the Built
 Environment – see S1.2), demonstrating the University’s recognition of the central role we play in
 driving key research and innovation collaborations at Cardiff (see S1.4). The plan includes the
 further diversification of our research base and income, physical refurbishment, spatial expansion,
 growth in student and staff numbers and a new research facility. Consequently, WSA is more
 than doubling its space in Bute Building (from 2197 to 5685m2).
 In 2014, our research was organised in three research groups, each including ‘special interest’
 clusters. In reaction to staff growth and diversification of specialisations, in 2018 the School
 undertook a major review of its activities to increase synergy between research and teaching.
 Following the review, we aligned activities and, to enhance the specificity of the research areas,
 developed a new group structure from the clusters. These inclusive Research and Scholarship
 Groups (RSGs) bring together staff on different contracts (Teaching and Research, Research,
 and Teaching and Scholarship) and postgraduate research (PGR) students, recognising the
 essential contribution they all make to generating knowledge, stimulating debate and creating
 impact. The groups sustain and support the WSA’s research culture, mentor and nurture early
 career researchers (ECRs) and PGRs, organise research events (e.g. the WSA Research Lecture
 Series), run internal grant peer-review processes and joint applications. The groups are:
    1. Computational Methods in Architecture: The Group consists of two category A staff
       (group lead Jabi, Chatzivasileiadi) and five PGRs. Two others, Doe and Spaeth, have
       recently relocated abroad (we will recruit for these positions). The Group investigates
       generative design, parametric design, performance analysis, responsive architecture,
       digital fabrication, digital cultural heritage, building information modelling, virtual and
       augmented reality, and artificial intelligence. It has strong industry links, exemplified by
       projects studying robotically-controlled 3D printing of cob (EPSRC), and an innovative
       modelling software, Topologic (see S3.1), supported by Jabi’s 2016 £287,000 Leverhulme
       Grant and integrated within industry (e.g. Buro Happold).
    2. Design, Practice, Materials and Making: The Group includes six category A staff (Green,
       Forster, Gwilliam, McVicar, Salter, Wulff), five staff on Teaching and Scholarship (T&S)
       contracts and 11 PGRs. Members of the group engage in practice-based research,
       exploring the intersection of academic and professional domains. In the last years, key
       projects involved the study of affordable and sustainable housing (Green, Forster – see
       S4.4.3), the award-winning restoration of the Alhambra (Wulff, S4.4.4), and a work
       commissioned by the 2018 Venice Biennale (Salter). Key publications include the books
       Walmer Yard (Salter) and Precision in Architecture (McVicar).
    3. Energy, Environments and People: WSA’s largest RSG includes 13 category A staff
       (Patterson, Ampatzi, Bleil de Souza, Du, Knight, Lannon, Latif, Marchesi, Patel, Poortinga,
       Sharmin, Tweed, Zapata-Lancaster), eight non-category A academics and 32 PGRs. The
       Group focuses on the sustainability of the built environment and its impact on quality of
       life, working across scales from building components to national policy. It has secured
       more than £5M in research income in this period – funded by, among others, the European
       Regional Development Fund, Wales European Funding Office; EPSRC; ESRC; and

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Horizon 2020. Key projects include SmartER (see S4.1), SOLCER (S4.4.1), SERL,
        SPECIFIC and EnergyREV (S3.1).
    4. Heritage and Conservation: the group includes leads Prizeman and Sibley, Whitman,
       and six PGRs. The group’s research on architectural and urban heritage and conservation
       spans externally-funded research and consultancy in the UK and globally. It is involved in
       sustainable retrofitting of heritage buildings through combining science, technology and
       humanities. Major projects in this period include Prizeman’s AHRC-funded Shelf Life
       (S3.1), and Sibley’s Eco-Hammam (S2.1; GCRF International Development Grant), as well
       as the key anthology Sustainable Building Construction (Prizeman).
    5. History and Theory: Members of this group (Kaminer, Aelbrecht, Bowie, Lupton, Ntzani,
       one T&S staff as well as six PGRs) have published in this period key monographs about
       Medieval Indian temples (Hardy), architectural agency (Kaminer), architecture and
       shadows (Kite) and contracting (Lupton) as well as edited anthologies (Odgers, McVicar
       and Kite’s Economy and Architecture). Following retirements and relocation, WSA has
       recruited new History and Theory staff (Aelbrecht, Bowie, Kaminer, Ntzani), expanding its
       portfolio to urban history, visual culture and social theory. Key funding included a £270,284
       Leverhulme (Hardy).
    6. Urbanism: The group consists of Inam, Davidová, Davis, Peimani, Talocci, two T&S and
       three research-only staff, and five PGRs. It interrogates urban theory, urban design and
       development, and urban sustainability. The group has studied in this period Cardiff,
       London, Las Vegas, Prague and Teheran, and works closely with the School of Geography
       and Planning (e.g. Peimani’s co-authored outputs with Geography and Planning’s
       Kamalipour). Inam, recently recruited as Chair, secured a Leverhulme Grant in 2019.
 Whereas the RSGs take the lead in creating a vibrant research culture and providing peer-support
 and nurturing, their research is translated to external organisations primarily through collaborative
 research centres and consultancies and a key University research institute:
 Design Research Unit Wales (DRUw): DRUw’s work spans design-based research and
 consultancy commissions, addressing low carbon design, landscape and placemaking. Focus has
 been on innovative housing projects and buildings for care (Forster). DRUw will be closely aligned
 to the Design, Practice, Materials and Making RSG in the future and will enhance its industry-
 focus (e.g. expanding collaborations with Welsh housing associations).
 Low Carbon Research Institute (LCRI), a networking group that brought together 120 contributors
 from different universities, led the development of a low carbon agenda. Its work has been taken
 forward in the Energy Systems [University] Research Institute (ESRI), which is co-directed by
 Jones. LCRI and ESRI’s research has contributed to impact through projects such as Microclimate
 Modelling (S4.4.1) and two of our Impact Case Studies, developing the ‘whole house’ approach
 and addressing carbon emissions and fuel poverty (S1.5, S4.4.1, S4.4.2).
 Practice, Research and Advancement in South Asian Design and Architecture (PRASADA):
 The Centre integrates history research and design practice, focusing on South Asia and in
 particular on Indian temple architecture. The latter has led to research funding and consultancy
 work – Hardy’s Leverhulme and AHRC/ICHR-funded Indian heritage projects (S4.4.4), the start of
 construction of a PRASADA-designed temple in India, and Hardy and Prizeman’s Tamil Temple
 Towns project (S3.1). PRASADA hosted the 2016 conference of European Association of South
 Asian Archaeology and Art.
 Centre for Sustainable Design of the Built Environment (SuDoBE): The Centre’s main focus
 is the relationship between well-being, health and environments. Key successes include research
 on the health impacts of energy upgrades in social housing (Poortinga), on BREEAM ratings and
 comfort in non-domestic buildings (Zapata-Lancaster) and developing a Smart Energy Research
 Laboratory (S3.1; Tweed, Lannon). Marchesi and Tweed collaborate with Arup and Clarion
 Housing on a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship researching circular economy in social housing.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Research strategy
 The WSA’s plan for growth, WIDER-BE, presents a strategy for ambitious expansion and
 diversification. It articulates our commitment to research, teaching, the environment, and equality,
 diversity and inclusion (EDI), reflecting CU’s The Way Forward 2018-23 strategy – for example,
 the WSA aims to develop ‘new research capacity in interdisciplinary design excellence across the
 built environment’, and to engage ‘communities and organisations who do not normally engage
 with the University through projects’ (WIDER-BE). We will achieve both these aims through the
 Living Lab, a new research facility for working with external stakeholders being developed via
 WIDER-BE (S1.3).
 In REF2014, we promised to develop our areas of expertise and to expand the scope of our
 research. We have now fully integrated the four key 2014 themes into our new RSGs - low carbon
 futures, people and buildings, architecture’s cultural context and design research. In REF2014 we
 identified three areas of potential growth and have since invested in them, recruited 9 new staff
 with relevant specialisations (S2.1) and developed these areas into the Computational Methods
 in Architecture, Heritage & Conservation, and Urbanism RSGs.
 Our new appointments have expanded the ethnic diversity, range of specialisations and
 internationalism of our staff (e.g. of the nine staff mentioned above, eight were born abroad and
 four are female; see more in S2). Strategic investment in new and existing staff has paid off in
 terms of the quality, range, diversity and quantity of our research (e.g. Marchesi’s work on circular
 economy in the built environment, which opens a new avenue for sustainability research, brings
 new expertise to the School, and has created new collaborations with Clarion Housing, CU schools
 and a secondment within Arup).
 To meet the target of ‘strategic research national and international partnership’ (The WSA Strategy
 2014-17; a target also of its successor, WIDER-BE), the School supported through initial funding
 and time allocation projects such as the EPSRC-funded EnergyREV, a study of smart, local energy
 systems (Patterson, S3.1). Another strategic focus for WSA has been engagement ‘with
 communities and cities to enhance quality of life’, and has led to Community Gateway, a long-term
 project in Cardiff’s deprived Grangetown (McVicar, S4.4.3), and to the widely disseminated study
 of means of developing sustainable, affordable housing in Wales (Green, Forster, S4.4.1).
 1.3 Future research strategy
 Our key objectives are informed by our commitment to securing engagement with, and impact on
 local and international communities, creative industries and policy communities, underpinned by
 rigorous research:
 •   In REF 2014, we promised an experimental research facility. We have scaled our ambition
     since then, now focused on delivering state of the arts crafts workshops for by-practice
     research and a Living Lab, both of which are being realised through WIDER-BE. The Lab will
     be a highly configurable space with sophisticated AV equipment and an adjacent observation
     room that will enable multimodal interaction between the School and external stakeholders
     and partners. It will be a hub for collaborating with communities, industry and the professions.
     The Lab will promote innovative research, such as co-production, recognising the need for
     user-oriented methods to achieve impact. The facility features in recent grant applications and
     will support the UK Government's ambition for innovative research, alliances with industry, and
     impact.
 •   In 2014, we promised ‘a research end-user panel’. The School is materialising this in a new
     External Advisory Board. The Board will develop and formalise our industry relationships. It
     will be chaired by the Director of Design Commission for Wales and will bring together diverse
     external stakeholders (e.g. creative industries, building industry, NGOs). The Board will
     provide the School with an in-depth understanding of current needs and changing conditions
     within industry that require response via our teaching and research.
 •   We will take advantage of our expansion by sustaining excellence in existing areas of
     expertise. In parallel, we will continue supporting staff in the organic development of new and
     complementary areas, e.g. research on emerging technologies (artificial intelligence) and


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     issues relating to equality and inclusion (affordable and sustainable housing and well-being).
 •   We will prioritise the nurturing of ECRs through tailored research mentoring, the support of our
     RSGs, institutional and School support for career progression, and internal capacity-building
     aimed at grant capture and career development.
 •   We will grow our overall capacities by increasing research funding. WSA will develop specific
     policies and programmes to support grant applications (e.g. new research leave programme,
     enhanced reviewing processes, new research calendar).
 •   We will introduce a new WSA research leave programme and tighten the relation of teaching
     to research, both of which will be enabled by the WIDER-BE redesign of our undergraduate
     programme. The alignment of teaching and research and WIDER-BE-driven expansion in
     student recruitment will support further staff growth and diversification.
 1.4 Interdisciplinarity
 Our commitment to interdisciplinarity is illustrated by:
     (a) Poortinga, a joint position with the School of Psychology, works in the interdisciplinary
         space of environmental psychology and sustainable built environment on projects studying
         the success and/or impact of government policies (S4.3).
     (b) Employing staff from diverse disciplinary backgrounds, including archaeology (Bowie),
         engineering (Stevenson), urban design (Peimani), and architectural practice (Salter).
     (c) Internal collaboration on joint projects drawing on our diverse expertise, such as
         projects combining heritage, design, sustainability and computation, e.g. Maintenance
         scoping report (Prizeman, S4.2), funded by Historic England, Historic Environment
         Scotland and Cadw, later expanded to a collaboration with Knight, Lannon, and Latif.
     (d) Research collaborations within CU, with the School of Geography and Planning (Davis,
         Inam, Jones, Peimani, Tweed), with Engineering (e.g. the Energy Systems Research
         Institute; Jones), Business (Bleil De Souza, Marchesi), Computer Science and Informatics
         (Davidová, Jabi, Knight, Prizeman), School of Psychology (Poortinga), School of
         Chemistry (Jones, Lannon), The School of Journalism, Media and Culture (e.g. Creative
         Cardiff), The Water Research Institute (Poortinga) and Sustainable Places Research
         Institute (Davidová, Marchesi, Poortinga, Tweed); see S4.1.
     (e) Collaborations across the UK and beyond, encompassing joint research across
         disciplines, forming alliances and building new networks. For example, ‘A Critical
         Regionalist Approach to Sustainable Urban Development’ (Tweed, Zapata-Lancaster,
         Jabi; 2015-17) brought together institutions from three continents – the WSA and CU’s
         School of Geography and Planning, University of Florida and University of Indonesia. WSA
         contributed knowledge in sustainability, computing and spatial expertise to the project,
         funded by a ~£150k Global Innovation Initiative award from the US State Department and
         the British Council.
 1.5 Support for impact
 The School has a strong track-record in delivering impact, achieved by in-house teamwork and
 collaborations with government, industry and NGOs. We have supported impact by securing
 University buy-in (e.g. Community Gateway), by funding initial endeavours (e.g. funding an away
 day with potential collaborators from which the Maintenance project (see above, S1.4C)
 developed) and by time allocation to staff (S3.1). Three projects have matured in this cycle to
 become Impact Case Studies (ICSs). Another, Poortinga’s extensive research into the efficacy
 of the plastic bag levy, is an ICS in REF2021 subpanel 4.
 One of our three ICSs proves that the continuous automated monitoring of individual building
 services’ components is better for improving operational performance than undertaking physical
 inspections (Knight). The research has led to a revised EU Directive, enacted in March 2020.
 The underpinning research method is specified for use by the UK’s Department for Education in
 their £4.4bn investment in new schools.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A second ICS (Jones, Lannon, Patterson) maps energy costs, carbon emissions, fuel poverty and
 health in housing. The mapping tools developed by our researchers have been adopted by a
 community programme that has saved £1.5m for over 2,000 homes living in fuel poverty.
 The research has informed the strategic approach of six local authorities in Wales and England.
 Our third ICS, in which Jones, Patterson and colleagues have provided evidence that a systems-
 based ‘whole house’ approach can produce significant carbon reduction at lower cost, has
 stimulated Welsh Government investment of £91M in 1,400 affordable, low-carbon homes
 as well as £19.5M in decarbonisation retrofits.
 1.6 Support for Open Access (OA)
 Full text of all journal articles/conference proceedings are deposited into CU’s OA digital
 publications repository (ORCA) within three months of acceptance. The School goes beyond
 standard OA obligations, hosting an OA online publication, the Working Paper Series, and
 providing OA publication opportunities for by-practice outputs through the Design Research
 Working Papers. CU encourages depositing all outputs as OA, including conference papers, book
 chapters and books when legally possible, by setting OA as default. Our staff are also involved
 in developing OA datasets and databases (e.g. Ampatzi’s Scales datasets and Knight’s IWA data
 available on ORCA, or Prizeman’s Carnegie Libraries internet site, which includes an extensive
 database).
 1.7 Research integrity and ethics
 WSA has implemented CU’s policies on research ethics/integrity, including compliance with the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and staff are required to complete online research
 integrity training (see REF5a). The School’s Research Integrity Ethics Officer (Whitman)
 provides guidance on ethics and data protection to staff and students. Common issues include
 gaining informed consent, gathering and storing personal data and working with vulnerable
 populations.
 The School Research Ethics Committee considers applications that require full review. This
 includes dialogue to support the development of innovative or ‘risky’ initiatives, such as research
 in refugee camps, the study of homelessness, and monitoring with skin-mounted sensors. The
 School’s Ethics Officer also facilitates Research Integrity initiatives focused on specific issues,
 such as conflicts of interest, authorship and intellectual property, research data and records
 management.
 CU, a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment, is committed to
 responsible and fair research assessments. WSA has followed CU’s REF2021 Code of Practice,
 which emphasised inclusion, transparency and engagement with staff. The School’s senior staff
 undertook REF-specific EDI training aligned to their REF roles.
 A team of five with diverse expertise relevant to WSA research specialisations carried out the
 assessment of REF outputs. The material for the Environment Statement was assembled through
 communications with staff members and a staff survey. A draft Environment Statement was
 presented to the staff for consultation in Spring 2020.
 Section 2 (S2). People
 2.1 Staffing and recruitment strategy
 WSA has 57 (49.8FTE) academic staff, of whom 35 (32.3FTE) are category A staff, as well as 31
 (24.8FTE) support staff. Academic staff include 31 (28.8FTE) on Teaching and Research (T&R)
 contracts; 14 on Teaching and Scholarship (T&S) contracts, and 12 on Research-only (R)
 contracts. International staff comprise more than half of the WSA’s academics (26 UK; 31
 overseas), surpassing the CU ambition for 30% of academics to be international (The Way
 Forward 2018-23).
 The School’s strong cohort of T&S staff aids disseminating research results through teaching and
 contributes to broader academic–industry relations, engagement and outward-facing research
 projects. These include collaborations on impact-delivering projects, public debates, conferences,
 working with disenfranchised communities and more (e.g. Almond steering the design of a hub for

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Community Gateway via engagement with residents – producing material that contributed to the
 project’s funding applications).
 Our expansion since REF2014 added academics across career stages to bolster capacity in
 growth areas, while ensuring robust succession planning. The School’s recruitment strategy
 aims at ensuring a balanced mixture of senior internationally leading scholars and promising early
 and mid-career researchers who complement our existing expertise while expanding our capacity
 in priority areas.
 Several new posts over the REF period were created to strengthen areas of research and reflect
 delivery on our strategic goals regarding areas for growth targeted in REF2014:
     - Hiring Davidová, Inam, Peimani and Talocci enhanced our profile in urbanism.
     - Sibley and Whitman strengthened the profile of heritage and conservation.
     - Chatzivasileiadi, Doe and Spaeth strengthened architectural computation.
 Our REF submission demonstrates a cohesive and sustainable research culture supportive of staff
 at every stage of their career. Teamwork is a hallmark of our research – 65% of our returned
 outputs are co-authored with colleagues at the School and other institutions, nationally and
 internationally. The paper ‘Emergency hospital admissions […] meeting national housing quality
 standards’, for example, was authored by eight researchers from three universities and the ONS,
 including two from WSA (Poortinga, Lannon) and one from Geography and Planning. The paper
 has been tweeted by 535 users and cited in The Guardian.
 WSA’s commitment to promoting a culture of equality and diversity has played a critical role
 in shaping staffing strategy. Since REF2014, we have hired 16 Lecturers - nine female and seven
 male; two Readers – one female and one male; one male Professor; two Research Fellows on
 externally funded grants - one female and one male.
 There have been 18 promotions of academic staff over the period, nine of which were of women:
 nine Lecturers to Senior Lecturers (four female, five male); one Research Fellow to Senior
 Research Fellow (female); six Senior Lecturers to Readers (four female, two male); two to
 Professor (male). A recent promotion to Professor, effective after the period (1.8.20), is a female
 (Prizeman). These numbers evidence our progress on EDI since REF2014 – at the time we had
 no female Readers and only two of six Senior Lecturers were women.
 Key leadership roles are occupied by women: Director of International (Sibley), Director of PGR
 (Prizeman), Director of PGT (Davis), and the EDI Officer (Bleil de Souza). The split on the WSA
 Executive Board is five women to six men. Overall, women occupy 46% of academic management
 roles (13:15).
 Succession planning: Our promotions in this period and recruitment of ECRs have been
 designed to address forthcoming retirements and ensure the School’s research sustainability. The
 School has provided leadership role opportunities to younger members of staff (e.g. Patterson’s
 RSG leadership, in view of Jones’s retirement, or Green leading the transition of the Design
 Research Unit Wales). Joint grant applications, with WSA staff as PIs and Co-Is, ensure continuity
 and nurture young researchers (see S3).
 The internationalisation of our staff (currently originating from 20 different countries, ranging from
 Bangladesh to Ecuador) has reinforced our commitment to extend our engagement with the Global
 South (e.g. Eco-Hammam, in which Sibley, with Tweed, set-up stakeholder networks to develop
 Moroccan hammams’ energy efficiency).
 Our staff undertake mandatory unconscious bias and EDI training courses. Staff chairing
 recruitment panels undertake the Chairing University Appointing Panels course. WSA supports
 flexible working, encouraging the concentration of meetings on Wednesdays and their completion
 by 4.30PM. Staff are eligible to apply for career breaks of 6-36 months. We have implemented a
 Returners Support Scheme for staff returning from extended leave, offering reduced teaching and
 additional support to re-establish research. In the last period, WSA has organised sessions
 addressing academic work/life balance with invited speakers (e.g. Fiona McLachlan, University of
 Edinburgh).


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2. Staff development
 We foster a supportive environment through a range of staff development policies and
 opportunities, tailored to career stage and informed by our commitment to EDI. WSA adheres to
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, of which CU is a signatory.
 Annual Personal Development Review meetings involve guidance on promotions and
 development and promotions’ sessions tailored to career stage are available. In addition to ECR
 support discussed below, our uptake of such opportunities includes the Professorial Leadership
 Programme (Knight participated) and career development training tailored to BME+ staff (two staff
 members participated). Category A staff have annual Research Plan meetings with the Director
 of Research in which their research, its development and required support are reviewed.
 CU, in collaboration with its GW4 partners Bath, Bristol and Exeter, has developed programmes
 for research capacity-building and staff/research student development. Latif is a Co-I in a
 circular economy research funded by the GW4 Initiator grant. Welsh Crucible, a research
 leadership programme by a Welsh universities’ consortium, has supported Du’s research into
 damp and mould in Welsh homes.
 Our new T&R and T&S staff take part in an academic orientation programme; staff on a
 Research pathway attend a dedicated programme. Staff on probation (Grade 6 and below)
 receive regular support through quarterly appraisals and are assigned a WSA mentor. The School
 has developed a Research Guidelines document to support the integration of ECRs into the WSA
 research community. It outlines our research strategies, policies and procedures.
 Practice-based T&R and T&S staff play a vital role in our research culture and lead by-design
 research and high-profile projects, e.g. Better/More (Green, Forster) and the Alhambra renovation,
 winner of the Europa Nostra Grand Prix 2019 (Wulff). We have supported staff (including
 administrative, R-only and T&S staff) pursuing PhDs (Clark, Coombs, Lannon [R], McVicar,
 Munar Bauza, Odgers, Patterson [R] and Whitman in this period), enabling flexible and part-time
 working and have waived PhD fees (e.g. Patterson, see below). Clark, for example, was able to
 alter his FTE from 0.5 to 0.2 and vice-versa while pursuing a PhD.
 ECRs, a large cohort at WSA (27% of category A staff), have access to the resources outlined
 above. ECRs can apply for participation in the prestigious ECR development programme Cardiff
 Futures (attended by seven staff: six female, one male). Support and training are also available to
 individuals when applying for external research funds. ECRs can access internal, competitively
 awarded schemes such as the EPSRC Early Career Research Capital Calls (2018). CU has a
 mentoring scheme to which seasoned WSA staff (Kaminer, Latif) contribute. Currently ten of our
 ECRs are programme mentees. The RSGs offer nurturing in a collegial, supportive setting, ranging
 from feedback to work-in-progress to advice regarding grants, potential collaborators or relevant
 journals. The nurturing and inclusive research culture in the School has led to ECRs’ successes
 in obtaining external research funding and publishing key articles (e.g. Whitman’s Historic England
 funding to develop his original PhD research).
 2.3 Support for research-only staff
 Researchers joining us are integrated into the research culture through the RSGs and invitations
 to our research events, and are given support in finding career opportunities. Research-only staff
 are fully involved in WSA management (e.g. Patterson leads the Energy Environments and People
 RSG; Lannon was Director of Research 2016-19).
 CU employs a full-time careers adviser for research staff. In 2019, CU’s promotions scheme was
 revised to incorporate a clear career path for staff on Research-only pathways, enabling
 advancement to Senior Research Fellow, Principal Research Fellow and Professorial Research
 Fellow (in the last period, Patterson has been promoted, and Du regraded, to Senior Research
 Fellows). The Cardiff Researcher Programme is designed specifically for Research-only staff and
 provides workshops, online modules and coaching in 65 topics (including grant writing, applying
 for fellowships, research leadership). The School provides teaching opportunities to RAs;
 research staff with contractual obligation preventing involvement in paid teaching (e.g. European
 Commission sponsored) have been provided unpaid teaching opportunities through the LCRI Low
 Carbon Summer Programme.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Joanne Patterson:
     ‘Coming from environmental science, I was approached in 1996 by the WSA to
     consider applying for an RA position in an EPSRC-funded project. My work at WSA
     continued over the years, and I progressed to the position of Research Associate in
     2000, Senior Research Associate in 2002, and a Research Fellow in 2008. In 2015,
     […] I completed a part-time PhD at the WSA, in parallel to my work on demanding
     projects such as SOLCER and raising two children. The fees were waived and WSA
     allowed me to move to a 0.6FTE contract when needed and later to increase again my
     FTE. In 2019, I was promoted to Senior Research Fellow.’
 2.4 Support for research
 Our Workload Model includes 600 hours p.a. research time (40% working time) for full-time T&R
 staff. The School provides £1000 annually to every academic member of staff, including T&S,
 fixed-term, externally-funded researchers and Research Associates, for conferences, travel and
 other research and scholarship expenses (S3 for additional funding).
 Research-active staff are eligible to apply for one year study leave every five years through CU’s
 research leave programme. Up until 2018-19, the programme provided buy-out from teaching
 and £3,000 in research funding (in the last period Ampatzi, Davis, Gwilliam, Knight, McVicar,
 Poortinga – four female, two male). Its 2019-20 iteration, the Disglair scheme, has been designed
 to facilitate post-doctoral development, supporting the School hiring an outstanding ECR (Bowie)
 to replace staff granted research leave (Prizeman). The programme has enabled staff to develop
 grant applications, start new projects, and complete major monographs (e.g. McVicar’s Precision
 in Architecture). In the next years, the School will develop a research leave programme to
 supplement the University’s (S1.3) and strengthen its outputs, grant capture and impact.
 2.5 Support for postgraduate research
 The School is home to a diverse body of PGR students across our clusters of expertise and
 encourages applications globally, benefiting from institutional support through PhD scholarships
 and the resources (workshops, training courses and events) of the Cardiff Doctoral Academy (see
 REF5a). The School adopts a transparent equal opportunities approach, e.g. taking
 professional/voluntary work and career experience into consideration for applicants who have not
 recently been involved in academic study or have taken career/study breaks.
 Our PhD programme is led by the Director of PGR (Prizeman). The School’s current 60 PGR
 students are from 16 different countries, spanning four continents. Applicants’ success rate since
 2014 has been 55% for males and 82% for females. Redesigned, tailored work and socialisation
 spaces and a meeting room will be provided to the PGR community through WIDER-BE.
 The number of doctoral degrees awarded for 2014-20, in total, was 72.5, including one by
 publication. The diversity of sources of support for our PGRs in this period demonstrates the
 prowess of WSA’s research, and included the AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award with the British
 Museum; BRE Studentships; EPSRC CASE award with BRE; EPSRC Doctoral Training
 Partnership award; EPSRC fees-only; Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships award with BRE;
 Ser Cymru/Bangor Uni. We have recruited two PhDs (2017, 2020) through WSA-funded
 scholarships.
 The School carries out an initial review for new PGR students followed by annual progress
 reviews. Since REF2014, the annual progress monitoring system has been enhanced by the
 involvement of independent reviewers. PGR students attend workshops designed to support
 disciplinary research skills. Interested students can gain teaching experience in our
 undergraduate (UG) programme.
 The Postgraduate Research Experience Survey has consistently shown (2015; 2017; 2018)
 strong and increasing satisfaction among PGRs with the knowledge and suitability of their
 supervisors (90%; 91%; 96%) and strong satisfaction with feedback (90-92%). PGRs had
 highlighted, however, their limited interaction with other academics and researchers within WSA


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (35-52% satisfaction) – in response, WSA has encouraged PGR involvement and leadership in
 the new RSGs. The School also launched ‘PGR social’, a weekly social event for PGRs,
 supervisors, PGR support staff and others. More recently, our first ‘PGR International’ event has
 taken place, celebrating with staff the diversity of our cohort by sampling homemade international
 foods and attending a guest lecture.
 PhD students are thus increasingly integrated into our research culture through the RSGs, the
 new WSA Research Lecture Series and events, conferences, workshops and presentations. PhD
 students are part of the management structure of the School through representation on
 committees (e.g. the WSA Research Committee). Recruitment, diversity of research areas and
 geography of expertise has been supported by the growth and internationalisation of staff.
 PhD students make wider contributions to the discipline, presenting their research at national
 and international conferences, receiving recognition (e.g. Akhimien's prize at ICEESD conference,
 San Francisco 2019; Coombs’ RIBA President's Award for Research 2017; Wyatt’s IHBC Gus
 Astley Award 2019). PhD students have also taken an active role in organising events at WSA
 and beyond (e.g. Drozynski and Tam’s work on the 2018 Generosity conference, a three day
 conference with 60 papers).
 The strength of our PGR programme is highlighted by the success of our graduates in gaining
 academic posts (e.g. Drozynski at the University of West of England, Jones at Birmingham
 University, Stravoravdis at Liverpool University). Ampatzi, Chatzivasileiadi, Whitman and Zapata-
 Lancaster, previously WSA PGRs, have become lecturers at the School in this period. Whitman,
 who had an Association of Prevention Technology (APT) Student Scholarship, won the APT Martin
 Weaver Award as a PhD student.
 Section 3 (S3). Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research income
 In this REF period, the School has sustained long-standing, high-impact programmes of research
 (e.g. SOLCER). The School won 88 research awards, providing income to the School of
 £12,934,574 – a 23% growth compared to REF2014. The diversity of funding sources, which
 include the EU, the Welsh Government (WEFO), UKRI, industry and non-government funders,
 ensures a robust, resilient portfolio. Our funding trajectory over this assessment period
 demonstrates the sustainability and innovation of our approach.
 Income generation is spread across the School. 82 awards went to teams headed by a WSA PI,
 and 18 to teams that included more than one of our researchers, typically comprising of senior
 and junior researchers. 25 staff across career stages have been PIs in this period.
 Major grants won in this REF cycle secure the sustainability of research through large-scale
 investment and leadership in disciplinary and interdisciplinary collaboration. Examples include, in
 this period:
    •   SPECIFIC2 WP3.5 (2016-21): £2.5M for WSA from the Welsh European Funding Office
        (Jones, Patterson, Lannon). The project develops knowledge from earlier projects: the
        energy positive SOLCER House, Five Low Carbon Retrofits and the Sustainable Building
        Envelope Centre, all funded under the LCRI programme (2010-16). Its ambition is to create
        ‘buildings as power stations’ – the idea that ‘active’ buildings can generate, store and
        release their own heat and electricity. The project is a major collaboration with Swansea
        University. The WSA team’s contribution is in modelling and monitoring 16 demonstration
        projects across Wales to create a low-carbon built environment that is replicable and
        affordable.
    •   EnergyREV (2018-22): £729,000 for WSA from EPSRC (Patterson). Research into smart
        local energy systems and the transition towards their widespread application, involving
        more than 60 researchers from 22 universities. Applying the themes of digitalisation,
        decarbonisation, decentralisation, and democratisation, and disseminating the findings
        through reports and scholarly articles, the project takes the lead in identifying a viable route
        towards widespread adoption of better energy systems. EnergyREV is one of the three key


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        components of the UK Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund’s ‘Prospering from the Energy
        Revolution’ programme.
    •   Smart Energy Research Lab (2017-22): £391,047 for WSA from EPSRC via UCL (Tweed,
        Lannon). Developing a world-class research portal that will provide vital access to energy
        data for the UK research community. The project aims to transform UK energy research
        through the long-term provision of high-quality energy data necessary for intervention,
        observational and longitudinal studies.
 By providing funding for RAs, conferences, and equipment over an extensive period, these
 projects have sustained our research capacity and infrastructure. Such grants have allowed WSA
 to continue employing key RAs in subsequent projects (e.g. Perisoglou, employed since 2013 on
 the projects SBED, LCRI, Ser Cymru, SPECIFIC 2) and benefit from their growing expertise and
 skills. Grant income has contributed to capacity-building through strengthening areas of
 priority, building the scope of clusters of excellence and cultivating research
 networks/interdisciplinary collaborations.
 Smaller grants have been particularly effective in supporting humanities and social science
 research. Examples include:
    •   Shelf-Life (2017-21), £162,000 for WSA from AHRC (Prizeman): developing HBIM tools
        supporting rehabilitation and networking for public library buildings at risk of demolition. It
        addresses the urgent issues of heritage buildings’ use/redundancy and energy
        performance. The project delivered scholarly publications, an OA website database
        containing GIS mappings for all UK Carnegie Libraries, Life Cycle analyses and more.
    •   Tamil Temple Towns (2018-20), £147,000 for WSA from AHRC/ICHR (Hardy, Prizeman),
        a collaborative international project developed from previous research into Tamil temples,
        including a graphic representation of 25 ruined medieval temples in Ashapuri, India, which
        has led to impact (S4.4.4). The project intervened in a case of contested heritage that has
        included litigation among the disputants and required UNESCO involvement. It developed
        a conservation strategy acceptable to the competing stakeholders.
    •   Care and the City (2015-19), £130,000 for WSA from Grosvenor Estate Management Ltd
        (Davis), a follow-up to a previous collaboration regarding the contribution of urban form
        and governance to resilience, focused on the concept of ‘care’, and leading to scholarly
        articles and forthcoming monograph (Bristol University Press, 2021).
 The School has used funding to maximise impact. The WSA has received impact funding of
 £114,501 for three projects (Eames; Jones & Patterson; Tweed) through the EPSRC Impact
 Acceleration Account (e.g. supporting the development of energy monitoring kits for housing
 associations by Tweed and Zapata-Lancaster). Community Gateway, launched by McVicar in
 2014 and addressing sustainability, participation and deprivation in Grangetown, Cardiff, secured
 CU funding of £100,000 annually. CU was also the conduit, and is currently the Asset Guardian,
 of £1.9M received from the National Lottery, Welsh Government, and multiple charitable funders
 to support creating a community hub as part of the project. These supports have enabled the
 development of ambitious work that involves interdisciplinary research, engagement and impact
 (S4.4.3).
 Research income has led directly to major outputs, e.g. Jabi’s Leverhulme Grant (£287,000), for
 example, enabled developing software, Topologic, aimed at improving existing Building
 Information Modelling. By establishing connections between each of the individual spaces within
 a building, the software can map the thermal flow of energy throughout spaces. This information
 can be used for buildings’ energy performance simulation. The software has been adopted by
 Buro Happold and other leading firms. The research has led to 11 articles and conference
 papers, including papers in the International Journal of Architectural Computing and
 Architectural Science Review. Poortinga and Tweed's Health Impacts of Structural Energy
 Performance Investments in Wales, funded by the National Institute for Health Research
 (£739,551 in total), has led to five outputs, including Poortinga’s research output in the Lancet
 (2016) and a key publication in the journal Public Health Research (2018).


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Relatively small sums can provide a boost to a diverse range of staff. In addition to the Individual
 Development Allowance of £1000 (S2.4), WSA offers further support (£4,500 in total in 2020)
 through an annual competitive process (e.g. in 2019, £2,231 won by Peimani to complete a strong
 output and £300 by Aelbrecht for image sourcing for an article). The School strategically uses
 small sums to enable research grant development, events and workshops, and impact and
 engagement. Such School funding has been particularly important for building capacity and
 confidence for ECRs, using the funding as the basis for larger bids and supporting the
 development of RAs. For example, the School provided monetary support and staff time for a
 series of preliminary meetings from which the EnergyREV project was developed and for which
 UKRI’s Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund support was secured.
 A notable success story is the School’s strategic use of the innovative Cardiff Undergraduate
 Research Opportunities Programme (see REF5a). This provides bursaries for summer
 placements for students working on staff-defined and supervised research projects (e.g.
 Poortinga’s plastic bag charge project – the contributing student has progressed to become a CU
 PhD student). In this REF period, these awards provided support for 34 WSA research projects.
 The scheme has benefited staff across career stages, with opportunities identified as particularly
 vital for ECRs who have used the scheme to build towards grant applications (e.g. Whitman).
 Similarly, collaborations with industry have produced small yet impactful sums via diverse service
 projects with industry funding (30 projects, £300,000) and prepared the ground for expansion of
 the collaborations - e.g. Monmouthshire Housing Association feasibility study that led to an
 experimental housing project (Forster, S4.2), recently followed by another.
 3.2 Research infrastructure/facilities
 CU is investing in the refurbishment of our Bute building as part of WIDER-BE (~£20M). A key
 feature of the project is the Living Lab, which will enhance the visibility and impact of WSA’s
 interdisciplinary research (S1.3). It will have an easily accessed, dedicated facility adjacent to the
 entrance, and will be used for meetings, presentations and workshops with external collaborators.
 The Lab will be a test-rig for studying behaviour in different interiors. Its flexible space could be
 configured, for example, as an office, a school classroom, or a retail space to simulate different
 settings in which participants can be observed from an adjacent room. It will also serve as a studio
 for co-design. The Lab will be outward facing, supporting innovative forms of research,
 collaboration and engagement, fostering relationships with the community, with the profession,
 and with industry.
 The building redesign includes the relocation and expansion (by 50%) of the workshops with
 upgraded equipment, dedicated wet cast and spray rooms and capacity for additional CNC
 machines and laser cutters – providing state-of-the-art facilities for by-practice research. The
 redesign provides dedicated space for PGRs and for research teamwork and will offer
 opportunities to showcase research material within the School via tailored display furniture and in
 changing exhibitions in the new Exhibition Hall. Refurbished rooms and auditoria will offer high-
 end facilities for hosting symposia and conferences. Break-out and rest spaces will support
 informal and social activities.
 Our Architecture Library, home to the largest collection of architecture books and journals in
 Wales, is staffed by dedicated subject librarians (Pryor, Davies), and includes the Rare Book
 collection, specialist information resources such as the Bloomsbury Architecture Library, Digimap,
 materials and buildings’ costings databases, British Standards online and Construction
 Information Service. The Adrian Gibson Slide Collection (19,000 slides and 900 papers regarding
 British vernacular architecture, 1100-1700) and the CIBSE Heritage Group Archive (created in
 1973, recording building engineering services history) have been donated to WSA in this period.
 Both collections are of significant national interest. Our building is also home to the Bute Library,
 covering social sciences, planning and geography. Together, these two libraries cover many of
 the research fields pertinent to WSA staff, offer easy access, extensive research support, and
 bring together researchers from different schools.
 Our research culture, internal organisation and research support are led by a Director of
 Research (Kaminer) and supported by a specialist Research Manager (Lewis) and a Research
 Officer. Researchers also receive advice and support from central staff regarding grant and

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fellowship applications, and grant management (REF5a). This support includes tailoring funding
 opportunities, planning budgets, and submitting applications. The Director of Research chairs the
 Research Committee, which includes representatives of the RSGs, our centres, and the PGR
 community, the EDI Officer, and the PGR Director. An Impact Champion (Knight) coordinated
 the development of Impact Case Studies (ICS), and WSA provided ICS authors time to develop
 them (S1.5).
 To enhance the visibility and accessibility of our research, WSA has introduced a research
 annual, collating current research projects into a single, reader-friendly booklet. The WSA
 Research Lecture Series, initiated in spring 2019 and replacing earlier initiatives (e.g.
 ReseARCHI lectures), hosts leading scholars and provides a vibrant monthly forum for academics
 and PGR students (e.g. Christoph Linder). It is jointly organised by the RSGs.
 Distinctive support for research is provided by our Centre for Research in the Built Environment
 (CRiBE), a Knowledge Transfer Centre. It is a conduit for research-support and a first point of
 contact for external organisations. CRiBE advises and assists other centres and large-scale
 research projects, both external or internal to WSA, with project and financial management – e.g.
 a commission to evaluate Premier League stadia’s daylight (Lannon).
 School, College and University technical administrators provide vital assistance with workshops,
 research software, research web pages, and research events. Support includes a workshop
 manager and a technician, a digital labs manager, two operations assistants, two staff who support
 research, impact and engagement events, as well as two IT Officers stationed in our School.
 Investment in IT at WSA has grown from £23,000 in 2016-17 to £96,000 in 2017-18 and £151,000
 in 2018-19, renewing WSA’s technological infrastructure and providing additional support for
 research, including new software licencing and new hardware. WSA has invested over this period
 in specialised research equipment, such as £78,041 of externally funded grants and £17,826 of
 School funding for energy monitoring equipment (sensors, data loggers, etc.). Our robotic arm
 (purchased in 2013), extensively used for specialised research, has been critical to the emergence
 in this period of computation as a key research area.
 3.3 Covid-19
 WSA has supported staff during the Covid-19 pandemic in relocating required University
 equipment to their homes, and permitting direct purchasing of necessary equipment, to allow for
 continuation of research. The Bute and Architecture Libraries have purchased dozens of e-books
 and expanded online subscriptions to architectural collections (e.g. Bloomsbury Architecture
 Design & Practice Online and De Gruyter). On the cusp of what may become a major transition in
 UK academia (Brexit, Covid-19) and in the midst of our own transition (WIDER-BE), our investment
 in WSA’s research infrastructure is necessarily also an investment in the School’s resilience,
 understood as a key guarantor of the overall health and prowess of our research.
 Section 4 (S4). Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The School’s ethos of ‘grounded creativity’ underpins our research and teaching. It captures an
 ongoing commitment to engaging with real world problems. Collaborative work is a key vehicle for
 these ambitions, manifested in our emphasis on collegiality and mutual support, and in our
 research and impact involving industry, public bodies and communities.
 4.1 Local, national and international research collaborations
 Collaborations with other CU schools have strengthened our interdisciplinarity in the last period
 (S1.4). National-level research collaborations have helped produce impact, while many
 international collaborations have enhanced the reach, prestige and visibility of our research. A
 national-level project completed in this period was the EPSRC-funded Retrofit 2050 (Eames,
 Lannon), which identified pathways to expand and enhance systemic retrofit of UK regions. The
 project was a collaboration with the universities of Cambridge, Durham, Oxford Brookes, Reading,
 and Salford, a wide array of government agencies, industry bodies and NGOs (ICS, BRE, TATA,
 ARUP, Core Cities, DEFRA, Welsh Government, Manchester City Council, Cardiff Council,
 Carillion, Environment Agency Wales and Neath Port Talbot Council). Scenario and modelling
 techniques developed for the project were later used for the 2019 ‘Independent Review on
 Decarbonising Welsh Homes’ report for the Welsh Government. The global expansion of our

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations is demonstrated by the Smart Energy Regions project (Jones), which was a H2020-
 funded collaboration of 70 researchers from 28 countries. It studied the drivers and barriers
 regarding the implementation of low carbon technologies in the built environment.
 4.2 Collaborations with and contributions to industry and public bodies
 Industry collaborations have been vital for the WSA’s impact (see S4.4). The School’s forthcoming
 External Advisory Board and Living Lab will enhance and expand these relationships by
 providing channels for sustained and long-term partnerships (S1.3).
 WSA’s productive collaborations with industry include Forster’s work for the Monmouthshire
 Housing Association (2017-19) – the realisation of two sets of experimental urban ‘infill’ housing.
 The collaboration enabled the funding (contract value £1.1m) and testing of innovative approaches
 to long-term and multi-generational living in the context of low-cost and sustainability.
 Others have collaborated with public bodies: Prizeman developed a scoping report (with Whitman)
 for Cadw, Historic England and Historic Environment Scotland (£7.5K) in 2016, which
 demonstrated the importance of traditional buildings’ maintenance in reducing their energy costs.
 The report was presented to the Welsh Government Housing Committee, the Welsh Government
 Tourism and Environment teams, the Heritage Environment Group Wales, and to the UK wide
 Historic Environment Adaptation Working Group. Du worked with the microbiology team at Public
 Health Wales, Adult Cystic Fibrosis Centre at NHS Wales and Swansea University on mould and
 damp’s impact on vulnerable patients (Welsh Crucible funded).
 Our extensive collaborations have led to diverse contributions to industry, public bodies and
 third sector, such as Chatzivasileiadi’s Institution of Engineering and Technology Standards
 Technical Committee membership, Knight’s membership of a steering group at the Institute of
 Welsh Affairs, Patel’s reports (2019) for the Higher Education Design Quality Forum, Kaminer’s
 directorship at the Edinburgh Old Town Development Trust, and Prizeman’s advisory role for the
 Heritage Lottery Fund and UNESCO. Latif is a senior member of the influential International Union
 of Laboratories and Experts (RILEM). Prizeman is an Association for Preservation Technology
 International board member; Tweed is a member of the advisory board to Welsh Government on
 Decarbonisation of Homes in Wales. These contributions have developed from and enhanced our
 role as leaders in the wider field and extend the outreach and impact of our research.
 4.3 Wider academic contributions and research dissemination
 We have helped sustain the vitality of our research fields through an array of critical activities.
 Such contributions are encouraged through the promotions process and enhance the esteem of
 the School.
 A key role is played by staff who are members of reviewing & assessment panels for REF2021
 (Tweed), EPSRC (Bleil de Souza; Lannon; Tweed), UKRI Future Leaders (Lannon), and RIBA
 President’s Medal for Research (Tweed). Others, contributing as editors, members of editorial
 boards, guest editors and peer-reviewers of academic journals, have supported vital research
 processes and enhanced their own networks and the prestige of WSA. In this period, Davis has
 been an editor for Planning Perspectives, Hardy for South Asian Studies, and Sibley for Global
 Built Environment Review. Our staff serves on the editorial boards of journals such as
 Architectural Science Review (Jabi); Architecture and Culture (Jabi); International Journal of
 Architectural Computing (Jabi); International Journal of Contemporary Urban Affairs (Latif); and
 Journal of Sustainable Smart Behavior (Davidová, Tweed).
 Guest editorships included Architectural Research Quarterly (Davis); Architectural Science
 Review (Spaeth); FORMakademisk (Davidová); Indoor and Built environment (Jones);
 International Journal of Architectural Computing (Jabi); and Journal of Building Performance
 Simulation (Bleil de Souza).
 Our staff review papers for leading journals by major academic publishers (Sage, T&F, Elsevier)
 and book proposals for Ashgate, Bloomsbury, RIBA Publishing, T&F, and Palgrave. Latif received
 three Outstanding Reviewer awards, from the journals Construction and Building Materials,
 Energy and Buildings, and Building and Environment.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In this period, WSA hosted international conferences such as Smart Energy Regions (2016),
 Generosity (2018), and Sustainable Built Environment (2020), strengthening research networks
 and dissemination. In addition to regular presentations of papers at conferences and symposia,
 our staff have delivered dozens of invited talks and keynotes in contexts ranging from major
 academic conferences to public events. While both have enabled wide dissemination of research
 and enhanced the School’s prestige, the latter enabled reaching new audiences. Of particular
 academic prestige were Hardy’s keynote at Allchin Symposium, Cambridge University, Jabi’s
 keynote at the Eighth International Conference of the Arab Society for Computer Aided
 Architectural Design, SOAS, and Kaminer’s talk at Rebuilding Architecture symposium, Yale.
 Within a wider public context, Davidová’s talk at the UN World Creativity & Innovation Week,
 Davis’s talks to The Labour Housing Group and to the London Tenants Federation, McVicar’s talk
 at the Deutsches Architekturmuseum, Frankfurt, Sibley’s talk and Prizeman’s public debate
 participation at the Victoria and Albert Museum stand out.
 Poortinga, who has delivered around twenty keynotes and invited talks since 2014, has
 contributed to public discussion and policy making by delivering written submissions and oral
 evidence at the Environmental Audit Committee, House of Commons, regarding his research
 into the plastic bag surcharge and disposable coffee cups (2013, 2017). Likewise, Knight has
 enhanced his work’s impact on policy making by providing evidence to the EU in Brussels on
 energy demand data and modelling.
 Reflecting the prowess of the School’s research in fields that are of public interest, WSA
 academics have disseminated their research findings through general media. Thanks to
 extensive media attention, Poortinga could raise public awareness of the need to reduce plastic
 bag and coffee cup waste (more than 40 media appearances on radio and TV interviews and
 numerous media mentions, including interviews by Sky News TV, by BBC Newsbeat and BBC
 Radio 5 Live, mentions by, among others, The Times, The Guardian, and the BBC Magazine).
 Exhibitions are an important vehicle of dissemination of our by-design research. Wulff exhibited
 work at the Museum of Urban History of Barcelona and the 2016 Venice Biennale. A second high-
 profile Barcelona exhibition by Wulff (2016) was opened by the Mayor. Salter exhibited a specially
 commissioned work at the Arsenale in the 2018 Venice Biennale.
 4.4. Societal, economic and cultural impact
 WSA has developed long-term projects that contribute to communities’ well-being and to
 sustainability. Through its collaborations with various partners and stakeholders, WSA research
 aims at transforming everyday life in four main areas of impact:
 4.4.1   Sustainability and Energy
 Our strong energy and sustainability research contributes to de-carbonising the building industry,
 reducing energy waste and improving policies in the field. Work by Jones, Patterson and
 colleagues, for example, has provided evidence that a systems-based approach to retrofitting and
 new-build can produce significant carbon reduction at lower cost. It has informed Welsh
 Government policy and is one of our Impact Case Studies (ICS). Another ICS maps energy
 costs, carbon emissions, fuel poverty and health in housing (Jones, Lannon, Patterson). Knight’s
 research into the continuous automated monitoring of individual building services has been widely
 applied and is our third ICS (S1.5). Within the same field, the Welsh Government-funded study of
 retrofit case studies (Green, Lannon, Patterson) produced a rigorous comparative analysis of
 available options. The research’s recommendations have been accepted in principle by the
 Housing Minister. They are now being used by Welsh Government to inform a decarbonisation
 strategy for the Welsh housing stock.
 Poortinga contributed to the influential Science Advice for Policy by European Academies
 report ‘Microplastics in Nature and Society’, which informed the European Commission’s Group
 of Chief Scientific Advisors. The latter commented that the work ‘underpins many of the
 recommendations we make in our opinion […]’. Poortinga’s evidence to the House of Common’s
 Environmental Audit Committee led the committee to recommend introducing a ‘latte levy’ on
 disposable coffee cups. A paper studying the impact of fuel poverty and cold homes on physical
 and mental wellbeing by Poortinga has been cited in four policy documents.

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4.2   Industry Performance
 A long-term project (Jones and colleagues), in collaboration with Hong Kong University, developed
 microclimate urban-scale modelling for measuring thermal comfort and building energy use. The
 models were the basis for software tools produced to inform the design process at an early stage
 when major decisions are made. These tools now benefit the design industry. They have been
 used primarily in South East Asia to introduce energy savings to the homes of 5,500 residents, to
 assess the environmental impact of seven urban renewal projects, and for a 164-hectare
 development project.
 With the support of an EPSRC Impact Accelerator Award, Tweed and Zapata-Lancaster
 developed energy monitoring kits for Merthyr Tydfil Housing Association in 2016. The study
 persuaded the association to work more closely with its tenants and to provide bespoke advice on
 how to get the best from their homes. The outcomes were presented to the Welsh Government.
 Publications aimed at practice are an important means of impacting industry. In this period,
 these included Gwilliam’s Living Architecture, Living Cities (Routledge, 2020), focused on inclusive
 urban design for well-being, Latif’s Thermal Insulation Materials for Building Applications (Institute
 of Civil Engineers, 2019), Lupton’s additions and updated editions to her prize-winning RIBA book
 series on contracting, and Prizeman’s edited anthology, addressing work in heritage
 environments, Sustainable Building Construction (RIBA, 2015).
 4.4.3   Communities’ Well-Being and Societal Justice
 A major long-term WSA project in the field is the Community Gateway project in the Cardiff
 neighbourhood of Grangetown. The project engaged local residents and key stakeholders,
 securing commitments by the city council, CU and Lottery funding (S3.1). Orchestrating
 asset transfer from the council to the community, the project addresses multiple issues, including
 sustainability, well-being, participation and deprivation. Staff from 20 CU schools have so far been
 involved, contributing to engagement (e.g. wellbeing and careers events) and research (e.g.
 Somali migrants focus group leading to an ESRC grant, School of Geography and Planning). Wulff
 has led a long-term (2016-) project in Palermo, collaborating with the municipality and local
 residents, delivering a key street market regeneration framework. The ‘Better/ More’
 government-commissioned study of alternative means of developing affordable housing
 (Green, Forster) has been widely disseminated to decision-makers in government and industry,
 and was called ‘[t]he most important report on housing to come out of Wales in a generation’ by
 the Bron Afon Community Housing Director of Development (2017). The study was used for the
 launch the £90M Welsh Government Innovative Housing Programme.
 4.4.4. Heritage
 Prizeman’s study of 424 UK Carnegie library buildings has networked communities
 campaigning to save these historic buildings from demolition (S3.1). Her work has been cited
 in the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport’s’ Farrell Review. Wulff’s restoration of the
 Alhambra has won Europe’s most prestigious heritage prize, the European Commission Europa
 Nostra Heritage Award 2019.
 For the World Monuments Fund and the Government of Madhya Pradesh, Hardy’s work has led
 to a conservation strategy, a visitors’ centre, and heritage walks produced by the Indian
 National Trust. In collaboration with UNESCO, conservation guidelines for Tamil temple towns
 are being developed. In parallel, Prizeman, Sibley and Whitman have supported through their
 research sustainable retrofitting of heritage buildings, as in Sibley’s work on improving the
 sustainability of Moroccan hammams.
 4.5 Prizes & awards
 The high esteem in which our research is held is demonstrated in this period by an array of
 important prizes our staff and their work have been awarded. These include:
    ⎯ Design prizes: such as the German International Design Award 2017, RIBA Regional
      Award 2017, and RIBA National Award for Walmer Yard (Salter).



                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ⎯ Engagement prizes: Leading Wales Award and Sir Professor David Watson International
      Award for community–university partnerships, 2017 (Community Gateway, McVicar).
    ⎯ Heritage and conservation prizes: the International Council of Museums in Egypt for Best
      Practice of Museum Research and Engagement for the Belle Epoque Cairo Museums
      Itinerary 2017 (Sibley).
    ⎯ Industry prizes: from the UK Buildings and Energy Efficiency Awards and the Cynnal
      Cymru Awards 2015 for SOLCER (Jones and colleagues), the Chartered Institute of
      Housing award 2015 (Green), the CIBSE Carter Bronze Medal 2017 (Knight), the
      Constructing Excellence in Wales Innovation Award for ‘Rightsizing’, also Highly
      Commended at The National Constructing Excellence Awards 2020 (Forster).
    ⎯ Scholarly prizes: 2018 Emerging Scholar Award by the Spaces & Flows Research
      Network (Peimani); PLEA 2018 Merit Award for best Technical Paper (Whitman); 2019
      Young CAADRIA Award (Davidová).
 4.6 WSA, future years
 We are well-positioned to address key societal challenges in future years – climate emergency,
 the housing crisis, urban disfunction, and systemic inequalities, as S4.4 demonstrates. Over the
 last decade, our ties to Cardiff, Wales and the UK have strengthened, while our research has
 expanded to Europe and the world, driven by national and international collaborations (S1.4;
 S4.1). The School’s research centres (S1.1), forthcoming Living Lab and External Advisory Board
 (S1.3) will be key vehicles in delivering research that is relevant to societal needs and impactful,
 whereas our growth and specific strengths, such as our expertise in energy and access to Welsh
 government, should provide the support needed to further our contributions to the discipline, to
 research, and to society – to scale our ambitions, and to extend our reach.




                                                                                             Page 16
