Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Kingston University

 Unit of Assessment: 33 – Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

a. Context


This Unit submission consists of 28 staff members (27 permanent, 23.69 FTE), including 6
Professors and 6 ECRs (Ballou, Gonzalez-Lopez, Jarvis, Mader McGuinness, Monteiro and
Sudar). Staff contribute to both theoretical and practice-based research in their distinct but
interconnected disciplinary areas. Research is loosely structured around the Visual and Material
Culture Research Centre (VMCRC) and two Research Groups: the Visconti Studio and
Performing Arts Community Engagement (PACE). This structure brings together researchers
from across the Unit and enables both focused disciplinary investigation and cross-pollination
between researchers and disciplines. The Visual and Material Culture Research Centre is a
formally recognised University Centre of Excellence. As such, it develops and disseminates
research activity, generates funding applications and pathways to impact, mentors ECRs, leads on
PGR recruitment, provides a hub for PGR development and activity, organises research seminars
and public events, and establishes collaborations with a range of institutions, organisations and
HEIs. The Research Groups provide a similar set of functions but are geared towards forging new
collaborations and supporting emerging areas of research in the Faculty – particularly practice-
research.

The disciplines of Music, Drama, Dance, Film and Media are brought together within the Faculty of
Kingston School of Art (KSA). There is lively interaction and cross-fertilisation between the
interconnected disciplines, and also with KSA researchers in the areas of Photography, English,
Philosophy, Art and Design. Kingston University did not submit to UoA35 in REF 2014, though a
number of researchers from those subject areas were submitted to UoA29 (English Literature and
Language). Since 2014 attention has been invested into nurturing and developing research in
these subject areas; particularly in supporting practice research that interfaces with and benefits
communities and industry. The development and consolidation of research culture in those areas is
evident by the spread of academic staff between early career (6), mid-career (16) and
Professoriate (6), the thriving PGR scene, the supportive research structures across the Faculty (4
Research Centres, 7 Research Groups) and established, strategic research partnerships (Rose
Theatre, Kingston Museum, Institute of Contemporary Arts (ICA), British Film Institute (BFI)).

The Unit currently has 38 enrolled PhD students and 4 enrolled Masters by Research students,
and has achieved 35 doctoral completions (1.48 per FTE) and 4 Masters by Research completions
in the current cycle. It has benefitted from the University’s membership of the TECHNE AHRC
Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), with 7 studentship awards in the period. The value of AHRC-
funded TECHNE awards to the Unit in cycle is £290,015. The Unit has also benefited from 5
Kingston University studentships in cycle.

During the cycle staff have collectively published: 18 monographs, 35 articles in refereed journals,
over 33 book chapters, 10 edited collections and special issue journals, over 20 practice-research
outputs (performance, film, music composition), alongside other outputs such as conference
proceedings and practice-research reports. Research has appeared in presses including
Cambridge, Chicago, Columbia, MIT, Minnesota, Edinburgh, Bloomsbury and Faber & Faber, and
in peer-reviewed academic journals, including Cultural Politics, Genre, Cinema Journal, Studies in
New Cinemas, Studies in French Cinema, New Literary History, Continuum, Screen, Angelaki,
Journal of Visual Art Practice, Performance Philosophy Journal, Parallax, Contemporary Theatre
Review, Research in Drama Education, Journal of Dance and Somatic Practices, Journal of
Japanese and Korean Cinema, International Journal of Cultural and Creative Industries, Dance
Research.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Researchers have been awarded funding from a variety of sources to conduct their research,
including Horizon2020, AHRC and Arts Council England. The total value of mainstream research
income generated in cycle is £219,984 (£9,286 per FTE). The modest value of external
mainstream research income generated in this Unit is attributed to its new status in Kingston
University and its relatively high proportion of ECRs (21% of submitted staff). The Unit’s focus is on
strengthening research structures and mentoring staff to support the development of more quality
research funding applications. However, mainstream income was also supported by £215,179
academic, administration and central services research income related to AHRC doctoral training
partnership (TECHNE) and student training, recognising our support to new researchers.


b. Structure

Staff in UoA33 teach and research across two Schools: Arts, Culture and Communications (ArCC
– includes Music, Drama, Dance) and Critical Studies and Creative Industries (CSCI – includes
Film). Staff from ArCC joined KSA in 2018 following a faculty merger designed to bring together
teaching, research and postgraduate study across the entire spectrum of the arts and humanities,
in order to promote interdisciplinary collaboration and foster mutually supportive environments for
scholarship, learning, critical inquiry and creative practice. As a result, PGRs within the Unit benefit
from closer links with those researching in English, philosophy, art and design (the other main
beneficiaries of AHRC-funded DTP studentships at Kingston, which in the current REF period have
numbered in excess of 70 across all disciplines). KSA is therefore able to offer a rich environment
for research and doctoral study, where media and performing arts intersect with fine art, critical
studies, creative industries, philosophy, art and design history, and creative practice in its broadest
sense. Staff in the Unit have actively participated in training and development events for research
students across the DTP, which includes 9 HEIs in London and the South East. Members of the
Unit have collaborated productively with other staff in cognate disciplines at Kingston, through
internal and external initiatives and events. For example, staff researching non-standard or media
philosophy (Ó Maoilearca, Wilson, Weslati) benefit from exchange with the Centre for Research
in Modern European Philosophy (CRMEP, UoA30); staff affiliated with PACE collaborate with the
Race/Gender Matters (UoA27) research group (Mader McGuinness, for instance, developed a
TECHNE training day on queer sexualities in partnership with R/GM); staff working in Film practice
(O’Sullivan, Sudar) collaborate with the lens-based research group Visible Institute (UoA32).

Historically, staff in UoA 33 coalesced around two broad research groups:
    • London Graduate School (LGS) was founded in 2010 as a Kingston University doctoral
        programme with a series of research initiatives and events in contemporary critical
        theory. LGS was established to promote cross-disciplinary research collaboration between
        staff in Film, English, Media, and Cultural Studies in Kingston. It fostered innovative
        engagement with theoretical and philosophical issues across various disciplinary borders,
        but especially in Film, Media, Cultural Studies, and English. It emerged as a vital centre of
        exchange in theory and cultural analysis through its collaboration and strategic partnerships
        with international and UK-based partners, including the Natural History Museum, the British
        Film Institute, and the Collège international de philosophie in Paris. It ran numerous events
        within the period of this REF assessment, such as a series of Deconstruction Research
        Summer Schools held first at Central Saint Martins and latterly UCL in London (2012-2018).
        Current staff Ó Maoilearca, Quinlivan, Scott Wilson, Weslati and van Elferen, and
        former staff Potter, Buse and Richard Wilson were affiliated with LGS.

   •   practice.research.unit (pru) brought together practitioner-researchers in Music, Film,
       Drama, and Dance at Kingston, ran numerous events between 2014 and 2017, and was
       characterised by an interdisciplinary and practice-led approach to research enquiry.




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The current research structure in UoA33 is organised around a centre (VMCRC) and two groups:

1. Visual and Material Culture Research Centre (VMCRC) (Directors: Professors Lloyd and
Barber)

Founded in 2010, the Centre has a broad remit to work across disciplinary contexts (and across
Units 32 and 33), studying the histories, practices and theories of art, design, film and performance
in Europe, the Middle East, North America and Japan. It aims to advance new knowledge and new
ways of understanding and articulating the meanings and value of modern and contemporary
visual and material cultures as vital contributions to cultural life and the creative industries.
Researchers use a range of methodologies in their work, engaging individually and collaboratively
with cultures of writing, exhibition and display, live performance, and curating; and they collaborate
with a range of institutions, organisations and archives such as the Kingston Museum and Rose
Theatre, ICA, Tate, the Whitechapel Gallery, Berlin Free University and Tokyo Keio University.

VMCRC holds regular meetings, organises research seminars, international conferences and
monthly research-in-progress sessions. Centre Directors offer mentorship to ECRs and training
sessions for research bidding, aiming to promote an outward-facing, colalborative research culture.
VMCRC hosts a Research Fellow (Herbert, specialising in the history of audio-visual media) and
Associate Researchers (Shimada, Kum). It has benefited from an operational budget of £22K over
this REF cycle. A further approx. £170K p/a has been invested in salaries, covering a full-time
permanent Research Professor post who acts as Centre Co-director and 3 fixed-term post-doctoral
appointments. Researchers affiliated with VMCRC include Depper, Gonzalez-Lopez, O’Sullivan,
Brooker, Pratt, Reid, Balmain, Melia, Quinlivan, O’Neill, Minors, Ó Maoilearca, Weslati,
Wilson and Sudar.

Research in the Centre is carried out through five interweaving strands, described below:

1.1 Alternative Modernities, Transnational Encounters and Networks: Gonzalez-Lopez studies the
construction and representation of the body, gender and sexuality in Japanese cinema and culture;
Minors investigates interdisciplinary and intercultural transfers of meaning between creative
practices in music, dance, theatre, cultural studies and translation studies; Weslati studies the
manuscripts of philosopher Alexandre Kojève to trace and analyse their ideological translations in
Western and Eastern thought around notions of authority, legality, and power; former staff Potter
researched musicological histories in French music since Debussy.
1.2 Mobilisation of Archives and Collections: O’Sullivan develops practice-research and
scholarship through an exploration of contemporary broadcasts of political histories; Melia has
studied the Stanley Kubrick archive to research the production design and history of A Clockwork
Orange; using her past experience as manager of BFI’s digital archive screenonline.org.uk, Pratt
develops practice research and KE around the curation and distribution of West African cinema.
1.3 Sites of Material and Immaterial Heritage: Depper works on cinema and historical poetics,
examining the influence of early and subsequent avant-gardes; Reid’s work on 19th Century and
contemporary Scottish theatres intersects with her study of identity politics as enacted on stage.
1.4 Forms of Intervention in Social Practice: Sudar is a practice-researcher whose feature film
Borders, Raindrops mirrors the spatial, ideological and political fragmentation of the Balkan states
through its fragmented narrative structure.
1.5 Expanded Visual Culture: Brooker researches popular culture to explore the changing
meanings of cultural icons across different historical and cultural contexts; Quinlivan’s work on
breath, embodiment, and the body in crisis, provides a feminist and phenomenological angle to
materialist approaches in film theory; Wilson’s Lacanian readings of music, media, and the
contemporary cultural condition expose the relations between knowledge and delusion as a
principle of construction in art, philosophy, science and technology; Ó Maoilearca’s non-standard
philosophy interrogates alternate sites of thought in cinema, performance, and animality, enquiring
into cinema as an alternative site of philosophical thought and meaning; film scholars Balmain and
O’Neill study identity politics in cinematic representation, Balmain focusing on representations of
ethnicity, gender, sexuality and disability; and O’Neill researching the portrayal of youth.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2. Visconti Studio (VS) Research Group (Director: Professor van Elferen)

Founded in 2016, VS aims to facilitate the preservation and evolution of analogue music recording
and production practices at risk of obsolescence, preserving the sounds and practices of the
analogue past for the digital future. The Studio’s mission is to have an impact on scholarly and
practice-led research, creative and educational practice, and industry decision-making.
Researchers affiliated with VS use both theoretical and practice-based methodologies to study the
relationship between the analogue and the digital; interrogate cultural and technological histories
and further questions around materiality and new materialism(s). The Studio’s large acoustic space
and collection of vintage analogue equipment and instruments have attracted acclaimed
musicians, producers and engineers. Tony Visconti, acknowledged as one of the most important
producers in the history of pop and rock (having produced David Bowie, The Stranglers, U2,
Morrissey, among others), works in the Studio with staff, students and visiting artists to share his
wealth of knowledge and produce new materials. VS develops public research events, workshops
and podcasts, often with its strategic partners British Library and Science Museum. The Studio
benefitted from an initial internal investment of £100K in 2016 and operational budget of £26K
(2017-2020), and has dedicated technical and administrative support staff. Core VS researchers
are van Elferen, Kardos and Gatt. Researchers loosely affiliated with the Studio explore the
relationship between the analogue and the digital more widely, study practices of media
archaeology, research cultural nostalgia and heritage, or question media specificities and media
affordances. Those include Wilson, Chatzichristodoulou, Brown and Ben-Tal.

Van Elferen examines the acoustic, corporeal and performative dimensions of ‘timbre’, and
interrogates musical sub-cultures; Kardos develops practice research in the area of music
technologies and pedagogies; Gatt develops practice research and scholarship around site-
specific installation art and investigates issues around the preservation of electroacoustic music;
Wilson co-edits the monograph series Media Philosophy, seeking to transform thinking about
media by foregrounding their autonomy and ‘eventness’; Chatzichristodoulou explores the
relationship between analogue and digital in theatre and performance; Brown works on early
cinema, generating an archaeology of knowledge with regard to the use of technology; Ben-Tal is
a practice-researcher who applies innovative machine learning methodologies to music, exploring
the potential of artificial and biological intelligence working together in musical creation; his
research has twice attracted AHRC awards in cycle.

3. Performing Arts Community Engagement (PACE) Research Group (Director: Dr Monteiro)

Founded in 2018, PACE is a descendent of practice.research.unit and supports practice-research
with a social impact remit. PACE aims to create platforms for the visibility, self-expression and
empowerment of marginalized groups through participative, community-led research activity in the
performing arts. Researchers investigate questions around embodiment and materiality; affective,
somatic and sensory practices; participative and community practices, intersectionality, resistance
and the process of performance-making. PACE develops partnerships with local organisations
such as Rose Theatre, Kingston Libraries and Community Brain, as well as local schools, churches
and care homes. Activities have included a longstanding community choir; the Stylophone
Orchestra; dance and music workshops in cultural and community setting; and an intergenerational
Flash Mob. PACE has benefited from an investment of £225.8K in cycle (staffing and operational
costs). PACE researchers include Monteiro, Catalano, Perazzo Domm, Jarvis, Mader
McGuinness, Ballou and Linton.

Monteiro studies the intersections between race, gender, sexuality and class in popular
performance; Catalano researches the relationship between socio-political conditions and
subjective embodiment and experience; Mader McGuinness examines the politics of reception
through a feminist, queer and post-colonial lens; Perazzo Domm’s work on the body and dance
puts emphasis on questions of ethics, subjectivity and community in experimental and collaborative
choreographic processes; Jarvis develops practice-research that examines choreography and
performance as a social process; Ballou’s performative exploration of the gendered, female body

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
as reproductive material offers a situated perspective on embodiment; Linton researches the
politics of resistance, intersectionality, Critical Race theory, participatory arts and popular
performance.


c. Research Strategy

Unit strategy is informed by the University’s Strategic Plan (KU2022) and its key objectives to
foster knowledge and learning that benefits society, aligning research, knowledge exchange,
professional practice and teaching within a framework of impact.

The key strategic priorities for the Unit are: 1) Strengthen the relatively new Research Groups
Visconti Studio and PACE so that research activity is strategically developed with and through
those structures; 2) Encourage inter-/cross-disciplinary exchange through formalising
collaborations of Unit staff with other Research Centres and Groups in the Faculty and beyond,
such as CRMEP, Race/Gender Matters and Visible Institute; 3) Enhance and support bidding
activity through working with Research Centres and Groups to initiate cross-Faculty thematic
challenges and ‘bidathons’ that bring researchers together under specific themes, including Smart
Cities and Sustainability; and Art, Health and Wellbeing. 4) Guide Visconti Studio and PACE to
develop strategic partnerships and, through those, research that has evidently positive impact on
society locally, nationally and internationally.

Relocation of colleagues in Film, Drama, Dance and Music to KSA has boosted collaboration
across disciplines in the arts and humanities. More collaborative activity designed to cut across
Research Centres and Groups is intended to develop ECRs, support interdisciplinary approaches,
facilitate the sharing of skillsets and good practice, offer developmental feedback, maximise
capacity and enhance bidding. This is supported by the University’s introduction of a new, inclusive
academic careers framework, Domains, designed to support staff research, training and
development (see Institutional Environment).

The vitality of the Unit is reflected in its ECR community and the growth of its PhD programmes. Key
aims are to continue the trend of increased levels of external funding for doctoral students; and
involve all staff in PhD supervision in order to promote sustainability across the spectrum of research
interests. In our training of PhD students, the Unit will prioritize opportunities to explore collaborative
doctorates with industry partners. We have begun to explore those possibilities through Kingston’s
involvement in the TECHNE AHRC DTP, including Collaborative Doctoral Awards. In the most recent
round of applications, Brown developed a CDA with the National Science and Media Museum. Unit
staff have also contributed to and co-designed TECHNE training and exchange days, which offer
opportunities to discuss potential research collaborations with external partners.

Faculty research is led by an Associate Dean for Research, Business & Innovation (ADRBI)
(Chatzichristodoulou), who has oversight for the 4 Units of Assessment in KSA (27, 30, 32, 33).
The Faculty embarked on a review of its research environment in 2020-21, underway at time of
submission, which involves extensive consultation with internal and external stakeholders. The
purpose is to develop a sustainable, outward-facing and inclusive research community that is
embedded in its local and wider societal context, and which works with strategic partners to
respond to and address local, national and global challenges (for example, the decimation of
creative industries in RBK as a result of Covid-19; the use of performance and live arts for
community cohesion, health and wellbeing agendas).


d. Impact Strategy

In line with university strategy, the Unit endeavours to increase and deepen research and impact in
areas of distinctive strength and potential, strengthening partnerships, ensuring effectively
designed pathways to impact, training and mentoring staff in impact and its evaluation, ensuring
good evidence capture through use of impact tracking software, and placing added emphasis on

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
open research. Training is also provided on disseminating research through public media and on
making policy impact.

The Unit has established, long-standing partnerships with cultural centres of national and
international importance, such as the BFI, ICA and Science Museum; and with local, RBK-based
institutions Rose Theatre, Kingston Museum and Kingston Libraries. Those partnerships are
designed to deliver impact in different ways: working with high-profile national organisations
guarantees that our research reaches a wide audience base, impacting the cultural life of the
country; working with local partners guarantees significance and depth of engagement through the
University’s long-term commitment to improve the lives of people in our community. While our
partnerships with local institutions such as schools, prisons and faith organisations help Kingston
University deliver on its responsibilities as a modern civic University, the knowledge and solutions
developed are often transferable and can benefit individuals, communities and institutions beyond
RBK. KSA has strategically invested in groups and facilities such as PACE and Visconti Studio that
have an explicit aim to generate new knowledge through working with communities, and impact
professional practices through knowledge exchange with industry. Beyond the researchers
involved in these activities, beneficiaries include a range of individuals and communities e.g.
primary school children and residents of care homes that PACE works with; young creatives
benefitting from the Archives for Education project (O’Sullivan ICSUoA33O'Sullivan2); industry
partners, such as Olympic Studios, working with the Visconti Studio; and wider audience
communities (for example, those who attended BFI’s Philosophical Screenings (Ó Maoilearca
ICSUoA33OMaoilearca1).

The Unit focuses its attention on targeted areas in order to maximise the benefits of its research to
society:
    • Civic Engagement and Benefits to Communities
    • Creative Economy and Benefits to Industry
    • Evaluation, Influencing Policy and Strategy Development


Civic Engagement and Benefits to Communities
Researchers in the Unit engage public groups in the development and delivery of their research,
seeking to ground research within societal need, sharpen research questions, collaborate in
participatory, community-led practices, and effectively share and disseminate research outputs and
findings.


The main driver of this impact strand is PACE. In 2018-2020 PACE delivered 48 civic engagement
and research projects, reaching live audiences of over 4,875. PACE delivers on KU’s ambition of
being an outward facing, engaged civic University. Its activities include research-driven music and
dance workshops and performances for community groups; a longstanding community choir and
the monthly Jazz First Tuesdays – both co-produced and hosted at Rose Theatre; the Stylophone
Orchestra; and an intergenerational Flash Mob. PACE’s objectives are to: 1) strengthen the
relationship between practice research and civic engagement activity; 2) be socially responsive,
intervening in specific, identified problems or needs; 3) develop collaborative practice-research that
directly benefits the communities involved.


Creative Economy and Benefits to Industry
Researchers in the Unit aim to influence industry practices, achieving economic impact on the
creative industries (with a focus on the music industry). Their approach is to focus on uses of
technology and media so as to influence established industry practices; and to identify drivers of
innovation in industry practices and model scale-up approaches.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The main driver for this impact strand is the Visconti Studio. The resource features a 300m2 live
room, stocked with a range of instruments and tracking facilities, including vintage and rare
recording equipment. The partnership with influential music producer Tony Visconti opens up a
wealth of knowledge and professional networks not only to KU students and researchers but also
to local and visiting artists. VS has its own recording label, Acid Grass Records. Aiming to revive
and preserve analogue practices so as to propel them into the digital era, VS aspires to impact the
music industry by bringing together analogue equipment, practices and histories with digital
technology – such as Ben-Tal’s practice-research compositions created with the use of machine
learning technologies. Established industry partners include Olympic Studios and Trident Audio.
Other impacts on industry are evidenced through extant ICSs in this Unit: The Archives for
Education project (ICSUoA33O'Sullivan2) convinced the BFI, BBC Archive Editorial, Irish Film
Institute, Northern Ireland Screen and London Community Video Archive to make available over
200 films to young filmmakers for creative reuse. The Philosophical Screenings project
(ICSUoA33OMaoilearca1) convinced BFI to consider the place of films that deal with philosophical
questions in a specifically cinematic mode in its programming.


Evaluation, Influencing Policy and Strategy Development
Researchers in the Unit aim to influence policy and engage with strategy development in areas
linked to their disciplinary expertise, often through engaging in the process of evaluation of
creative, cultural and industry activity, which can lead to impactful changes in organisational
strategies.


Chatzichristodoulou led on the evaluation of the first phase of the project ELEVATE delivered by
Lambeth Council (2019-2020), which aims to open up the creative and cultural industries to every
young person in the Borough. To achieve this, Chatzichristodoulou with Lambeth Council
developed a Theory of Change model that specified intervention in a range of different spheres of
local governance, including education (primary to HE), employment practices in the creative
industry sector, access to Council-owned or managed co-working spaces, as well as financial
support, mentorship and access to resources for a range of diverse, grassroots cultural
organisations. Evaluating phase one of ELEVATE was instrumental in shaping the design and
delivery of this long-term, ambitious project, by examining the Council’s established organisational
strategies and identifying opportunities for impactful intervention. The process influenced Lambeth
Council’s skills and employment strategy for the arts and creative industries sector, among other
strategies. Chatzichristodoulou transferred this expertise to Kingston, working with Kingston
Libraries to evaluate its ‘asset-based’ community storytelling programme and develop a toolkit for
good practice, informing Kingston Libraries’ outreach strategy.

The Taking Care project (ICSUoA33Mermikides3), led by former staff member Mermikides, drew
on insights from performance practice to offer new conceptualisations of the roles of the ‘patient’
and the ‘healthcare professional’, as well as on the embodied and emotional aspects of healthcare
encounters. Mermikides’ research has shaped the nursing profession’s strategic responses to a
gap in training identified by the WHO, through her involvement with an APPG and a new sector-
wide policy Working Group. The research has also informed changes to nursing studies pedagogy
and curricula across 12 UK HEIs. Further research on Art and Design practices for Wellbeing and
Healthcare is being developed across KSA, working in partnership with the Faculty of Health,
Social Care and Education.

 2. People

a. Staff

   a.i) Appointments

Since 2014 the Unit’s strategy for staffing and staff development has been delivered through: a)
rewarding staff on academic performance; b) recruiting new staff in strategic areas; c) enhanced

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research mentoring; and d) increased engagement with external partners and communities to
enhance research impact. In line with the Academic Careers Development Framework, staff are
supported to develop their skills and experience as researchers through training, appraisal and
mentoring opportunities. Experienced staff are encouraged to act as mentors, advise on grant
development and project oversight. Centres and Groups support staff to increase the quality of
research output through peer review.

13 members of staff have been appointed to the Unit in cycle. This includes 1 professorial
appointment and 6 current ECR appointments. Strategic appointments have included: Ballou,
Jarvis, Catalano and Monteiro, whose practice research on somatic, body-based, popular and
community-based practices has shaped PACE; Mader MacGuinness and Perazzo Domm whose
research on performance and sociality, subjectivity and community provides the theoretical
framework for PACE; Kardos and Gatt whose practice research and professional practice in music
technology has informed Visconti Studio; Chatzichristodoulou, whose work with Lambeth and
Kingston Councils impacts on local government strategy and policy agendas; Balmain and
Gonzalez-Lopez whose research has enriched VMCRC’s interests around Korean and Japanese
cinema cultures. The Unit supports 3 Emeritus Professors (Ian Brown, Colin Chambers, Richard
Wilson) and hosts visiting researchers from international institutions in Japan, South Korea, USA
and Canada.

Strategies for staff development are informed by the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers, which KU is a signatory of. The Concordat Action Plan specifies
systematic research mentorship structures, open contracts for research staff, and an increased
allocation of staff development time for researchers. Kingston University’s commitment to research
was recognised with an EU HR Excellence in Research award (2016). Staff benefit from courses
offered by the University’s Graduate School (with a focus on ECRs) on subject matters such as
ethics, PGR supervision, impact, research integrity, open access research, preparation of outputs,
attracting research funding and managing research grants. New staff further benefit by 1:1 support
from School Directors of RBI (SDRBI), who advise on research plans, and are invited to join
Research Centres and Groups as part of their introduction to the Unit. Development needs and
opportunities are discussed at appraisal. These processes feed into collective development of
research priorities, identification of shared research needs and judicious allocation of
administrative roles and other aspects of workload.

Supporting the career development of ECRs is central to the Unit’s staffing strategy. Particular
attention is paid to ensuring ECRs set clear research targets with mentors and receive detailed
guidance on achieving their goals. 5 of the 6 ECRs employed to the Unit in cycle were appointed
on permanent contracts, getting support to develop their careers through long term strategic plans.
The 1 post-doctoral appointment to VMCRC on a fixed term contract (Gonzalez-Lopez) was
supported to apply for a post-doctoral fellowship by the Japanese Society for the Promotion of
Science (awarded 2020).

  a.ii) Staff Development

Unit researchers are supported by initiatives aimed to develop research and impact. These include
internal competitive research funding, which allocated approx. £70K of QR funds to researchers in
the REF cycle to support activities such as travel to archives, conferences, fieldwork, and costs of
developing collaborative projects with external partners. This seed funding informed the
development of external funding applications, outputs and impact, including successful: ACE
award that led to an ICS (former staff Mermikides, 2016); AHRC award (Ben-Tal, 2017). A
sabbatical scheme has also been operating across the Unit with 10 members of staff benefiting in
cycle (Brown, Brooker, Reid, van Elferen, Perazzo Domm, Ben-Tal, Ó Maoilearca, Wilson,
Quinlivan, Minors).

A researcher development programme offered at Institutional, Faculty and School levels, includes
the bi-annual University Festival of Research (established 2015), as well as School and Faculty-
level research away days. Schools offer monthly or bi-weekly research seminar series open to staff

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and PGR students, and Research Centres and Groups plan their own research events. The
Faculty plans strategic research activity such as targeted research training sessions (e.g. around
specific funding schemes; on practice-research; leadership training) and other events of broad
interest, or which cross disciplinary boundaries to facilitate exchange between Schools, Centres
and Groups. The University’s June-July 2020 Festival of Research programme, delivered online
due to Covid-19, was driven by key areas of current and future strategy, exploring issues of
interdisciplinarity, gender, and equality, diversity and inclusivity.

11 members of staff have achieved promotion within cycle, which represents 39% of researchers in
the Unit (1 of those achieved promotion to Professorship: Reid).


b. Postgraduate Research Students

Significant developments in the area of PGR supervision and training have occurred in this new
Unit as part of the Faculty’s strategic drive to develop and expand PGR activity. These
developments can largely be attributed to the University’s participation in the AHRC Doctoral
Training Partnership (TECHNE), and also through competitively awarded University-funded
studentships. Our PGR community and supervisors are supported by Postgraduate Research
Coordinators in each of KSA’s 4 schools (Mader McGuinness, Perazzo Domm, Ben-Tal and
Brown for this Unit) as well as a Faculty-wide Director of Postgraduate Studies (Lloyd). The
majority of PGR students are affiliated with Research Centres or Groups and all benefit by
being part of a supportive research community, as well as by targeted research activity, aligned
to their research interests.

  b.i) Recruitment

Of the enrolled PhD students, 11 (29%) have funded studentships, with 7 AHRC TECHNE awards
(including one National Productivity Investment Fund studentship with Microsoft) and 5
competitively won Kingston University awards. The TECHNE awards represent £290,015 of AHRC
awards (including fees, but excluding university matched funding); ‘services’ income amounts to
£215,179 in the period. The KU Studentships are worth £219,787.

AHRC-funded students benefit from funded specialist training and research visits, as well as a
range of TECHNE training days and joined research events. All other students receive Faculty
support to undertake research visits and/or conference presentations. When possible, PGRs are
offered hourly paid teaching or research assistantships that provide valuable early professional
experience. Staff in the Unit are part of the wider TECHNE culture, contributing to training events
with other institutions in the consortium (recent TECHNE training events have been co-organised
by Mader McGuinness and Perazzo Domm).

  b.ii) Student Training

PGRs undertake a mandatory research training programme in research methods, ethics, skills
and planning, and present their research-in-progress in cross-Faculty monthly workshops
(organised by Faculty Director of PGR) and School monthly workshops (organised by School
PGR Coordinators). Additionally, Research Centres and Groups run tailored programmes of
lectures, seminars and workshops. VMCRC students participate in regular work-in-progress
workshops and Centre events, including annual international conferences and symposia, and
PGR conference workshops. PGRs are required to present their research to their peers at the
time of their Upgrade Panel. The Unit encourages cross-Centre and Group attendance.

The Unit’s strategy has created cross-institutional PGR training opportunities at national and
international level in the REF period. This includes the twice-yearly TECHNE Congresses and
regular TECHNE workshops. KSA hosted the TECHNE Congress ‘The Sound of Research’ in
June 2016. Career preparation is part of Faculty-wide and Centre-based skills training
programmes. PGRs are encouraged (and funded) to present their research in public arenas

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
through conferences/symposia, performances, festivals and publications. Since 2014, PGRs
have presented their research at over 80 national/international events.


c. Equality and Diversity

The Unit promotes equality and diversity through our selection and interview practices (diverse
selection panels, staff involved in recruitment processes undertake obligatory unconscious bias
training); and through actively pursuing research which engages with communities (PACE) and
studies questions of difference in culture, ethnicity, nationality, class, sexuality and gender (Mader
McGuinness, Perazzo Domm, Jarvis, Monteiro, Reid, Linton, Balmain, Quinlivan). The Unit
adheres to the University’s ‘One Kingston’ strategy for equality, diversity and inclusion.

Kingston University holds a Race Charter Award and an Athena Swan bronze award, and KSA is
in the process of developing an Athena SWAN award. The University’s Beyond Barriers mentoring
scheme ensures all staff and students have the best possible chance to succeed and progress
against equality objectives, and Unit researchers have engaged with the Scheme as mentors and
mentees. Unit researchers are also members of the KU-wide Network of Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion (EDI) Champions and staff undertake unconscious bias training, including in relation to
peer review of research.

The Unit is composed of 16 (57%) female and 12 (43%) male staff. There is an even gender split
between Professors in the Unit with 3 female and 3 male Professors. There are 2 female and 1
male Associate Professors.

23 (82%) of the staff base are White and 4 (14%) are BME (1 did not disclose). 4 members of staff
(14%) have a declared disability. Nationally, 5.3% of performing arts and music academic staff self-
identify as BME and 6.7% have a declared disability (Advance HE, 2020). In comparison to
professional sector average, figures for the National Portfolio workforce show a BME
representation of 11% and 6% of staff with declared disability (ACE, 2018-19). The age of staff in
the Unit ranges from 31 to 60, with almost equal breakdown between the decades. 8% of staff are
LGBTQ+ but this is inconclusive as 56% of staff have not declared their sexual orientation.

A post-doctoral researcher appointed in the Unit (Gonzalez-Lopez) focused on non-Western
practices and processes of decolonising research. ECR needs have been considered in HR policy
and support programmes, which includes a BME leadership programme. A Faculty ECR
Representative (Jarvis) advocates for ECR needs on Research Committees. Recognising that
continued efforts are required to engage and advance all staff in this area, the Unit has included
research EDI workshops and talks as part of the research programme, including an event
organised for the Faculty’s 2020 Festival of Research programme on gender in arts and
humanities research, and a research leadership session for female global majority researchers.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

a. Income

Mainstream research income in the period totalled £219,984 (£9,286 per FTE). This was generated
from a combination of ongoing and new awards. Research income included £92,293 from EU
Horizon 2020, £91,194 from AHRC, and from various funders including ACE, GB Sasakawa
Foundation, and Creativeworks London. New awards during the period totalled a headline value of
£179,100, with additional services research income of £215,179 for research student training.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Table 1. Summary/Notable new awards in this period

                                                                                 KU Headline
 Staff            Funders                    Title
                                                                                 Award Value
 Colman           Horizon2020 (2017)         Ethics of Coding (lead for             €106,489
 (former staff)                              consortium of 4 Universities)
 Ben-Tal          AHRC (2016)                Data Science for the study of             £15,782
                                             calypso-rhythm through history
 Ben-Tal          AHRC (2017)                Engaging Three User                       £40,027
                                             Communities with Applications
                                             and Outcomes of Computational
                                             Music Creativity
 Mermikides       Arts Council England       Careful – Performance for Care            £14,531
 (former staff)   (2016)
 Pratt;           Creativeworks London;      various                                   £26,180
 Gonzalez-        GB Sasakawa
 Lopez;           Foundation; Japan
 former staff     Foundation; AHRC


Procedures are put in place to improve on those successes by increasing the number and quality
of funding applications submitted. The Domains academic careers development framework offers
clarity to researchers about performance criteria and expectations; a research planning process
was introduced to guide researchers towards building confidence and skill in incremental steps;
financial support for developing funding bids and networks is made available to staff through the
KSA research support fund; mentoring schemes support ECRs to develop research objectives
around bidding, and mid-career colleagues refocus their career trajectories; a ‘bidding buddy’ pilot
matches staff with experience in bidding activity with junior colleagues or those who have not
engaged with bidding previously. Other support includes the institution’s peer review college, which
ensures each funding application is peer reviewed by two experienced members of staff; and
annual Unit and Institution level training around bidding, which includes: Faculty and University
‘Bidathons’, regular presentations of staff research, workshops led by RBI and research leaders,
sessions in KE and Knowledge Transfer Partnerships. By mobilising those initiatives and
mechanisms the Unit aims to increase and diversify its research income in order to present a
resilient research environment going forward.


b. Infrastructure and Facilities

KSA has established an overarching, faculty-wide operational infrastructure designed to support
research activity and develop an integrated approach to research, learning and teaching,
enterprise and business. Research in the faculty is led by the Associate Dean for Research,
Business and Innovation (Chatzichristodoulou). The Unit benefits from a supportive and well-
resourced environment for research including Faculty-facing Research, Business and Impact
Development Managers from within the University Research, Business and Innovation Office
(RBI). They assist staff in identifying opportunities for external funding, developing grant
applications, identifying external partners, designing pathways to impact, as well as evidencing and
evaluating impact. RBI coordinates a structured process of internal peer review of applications.
Internal support ranges from research group and departmental mentoring, peer review and faculty-
level training, such as grant-writing workshops which enable staff to devote concentrated effort
toward completing funding applications. The University Research, Business and Innovation Office
assists staff in preparing the budgetary aspects of research funding applications, with dedicated
support for staff at Faculty level.

School Directors for Research, Business and Innovation (SDRBI) work closely with the ADRBI,
Heads of Schools and Departments. Their roles and responsibilities include: facilitating individual
                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and collaborative research; mentoring staff; annual monitoring of School research activity;
supporting grant development; developing and implementing Faculty research strategy, organising
School-level research events and initiatives, liaising with Research Centres, Groups; collaborating
with PGR Coordinators on PhD student support; and supporting ECRs. SDRBIs report to both the
ADRBI and their Head of School. PGR Coordinators and SDRBIs are part of School Management
Groups, facilitating support for research activity and enabling joined-up staff and student research
initiatives, such as School research seminar series and staff development events.

The ADRBI and SDRBIs team hold regular informal meetings and a formal fortnightly meeting, the
RBI Working Group; and participate in the termly FRBIC together with Research Centre and Group
directors, Faculty PGR Director (Lloyd), Faculty Research Ethics Lead (Lueder), Faculty ECR
representative (Jarvis), RBI representatives and a Learning & Library services representative.
These meetings drive the Faculty and Unit research strategy and provide strategic oversight of
research activity and local management of research grant development, research ethics, impact,
and partnership development.

Research infrastructure includes a KSA College of Research Ethics, which reports to the University
Research Ethics Committee. The implementation of the Domains framework means all researchers
with a Research Domain of 30% or more are being added to the College, with mandatory research
ethics training. From 2020 Epigeum research ethics training was made available to all staff in the
Unit.

    b.i) Resources and Facilities

KSA has a resource-rich environment which supports and informs research activity, enhances
impact, and provides a public platform for research dissemination and engagement. Resources
and facilities consist of: centrally managed specialist dance and drama studios and workshop
facilities open to all staff and students; a central library which is in the process of being moved to
the University’s flagship Town House building; University learning resource centres and special
collections; lecture theatres, seminar, symposia and exhibition spaces.

Key to KSA’s development in this REF period has been:

    •   The Mill Street building on the Knights Park campus. Designed by Stirling Prize-winning
        architects Haworth Tompkins, and with 4100m2 of studios and 4300m2 of workshops, the
        building opened in 2019-20 thanks to £32 million university investment. It includes
        workshops, post-production and animation suites, digital media labs and editing suites,
        photography suite and specialist 3D workshops.
    •   Since 2014, £500,000 of new equipment has been added to the audio-visual loans store.
    •   All workshops receive continuous investment year on year, such as a large format Digital
        Fabric printer for the 3D workshop. A Hack Space workshop for creative coding and
        programming was established in 2016.
    •   The opening of the Town House on the Penrhyn Road campus in 2020, designed by RIBA
        2020 Gold Medal winners Grafton Architects, signals a new chapter in cross-disciplinary
        collaboration and opportunities for dissemination, engagement and impact. The building
        contains auditoria, a modern Learning Resources Centre across several floors, numerous
        group and quiet study spaces, a green room, event spaces, and state of the art
        performance studios. The Town House also features three large dance studios, each
        equipped to professional standard with fully sprung floors, mirrors and barres. Dance
        studios have been designed to be sub-dividable, so six smaller dance studios can be
        created for group rehearsal and independent research-practice. Adjacent to the dance
        studios are well-specified changing rooms and shower facilities.

Other University facilities of great value to the Unit are:




                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Stanley Picker Gallery

The Stanley Picker Gallery at KU works with artists, students, academics and members of the local
community to encourage creativity, learning, research and innovation. Established in 1997 with the
ongoing support of the Stanley Picker Trust, the Gallery forms part of ACE’s National Portfolio and
is a principal cultural interface between KU and its civic communities in South-West London and
beyond. The venue generates a dynamic programme of exhibitions, live events and participation
activities. The Stanley Picker Fellowships in Art and Design support a diversity of contemporary
practitioners to research, create and premiere new work, deliver talks and events and feed into the
University’s research culture. The Gallery’s participation programme involves working with schools,
colleges, community groups and local residents to deliver creative activities. The Gallery also
works with KSA and the ICA on the Stanley Picker Lecture series, fostering dialogue between
researchers and the public.

   •   Dorich House Museum

Dorich House Museum (DHM) is the Grade 2 listed, restored 1930s studio-home of Estonian
sculptor Dora Gordine (1895-1991) and her husband Richard Hare (1907-1966), and comprises
the major international collection of Gordine’s work, Russian art and design, an archive, and the
building itself, which is open to the public. DHM also provides a venue for academic conferences
and research events with partners including the Daiwa Foundation, GRAD and the Lithuanian
Cultural Institute. DHM launched a Fellowship Scheme (ACE-funded) in 2015 and runs an annual
summer studio residency for women artists. It hosts an annual research symposium; unit staff
Brooker and Ó Maoilearca contributed to the 2018 Symposium Interiors: Stage and Screen.

   •   Rose Theatre

Though not a University resource, Kingston’s Rose Theatre has a long-term close relationship with
the University and Unit. Founded by Sir Peter Hall, Rose Theatre is the largest producing theatre in
South West London. Unit staff benefit from access to Rose Studio for the delivery of practice-
research and professional practice; input into its programming and policy; and consult on its
community engagement and outreach activity. Unit researcher Reid is a Rose Theatre Trustee.
The Theatre has a close partnership with PACE, co-producing and hosting a range of practice-
research and civic engagement activities for the benefit of local and wider communities. This
collaborative approach, drawing on the research of a range of Unit staff (Reid, Monteiro, Jarvis,
Catalano, Linton), highlights the Unit’s research impact on the Rose and, through the Rose, into
the community, influencing programme choice and delivery while promoting public awareness and
debate on larger social and cultural issues.


c. Open Access

The Unit is fully committed to open access research, in line with the University’s ‘green’ access
funded route, supplemented by additional funding available for gold access. All staff are required to
upload journal articles, book chapters and practice-research presentations to the University’s
research repository in a timely manner. Researchers are supported by dedicated repository staff
and are actively encouraged to submit open research data to the University’s data repository. The
data repository secures open research data, allowing for its preservation, publication and potential
reuse as appropriate. Unit staff regularly disseminate their research at public events which are free
and open to the public and are advertised on the University website and through social media. A
repository of recorded public lectures is linked to Backdoor Broadcasting’s free archive of lectures,
talks and symposia organised by members of the Unit, which are available as free podcasts.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

a. Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

KSA has formal partnership agreements with Rose Theatre and ICA and is a member of CHEAD,
ELIA, SCUDD, The Culture Capital Exchange and Creative Industries Federation. It mobilises
these partnerships for activities including: research development and dissemination, the
development of research strategy, researcher development and training, audience engagement
and to maximise pathways to impact.

Unit researchers are active in forming, maintaining and maximising individual and institutional
collaborations, networks and partnerships and work closely with over 90 national and international
academic and cultural stakeholders including:

   •   Cultural Institutions: BFI, Wilkinson Gallery, Artangel, V&A, Frieze Art Fair, Centre culturel
       international de Cerisy-La-Salle, Natural History Museum, Science Museum, Kingston
       Libraries, Kingston Museum, British Library, Whitechapel Gallery, Live Art Development
       Agency, Rose Theatre, Serpentine Galleries, Wallace Collection, Freud Museum.
   •   Research Organisations: Theatre and Performance Research Association,
       International Federation for Theatre Research, Pop Moves, London Society of the New
       Lacanian School, Society of Dance Research, Digital Research in the Humanities and Arts.
   •   Academic Institutions: University of Paris VIII, University of the Arts London, University of
       London colleges Birkbeck, Goldsmiths and Queen Mary, Aalborg University, Collège
       international de philosophie, Georgia Institute of Technology.

VMCRC has developed a relationship with Kingston Museum, leading to the Museum offering its
unique Muybridge collection to be hosted and displayed at the University’s new Town House
building, so as to make it publicly available for researchers.

Dorich House Museum is a member of several networks including West London Museums Group,
Artists’ Studio Museum Network and Iconic Houses Network.

Community collaborations and partnerships are a notable area of activity with PACE researchers
organising community events with Rose Theatre, Kingston Chamber Orchestra, Sherwood Grange
Care Home, Kingston Inter Faith Forum, Community Brain, St John’s primary school, Holocaust
Memorial Day Trust, Facades Wimbledon International Music Festival, Edinburgh Fringe Festival,
Colour Strings Music School, and more.

Industry relationships are also a growing area, including:

   •   Wilson’s collaboration with Microsoft, investigating the corporate diagnosis and
       employment of adults with ‘high functioning autism’ in the company. This grounded
       research project will have wider implications for the employment practices of autistic adults.
   •   Visconti Studio’s established industry networks through Tony Visconti and the research and
       KE activity of Unit staff van Elferen, Kardos and Gatt.

Nurturing, deepening and expanding these collaborations and partnerships so as to achieve
maximum benefit to communities, industry, researchers and the University, is a key part of the
Unit’s research strategy.


b. Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society

Unit researchers make significant contribution to the advancement and sharing of knowledge in the
sector, performing citizenship roles on research councils, grant awarding bodies, disciplinary



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
societies, peer review, journal advisory and editorial boards, and through keynote addresses,
conference contributions and the presentation of practice research.

   b.i) Research Organisations

Staff in the Unit contribute to the research base via their engagement with and leadership of
national and international research organisations: Reid was Conference Officer (2013-2015) and
Treasurer (2015-2018) of the Theatre and Performance Research Association (TaPRA); she is co-
convenor of the Political Performances Working Group for the International Federation for Theatre
Research (IFTR) since 2018; Ó Maoilearca is Co-ordinator of the BFI film and talk series
Philosophical Screens (2012–); Monteiro is Executive Committee member for the Society of
Dance Research and Committee Member of Pop Moves - International Research Group for
Performances of the Popular; Wilson sits on the scientific committee of the Scuola di
Musicoterapia Psicoanalitica; Quinlivan is Resident Expert in Film and Visual Culture at the Freud
Museum; Chatzichristodoulou was co-convenor of the Performance and Technologies Working
Group for TaPRA (2014-2017) and sits on the steering committee of the Digital Research in the
Humanities and Arts (DRHA) conference; She co-curated the annual, ACE-funded Digital
Performance Weekender at Watermans Art Centre (2015-2017); van Elferen was elected First
Vice-President of the International Association for the Fantastic in the Arts, leads the international
network Music and Materialisms and sits on the Advisory Panel of the €6.1m EC-funded British
Library project Europeana Sound.

   b.ii) Research Councils

Unit researchers serve as panel members and peer reviewers for UK and international research
councils, including: Reid’s appointment to the Steering Group of the AHRC Leadership Fellowship
scheme (2019–); Ó Maoilearca’s membership of the AHRC Peer Review College (2007-2015);
Ben-Tal’s appointment as peer reviewer for the European Science Foundation (2012-2019) and
European Research Council (2019–); Chatzichristodoulou’s appointment as peer reviewer for
FNRS - Fund for Scientific Research, Belgium (2019–); Perazzo Domm’s appointment as peer
reviewer to DAAD (German Academic Exchange Service) (2017–), and membership of the
TECHNE/AHRC Peer Review College (2019–).

    b.iii) Journal and Publisher Editorial and Advisory Boards

Unit researchers are engaged in leadership and contributory roles for journals; these include
leadership roles for peer reviewed journals significant in their discipline. 4 researchers are or have
been journal editors or co-editors: Wilson is co-editor of The Journal for Cultural Research;
Chatzichristodoulou is Editor-in-Chief of the International Journal of Performance Arts and Digital
Media; van Elferen is Editor of The Soundtrack and Gothic and Horror Media Cultures; Brooker
was Editor of the Cinema Journal (2013-2018). Other Unit researchers serve on advisory and
editorial boards for over 15 refereed journals, including Angelaki, Contemporary Theatre Review
and Cinema. Researchers also serve in advisory roles for book series including Media Philosophy
(Rowman & Littlefield), Thinking Cinema (Bloomsbury Academic) and Elements in Theatre,
Performance and the Political (Cambridge University Press); and review widely for over 15
refereed journals and academic presses including Oxford University Press, University of Edinburgh
Press, Bloomsbury, Routledge, Palgrave-Macmillan, Chicago University Press, Polity Press and
Stanford University Press, among others.

    b.iv) Conferences, Keynotes and Talks

Staff regularly present their work at international conferences and have been invited to deliver
keynote addresses at several institutions including: Nanyang Technological University Singapore,
Trinity College Dublin (Chatzichristodoulou); Turin University, Universidad de las Américas
Puebla Mexico and Cambridge University (van Elferen); University of Edinburgh (Quinlivan);
Cambridge University (Kardos). Unit researchers have presented their research as guest speakers


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
internationally, in the UK, France, Finland, Turkey, Canada, Belgium, Greece, USA, Denmark,
Germany, Japan, China, South Korea, and more.

Staff organise and chair international conferences and public talks: Ó Maoilearca was Director of
the Organising Committee for the conference on François Laruelle at Cerisy-La-Salle, France
(2014); he organised The Expanded Analogue conference with the Wilkinson Gallery (2017) and
talks for Artangel (2014) and HowtheLightGetsIn Festival (2014). Wilson collaborates with the
Department of Psychoanalysis in Paris VIII, the London Society of the New Lacanian School and
Central St Martins to organise research events on Lacanian psychoanalysis; Chatzichristodoulou
co-chaired the ‘No Way Out: Theatre and Mediatisation’ TaPRA Interim Symposium at Birkbeck
and London South Bank University (2017), and organised symposia at Watermans Art Centre
(2014-2017) and the V&A as part of the Digital Design Festival (2019); Perazzo Domm was lead
organiser of Choreographic Forum 2020, hosted by the Society for Dance Research and The Place
Theatre, London.

  b.v) Practice Research

Practice-research by Sudar, Catalano, O’Sullivan, Jarvis, Gatt and Ben-Tal has been performed
or screened in over 21 countries including: Japan, USA, Canada, Ireland, Germany, France,
Greece, Spain, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, China, Lebanon, Russia, Sweden, Bulgaria, Serbia,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, North Macedonia, and Montenegro. Ballou’s practice-research
has been streamed online in over 50 countries.

  b.vi) Media Presence

Unit researchers have attracted international media attention for their research: Brooker’s
research on David Bowie has attracted global media interest; he was interviewed by German,
Swedish, US, UK, Spanish, Canadian, Iranian, Russian, Portuguese, New Zealand, Australian,
Chinese, Austrian and Dutch media, and was expert consultant and interviewee for ITV, BBC,
DRG television, Sky TV, The Independent, Esquire, The Telegraph, Radio Times, Slate, and the
New Statesman. Ó Maoilearca was consultant for BBC Radio 4 series ‘Natural Histories’ (2015),
appearing on three episodes and the BBC website. Ben-Tal’s music machine-learning AHRC
project (2017) received media attention including on BBC radio, an interview on French TV, and
references in the Daily Mail, The Independent, Guardian, and the Irish Times. Minors hosted a
weekly music show, and an audio book show, on Hospital Radio, Radio Wey from March 2020
onwards. O’Sullivan is a regular contributor to the Washington Post and has been interviewed
about his research on BBC, CNN, NHK, Al Jazeera and Russia Today. The Visconti Studio has
featured in mainstream media on many occasions, including an interview with Tony Visconti about
the Studio on BBC Radio 6 (2016); the Sky Arts TV series “Tony Visconti’s Unsigned Heroes”
filmed in VS and broadcast worldwide (2017); and interview with Ralph McTell on BBC television
talking about his recording at VS (2020).




                                                                                        Page 16
