Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Worcester

 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure

 The University made its first submission to Art and Design in REF2014. Since that submission,
 the unit has grown in concert with an expansion in its undergraduate and postgraduate
 programmes. The unit sits within a relatively new organisational structure. As part of an
 institutional restructure in 2018 (REF5a 1.1.5), its former home, the multi-disciplinary Institute of
 Humanities and Creative Arts (IHCA) was split into the School of Arts (SoA) and the School of
 Humanities (SoH), and was joined with the School of Education (SoE) into one of three
 University Colleges, each with a newly created role of College Director of Research and
 Knowledge Exchange taking responsibility for overarching research leadership.

 Staff in the unit are primarily located in the Department of Art and Design Communication in the
 School of Arts, with one staff member in the Department of Film and Media production. Other
 staff in the School are returned to UoA33. Out of 16 (11.1FTE) Category A eligible staff in the
 unit (11.1 FTE), 11 (7.3 FTE) are being submitted with significant responsibility for research
 (Cussans, Davies, Fowler, Galpin, Gamble, Gubb, Hazel, Hickey, Mathews, McCannon, Pitt).
 This in a significant increase on the 6 staff (5.3 FTE) submitted in REF2014. Outputs in this
 submission evidence both academic and scholarly writing and practice-as-research
 submissions, all mainly focused on the subject areas of Fine Art, Creative Media and Illustration.

 The introduction of the University’s new college structure in 2018/2019 has benefited research in
 Art and Design through the enhancement of strategic research leadership at College level. The
 appointment in 2020 of a College Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange (Paul
 Newland), with expertise in practice as research, has enhanced the research environment by
 providing more specialist leadership alongside streamlined administrative structures to support
 staff research. At School-level, there are two research coordinators; one for Art and Design
 (McCannon) and one for Drama, Theatre and Film (Professor Claire Cochrane – UoA33). The
 two work closely together with the College Director RKE (Newland) to support the development
 of all research including practice as research.

 There are several research clusters and networks in the unit, some well-developed and others
 emerging, reflecting many shared interests:
    • The International Centre for the Picture Book in Society was established in 2015. It draws
        together staff in illustration (Davies, Hickey, Fowler, McCannon) with external partners
        with a focus on the making and study of the picture book in its broadest sense (children’s
        books, comics, hand-made books, zines and educational books, e-books, graphic
        novels). Its interests extend to engage with ‘society’ in its broadest terms by promoting
        multiculturalism, with a particular focus on inclusivity of minorities and socially
        disenfranchised people. The Centre seeks to create an awareness in the UK of
        international picture book making outside of the Anglophone environment, and to provide
        a platform to promote and showcase picture books. Its key collaborations are with the
        Dutch publisher, Lemniscaat, and the International Board on Books for Young People.
        The Centre acts a focus for international events such as book launches and exhibitions
        (e.g. it hosted the ‘Made by Hand’ picture book launch and exhibition at the University’s
        Hive (REF5a 4.2), displaying the work of Tara Books, an independent publisher based in
        Chennai, India) and international illustration competitions.
    • The School has hosted the international Illustration Research Network and the
        associated Journal of Illustration (edited by McCannon) since 2018. The network
        promotes the cultural relevance and historical importance of illustration and is closely
        aligned with the International Centre for the Picture Book.


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Staff in the unit are members of the interdisciplinary, cross-University Visual Research
        Methods group (chaired by Newland), which also draws membership from Psychology,
        Nursing, Education, and Humanities. The group is particularly focused on how visual
        methods, such as auto-photography and photo elicitation, can be used in mental health
        research. The University has funded a PhD studentship between Psychology and Arts
        (Hazell) focused on the use of photovoice.
    •   Staff in the unit have been involved in another cross-university, interdisciplinary initiative
        focused on mental health. The University’s Association for Dementia Studies has run a
        Doctoral Training Centre in partnership with the University of Nottingham, funded by the
        Alzheimer’s Society, focused on Arts and Dementia since 2015. The DTC sets out to
        create a methodology for arts interventions, recognising the factors that make an
        effective and sustainable arts interventions, including the fundamental role of arts
        practitioners.
    •   A new research grouping (led by Cussans) focused on folklore and eco-criticism is
        emerging in the unit, reflecting close links with the Green Voices Research Group (UoA
        27) located in the School of Humanities. This group is focused on narratives of magic,
        folk rituals and haunted landscapes and will foster interdisciplinary debate around
        experimental practice as research. The nascent group has contributed to a special
        edition of the journal Green Letters, forthcoming in Spring 2021.

 Research and Impact Strategy

 Unit’s strategic research objectives during the assessment period

 In its 2014 submission, the unit articulated an overarching objective to develop a sustainable
 community of researchers, practice-led researchers and PGRs. This would be achieved through:
 (i) the appointment of research-active staff with the potential to make internationally significant
 contributions to knowledge; (ii) targeted support for individuals to advance their research
 achievement; (iii) the forging of research collaborations and partnerships with UK and overseas
 partners; (iv) continuing cooperation/collaboration with artists/curators/arts
 organisations/development agencies in the region to maximise local impact; (v) developing
 expertise in external income generation. These objectives were elaborated and extended,
 following the approval of the University’s 2014-19 Research Strategy (REF5a 2.1). The then
 Institute of Arts and Humanities committed to developing interdisciplinary research groups
 across the Institute and beyond. In engaging with the ‘Areas of Distinction’ identified in the
 strategy, the unit recognised the potential for developing a focus on arts and health, more
 specifically mental health, under the ‘Human Health and Wellbeing’ banner. A larger research
 grouping in this area is currently being developed.

 The unit has met its overarching objective to create a sustainable community of practice-led
 researchers. It has appointed several new staff with strong research profiles and/or with
 significant experience of professional practice with the potential to develop as researchers. It has
 developed existing staff, not least through support for doctoral study, who are now included in
 this submission (see Section 2: Staff Development). It has expanded its PGR community, not
 least through winning University funding for PhD studentships, while recognizing that this
 remains an area for further development (see Section 2: Research Students). It has developed
 significant collaborations nationally and internationally with academic and arts organisations (see
 Section 4: Collaborations) which have created an opportunity for new areas of research and
 impact. It has further strengthened local partnerships with artists, curators and galleries which
 are extending the reach of its work. One area in which it has not been successful is in direct
 income generation, and this is a major area for strategic focus going forward, but staff have been
 successful in income generation in their roles as artists through Arts Council grants which feed
 into their research and practice (see Section 3: Income).

 Impact strategy



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit identifies a range of beneficiaries of its research: professional artists/ illustrators/
 designers; individuals and organisations in the subsidised arts and creative and cultural
 industries; the public; children and young people. Through its research, the unit seeks to
 increase public exposure to, engagement with, and deeper understanding of the processes and
 practices of contemporary art (including Live Art) and illustration; to promote visual
 literacy/sophistication, and engagement of young people and children with visual art and design
 in support of creativity, articulacy, and visual/cultural engagement; promote social interaction,
 cultural pleasure and value of creativity; to further public and professional critical debate
 surrounding the visual and live arts and the role of the contemporary visual image; heighten
 individual engagement with political and social polemic, debates and issues through the arts;
 and to increase understanding of the potential of visual arts and design practices and outcomes
 to contribute to the planning and design of public spaces and attendant public consultation;
 promote multiculturalism.

 The core approaches used to enable impact are: to render research outcomes and applications
 as widely publicly accessible as possible e.g. through open exhibitions; to create and respond to
 opportunities to participate in face-to-face public/professional interaction through talks and
 discussions that promote understanding; to develop regional partnerships/collaborations with
 agencies/professionals in the subsidised arts and creative and cultural industries with shared
 impact agendas.

 The units two impact case studies reflect these ambitions and approaches:
    • ICS1: Gubb, The role of public art installations in improving quality of life and urban
        regeneration
        Gubb’s research has been driven by the question of how to provide material,
        imaginative and informative loci in redeveloped or new urban locations. His work is
        directly engaged with the public and was commissioned by cultural bodies, councils and
        businesses. It promotes social interaction and emphasises the pleasure and value of
        creativity and expanded knowledge of place.
    • ICS2: Hickey & Davies, Migrations - Open Hearts, Open Borders
        The Migrations project set out to explore and challenge views on migration among artists
        and public. Illustrators were asked to submit an illustration on a postcard reflecting their
        understanding of migration. These were displayed via exhibitions and an associated
        book to general audiences locally, nationally and internationally. The research has fed
        into educational practice, being used across 600 schools to reflect on migration and
        multiculturalism.

 Interdisciplinary research

 The college structure encourages and supports research flexibility and interdisciplinarity.
 However, Art and Design subjects are by nature curious and interdisciplinary, and
 interdisciplinarity is at the heart of much of our research. For example, Illustration is a subject
 that sits at the interstices of every field of knowledge and is a quintessentially pragmatic creative
 profession, so it lends itself happily to collaborations with diverse stakeholders and interest
 groups. The research groupings articulated above emphasise this interdisciplinarity. Work on
 dementia and health - and planned future work on health and wellbeing - is profoundly
 interdisciplinary.

 Open research

 The University is committed to an Open Research Environment evidenced by its resourcing of
 this important area (dedicated Open Access Advocacy and Support Officer; Open Access
 Funding) and its policy development (on Open Access and Open Data) (REF5a 2.5). This
 commitment is further reflected in its new Research & KE Strategy which identifies developing its
 Open Research environment as one of 5 underpinning principles of the strategy (REF5a 2.3.4).



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit echoes this commitment. It has worked closely with the Open Access Advocacy and
 Support Officer to raise awareness of the Open Access agenda; for example, through running
 dedicated training events as part of School Away Days. Members of the team have benefitted
 from the University’s promotion of an open research environment, which is one of the five
 principles underpinning its Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy. The team has made
 available articles in refereed journals in the online repository Worcester Research and
 Publications (WRaP). In Art and Design, open access debates intersect with issues of IP and
 copyright in the case of PaR outputs, and this needs to be managed with respect to the rights of
 the originator. Performances, exhibitions and events have a digital afterlife, archived as images
 and social media conversations. This democratizes the notion of open access and is something
 that many members of staff engage with in their research practice on a daily basis. Exhibitions
 mounted at the Art House have been shared on public platforms such as Instagram, which
 enable discursive interaction with audiences long after these events are over.

 Most members of the unit team populate their own personal professional websites which act as
 a visual OA archives for their research projects. See for example: https://www.smarkgubb.com
 (Gubb); https://johncussans.com/the-skullcracker-suite/ (Cussans); https://www.therejoinders.org
 (Matthews); http://stephenfowler72.blogspot.com (Fowler);
 http://cargocollective.com/lemonmerchant (McCannon); https://ardillustration.com (Davies);
 https://www.divisionoflabour.co.uk/ (Pitt).

 Research integrity

 At University level, the University’s Research Integrity & Governance Committee has oversight
 of policies and procedures to support research integrity and its Chair is the University’s
 Research Integrity Champion. The Champion is expected to embed a culture of integrity across
 University by developing training and support for staff but also raising the profile of the
 institution.

 At College level, Research Ethics Panels are responsible for review of all staff and research
 student projects to ensure they are conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards. Panel Chairs and Vice Chairs are
 experienced researchers, whilst panel reviewers are drawn from across the College, including
 this unit; lay reviewers are also recruited to the panel. Training is provided to all reviewers before
 they engage in the role. There is an annual audit of reviews to ensure the Panels are fulfilling
 their role.

 Future strategic aims

 The University approved a new 5-year Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy in the
 Summer of 2020 (REF 5a 2.3). Its central vision is to deliver excellent research which extends
 the boundaries of human knowledge and which improves people’s lives. To meet this vision, the
 unit has identified core objectives to enhance the quality of its research and to extend its impact.
 It will have a continued focus on the recruitment of excellent researchers and on the
 development of its current staff, particularly in design, where we have staff with expertise in
 knowledge exchange but often with limited experience in research. The unit will look to enhance
 its research leadership particularly in the field of Fine Art through recruitment and/or career
 progression. It will look to expand its supervisory capacity and subsequently to increase its PGR
 recruitment. It will look to significantly increase the number of applications for external funding
 from the unit, focusing on bids with external partners but also with partners from across the
 University with significant experience in this area (e.g. dementia studies). It will continue to
 develop opportunities for the dissemination of its work to the wider public, utilizing the excellent
 public-facing infrastructure and facilities it has it is disposal (see Section 3: Facilities). It will
 develop further its collaborations with arts and cultural organisations with a continued focus on
 the region, but will also look further afield, nationally and internationally.



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This new strategy identifies key priority areas for the University articulated as ‘Areas of
 Challenge’ which flow from local, national and global priorities as articulated, for example in local
 authority and health body strategies, the Government’s industrial strategy and R&D roadmap,
 major funders’ delivery plans. Two of these areas will be targeted in the unit: ‘Human Health and
 Wellbeing’ and ‘Culture, Identity and Social Exclusion’. These areas speak to existing areas of
 interdisciplinary focus around arts and health and multiculturalism, so our focus will be on
 developing and expanding research in these areas over the coming years.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 Eight Category A eligible staff have been recruited to the unit in the assessment period, seven of
 whom are submitted here. This reflects the fact that the unit’s recruitment strategy has placed a
 strong emphasis on research in terms of current and potential profiles. Some staff submitted in
 2014 have left the unit during the period (Allen, Fisher, Hassell), whilst another retired (Grobler).
 Allen and Fisher, however, remain connected with the unit through ongoing doctoral supervision.
 Grobler was appointed Visiting Professor. Several members of staff in the unit have been
 recruited on fractional contracts, reflecting their continued work as practicing artists.

 Table 1 shows the balance between contract levels in the unit for both Category A Eligible and
 Submitted staff (see REF5a 3.1.6 for institutional comparison).

                                               % Category A            % Category A
                                               Eligible                Submitted
  Lecturer/Research Fellow (K0)                18                      18
  Senior Lecturer/Senior Research              69                      74
  Fellow (J0)
  Principal Lecturer/Principal Research 13                           18
  Fellow/Head of School (I0)
  Professor (F1)                            0                        0
                          Table 1: Proportion of staff by contract level

 Most staff in the unit are at Senior Lecturer level. The unit has no current professor, although it
 can draw on professorial support within the School (Cochrane) and the wider College (Professor
 John Parham in the School of Humanities, as leader of the Green Voices research group, works
 closely with staff in the unit), as well from the College Director RKE (Newland). The unit has also
 developed research leadership at Principal Lecturer level through appointment (McCannon) and
 staff in the unit have been supported to join the University’s Research Leadership programme
 (Cussans). However, it is recognized that research leadership is an area for the unit to develop
 in future.

 The unit has made several honorary appointments during the assessment period. Janetta Otter
 Barry received an honorary fellowship in 2019. Petr Horacek was awarded a visiting
 professorship in 2017. Both have productive ambassadorial relationships for illustration.

 Staff development

 The University was granted the HR Excellence in Research award in 2016, and is a signatory to
 the new Researcher Development Concordat, reflecting its commitment to researcher
 development.

 All research-active staff complete an individual research plan as part of the annual appraisal
 process, with short- and long-term objectives: progress against these objectives is monitored
 with line managers. Each member of staff has an opportunity to discuss the support for their
 research, including the resources required, and to agree their personal development needs and


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 objectives. There is also a research mentoring database where individuals can search for
 experienced researchers with relevant expertise to help them with their projects and personal
 development. This mentoring is initiated by the researcher and focuses on specific issues
 related to a research project from initial proposal to publication.

 Development needs can often be met through the University’s Researcher Development
 Programme, which is designed to support staff at all career stages (REF5a 3.2). Staff in the unit
 have engaged with the University’s Research Leadership Programme, its Research Supervisor
 Development Programme, Bid Development training and Impact and Engagement training. This
 is complemented by development events run by the School: development seminars have
 explored issues related to creative practice as research, funding, and definitions of research in
 relation to REF, whilst all-School research meetings each semester allow colleagues to
 disseminate information, to create opportunities to foster informal mentorship and potential
 collaborations, and to grow the discussion around practice as research in the unit. In addition, a
 Creative Practice as Research Forum was set up by the College Director RKE in 2020, with the
 aim of facilitating the development of UW as a centre of excellence in practice-based research
 by 2025.

 The School of Art runs a seminar series (co-convened by McCannon and Cochrane), reflecting
 the diversity and vitality of the research being undertaken in the unit. The Fine Art programme
 hosts a lively and well attended Meadow Arts lecture programme at the Art House, and the
 ‘Biscuit Club’ creates an effective space for illustration staff to engage with practice and
 pedagogical research.

 Staff can also access the University’s Research Mentoring Programme (REF5a 3.2.4). They can
 do so at any point from appointment onwards and at any career stage. This programme has also
 offered an opportunity for mentors to develop their skills, with all mentors receiving dedicated
 training for the role. Mentoring is a key part of academic career progression at UW.

 The unit has benefitted from the strategy to support staff to undertake PhDs, through funding
 50% of the fees and providing wider support, e.g. through workload allocation. Staff in the unit
 have completed doctorates in the period (Allen, Galpin, Hazell), whilst others are currently
 undertaking doctorates (Davies, Gubb, Stephenson). Of value for the unit is the PhD by Prior
 Creative Practice route, which allows staff to articulate how their existing practice is at doctoral
 level (a route currently being pursued by Gubb).

 Staff in the unit can access the University’s research leave programme (see REF5a 3.2.3). Allen
 was granted research leave in 2016/17. All staff in the unit have 20 days research and scholarly
 activity leave. This is complemented by individualised allocation of workloads for research based
 on performance.

 Staff are provided funding to attend conferences (the School has invested £24,000 in this area
 during the assessment period), and to support writing and other forms of dissemination,
 particularly around creative practice as research.

 Research students

 The unit offers both a PhD programme and, since 2015, a Masters by Research (MRes)
 programme in Fine Art and in Design. The MRes was launched to build a bridge to PhD study
 and to enrich the research culture in the unit. The PGR community in the unit is small. There are
 currently 5 students on PhD programmes in the School of Arts, two supported by University
 studentships. This reflects the current supervisory capacity of the unit: 5 staff from the unit are
 on the University’s register of approved supervisors, although staff in cognate areas in the wider
 School also support supervision in Art and Design. There has been one PhD completion in the
 period, and three MRes in Fine Art completions.



                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recruitment to doctoral programmes is overseen by School-level Course Leaders (PhD and
 MRes) who work closely with the central Research School (REF5a 3.3.2-3). Course Leaders
 also play a core role in the oversight of research student progress. They sit on the University’s
 Research Degree Board and are responsible for annual monitoring of student progress within
 the School.

 The University has a well-established graduate school (branded as the Research School) which
 is responsible for the management of all Research Degree Programmes (RDPs) from
 recruitment to examination, in partnership with the academic schools (REF5a 3.3.2-3). The
 Research School is also responsible for research student life, i.e. for the wider development and
 wellbeing of research students.

 The University has expanded the Research School team to reflect the growth in student
 numbers over the REF period. It provides a dedicated work and social space for students. The
 Research School team, co-located in the student space, provides advice and guidance for
 students on their programmes, and, working closely with other student-facing departments such
 as the Disability & Dyslexia Service, the student mental health team, and the careers service,
 also offers pastoral and wider support. A comprehensive programme of support and guidance
 has been developed for PGR students and supervisors around mental health and wellbeing.

 All students on research degree programmes are required to undertake an associated training
 programme, run by the Research School (REF5a 3.3.4-5). The programme has been mapped
 against Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. The programme offers a suite of modules,
 short courses and workshops, delivered face-to-face or online, some of which are compulsory
 for all doctoral students, focused on the following core areas: planning and managing research;
 academic writing; research methods; data analysis; research integrity and ethics; dissemination,
 engagement and impact; careers and employability. This is complimented by the School with
 PGRs able to access subject-level methodology modules, studying alongside PGT students. The
 University also supports students to engage with external training where this is specialist and not
 available through the University’s programmes. Students are also able to access training offered
 through the GuildHE Research network.

 Beyond the programme, the Research School offers additional development opportunities.
 Research Students have opportunities to teach, and can access modules and workshops to
 develop their skills in this area, with the opportunity to gain associate or full fellowship of the
 Higher Education Academy. The University offers research student-specific dissemination
 opportunities including an annual “Images of Research” exhibition and student-led PGR
 Conference. The University provides funding opportunities for students to attend and speak at
 external conference and events and separate funds to support students to develop inter- and
 cross-disciplinary networks, seminar series, conferences and events. The University is a
 member of the Brilliant Club, a charity focused on improving access to university, which provides
 opportunities for doctoral students to go into schools and deliver tutorials in their area of
 expertise.

 Supervisors are supported in their role through the Research Supervisor Development
 programme. This programme has been in place for 20 years, but was redesigned and
 relaunched in 2018/19. It offers a wide range of support for supervisors at various career stages
 on themes such as: introduction to supervision, supervisory styles, regulations and processes,
 supervising international students, PGR mental health and wellbeing, supporting student
 progress. New supervisors must complete the whole programme, but more experienced
 supervisors must also engage with core elements and all supervisors are required to engage in
 regular refresher training (every 3 years). The programme is complemented by supervisor
 lunches that bring together supervisors to discuss key topics and challenges in supervision. Staff
 in the School have also benefitted from the experience of supervising MRes students before
 moving to doctoral supervision. All supervisors are encouraged to engage with the UKCGE
 Good Supervisor Practice Framework and Accreditation programme, with workshops currently
 underway to support supervisors to apply for recognition.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Equality and diversity

 The University has a fundamental commitment to equality and diversity (REF5a 3.4). It seeks to
 consider and apply equality and diversity principles in all that it does. Its policies and processes
 are designed to disadvantage no-one and are subject to ongoing equality impact assessment to
 ensure this is the case. The unit’s approach flows from this, with the Head of School ensuring
 that the University’s principles and policies are fully enacted. Line managers are sure staff are
 aware of and are supported to engage with, for example, the University’s flexible working policy,
 its parental leave policies, its policies which support carers (such as its Critical Illness Policy)
 and its staff wellbeing initiatives (see REF5a 3.1.8).

 Several staff in the unit have benefitted from the University’s flexible working policy (REF5a
 3.1.8) with a move to part-time or compressed hours. There is no evidence that this has
 impacted on research productivity, access to funding or progression. It is notable that both at
 institutional (REF5a table 2) and unit level, part-time staff are as well-represented in the
 Category A submitted as eligible category. The School has a fair and flexible approach to
 working, particularly during the current lockdown period in recognition of the challenges of home
 schooling.

 Staff in the unit are committed to equality and diversity. Staff were members of the University’s
 Athena SWAN self-assessment team; the University received its institutional Bronze Award in
 April 2018 and is committed to making departmental applications in the next 2 years. Staff are
 also engaged with various staff networks focused on protected characteristics and with the
 LGBTQ+ Allies scheme. As noted, the unit has a strong focus on multiculturalism.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The unit is supported in its income generation by the central Research Office and primarily,
 since the academic restructure, by a College Director of RKE and a RKE Facilitator. The
 Director’s role is to provide leadership and guidance for Schools in developing and implementing
 their research and KE strategies, whilst the Facilitator provides administrative support and works
 with groups and individuals to develop a bespoke funding opportunities service for members.

 Staff submitted to this unit have not received any external funding such as can be recorded in
 University HESA returns. Remedying this is an essential priority for future research
 development, which will be taken forward by the College Director through targeted mentoring,
 support and guidance, and staff development events. Income from research funding is being
 encouraged through training sessions in the use of Research Professional, seminars by external
 speakers brought into the School of Arts, and drop-in sessions/clinics from the Research Office
 offering advice and workshops on funding streams available within the Art and Design sector.
 This is already beginning to bear fruit. An AHRC network bid is currently being developed for
 submission and a British Council bid, both in the area of illustration.

 However, it should be noted that several School of Arts staff members are practising
 professional artists and have had significant successes in attracting income either from
 commission or funding sources outside the academy, and this in turn has benefitted practice
 outputs submitted to this exercise. For example, Gubb received a series of grants from Arts
 Council Wales which have contributed to both his research and impact; Mathews also received
 Arts Council Wales funding for the Rejoinders project which underpins her research outputs (see
 Section 4).

 Infrastructure



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University has significantly expanded its institutional infrastructure for supporting research
 and impact over the assessment period, establishing a RKE Directorate consisting of a
 Research Office, Research School and College RKE infrastructure (REF5a 4.1). It has also
 expanded support for researchers offered by Library Services.

 The RKE Directorate provides wide-ranging support and guidance for researchers around
 identifying funding (including access to funding databases, such as Research Professional), bid
 development, KE and impact generation (including use of Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker),
 project delivery (including contract negotiation, liaison with partners, financial and other
 reporting) and research governance (including data management, data sharing, protecting and
 exploiting IP).

 The University has established robust Pre- and Post-Award processes for externally funded
 projects (approved in 2018/19 and subject to evaluation and review in 2020/21). These
 processes scaffold the Research Office support systems set out above and ensure good
 governance for bids and projects.

 The University also provides access for researchers to a current research information system
 (PURE) and a publication repository (WRAP – Worcester Research and Publications). Unit
 members have consistently benefitted from the help given by the dedicated manager of WRaP
 and from the work of the Open Access Advocacy and Support Officer. This has become
 especially important in the deposit of visual arts outputs. The functionality of the repository has
 been developed to boost the profile of researchers. Recently WRaP was fully integrated with
 ORCID API, which facilitates cross-platform sharing and ensures that UW authors can easily
 maintain an up-to-date publications profile.

 Staff have access to major citation databases (Scopus and Web of Science), art and design
 collections and e-resources (most recently Art Full Text). Expenditure in this area has increased
 by 30% over the assessment period.

 The University offers a range of research support schemes designed to support researchers at all
 career stages and, variously, to pump prime projects, develop international collaborations,
 advance existing areas of work (REF5a 4.1.6). Staff in the unit have been successful in gaining
 funding for PhD studentships. Fisher was awarded an ECR PhD studentship in 2015, and Allen in
 2018. The School also recently established a Research Development Fund to seed new projects
 and support dissemination.

 Facilities

 The unit can draw on a wide range of facilities to support its research and impact.

 The Art House is a new home for the Arts at the University. Officially opened in 2019, the Art
 House is an imaginative refurbishment of one of Worcester’s most iconic buildings. The
 redesigned building features a series of large open spaces that are continually transformed to
 meet the needs of our researchers and students. Studios and workshops exist alongside
 intimate spaces for small group learning. The glass fronted exterior is an area for continual
 public exhibition. The building has also become an important centre for children’s creative
 camps and community artists. The Art House has already been the location for several
 exhibitions and conferences, including the World Illustration Awards 2018 exhibition, organised
 by the Association of Illustrators (The AOI), in partnership with the Directory of Illustration. The
 building has also provided key infrastructure to facilitate research impact. Pitt has taken the lead
 on curating the Art House Windows gallery programme since September 2020, as a joint
 initiative with his organization Division of Labour/Pitt Studios called 'Store Front'.

 The Hive functions as a centre for engagement and impact (REF5a 4.2). As a major civic facility,
 co-created by the University and the local authority, centrally located in the city of Worcester,
 this building provides another focal point for public exhibitions. ‘Migrations’ (which underpins one

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of our impact case studies) was exhibited at the Hive in 2019, and the 'Picture This' competition
 winners are exhibited with public-facing talks and an award ceremony on an annual basis.

 The unit’s Digital Arts Centre has exhibition and reception areas, and a sound recording studio
 (offering 360 square feet of performing space and a sound editing room). The Centre also has
 computer rooms that together offer space for digital graphic and web design, multimedia, video
 editing and both 2D and 3D animation. The digital video studio is designed to professional
 broadcast specifications and provides 1,200 square feet of usable space. It has a high ceiling
 with a controllable lighting rig and a control room with talkback for multi-camera productions.

 Alongside investment in buildings, there has been significant investment in art and design
 equipment; for example, a risograph printer. The unit has also invested in technical support with
 two new appointments in 2018 recruited for their experience and skills in gallery installation and
 art handling.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations

 In keeping with its strategic objectives, the unit has developed wide ranging national and
 international collaborations with academic partners, artists, galleries, creative and cultural
 organisations.

 The School of Art is a principal partner in New Art West Midlands. This is the Contemporary
 Visual Arts Network for the region. Their purpose is to strengthen and develop the contemporary
 visual arts sector in the area, working collectively to safeguard the future of artists and the
 sector. The most recent iterations of our partnership with NAWM were an exhibition of Abigail
 Day’s work at Birmingham Museum and Gallery, and an artist’s residency at the Garage Studios
 with Suzie Hunt.

 Meadow Arts is an inspirational contemporary art charity delivering ambitious and accessible
 projects in unexpected rural places. The unit has collaborated with Meadow Arts on several
 initiatives, including Heather and Ivan Morrison’s public art commission for the Hive, the Ring
 Project, and the Hive public artists’ talk programme.

 The unit works on an exhibition programme in conjunction with the Worcester City Museum and
 Art Gallery collection. This initiative engages students and staff in curating exhibitions, and with
 artists who we have been able to commission to make new work in response the Museum
 Collection.

 The unit partners with Division of Labour, which currently represents eight artists whilst working
 alongside many others through group exhibitions and project work. The gallery holds an ethos of
 presenting the best artists who share similar sensibilities; a highly developed imagination with
 clear methodology. Pitt’s Division of Labour has galleries in Worcester and London.

 McCannon and Parham (UoA 27) collaborated with Prof. Mayako Murai of Kanagawa University
 to organize an interdisciplinary symposium ‘Enchanted Environments’ at the Art House in March
 2020 under the aegis of the interdisciplinary Green Voices research group, on the subject of
 ‘Folklore and Ecocriticism’. This symposium drew delegates from a range of disciplines.

 Individual members of the unit have been involved in a wide range of collaborative activities. For
 example, Davies and Hickey developed and curated the Migrations project (which underpins one
 of our impact case studies), and have worked with organisations such as IBBY, BIBIANA
 (Bratislava) and Amnesty International. Cussans has been in collaboration with Slade School of
 Art/University College London on a joint project with the Social Morphologies Research Unit (2018-
 present). The Rejoinders (directed by Mathews), funded by the British Council, Arts Council
 Wales, is an investigative, experimental curatorial project with a dual aspect research group at its

                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 heart. Collaborators are Art Wales, the Cona Foundation (India), and g39 (Cardiff). The project
 operated between May 2017 and August 2018, included four artist residences, and culminated in
 a public exhibition. Audience numbers were 330 in total, with members of the public also accessing
 the project via the project web-platform. Hazell collaborates with Professor Kjetil Fallan, Oslo
 University, Norway which has led to co-publication: e.g. ‘The Enthusiast’s Eye: The Value of
 Unsanctioned Knowledge in Design Historical Scholarship’ Design & Culture. Hazell is also
 collaborating with Professor Paul Atkinson at Sheffield Hallam University on a Propobook project
 on DIY and amateur design. Gubb is involved in an ongoing project with Dr Tom Cardwell,
 University of Arts London (Wimbledon), examining the relationship between the Mabinogion
 (Welsh Folklore) and Black Metal. McCannon collaborated with public-facing organisations to
 develop a series of events called ‘Women in Print’. Events included study days alongside the Marie
 Neurath exhibition at the House of Illustration (2019), the Enid Marx exhibition at HOI (2018),
 Ravilious and Friends Exhibition at Sheffield Museums Trust (2017), Peggy Angus Exhibition at
 the Towner (2016), Chetham’s Library (2015), Oriel Wrexham (2015), Museum of Witchcraft and
 Magic Boscastle (2014). Pitt has collaborated with Belfast Exposed, the Library of Birmingham,
 and the arts organisation GRAIN, but also through his wider curatorial practice.

 Contribution to the research base

 Staff in the unit have contributed to the research base in Art and Design through event curation
 and coordination, committee membership, jury work, and editorial and review work. There is a
 promising record of public engagement and popular dissemination of subject specialisms.

 Event coordination

 McCannon is chair of the organising committee for the yearly Illustration Research international
 symposia, and has co-organised the following public facing academic events: ‘Illustrating Mental
 Health’ (Worcester, 2019), ’Shaping the View’ (Edinburgh College of Art 2017), and ‘Itinerant
 Illustrator’ (Shristi College of Art, Design and Technology, Bangalore 2014). Selected
 proceedings are published in the bi-annual peer reviewed Journal of lllustration. Mathews
 organized and ran the CHEAD Conference in 2018, ‘Creative Ecologies and Sustainable
 Industries’, which was held at the University of South Wales. She also ran an Artist and Curator
 discussion with Thomas Goddard in April 2018. Cussans was a member of academic panel for
 ‘The Birth of a Black Surrealism?’ at the Contemporary African Art Fair, Somerset House,
 London, in October 2018, and a member of the convener panel for ‘Diagrams of revolution: an
 experiment with social and material morphologies’, at the Association of Social Anthropologists
 annual conference, University of Oxford, in September 2018.

 Invited talks and lectures

 Members of staff have been active in presenting their work in academic contexts.

 Cussans gave a keynote presentation at the Conjuring Creativity Conference, Stockholm,
 Sweden, in 2020. He also gave presentations at Goldsmiths, London (November 2019); the Etic
 Lab Annual Seminar, Gregynog Hall, Newtown, Wales (July 2019); the FHI Social Practice Lab,
 Duke University, Durham, North Carolina (April 2019); the Konesans Conference on Haitian
 Studies, Newcastle University (April 2019); the Occulture Esoteric Conference, Berlin
 (November 2018); 1-54 Contemporary African Art Fair, Somerset House, London (October
 2018); the Association of Social Anthropologists annual conference, University of Oxford
 (September 2018); the Alien Encounter Group at The Shaping of a Message event, Goldsmiths,
 London (May 2018); Authority Figures Diagramming Workshop w/Kelly Fagan Robinson as part
 of the group show Morphologies of Invisible Agents, Space Studios, London (May 2019); the
 Ghost Time/Future Anterior/Cosmic Tools artistic research symposium at Goldsmiths, London
 (March 2014).

 Davies presented a paper at the VaroomLab 4 (The Association of Illustrators): Visionaries,
 Illustration conference at Birmingham City University, in November 2015.

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Fowler gave a keynote talk at the ‘Inked Up’ Symposium, University of the Creative Arts,
 Canterbury, October 2017. He discussed his research into rubber stamping and his findings from
 the Minnesota Centre for Book Arts Rubber Stamp Archive. Fowler also gave talks at Innaeus
 University, Department of Design, Växjö, Sweden in September 2020; Art Workers Guild (July
 2020); PRINt.ed 5 EINA University School of Design and Art of Barcelona (April 2019); Grafixx
 International Festival Antwerp (November 2017); Göra Festival, Stockholm, Sweden (November
 2017); Oversized Neoprene Foam Printing, University of the West of England (UWE) Centre for
 Fine Print Research (July 2019); KKV Graffic Malmö, Sweden - October 2018; Broadside
 Ballads Rubber Stamp Workshop, University of the West of England (UWE) Centre for Fine Print
 Research (July 2018); BABE, Bristol Artist Book Event, Arnolfini (March 2017); Malmo Artist
 Book Biennale, Malmo, Sweden (April 2018); Minnesota Centre for Book Arts (July 2017);
 Artistamp Workshops, University of the West of England (UWE) Centre for Fine Print Research
 (July 2016).

 Gamble presented at the 13th international ACE (Arts & Christianity Enquiry) conference co-
 hosted by ASI (Arts and Spirituality in Ireland); Trinity College, Dublin (July 2016). In September
 2018 she was invited to exhibit Word of Mouth (written) Boca a Boca (escrito) in the category
 ‘Other Print Disciplines’ at the IMPACT10 Encuentro, Encounter & International Multidisciplinary
 Print Exhibition and Conference in Santander, Spain. In October 2018, Gamble was invited to
 give a presentation on her research to members of Space, Place, Practice research network at a
 research symposium at Bath Spa University.

 Hickey was invited to speak at the Migrations book launch at Amnesty Headquarters in London
 in June 2019. He also presented at Litfest, Lancaster, in March 2020, and at the FCBG
 Conference, University of Exeter University, in April 2020.

 McCannon was keynote speaker at CONFIA 2018 and was an invited speaker Only Connect! A
 community symposium about the benefits of creative intergenerational practice & research,
 Falmouth, 2019. In 2019 McCannon presented the jointly authored (with Davies) paper
 ‘Contemporary Illustrative Responses to the European Refugee Crisis.' at the Confia Illustration
 conference at Viana do Castelo, Portugal. McCannon presented papers at the the Illustrating
 Mental Health conference (Worcester, 2019); at The Pleasures of Pattern, ARU (Cambridge,
 2018); at Shaping the View: Landscape and illustration, ECA, Edinburgh (2016); at The
 Illustrator as Public Intellectual, Rhode Island School of Design, Providence, USA (2015); at
 Shristi, Bangalore, India (2014); and at the Folklore in the 21st Century conference, Lisbon
 (2014).

 Gubb presented a paper on a collaborative project/research ‘Hiraeth’ with Dr Tom Cardwell
 (University of the Arts London, Wimbledon) at the Punk Scholars Network 6th International
 Conference and the Postgraduate Symposium at Newcastle University in December 2019. Gubb
 also presented on his work ‘God So Loves Decay’ at the Centre for Musical Humanities, Luton,
 in 2016. He presented ‘If you Build it, They Will Come’ at the CHEAD Annual Conference, Bath
 Spa University, in 2016. Gubb's public talks include the following: S Mark Gubb and Derek
 Boshier in conversation with Chris Fite-Wassilak. MOSTYN, Llandudno, 16 March, 2019; UAL
 Wimbledon Visiting Artist Talk, April 2019; Vista/Nine Elms Artist Walk and Talk (attached to
 Wassail project), December 2018; Criw Celf talk and workshops, May 2017; g39 Talk and
 screening; January 2016; Visiting Artist lecture at Hereford University, April 2015; Visual Arts
 South West 'Producers' event, Arnolfini, Bristol, March 2015; Visiting Artist lecture, University of
 Derby, March 2015; Moving Forward and Staying the Same, Alias Arts panel discussion,
 January 2015; Visiting Artist lecture, Northampton University, November 2014; Beneath the
 Pavement, Airspace Gallery, Stoke – Lead artist/speaker, June 2014; and Exeter Phoenix Artist
 Talk, April 2014.

 Galpin gave presentations at the International Ceramics Festival, Aberystwyth University, July
 2017, and at the International Print Conference, Santander Spain (Impact 10. ‘Encounter),
 September 2018. Galpin was invited to show at the ‘Other disciplines Exhibitions’ at the

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Biblioteca Central de Cantabria, and spoke about and her show work at the ‘Open Projects’
 event at the Palacio de Exposiciones de Santander, in September 2018.

 Committee membership and jury work

 Cussans is a member of Social Morphologies Research Unit, University College London (2018 –
 present), and is a member of the ORCID Arts and Humanities Academia and Beyond Taskforce
 (2019 – present). Gamble was on the Steering Group of the New Art West Midlands Advisory
 panel, (NAWM/TPWM). Grobler was a jury member for the Lemniscaat competition, Picture
 This! (June 2016) in Rotterdam and Worcester; a jury member for the Biennale for Illustration,
 Bratislava, Slovakia. Sept 2015; and a jury member for the Chen Bochui Literary Award,
 Shanghai, China. Nov 2015. Gubb was an AIR Council Member for the Artists Information
 Company. He is an invited artist member of the Contemporary Art Society, and is a member of
 BAFTA Cymru. Gubb is also a member of a-n The Artists Information Company, ‘Artists Council’,
 and was on an advisory panel to the board and executive committee. Responsibilities were to
 develop and deliver new national initiatives in line with the needs of the membership. Hickey was
 jury member for the Lemniscaat competition, Picture This! (June 2016) in Rotterdam and
 Worcester. Galpin is a member of the London-based arts research group F.O.D.O. Hazell is a
 member of the Design History Society. McCannon is a member of the Scientific committee for
 CONFIA. In 2018 McCannon was an invited Consultant on History of Illustration Project (Norman
 Rockwell Museum, Mass. US). Pitt was a Trustee of Meadow Arts between 2014 and 2017, and
 was on the Worcester City Council Public Arts Panel between 2015 and 2018.

 Editorial and review work

 McCannon is the principal editor of the Journal of Illustration. McCannon and Davies are peer
 reviewers for Varoom Lab (Association of Illustrators). McCannon was external Reviewer for
 ‘Transposition as Artistic Practice’, a three-year international research project based in Bergen,
 Norway (2020). She was also external evaluator for an application for promotion to full
 tenureship for Washington State University, St Louis (2019); a Critical Friend for the MA
 Illustration, Programme validation, MICA (Maryland Institute of Contemporary Art) Baltimore,
 (2017); a peer reviewer for Leverhulme Grant (2017); and a consultant on the ‘History of
 Illustration’ book project at the Norman Rockwell Museum, Massachusetts, USA (2015).

 Prizes, Awards and Fellowships

 Gubb was nominated for a Paul Hamlyn Award in 2018. In the same year he was awarded an
 Arts Council Wales: Production Grant for the MOSTYN Exhibition. In 2016 Gubb was awarded
 an Arts Council Wales Large Project Grant for the Revelations project, and a Wales Arts
 International: International Opportunities Travel Grant. In 2015 he was awarded an ACW
 Training Grant at the Neon Workshop, Brooklyn.

 Research Degree Examination

 Cussans examined PhDs at the Royal College of Art (2018 and 2016). McCannon examined a
 PhD at Anglia Ruskin University (2020).

 Contribution to economy and society

 The unit has a strong focus on disseminating its research and practice to the wider public
 through public talks and exhibitions. For example, a regular Fine Art Talks series has been held
 since 2016. The Garage Open Lecture Series was a collaboration between the School and
 Meadow Arts in partnership with Worcestershire County Council and Worcestershire Arts
 Partnership. It presented a series of talks around aspects of research, fabrication and display.
 Speakers included Bedwyr Williams, Alice Channer, Simon & Tom Bloor, The Boat Studio, Keith
 Wilson and Mike Cooter. The Art House Window Gallery Programme offers a series of Artist
 Commissions to create new works, often in collaboration with our exhibition partners Division of

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Labour (Pitt), New Art West Midlands and Meadow Arts. These exhibitions place the work of the
 curatorial work on display to the public right in the heart of the city. In January 2019, the unit
 hosted the public event ‘Reflections on The Ring: Art on the Worcestershire Waterways’ at the
 Art House, an event hosted by Fine Art in conjunction with King’s College London. Art and
 Design hosted a ‘Public Art (Now)’, a live Streaming Event with Whitechapel Gallery London and
 Situations Bristol (early 2015). In addition to this, the unit has hosted a range of artist talks. In
 2019-20 these included: Doug Fishbone, Serena Korda, Laura White, Rosalie Schweiker, Hetain
 Patel, Clare Twomey, Celine Berger, Derek Boshier, Annie Attridge, Chris Alton, Rosalie
 Schweiker, Gareth Proskourine-Barnett, Tom Cardwell, Alia Pathan, Jack Evans, Sally Payen.
 The wildlife photographer David Plummer gave a public talk - ‘The Road to Seven Years’ - at the
 Hive in Worcester, in April 2019, which was organised by the Green Voices Research Group and
 the Institutes of Humanities and the Arts, University of Worcester. Plummer’s talk combined
 reflections on wildlife photography and photographic practice with reflections on fighting
 Parkinson’s Disease. The School hosted the tenth international Illustration Research symposium
 on the theme of ‘Illustrating Mental Health’ at the Art House in November 2019, organised by
 McCannon and curated by Hickey and Davies. This included presentations and exhibited works
 by staff members Davies and McCannon alongside an international roster of speakers and
 exhibitors. Fowler was involved with ‘Folk Beasts’, a venture between the charity Hart Club and
 the Golden Thread. Hart Club are ‘dedicated to championing neurodiversity within the Arts and
 beyond’.




                                                                                              Page 14
