Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: De Montfort University
Unit of assessment: 13
Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 OVERVIEW
Architecture and the Built Environment research at DMU is carried out within two groups: the
Institute of Energy and Sustainable Development (IESD), which is part of the Faculty of
Computing, Engineering and Media; and the Institute of Architecture (IoA), located within the
Faculty of Arts, Design and Humanities. Taken together, they cover the entire gamut of
architecture, planning and the built environment and successfully attract and deliver funded
projects that ensure the use of multidisciplinary research perspectives. IESD’s uniqueness lies in
its local roots but global reach to deal with complex societal challenges such as energy access,
low-carbon transition and sustainable built environment (with a focus on energy, water, waste and
transport). Following a whole-systems approach that encourages a practical, multidisciplinary
perspective to arrive at solutions, the group aims to achieve an effortless blend of hard
engineering with softer social sciences. Similarly, the uniqueness of the IoA lies in its
multidisciplinary staff and their collaborative research to understand how architecture and the built
environment work effectively in the real world, with links to both the academic and public sectors.
The research undertaken by each Institute has close links in the areas of building energy, cities
and the local environment where the Institutes closely collaborate in terms of research activities
and research supervision. Securing circa £3,300,000 in external research-grant funding during the
census period (compared to £3,600,000 in REF 2014), registering a 75% growth in output volume
(393 outputs compared to 225 in previous period) and successfully supervising 44 PhD awards
(compared to 28 PhD awards in REF 2014), the Unit has played a vital role in research in DMU.
The marginal loss in grant income arose as a consequence of the retirement of senior researchers
and a research capacity building strategy of attracting Early Career Researchers (ECRs). The Unit
has more than doubled its members of staff since REF 2014, with 31.2 FTE being returned this
time against 14.1 FTE returned in REF 2014. In addition, each Institute pursues its distinct
research focus as highlighted in 1.2.

1.2 STRUCTURE
The organisational structure of research groups within the UOA has maintained close continuity
with the structure in REF 2014 but as part of a series of initiatives undertaken by DMU to realise
its ambitious research strategy (2018–2023), research activities are now organised in research
institutes and centres. While IESD existed prior to this latest reorganisation, the IoA was set up in
2018, regrouping the researchers of the erstwhile Leicester School of Architecture. Each Institute
is led by a director and a deputy director, who report to the Head of School and the Associate
Dean (Research and Innovation) in the respective faculty on a regular basis. Each Institute has a
set of core members, who are complemented by associate members, honorary fellows and visiting
researchers to facilitate wider collaboration in research activities.
In REF 2014 the focus of the Unit was on building energy, behaviour-change and low-carbon
technologies. In the current census period, this research has been broadened and deepened, as
outlined below. Research activities in IESD are now organised around three broader themes, with
several sub-themes capturing the research foci of the Institute (see Figure 1). One of the main
features of the thematic clustering is to pay closer attention to the United Nations’ Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs) through research. The research theme on Low-Carbon Energy
Systems and Infrastructure builds on our research strength in building and industrial energy
efficiency and smart grids with a new focus on low-carbon transport and renewable energy
integration. This directly connects with SDGs related to affordable and clean energy (7), climate
action (13), responsible consumption and production (12), and good health and well-being (3). The
theme of Sustainable Communities and Sustainable Living has broadened its focus on resource-
use behaviour and governance to embrace smart cities and smart villages as well as the resilience
of communities for a sustainable future. This touches on SDGs related to water (6), cities and
                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

communities (11), climate (13), institutions (16) and partnerships (17). The third theme, Solutions
for the Base of the Pyramid Population, has been introduced since 2014 and emerged as a new
thematic focus with an international development agenda. This new area of research strength is a
result of strategic investment (Bhattacharyya’s recruitment in 2012) and the internationalisation
strategy of the Unit. The theme is aligned with SDGs related to health and well-being (3), energy
access (7) and climate change (13), among others. Researchers have cross-affiliations to different
themes but doctoral students and research project staff generally have specific thematic affiliation.


                                                        Smart grids and demand response
                                                          (Pakka, Snape, Gammon)

                          Low-carbon energy
                                                      Building and industrial energy efficiency
                              systems and
                             infrastructure           (Wright, Painter, Brown, Marjanovic-
                                                                  Halburd, Tian)
                          (Lead: Greenough)
                           SDGs 3, 7, 12, 13
                                                            Low-carbon transport
                                                        (Gammon, Tian, Reeves, Tiwary)


                                                            Renewable energy integration
   IESD Research Themes




                                                        (Oyinlola, Pakka, Snape, Tiwary,Tian)
                                 Sustainable
                              communities and               Smart cities and smart villages
                              sustainable living
                                                          (Painter, Gammon, Stuart, Diao)
                               (Lead: Lemon)
                              SDGs 6, 7, 11, 13
                                                            Resource use behaviour
                                                       (Ozawa-Meida, Strzelecka, Reeves,
                                                                Morton, Villa)

                                                      Socio-technical and environmental resilience and
                                                                        governance
                                                       (Diao, Ozawa-Meida, Brown, Reeves, Villa,
                                                                          Tiwary)

                                                        Energy access and energy poverty
                          Solutions for the base of       (Gammon, Oyinlola, Tiwary)
                          the pyramid population
                          (Lead: Bhattacharyya)
                                                                Mobility solutions
                               SDGs 3, 7, 13
                                                                (Gammon, Tian)


Figure 1: IESD research themes
Similarly, in REF 2014, the research in the School of Architecture was organised around three
research themes: Architectural Design; Architectural History, Theory and Criticism; and
Developing World Built Environment. Due to changes in the composition of research-active staff,
the thematic focus of the IoA has been adjusted at the time of its formation in 2018. The Institute
has worked hard to consolidate, build upon and further evolve the strategy established in
REF 2014. The key features are to retain existing research excellence in the low-impact built
environment and to enhance the research specialisation in new research themes focused on cities
                                                                                                     Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

and urbanism, housing and dwelling together with a new emerging theme in architectural
geometry and fabrication (see Figure 2). The strength of the Institute lies in its multidisciplinary
staff and their collaborative research. The research in the Institute ranges from technical and
empirical research to practice-based outputs, focusing on ways to understand how architecture
and the built environment work in the real world. The research here is mainly related to SDGs 11
(sustainable cities and communities) and 13 (climate action).




                          Low-impact built
                            environment       Sustainable homes in developing countries, design
                                                       strategies and building physics
                             Lead: Taki
                                                      (Bradbury, Abuzeinab, Zapata)
                          SDGs 7, 11, 13
                           Housing and
                             dwelling            Housing policy, alienation and self-agency
                              Lead:                                issues
    IoA Research Themes




                           Manoochehri                    (Massidda, Dening)
                             SDG 11
                                                Architecture and urban design, high-rise buildings
                          The cities and                         (Dening, Hadi)
                            urbanism
                           Lead: Perez
                                                 Urban environment, physical and mental health
                           SDGs 3, 11
                                                             (Massidda, Ghaziani)

                              Architectural
                             geometry and          Prototyping, digital technologies, artefacts and
                               fabrication                            exhibitions
                            Lead: Polimeni                 (Megahed, Themistokleous)
                                SDG 11




Figure 2: IoA research themes

1.3 RESEARCH STRATEGY
For REF 2021, the strategic aim of the Unit was to achieve research excellence and impact on
society by addressing key societal challenges through a focus on an interdisciplinary portfolio,
societal impact, people, and partnerships both nationally and internationally (discussed below in
more detail). This strategy is well-aligned with DMU’s overarching research and scholarship
strategy (REF5a). The theme of sustainable development connects the various research activities
of the Unit, and the search for a sustainable built environment remains a key societal challenge.
Both Institutes are heavily engaged in research on the sustainable built environment, paying
specific attention to low-carbon infrastructure, sustainable communities in urban and rural contexts
nationally and internationally, and improving the well-being of the users through effective
interventions. The emphasis on sustainability and the SDGs received DMU-wide recognition
subsequent to DMU becoming a ‘designated hub’ for SDG 16 and the University’s strategic
decision to support the 17 SDGs through our pioneering research, community work and ambitious
teaching (REF5a).


                                                                                                      Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

As a dynamic process, the Institutes have aligned their research agenda with the changing
societal challenges. For example, in REF 2014, IESD had a strong focus on understanding
building energy performance using modelling, behavioural analysis and considering smart
monitoring and control systems. There was a particular emphasis on increasing the understanding
of how technologies actually work in the real world in the area of buildings in the European
context. However, since 2014, there has been a gradual shift in the research focus to low-carbon
solutions to help develop sustainable communities, both locally and internationally. New
recruitment, staff movement and retirement of researchers have contributed to this change in the
research agenda, which, in turn, has brought new dynamism and allowed globalisation of research
activities with new collaborations in Asia and Africa. By broadening the focus and introducing new
themes such as Solutions for the Base of the Pyramid Population, the applied research in IESD
has reached a wider section of the population and is contributing to the well-being of a diversified
user base. Similarly, the IoA is consolidating its strong foundations in built environment research
that was already recognised in REF2014 as impact-generating and making a real difference to
people’s lives. Since 2018, when the university was chosen as a Global Hub for SDG 16 by the
United Nations, IoA strategically aligned its focus to SDGs 11 (sustainable cities and communities)
and 13 (climate action), using this partnership to explore the UN’s 17 SDGs. Through ECR
recruitment and active participation in local and global impact-generating projects, IoA utilised its
internationally recognised areas of expertise in Architecture and the Built Environment to meet
these and other challenges.
The research strategy of the Institutes for REF 2021 is centred around four pillars:
•     Portfolio: delivering excellent research of a multidisciplinary nature across selected themes;
•     Proof of impact: ensuring impact that makes a difference to society;
•     People: supporting researchers to realise their full potential; and
•     Partnership: integration with researchers nationally and internationally.
These pillars and related achievements are elaborated below.
1.3.1 Multidisciplinary research portfolio
The Institutes have undertaken a diversified portfolio of funded and self-funded research, with
projects addressing societal challenges such as sustainable housing, low-energy buildings, energy
poverty, climate change, and sustainable living through better water, waste, transport and
infrastructure services. The research undertaken by the Unit is multidisciplinary in nature, involving
engineering (e.g. Greenough, Oyinlola, Pakka, Brown), building physics (e.g. Taki, Wright),
architecture and urban planning (e.g. Manoochehri, Bradbury, Perez, Massidda), economic
(e.g. Bhattacharyya), social (Lemon, Reeves, Morton) and environmental (Villa, Ozawa-Meida)
perspectives. In-house availability of diverse expertise naturally facilitates cross-disciplinary
research within the Unit and interdisciplinary research remains one of the main pillars of research
strategy for this Unit.
The research excellence is evidenced by a growing volume of publications, success with research-
grant funding (see 3.1) and awards for research project outcomes (as indicated in 4.2.4). Table 1
indicates our output growth compared to REF 2014. This represents an increase of 75% in output
volume and an increase of 67% in journal article publication over the previous REF period. The
team ensures research integrity through adherence to DMU’s research ethics and integrity codes,
and appropriate staff training.
Table 1: Research output growth of the Unit
                              Total volume        Journal papers
    REF 2014                  225                 133
    REF 2021                  393                 222
    Growth over the period    75%                 67%



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.3.2 Proof of impact
The applied research undertaken through the Institutes has directly influenced the conditions of
residents in households, users of public buildings, businesses, local communities and the
environment. Examples include:
•   Through the OASYS South Asia project (EP/G063826/2), Bhattacharyya and his team
    demonstrated the role of mini-grids for electricity access both academically and practically,
    thereby directly affecting the lives of 5,000 users in rural India (see the impact case
    Transforming Rural Lives Through Mini-Grids in India). Similarly, Gammon’s ESCoBox project
    (EP/L002566/1) has introduced the concept of sustainable operation and management of mini-
    grids in the developing world by integrating the concept of demand management, demand
    response and smart control systems. These projects have directly contributed to clean energy
    access (SDG 7), climate action (SDG 13) and helped improve living conditions of the rural
    population through better health, better education and poverty reduction (SDGs 3, 4 and 1,
    respectively).
•   Boait, Snape and Greenough’s work on demand response and renewable energy integration
    at the community level through the CEGADS project (EP/M507210/1) and BEIS supported
    Demand-Side Response projects translated research into a novel business model for
    community energy schemes in three Oxfordshire villages (see the second impact case around
    this work, Localisation of Electricity Generation and Use).
•   Research carried out by Fleming, Stuart and Ozawa-Meida (among others) through EU-
    Horizon 2020-funded projects (such as SMARTSPACES, GOODDEEDS, SAVES, SAVES2,
    EDI-NET and POWER) has led to the uptake of modified energy management and
    sustainability communications behaviour in more than 40 organisations across Europe.
    Through the delivery of software and training developed by DMU, organisations have been
    able to more closely integrate utility metering data into their operational practices. This has led
    to improved information and communication resulting in significant carbon emissions
    reductions of a minimum of 3,600 tonnes of CO2 (see the third impact case study titled Urban
    Analytics being submitted from this work).
•   The IoA is engaged in the DMU Square Mile India project to help an informal settlement in
    Ahmedabad (India) that suffers from severe flooding every year. The initiative led by Bradbury
    delivered the Loving Community flood resilience and home upgrade project in partnership with
    Gandhi Ashram, Ahmedabad and SeaLab Architects drawing on research expertise in
    Architecture and the Built Environment. SeaLab architects led the design in partnership with
    the School of Architecture using community engagement methods to understand the needs
    and issues in the community. The project assessed the cause of flooding of the homes and
    potential site-wide responses that might alleviate flooding, and identified adaptations to several
    homes within the community to stop flooding prior to the onset of the monsoon season. This
    was carried out within a budget of approximately £3,500 per home, using a range of recycled
    and other materials to minimise cost. The project is ongoing and was started in February 2018.
Open access to research outputs and data has underpinned the impact strategy of the Unit.
Research projects have adhered to DMU’s Open Access and Research Data Management
Policies (see REF5a). All research publications and related data are made available through DMU
repositories, DORA and DMU Figshare.
1.3.3 People
Both Institutes recognise the importance of an excellent research environment for productive
research activities. As indicated in section 2, the Unit has benefited from the recruitment of 17
ECRs and diversification of research capacity through 3 appointments at senior levels. The
Institutes offer a collegial and supportive research environment where the members of each
Institute use common facilities (e.g. laboratories, studios, office space, common areas and
administrative support). The Unit supports interdisciplinary research through a shared vision of
sustainable development that brings the teams together. A formal monthly meeting of the
Institutes, informal conversations among colleagues on a regular basis and a monthly research

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

seminar series where researchers share their research ideas, ongoing activities and achievements
also strengthen interdisciplinary collaboration.
Research within the Unit is conducted following high standards of research ethics and research
integrity. All research projects involving humans and human data undergo a formal ethical review
at the Faculty level and where appropriate at the University level. Researchers and research
students receive appropriate training from the University to ensure adherence to relevant policies
and procedures for the entire research lifecycle.
1.3.4 Partnerships
Finally, the Institutes have successfully developed research partnerships nationally and globally
(see 4.1).

1.4 FUTURE STRATEGY
Beyond the census period, the research strategy seeks to build on the strengths of the four pillars
of the current strategy and aim for the following:
•   strengthen impactful, interdisciplinary research through ongoing projects (e.g. SIGMA and
    Modern Energy Cooking Services (MECS) in Table 3 in section 3) and successful conversion
    of project pipelines into externally funded research through strategic investments in people and
    facilities;
•   explore and develop new niche areas of interdisciplinary research within Architecture and the
    Built Environment to address emerging societal challenges (such as post-Covid recovery
    through Renewable Energy (RE) interventions, RE hubs for international development, and
    smart cities) through strategic positioning, collaboration and partnerships;
•   nurture and develop research talent at all levels, including Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs),
    through researcher training and support to ensure high research integrity and excellent quality;
    and
•   engage widely with the academic and non-academic communities for Open Access
    dissemination of research outcomes. Ongoing projects in the areas of decarbonisation of the
    built environment will be leveraged to gain further momentum during this period and both
    Institutes are well placed to contribute to the societal challenge through impact-generating
    research.

1.5 IMPACT STRATEGY
The impact strategy of the Unit is to translate research that contributes towards addressing
important societal challenges into practice. Recognising different types of impacts, namely
academic, social, environmental and economic, a multipronged strategy has been adopted. For
example, the OASYS South Asia project had a demonstration component as one of the work
packages that required practical implementation of alternative business models for off-grid
electrification on the ground. The project team decided to use the budget for this component
innovatively to experiment with multiple delivery models that allowed the benefits to reach a wider
user base. These activities directly addressed several SDGs, namely SDG 3 on well-being, SDG 7
on energy, SDG 13 on climate change and SDG 6 on water. Similarly, IoA has been delivering
impact through community engagements and interactions with policymakers at the city and
national levels: for example, the flood-resilient low-cost housing for dwellers of informal
settlements in Gandhi Ashram (India) is of interest to the non-academic community, and is
contributing towards SDGs 7, 11 and 13. Indirectly, the research in these Institutes addresses
several other societal challenges as identified in SDG 1 (poverty), SDG 2 (hunger), SDG 4
(education), SDG 5 (gender equality), SDG 9 (industry and infrastructure) and SDG 12
(responsible consumption and production).
To realise research impact, the Unit has adopted a multipronged approach (Design, Develop,
Demonstrate, Disseminate):

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.5.1 Design and development activities
DMU realised the importance of research impact and the Impact Tracker software from Vertigo
Ventures has been used to manage evidence and support impact case development. As part of
any research proposal activity, researchers are encouraged to consider the impact from the
conceptualisation stage. Identification of who will be affected by the research, how they will
benefit, the need for recording appropriate evidence of impact and adequate funding to support
such activities are considered at this stage. DMU’s Research Services Directorate (RSD) provides
support at different stages of impact pathways.
1.5.2 Demonstration activities
Researchers have undertaken demonstration activities as part of their research projects. Pilot
projects have formed an integral part of realising research impact in several funded projects,
including OASYS South Asia, ESCoBox, SAVES, EDI-NET and MECS. Demonstration projects
have also been implemented using DMU funds, contributions by locals and from other partner
organisations – the DMUglobal project in India to design and demonstrate low-cost housing for the
low-income population is a prime example. Gammon’s demonstration of the concept of a Solar
Taxi in Gambia used DMU funding and support from industry partner Nissan.
1.5.3 Dissemination and public engagement activities
Research projects are actively pursuing communication and dissemination strategies to reach
different user groups, namely academic, institutional users, general public and community-based
users.
•   For academic beneficiaries, dissemination via journal papers, conference participation and
    contributions to books has been used. Researchers of the Unit have published in high-quality
    journals in the field, ensuring Green or Gold Open Access. Several authored and edited books
    were published too. For example, Bhattacharyya has published edited books (Mini-Grids for
    Rural Electrification of Developing Countries and the Routledge Handbook of Energy in Asia).
    Manoochehri has co-edited Smart Futures, Challenges of Urbanisation, and Social
    Sustainability. Perez has co-authored the book, Repurposing the Green Belt in the 21st
    Century. Megahed has published a book Practiceopolis.
•   For institutional users, targeted reports, policy briefs, newsletters and engagements via focus
    groups, interviews and surveys have been relied on. For example, EDI-NET and POWER
    projects have worked with local councils in various European cities to influence user behaviour
    in public buildings.
•   Web and social-media presence is widely relied on to share the knowledge with a wider
    population. News articles in New Scientist and on the BBC Future online platform have
    disseminated Bhattacharyya’s and Villa’s interviews globally.
•   The Unit’s research has also been disseminated through conference participation: ‘Energising
    the SDGs Through Appropriate Technology and Governance’ held in Leicester in July 2019
    attracted around 100 participants from around the world. IESD’s virtual conference in July
    2020 on ‘Aligning the Local Interventions with the UN SDGs’ attracted around 50 participants
    to share their research on cities and rural areas from around the world. Furthermore, an
    international symposium hosted by DMU focusing on learning environment design was
    organised in October 2019 and additionally two international symposiums were held in 2020 at
    the University to set up an international network around (1) the issues of toxicity and phyto-
    and bio-remediation in relation to ‘Landscapes of Hope: Contamination and Collective Design
    in Contexts of Urban Poverty’; and (2) ‘Biophilic Design in Primary Schools: Impacts on
    Children’s Well-Being’.
The impact strategy has helped deliver the desired impact of applied research of the Institutes
both nationally and internationally, which in turn has improved the visibility and recognition of the
Institute brands. Moreover, researchers from IESD have set up a spin-off company, EcoVisum Ltd
(www.ecovisum.com) in April 2016 to commercialise the knowledge on urban analytics. Beyond

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

the census period, the Unit’s impact strategy will follow the multipronged approach outlined above
and support all potential impact cases through training, funding and impact tracking.
 Section 2. People
 The Unit is composed of researchers of different levels and backgrounds and follows a staffing
 strategy that allows continuity, investment in strategic areas and support to researchers to
 deliver high-quality work.

 2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND DEVELOPMENT
 As dynamic organisations, both Institutes of UOA 13 have experienced staff movement and staff
 retirement over the assessment period while the parent Schools and Faculties have also
 reviewed and realigned their growth strategy. These factors have influenced staffing. Both
 Institutes have benefited from staff recruitment at different levels:
 •   Strategic appointments: Senior appointments included Ljiljana Marjanovic-Halburd (as
     Head of School of Engineering and Sustainable Development with affiliation to IESD for
     research purposes), Raffaella Villa (Reader in Environmental Engineering, affiliated to
     IESD), Simon Bradbury (PVC Dean, Faculty of Arts, Design and Humanities).
 •   Attracting young researchers: IESD and IoA have also benefited from the Vice-Chancellor’s
     flagship VC2020 Lectureship Scheme (REF5a) and Early Career Academic Fellows
     (ECAFs). In all, 17 researchers were recruited in VC2020 lecturer and ECAF positions in the
     two Institutes (see Table 2).
 As a consequence, compared to REF 2014, the research capacity of the Unit has more than
 doubled: from 14.1 FTE in 2014 to 31.2 FTE in this submission.
 All new staff in the UOA attend a staff induction event and as per DMU policy, all research-active
 staff apply for individual time allocations for undertaking research. All VC2020 positions and
 ECAFs have received a 50% research-time allowance in their first year, a personal research
 budget (of up to £5,000) and a mentor for advice and support. New researchers are paired with
 a senior researcher within the group, having expertise in related areas for mentoring purposes.
 Mentors provide advice regarding research training, funding options, grant applications,
 publications and doctoral supervision. Four VC2020s have also participated in DMU’s Future
 Research Leaders programme, which provides mentorship through an external mentor and
 financial support (up to £1,500). Abuzeinab, Polimeni, Perez and Oyinlola have taken part in
 this programme during this census period, which has made a visible contribution to their
 research careers (for example, Abuzeinab became the ADH Faculty Head of Research Students
 and Polimeni an Institute Head of Research Students).
 Researchers of the Unit are supported by the Research Services Directorate who provide a
 range of training and development opportunities to equip researchers for proposal development,
 ethical issues, intellectual property issues and project management aspects. Researchers are
 required to complete Equality and Diversity training and the Certificate in Research Supervision
 course.
 All research-active staff are given research-time allocations to undertake research through
 DMU’s Research and Innovation Allowance (RIA) scheme, which allows researchers to apply for
 one of the three allowance categories (320, 480 and 640 hours) in addition to a 10% scholarship
 allocation given to all (equating in total to 1.5–2.5 days per week). Further, budget allocation
 given to each Institute is used to support research and dissemination activities. These funds
 have been used to buy consumables for lab-based work, pay for Open Access publications,
 conference participation and procuring transcription services, among others. This budget is in
 addition to any support from funded research projects or funding support given to VC2020s and
 ECAFs.
 DMU’s clear career pathway has facilitated the Unit’s researchers to progress organically in their
 careers: ECAFs get promoted to lecturer positions, VC2020 lecturers become senior lecturers
 and then associate professors. Finally, internal promotion to reader and full professorships has
                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 also been achieved during the census period. For example, Taki received his chair in
 September 2019. A new position, Associate Professor, has been created to allow for a mid-
 career research position, with several researchers of both Institutes reaching this level through
 internal promotion (see Table 2 for details). The distribution of staff with significant responsibility
 for research returned in this submission and in 2014 is shown in Figure 3. The improvement in
 the gender balance is clearly evident from this figure.
 Table 2: Staff recruitment, retirement and movement within UOA 13
  Recruitment                    Internal promotion         Retirement            Left DMU
  Marjanovic-Halburd             Professor position         Fleming               Bull
  (Head of School,               Taki                       Rylatt
  Engineering and                                           Boait
  Sustainable Development)                                  Cropper
  Villa (Reader)                 Associate
                                 professors
                                 Painter
                                 Manoochehri
                                 Oyinlola
  Bradbury (Dean, Faculty
  of Arts, Design and
  Humanities)
  Senior Lecturer
  Tiwary
  Perez
  VC2020s in IESD                Senior Lecturer                                  Beizaee
  Beizaee                        Snape
  Oyinlola                       Pakka
  Snape                          Tian
  Pakka
  Tian
  VC2020s in IoA                 Senior Lecturer                                  Sharmin
  Hadi                           Abuzeinab                                        Villatoro
  Abuzeinab                      Zapata                                           Ebohon
  Sharmin                        Hadi                                             Causer
  Villatoro                      Megahed                                          Ireland
  Ghaziani                                                                        Periton
  Megahed
  Themistokleous
  ECAFs                          Lecturer
  Massidda                       Morton
  Polimeni                       Massidda
  Zapata                         Polimeni
  Morton
  Strzelecka
 All researchers submitted to UOA 13 are members of either IESD or IoA. The monthly research-
 group meetings, which are attended by researchers affiliated to the Institutes and the associated
 PGRs, provide a platform for discussing research-related issues, recent developments and
 initiatives to support research activities at the Institute and University levels. The Unit’s
 researchers also participate in a research seminar series operated at the School level, and
 benefit from seminars organised by the East Midlands branch of the Energy Institute, which are
 held at DMU on a monthly basis. In addition, researchers have benefited from the internal
 funding schemes, e.g. Higher Education Innovation Funding (Brown, Gammon, Bradbury) and
 Funding for Enterprise Projects (Villa). The University’s competitive annual Research Leave
 Scheme is also available to researchers.

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                                  Researcher distribution
                     35
                     30
   NUMBER OF STAFF




                     25
                     20
                     15
                     10
                      5
                      0
                          Total         Male        Female        Total         Male     Female
                                    REF2021                                    REF2014

                                    L     SL   AP     P      PVC Dean     SF    F


 Figure 3: UOA 13 researcher distribution by rank and gender
 Note: L – lecturer; SL – Senior Lecturer, SF – Senior Research Fellow; AP – Associate Professor, P –
 Professor, PVC Dean – Pro Vice-Chancellor, Dean of Faculty



 2.2 PGR STUDENT SUPPORT
 UOA 13 has a strong and successful Doctoral Training Programme, with 44 students gaining
 their degrees during the census period compared to 28 PhDs awarded during REF2014. As of
 July 2020, PGR recruitment is also strong: 49 students are currently enrolled under
 postgraduate research programmes (27 with IESD and 22 with IoA). This vibrant and diverse
 PhD community supports the scholarly activities of the Institutes. A majority of the current PGR
 students (more than 80%) are of international origin and are either sponsored by national
 agencies (e.g. Petroleum Technology Development Fund, Nigeria; Ministry of Agriculture and
 Rural Development, Vietnam; Governments of Libya and Jordan), supported through DMU
 scholarships or support from faculties (eight full award and one fee-waiver) or self-funded.
 The Institutes have embedded doctoral research within their research culture. Doctoral students
 participate in the research group’s monthly meetings, which has ensured better integration of
 doctoral researchers in the overall research activities of the Institutes. In addition, a doctoral
 seminar series was launched in July 2018, which is voluntarily managed by a doctoral student
 under the guidance of the Institute Head of Research Students. In this seminar series, a student
 presents his/her work for 20–30 minutes, followed by a discussion session for another half an
 hour. At the end of the event, written feedback is collected in a standard template from all
 attendees and is given to the presenter. Being a student-led activity, the series has become
 popular with doctoral students. In addition, a cross-Institute annual conference for PhD students
 promotes cross-disciplinary learning and student interactions.
 PGR students are recruited and managed centrally by the Doctoral College in close cooperation
 with the Faculty Head of Research Students, who is assisted by the Institute Head of Research
 Students. The affiliation of doctoral students to the research institutes is determined by the
 research-group membership of the main supervisor, but the student can hold associate
 membership in other research institutes as well.
 Every PGR student is supervised by a team of at least two supervisors having relevant skills and
 expertise in the student’s area of research. All supervisors are required to obtain the University’s
 Certificate in Research Supervision and are encouraged to attend refresher courses to keep up-
 to-date with changes in regulations and procedures. The supervision team interacts with the
                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 student on a regular basis and students are required to complete regular records of discussion
 which are reviewed annually; their progress is monitored through our online PGR management
 system. International students and part-time students not based locally receive supervision via
 emails, MS Teams meetings and Skype calls. The procedural requirement is to have at least
 one recorded interaction per month for full-time students. PGRs are reviewed annually by a
 panel that includes an independent assessor.
 DMU follows a standardised approach to PGR training at the Doctoral College level that focuses
 on the entire lifecycle of a research project and helps develop knowledge and intellectual
 abilities, personal effectiveness, research governance and organisation, and engagement,
 influence and impact. All students are offered a training programme that covers research
 methods, critical thinking, research project planning and management, research ethics and
 integrity, literature searching, writing and communication skills and good academic practice.
 They are also given training for career development so that they can transition to the
 independent researcher stage.
 PGRs who are based on campus have a desk in the same area as other researchers. For
 example, PGRs in the IoA have benefited from the self-contained premises in DMU’s historic
 cottages – see 3.2. This allows them to interact with the Institute members on a regular basis. In
 addition, if any specialised kit is required, the Institutes and the Schools support the procurement
 through the research supervisors. A number of PGRs are involved in teaching or supporting
 laboratory activities for undergraduate students and postgraduate students under the
 supervision of module leaders. This gives them the opportunity to develop their teaching and
 communication skills and prepares them for a future career in academia.
 PGR students are encouraged to publish and disseminate their research within the University as
 well as nationally and internationally. Doctoral students have been supported financially by the
 Institutes and the Faculty to participate in key events (e.g. International Conference on Climate
 Change in Washington, DC, in 2019; UK Heat Transfer Conference in Nottingham in 2019; 3rd
 OIKONET Conference on Global Dwelling: Sustainability – Design – Participation, 2016,
 Manchester). All PGR students can apply for up to £500 for research activities, including
 conference attendance and travel. Students also participate in other events (such as the annual
 poster session and 3-Minute Thesis challenge) organised by the Doctoral College and on
 several occasions, they have received prizes and commendations (e.g. best poster in 2018). In
 addition, the Doctoral College has initiated a lecture series highlighting the contribution of
 doctoral students to the SDGs and PGRs from this Unit of Assessment have participated in
 these events.

 2.3 PROMOTION OF EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 DMU champions diversity and equality through its policies and practices (REF5a). All staff are
 required to undergo mandatory training on equality and diversity. The Unit has a well-diversified
 researcher base in terms of gender, race and ethnicity. For example, out of 33 staff returned
 from this Unit in this REF, 12 are from BAME background and 12 are female researchers. More
 importantly, since 2014, seven new female researchers have joined the Unit, including one as
 professor and head of school, and a second as reader. Gender diversity has improved as a
 result (see Figure 4). The ethnic diversity has also improved: in REF 2014, only 3 BAME
 researchers were returned – this has risen to 12 in REF 2021.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                           Improvement in gender distribution
                                 of UoA13 researchers
                      25
                                                                   21
   PERSONS RETURNED




                      20
                                15
                      15
                                                                                  12

                      10

                                               4
                       5

                       0
                                     REF2014                            REF2021

                                                   Male   Female


 Figure 4: Improvement in researcher gender diversity in UOA 13
 Schools within each faculty are responsible for staff recruitment following HR policies. The
 Institutes adhere to DMU policies in respect of equality and diversity and all decisions related to
 support and career development are fully aligned with the statutory and policy requirements in
 this respect. Staff members have benefited from the University’s leave policy and are offered the
 opportunity to request a flexible working arrangement to ensure a better work–life balance. In
 addition, the faculties organise well-being sessions for researchers on a regular basis and offer
 support for health and safety through a variety of programmes and events.
 The process for research-time allocation allows individual researchers to explain their individual
 circumstances. The University Research Leave Scheme is also friendly towards diversity and
 equality principles – any researcher with continuous work experience of one year is eligible to
 apply for leave to undertake a dedicated research activity. The Institutes operate a transparent
 and equitable policy for using their budgetary resources as well. For example, IESD researchers
 are notionally allocated a fund of £500 to spend on any research-related activity (conference
 participation, software purchase, data transcription service fee, Open Access fee, etc.). For any
 remaining unused funding, researchers are invited to submit requests for spending in
 appropriate areas.
 Overall, the Unit has benefited from new recruitment that has improved the diversity,
 sustainability and vitality of the group. This people-centric focus has supported the Unit to deliver
 its research objectives successfully and will remain a key element of the Unit’s future strategy.
Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
This Unit is an important research-income generator within DMU and has benefited from
investment in infrastructure and facilities in recent years. This section elaborates on these aspects.

3.1 EXTERNAL INCOME
During the assessment period, the Unit has received £3,300,000 in research-grant funding from
different sources (UK Research Councils, EU sources, government agencies and charities), which
is marginally less than £3,600,000 reported in REF 2014. The retirement of several senior
researchers (e.g. Fleming, Rylatt and Boait) and a strong focus on capacity building through
ECRs has contributed to this marginal loss in grant income. However, the Unit has generated
additional income via commercial research (e.g. Snape, Gammon, Wright, Bhattacharyya) as
well as doctoral fellowships from industries and other sources (Painter, Lemon) during this
census period which are not reported in HESA returns. Table 3 shows that the Unit has been
successful in attracting research grants of different sizes from various sources.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Table 3: Selected research projects
 Title                  PI at DMU         Duration     Funding         Project value
                                                       agency
 Agent-based            Rylatt            2013–2016    EPSRC               £561,836.00
 Modelling of
 Electricity Networks
 (AMEN)
 Circular Plastic       Oyinlola      1 April 2020–    EPSRC               £127,544.00
                                      31 March
                                      2021
 Consortium for         Bhattacharyya 2014–2017        US                   £50,000.00
 rapid smart grid                                      Department of
 impact                                                State (Global
                                                       Innovation
                                                       Initiative)
 Digital Innovations    Oyinlola          May 2020-    EPSRC               £129,471.00
 for Transitioning to                     April 2021
 a Circular Plastic
 Economy (DITCh
 Plastic)
 EDI-NET                Fleming/          2016–2019    H2020             €1,558,800.00
                        Marjanovic-
                        Halburd
 ESCoBox                Gammon            2013–2017    EPSRC               £843,943.00
 e-Teacher – End-       Bull/Reeves       2017–2020    H2020             €2,394,862.50
 user tools to
 empower and raise
 awareness of
 behavioural change
 toward energy
 efficiency
 GEOTECH –              Greenough         2015–2019    H2020             €7,136,662.88
 Geothermal
 Technology for
 Economic cooling
 and heating
 Integrating the        Bhattacharyya 2019–2020        ESRC                 £50,000.00
 SDGs into climate
 planning of British
 and Japanese cities
 Leicester City         Fleming/          2013-14 to   Innovate UK,         £51,358.00
 Council KTP            Cropper           2015-16      KTP
 Modern Energy          Gammon            2018–2023    DFID                £280,000.00
 Cooking Services
 (MECS)
 Networking Grant –     Ghaziani      2019-20 to       GCRF                 £24,960.00
 healing nature                       2020-21
 OASYS – South Asia     Bhattacharyya 2012–2015        EPSRC/DFID         £829,548.00
 POWER – Political      Fleming/      2015–2019        H2020             €3,747,937.50
 and Social             Marjanovic-
 Awareness on Water     Halburd
 and Environmental
 Challenges


                                                                                  Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    REEMAIN –              Greenough        2013–2017        FP7                 €6,098,037.00
    Resource and
    Energy Efficient
    Manufacturing
    SMARTSPACES            Fleming          2012–2015        H2020               €6,977,199.00
    STEEEP – Support       Fleming          2014–2017        Intelligent         €2,700,000.00
    and Training for an                                      Energy Europe
    Excellent Energy
    Efficiency
    Performance
    UKRI GCRF              Bhattacharyya 2 March             ESRC                £1,243,899.00
    Sustainability,                      2020–1
    Inclusiveness and                    September
    Governance of Mini-                  2023
    Grids in Africa
    (SIGMA)

The research funding has supported several key areas of research, including:
•     energy for international development through projects such as OASYS South Asia project,
      ESCoBox project, Modern Energy Cooking Services, SIGMA, Circular Plastic and Digital
      Innovations for transitioning to a circular plastic economy;
•     smart grid and renewable energy integration through AMEN, REEMAIN, Geotech and
      Consortium for rapid smart grid impact; and
•     energy efficiency and behaviour change in industry and non-domestic public buildings in
      European countries through European projects such SMARTSPACES, EDI-NET, Steep,
      POWER and e-teacher.
The Unit has successfully diversified the grant portfolio and, more importantly, young and mid-
career researchers (Gammon, Oyinlola, Tiwary, Ghaziani) have become successful grant
holders, which will form the building block for future growth and success of the Unit beyond the
census period.

3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE AND RESEARCH FACILITIES
IESD and IoA have benefited from investment in facilities and infrastructure. The new Vijay Patel
Building (£55,000,000) has offered modern facilities for the IoA whereas the Energy Lab within
IESD has allowed experimental research activities. The Energy Lab was set up in 2016 with an
investment of £200,000 by the Faculty to support energy-related research and education. In
2019/20, a further expansion of the facility has been completed to support e-mobility and demand
response research with an investment of £150,000. An additional £100,000 investment has been
planned in 2020/21 to integrate smart-grid research elements. In addition, investments in 3D
printers, high-performance computing facilities, and software licences have also been made by the
Faculty (£100,000).
The IoA has excellent self-contained premises for use by its PGRs in the historic 6 and 7 Castle
View cottages (66m2 floor area), helping to create a clear sense of identity, a common purpose
and a vibrant community spirit. The Institute has installed a high-performance computing facility,
approximately 140 Z4 computers at a cost of £2,000 per unit in the IT Lab, Vijay Patel Building.
The workshop facilities in the IoA continue to be upgraded to provide excellent and up-to-date
equipment from traditional woodworking to printed models. On average £200,000 is spent annually
on new and replacement equipment. The workshops have been part of the campus for over 40
years and are equipped with advanced and precise laser cutters, 3D scanning / 3D printing, milling
and rapid prototyping machines. The IoA also has extensive facilities for model-making,
photography and small-scale video production, and a high-performance computing facility with
current releases of a range of software and analysis tools that can be used for teaching and

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

research purposes. This includes AutoCAD, Revit, 3ds max, Adobe Creative Suite, SketchUp,
Rhino/Grasshopper, V-Ray, DesignBuilder, and Elmhust Design SAP. The IoA has installed a
range of architectural software together with Dynamic Thermal Simulation tools.
In IESD’s labs and workshops, research activities include the development of electric vehicle
systems (e.g. a hydrogen-powered range extender), smart grid and demand-side response
systems, thermal and electrical energy storage systems (e.g. a hybrid battery-electrolyser device)
and many more. They also provide space for students to undertake practical work on projects,
such as the electric racing car for the Formula Student competition. Experienced technicians
support the research activities in the Energy Lab. As part of DMU’s system, the Institutes benefit
from the services offered centrally by the Research Services Directorate (such as training,
networking, support for grant proposals) and the administrative support of the Research and
Innovation Office at the Faculty level (such as procurement, budget monitoring and reporting).
Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 COLLABORATION AND PARTNERSHIPS
This Unit has established strong collaborations and partnerships with researchers from around the
world. The research collaboration has relied on a number of approaches:
1      Funded research has allowed participation in research consortiums, which is a natural way
       of developing strong research collaboration.
       • Participation in several Horizon 2020 projects of the European Union (e.g. POWER,
           EDI-NET, REEMAIN, GEOTECH, SMARTSPACES) have allowed partnership with a
           range of European partners from academia, local authorities, regional organisations
           and businesses. These partnerships have allowed follow-up research projects and
           widened the reach of research activities. Collaboration developed through
           SMARTSPACES supported the subsequent successes in the form of EDI-NET and
           POWER.
       • UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)–funded research (e.g. OASYS South Asia,
           ESCoBox, AMEN, SIGMA, CAPACities, etc.) has supported collaboration with other UK
           universities (e.g. Edinburgh Napier, Sussex, Newcastle and Cranfield, among others).
           The collaboration developed through OASYS and ESCoBox projects has facilitated the
           consortium-building for the subsequent award SIGMA.
       • A Global Challenges Research Fund Networking grant on ‘healing by nature’ has
           enhanced collaboration with Universitas Indonesia.
       • Funding from UKRI international projects and the Department for International
           Development has supported research collaboration with international partners in Asia
           and Africa (particularly in India, Kenya, Nigeria, Tanzania, The Gambia), which in turn
           facilitates the wider reach of research impact and internationalisation of research
           influence of the Unit.
       • Through a Global Innovation Initiative project funded by the US Department of State,
           research collaboration was established with UNESP (Brazil) and Purdue University at
           Calumet. A list of partner organisations for different projects is given in Table 4. In
           many cases, DMU has formal collaboration agreements that go beyond the project life.
       Continued grant success and development of a project pipeline directly follow from
       collaborations mentioned above.
2      International research students and alumni have been another source of international
        collaboration. A number of international students have facilitated the process of
        collaboration with their former organisations and acted as anchors. For example, an
        Argentinian alumnus received a British Council Higher Education Link grant for two weeks
        (in 2019) to participate in research work on sustainable energy solutions in social housing
        involving DMU and his current employer. Additionally, the Architecture courses have a
        strong employability focus and the school has an excellent track record in the delivery of
        Architecture education and has developed several niche areas of strength. This has led to

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      growing our Transnational Education provision in the area of the built environment in Sri
      Lanka, for example. This has potential for further research collaboration to be exploited
      beyond the census period including, but not limited to, supervisory collaboration.
3     The strategic collaboration arrangements or initiatives made by the University have also
      opened up new opportunities. These include:
      •   Square Mile India and Loving Community flood resilience and home upgrade project;
      •   the ‘Built Environment’ DMU Local+ project through which consultancy services to
          Leicester City Council were provided in relation to emerging regeneration plans for
          areas of north-west Leicester;
      •   an agreement for research capacity building with Srinakharinwirot University (Thailand)
          and Africa Centre of Excellence on Science, Engineering & Technology for
          Entrepreneurship in The Gambia;
      •   Memoranda of Understanding between IoA and Pescara University, Italy; Federal
          University of Technology, Kaduna Polytechnic in Nigeria; and Institute for Rescue on
          Innovation and Services for Development (IRISS CNR), Napoli to strengthen
          collaborations;
      •   research collaboration between IoA and Seville University, Spain and other
          international partnerships; and
      •   research collaboration between IoA and Taif University (Saudi Arabia) whereby their
          Head of Civil Engineering spent the whole summer in Leicester working with us on
          research related to energy and indoor climate. This resulted in a joint article in the
          Journal of Indoor and Built Environment.
4     Partnership through other initiatives: the Institutes within this UOA have developed
      research collaboration through other interactions and initiatives as well. Book projects
      constitute a case in point. Bhattacharyya was commissioned by Routledge to edit the
      Routledge Handbook of Energy in Asia. This project over two years led to interactions and
      engagement with world leaders in Asian energy issues. Subsequently, a joint project
      proposal with one of the collaborators (IGES) got funded through ESRC, thereby further
      strengthening the research partnership. Similarly, the SDG Conferences organised in July
      2019 and July 2020 further supported partnership efforts. In addition, ECRs through the
      Erasmus Staff Exchange programme were received by the Unit, which led to the
      submission of a Marie Curie Fellowship proposal for further innovative research.
5     Links with professional organisations and professions: CIAT, CABE and RIBA are regularly
      invited to the IoA as part of accreditation processes; Massidda was recently shortlisted for
      RIBA President’s Awards for Research 2020, for her journal article ‘Shantytowns, Housing
      and State Order: The Plan de Emergencia in 1950s Argentina’. Further dialogue has
      strengthened relationships with these bodies and led to discussions regarding how to
      achieve a greater integration with practice and the built environment that links to our
      undergraduate and postgraduate teachings. Similarly, IESD is actively involved with the
      Energy Institute and hosts the East Midlands EI talks and seminars on a monthly basis. In
      addition, IESD has close links with CIBSE.




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Table 4: Selected list of project partners and collaborators
 Title                            Project partners
 Integrating the SDGs into        Institute for Global Environmental Strategies (Japan)
 climate planning of British
 and Japanese cities
 SIGMA: Sustainability,           University of Sussex (UK); Institute of Development Studies
 Inclusiveness and                (UK); ECREEE (Cape Verde); Tatedo (Tanzania); CFIA
 Governance of Mini-grids in      (Kenya); ICEED (Nigeria)
 Africa
 Decentralised off-grid           Edinburgh Napier University (UK); University of Manchester
 electricity generation in        (UK); The Energy and Resources Institute (India); TERI
 developing countries:            School of Advanced Studies (India)
 Business models for off-grid
 electricity supply (OASYS –
 South Asia)
 ESCoBox: Smart monitoring,       Newcastle University (UK); University of Nairobi (Kenya);
 billing and control for pro-     Practical Action (UK); SteamaCo; Bboxx
 poor access to energy
 services
 Agent-based Modelling of         National Energy Foundation (UK); E.ON (UK); European
 Electricity Networks (AMEN)      Institute for Energy Research (Germany); CSIRO (Australia)
 Consortium for rapid smart       UNESP (Brazil); University of Purdue (USA)
 grid impact
 POWER – Political and Social     Consortium Ubiquitous Technologies SCARL (Italy);
 Awareness on Water and           Fundació CTM Centre Tecnològic (Catalunya); KWR Water
 Environmental Challenges         BV (Netherlands); European Institute for Participatory Media
                                  EV (Germany); Climate Alliance (Germany); Universiteit
                                  Utrecht (Netherlands); Leicester City Council (UK);
                                  Aggregate Formula LDA (Portugal); Hagihon Company Ltd
                                  (Israel); Milton Keynes Council (UK); Companyia d’Aigues
                                  de Sabadell SA (Catalunya)
 EDI-NET: Energy Data             Climate Alliance (Germany); Leicester City Council (UK);
 Innovation Network               Centre Internacional de Mètodes Numèrics en Enginyeria
                                  (Catalunya); Departament de Territori i Sostenibilitat –
                                  Generalitat de Catalunya (Spain); Empirica Gesellschaft für
                                  Kommunikations- und Technologie Forschung mbH
                                  (Germany); Stadt Nurnberg (Germany)
 REEMAIN – Resource and           Fundación CARTIF (Spain); Integrated Environmental
 Energy Efficient                 Solutions Ltd (UK); Galletas Gullón SA (Spain); Bossa
 Manufacturing                    Ticaret Ve Sanayi Isletmeleriturk Anonim Sirketi (Turkey);
                                  Accademia Europea di Bolzano (Italy); R2M Solution SRL
                                  (Italy); Uli Jakob (Germany); Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft zur
                                  Förderung der Angewandten Forschung EV (Germany);
                                  Youris.com (Greece); Solera GmbH (Germany); Est Enerji
                                  Sistem Teknolojileri Sanayi Ic Ve Dis Ticaret Limited Sirket
                                  (Turkey); Ikerlan S. Coop (Spain); Centro di Ricerca e
                                  Innovazione Tecnologica SRL (Italy); SCM Group Spa
                                  (Italy); Asociación Española de Normalización (Spain); Dr
                                  Jakob Energy Research GmbH & Co. (Germany); SCM
                                  Fonderie SRL (Italy)

                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Both the Institutes have an open research environment where researchers are free to pursue their
own interest individually and in collaboration with other researchers within the Institutes as well as
with researchers in other faculties in the University and beyond. This cross-faculty collaboration
also enriches the research of the Institutes and opens new funding opportunities. For example, the
work on smart cities being carried out within the Unit has involved collaboration with the Business
School. Similarly, collaboration exists with the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences in the areas of
water and sanitation issues for international development.

4.2 WIDER CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
Being units of applied research, researchers at IESD and IoA are fully engaged in enterprise
activities. The teams have maintained a close working relationship with Leicester City Council,
who participated in several EU-funded projects as a partner (e.g. SMARTSPACES, EDI-NET,
POWER, SAVES, etc.). This has allowed researchers to engage with local schools, users of public
buildings, and the local policymakers. The team has been actively involved in shaping Leicester’s
smart-city strategy (Painter, Greenough, Marjenovic-Halburd), its climate response (Reeves)
and the local police force’s effort to control serious and organised crime (Lemon). The team has
also provided consultancy services via DMU Local+ projects. The engagement, however, is not
limited to local areas. The Unit has given advice to the Department for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy (Snape), social housing associations (Lemon), the Department for International
Development (Bhattacharyya) and the World Health Organization, among others. These
engagements allow the researchers opportunities to share their expertise and work under different
environments, thereby enriching their experience as well. This also acts as an inspiration for junior
researchers and opens opportunities for further research.
Researchers submitted to this Unit contribute to the research base in a number of ways:
4.2.1 Participation in research council panel meetings
Bhattacharyya has served as a member of the Research Councils Norway in 2020. He is also a
reviewer of IPCC AR6 WGII. Fleming has also served at several EPSRC panels during this REF
period.
4.2.2 Peer Review College membership
•   Bhattacharyya is a member of Energy Institute College.
•   Bhattacharyya, Fleming, Taki and Tian are members of the EPSRC Peer Review College
    and review grant applications for UK.
•   Tiwary is a member of the EPSRC Associate Peer Review College since 2018.
4.2.3 Committee memberships
•   Bhattacharyya has been appointed as a member of the Scientific Advisory Board of FEEM –
    Fondazione Eni Enrico Mattei, Milan (for 2021–2023).
•   Greenough is a member of Experts Reference Group for Leicester City Council and was chair
    (2015–2018), then Events Secretary (2018–present) for East Midlands Branch of Energy
    Institute.
•   Lemon is an external advisor to Open University and is an assessor of the PhD Supervisor
    Development Programme in Northampton University.
•   Lemon and Marjanovic-Halburd are co-chairs of the Expert Reference Group set up to give
    advice to Leicester City Council on their climate policy.
•   Marjanovic-Halburd was an organising committee member for the 2nd IBPSA-England
    Conference, BSO14 Building Simulation and Optimisation (2014). She is also a member of the
    CIBSE Knowledge Partnership Sub Committee (KPSC).



                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

•   Painter is a member of Smart Leicester Land, Buildings and Infrastructure Board (Leicester
    City Council).
•   Reeves is a member of the Experts Reference Group and Environmental Experts
    Commission, both of which support initiatives by Leicester City Council and partner
    organisations.
•   Taki was an invited committee member and chaired an international conference track on
    ‘Sustainable Streets – Meeting Future Needs’, the 2nd International Conference on City Street,
    Notre Dame University Lebanon, 2016.
•   Tiwary was a member of the Hong Kong Chemical, Biological and Environmental Engineering
    Society Conference Technical Committee member, 2020.
•   Villa is an assessor for the British Federation of Women Graduates Scholarship from 2011,
    ongoing.
•   Wright is a member of Special Interest Group on School Design; chair April 2017–April 2019.
    This included working with the Department for Education on a project to assess future
    adaptation of school buildings to climate change.
4.2.4 Awards and recognition
•   H2020 POWER Project received the Water Governance Award at Water Innovation Europe
    Award 2020.
•   OASYS South Asia Project (EP/G063826/2) received two Green Gown awards for Community
    Innovation in 2015.
•   SAVES2 energy dashboard has won the ‘Best in Class’ digital innovation award in 2019.
•   A team consisting of Snape, Boait and others won the Dynamic Demand Challenge
    competition in 2014 set up by Ofgem and National Grid.
•   Villa’s EU/ERDF Bio-Thermal RED project was highly commended by the Anaerobic Digestion
    and Biogas Association (ABDA) in 2016.
4.2.5 Examination of research work
Researchers in this Unit regularly act as internal and external examiners for PhD research. The
invitations for such tasks are routinely received by the staff from UK Universities and abroad. For
example:
•   Bhattacharyya has examined doctoral research of students from the UK, Australia, India,
    Singapore and Thailand during this assessment period.
•   Taki, Yuri and Perez have examined doctorates at Nottingham University, Salford University
    and Sheffield University.
•   Wright has externally examined 9 doctoral studies during this REF period.
4.2.6 Editorship of journals and edited books
•   Bhattacharyya is an associate editor of Energy for Sustainable Development and is a
    member of the editorial board of Environmental Research Letters and AIMS Energy as well as
    being series editor of Sustainable Development Goals Series: Affordable and Clean Energy
    (Springer Nature).
•   Lemon has edited a special issue on ‘Mixed Methods and Energy Research’ for Energies in
    2015.
•   Lemon, Painter, Morton and Mitchell have guest edited a special issue of Energies,
    ‘Communities Living Sustainably: Multiple Perspectives on Low Carbon Energy’ in 2020.



                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

•   Manoochehri has co-edited Smart Futures, Challenges of Urbanisation, and Social
    Sustainability.
•   Perez has co-authored the book, Repurposing the Green Belt in the 21st Century.
•   Snape is a guest editor of a special Issue of Energies on Low Carbon Energy Systems.
•   Taki is an invited chief guest editor of a special issue on the subject of ‘Advances on Building
    Performance & Sustainability’ for the journal of Sustainability in 2021.
•   Tiwary has published an edited volume Air Pollution: Measurement, Modelling and Mitigation
    (3rd and 4th editions) and is a section board member of Sustainability (MDPI journal).
•   Villa is the editor of Environmental Technology Review (Taylor & Francis) and member of the
    Editorial Board of ICE-Proceedings of the Institution of Civil Engineers – Water Management.
4.2.7 Review of research proposals and journal articles
Researchers of UOA 13 review grant proposals for research funding agencies.

•   Bhattacharyya has reviewed proposals for EPSRC, ESRC, British Council, Leverhulme Trust
    and international funding agencies (Norway, Netherlands, Switzerland).
•   Greenough has reviewed proposals for RAE Ingenious programme (2), ESRC (1),
    EPSRC (1), and Leverhulme Trust (1).
•   Snape is an European Commission Expert and has reviewed several H2020 project proposals
    under Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions.
•   Taki has been reviewing grant proposals for EPSRC since 2000.
•   Tiwary has reviewed grant applications for British Council Newton Fund Grant. He has also
    reviewed grant applications for a UKRI-EPSRC thematic call on research and innovation ideas
    to address Covid-19 issues (2020). He is also acting as a reviewer for the Hong Kong
    Government Research Grant Council’s Environmental Theme-based Research Scheme
    (2014–) and for the Jordan Government Scientific Research Support Fund (2017–).
•   Villa has reviewed grant applications for BBSRC, EPSRC, NERC and EB Network, EU-
    Horizon 2020, Science Foundation Ireland, SÊRCYMRUII, the Water Research Institute of the
    University of North Carolina, and the Agricultural Research Council (ARC-ZA).
•   Wright has reviewed proposals for EPSRC and GCRF projects.
Researchers also review papers for journals and book proposals for publishers.

•   Greenough has reviewed journal articles for Energies, Sustainability, Inventions, Journal of
    Cleaner Production, Geothermics, Sustainable Production and Consumption and Energy and
    Buildings.
•   Lemon reviews for Energies, Open Learning, International Journal of Sustainable
    Development in Higher Education, Environment International, Environmental Science and
    Policy, Journal of Cleaner Production, among others.
•   Marjanovic-Halburd has reviewed for Energy and Buildings, ASHRAE Transactions, Indoor
    and Built Environment and Building Services Engineering Research and Technology.
•   Massidda is external peer reviewer for Journal of Latin American Studies (2021), Urban
    Studies (2020), the Bulletin of Latin American Research (2019), Estudios del Hábitat
    (University of La Plata, 2019), REVISTARQUIS (University of Costa Rica, 2019), Journal of
    Latin American Cultural Studies (2018).
•   Morton and Reeves have reviewed papers for Energy Research & Social Science.
•   Painter has reviewed papers for Building and Environment, Energy & Buildings, Building
    Research and Information, Energy Research & Social Science and Energy Efficiency.
                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

•   Snape has reviewed papers for Climate Policy, Energy Policy and Energies.
•   Tiwary has reviewed papers for Environmental Technology & Innovation, Ecological
    Engineering and Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews.
•   Villa has reviewed papers for Bioresource Technology, Journal of Cleaner Production, Journal
    of Environmental Management, Journal of Molecular Catalysis B: Enzymatic, Waste
    Management and Water Research, among others.
•   Wright has reviewed papers for Applied Energy, Sustainability, Energies, Building Services
    Engineering Research & Technology, Energy, Politics and Governance, Frontiers Built
    Environment and Energy Reports.
4.2.8 Contribution to the wider economy and society
Most of the research undertaken by this Unit, being applied in nature, directly influences society.
Some examples have already been provided (see 1.2 and 1.3) and additional examples are given
below.
Currently, the IoA is engaged in a DMUlocal project (REF5a) with Leicester City Council
contributing to the Council’s aspirations regarding the built environment. During 2019/20, the IoA
contributed architecture/urban design expertise to the Council and chaired interdisciplinary
meetings to support the redevelopment work at Stocking Farm, Beaumont Leys and the intentions
to establish an Urban Room. The IoA continues to support the Council in its ‘Leicester Better Built
Environment Project’ in Beaumont Leys, presenting proposals to inform their implementation of a
‘gateway’ from Beaumont Leys Lane to Beaumont Lane Green Open Space.
Ghaziani’s research with Earlsdon Primary School, Coventry was part of a successful Partnership
Grant application to the Royal Society. The project has received funding and will continue beyond
the census period. It will involve installing (interior and exterior) green (living) walls in Earlsdon
Primary School. The project is designed to provide a connection to nature in an urban school. The
project, about the relationship between urban schools and nature contributes to Ghaziani’s
ongoing research into biophilic design.
Gammon undertook a field trial in The Gambia, which resulted in the piloting of Africa’s first solar-
powered taxi service whereby an electric taxi is recharged entirely from a solar-powered mini-grid.
This project benefited the local community addressing SDGs 1 (poverty), 3 (health), 7 (energy), 8
(economic growth), 11 (cities and communities), 12 (responsible consumption and production) and
13 (climate action).
IESD research on building energy via the SMARTSPACES project has influenced the
consumption behaviour of users in public buildings in Leicester and other European cities. The
SAVES project has directly influenced DMU students’ awareness and behaviour towards energy
use in their halls of residence and helped reduce energy use in the halls. Through a knowledge
exchange project and through H2020 POWER project, IESD has also worked closely with
Leicester schools in improving their building energy awareness and energy performance.
Researchers of the Unit have actively participated in dissemination activities to share scientific
knowledge with the general public as well. For example, Villa has shared her research on urban
waste management with the general public through:
•   New Scientist Live – The complex science of fatbergs, October 2019;
•   Channel 4, Food Unwrapped: The Saponification Process, 2018;
•   Channel 4, Fatberg Autopsy: The Secrets of the Sewers, May 2018;
•   Museum of London, 2018 introduction;
•   SoapBox Science – Biogas from Waste; and
•   BBC Radio 4, ‘Costing the Earth’ interview on Fat, Oil and Greases Management from Waste,
    2014.

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The research unit has made a significant contribution to society both nationally and internationally
through research in diverse areas of the built environment and is well-positioned to continue on
this trajectory beyond the census period.




                                                                                            Page 22
