Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

 1B   Unit of Assessment: 11 (Computer Science and Informatics)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure

 Computing Science is a vibrant, dynamic and outwardly looking Unit. It is staffed by international
 researchers and enjoys a culture of cross- and interdisciplinary research and collaboration with
 industry, government and the third sector. The Unit has a track record of projects from diverse
 funding bodies. It is one of four disciplines in the School of Natural and Computing Sciences,
 together with Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry. Research in Computing Science is
 organised under two cross-disciplinary themes: “Trust, Identity, Privacy and Security” (TIPS)
 and “Human Inspired and Understandable Computing” (HIUC). TIPS focuses on the
 specification and verification of the features of autonomous systems and human-agent teams,
 data sharing and core areas of cybersecurity. HIUC covers the theory and applications of
 machine learning, automated reasoning and formal argumentation, explainable artificial
 intelligence (XAI) and natural language generation (NLG).

 In 2014, Computing Science research had three themes: “Agents, Reasoning and Knowledge”
 (ARK), “Natural Language Generation” (NLG) and “Systems Modelling” (SM). The themes were
 re-aligned strategically into the two themes, described earlier, pre-empting (but also fine-tuning
 them to) international and national focus on cybersecurity and (explainable/accountable) AI. This
 change was further motivated by: (a) the increased interdisciplinarity of our research (for
 example, with the medical school, where we contribute to the GBP15M Innovate UK Industrial
 Centre for AI Research in Digital Diagnostics, iCAIRD); (b) our successful involvement in funding
 programmes like the Digital Economy TIPS programme; and (c) the need to capitalise on our
 long-standing expertise in topics such as explainable AI using NLG, reasoning and formal
 argumentation techniques. The themes have a fluid and flexible nature, enabling staff to
 collaborate across and within them.

 Oren (Head of Department) leads the Unit, representing Computing Science within the School
 and University. Edwards (Head of School) is a researcher in Computing, overseeing school-wide
 policies, budget, strategy and planning. The Director of Research (Vasconcelos) represents the
 Unit in research-related issues and forums and is responsible for: disciplinary research training
 and yearly research “away days”; the dissemination of calls-for-proposals and Unit-specific
 research-related information; and the organisation of research seminars and other research
 events (e.g., annual “research jamborees”, explained in section 2.3).

 The 2014-2020 period saw a reduction in staffing. The University recruited seven new
 lecturers/senior lecturers (four in HIUC and three in TIPS) and created a new research sub-
 group with complementary specialisms within cybersecurity (four FTEs). The recruitment is part
 of the University-wide strategy “Aberdeen 2040”, placing AI and Data as a central
 interdisciplinary challenge for the next 20 years and includes plans for a further increase in staff
 numbers (see REF5a). The 20-year strategy/vision for the discipline is to enhance academic
 interdisciplinary collaborations (e.g., medicine, law, geography, biology, transport and arts), and
 partnerships with industry, government and other stakeholders, as reflected in research grants
 and publications (see items 3 and 4 of this document)

 1.2 Research strategy

 Our two cross-disciplinary themes reflect core research strengths that are of international
 importance. Cross-theme collaboration has been exploited in various recent calls-for-proposals.
 We adapted the research vision laid out for REF2014, factoring in our staff changes and new
 research challenges.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since REF2014, we strengthened our themes by recruiting staff with complementary research
 foci to bring in new ideas and approaches; this is evidenced by the strengthening of our machine
 learning and cybersecurity expertise, as we recognised these are essential to our research
 vision. While we carry out theoretical and applied research within each theme, we have also built
 successful cross-theme collaborations and interdisciplinary research; these have attracted
 funding and generated impact (e.g., Supporting Security Policy with Effective Digital Intervention
 (SSPEDI), EPSRC, “Human Dimensions of Cyber Security” call, EP/P011829/1, combining
 Cybersecurity, Human-Computer Interaction and Policy-based Reasoning). We have engaged
 with industry, government and other stakeholders; these include food (Food Sentiment
 Observatory, ESRC, ES/P011004/1) and transport (PORTIS, “PORT-Cities: Integrating
 Sustainability”, EU 690713,). Engagement with industry has taken place via consultancy
 (Vasconcelos), secondment (Reiter, Sripada, Pan) and projects co-funded by companies and
 industry sector funding bodies (e.g., Selex Galileo, IBM-UK, Microsoft Research, OGTC and Oil
 and Gas Innovation Centre (OGIC)).

 Computing Science is close to the Institute of Pure and Applied Mathematics, sharing resources
 (e.g., joint seminar speakers, software licences, special hardware such as GPUs) and engaging
 in collaboration (e.g., joint supervision of PhD students and joint grant applications). Staff are
 encouraged to collaborate across themes. Computing has pathways in place for collaboration
 with other disciplines and stakeholders ranging from informal (e.g., stakeholders are invited to
 attend events where we showcase UG, MSc and PhD research projects), to more structured but
 informal (e.g., an MSc summer research project co-supervised by colleagues from other
 disciplines), to more formal (e.g., a summer internship or MSc research project exploring an AI
 solution to a problem provided by a stakeholder, with intellectual property provisions and non-
 disclosure agreements in place).

 Our institution is part of the UK Reproducibility Network. Reflecting national and international
 expectations, we adopt, with central support, an open and reproducible approach to research,
 whereby data, software, experimental setups and results are made available to the scientific
 community and the general public. We ensure research integrity (including ethical review,
 management of data and supervision), supported centrally and in compliance with the UUK
 Concordat (2019) (see REF5a). The institutional engagement with these initiatives has provided
 clear internal processes to follow (for research integrity, the ethical review of experiments is a
 well-defined and positive exercise, leading to improvements in process(es) and product(s)), and
 we have access to tailored IT provisions for making research outcomes available to different
 segments of the public (i.e., data “safe havens” to provide controlled access to datasets and a
 trusted computational environment to support research using sensitive data sets, long-term
 storage of documents and data and so on). We adhere to the “Code of Conduct” of the British
 Computer Society (BCS) and the “Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct” of the Association
 for Computing Machinery (ACM).

 Our research strategy, aligned with our institutional 20-year vision Aberdeen 2040 (see REF5a),
 enables us to exploit the funding landscape and create impact. Our themes (with their cross-
 disciplinarity, fluidity and flexibility) align with “AI and Data”, a UK Industrial Strategy grand
 challenge. Our themes align with the UKRI Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund’s “Digital Security
 by Design” priority, especially in connection with the safe/secure adoption of AI and the Internet-
 of-Things technologies. Additionally, our themes align with EPSRC’s Delivery Plan (i.e.,
 “Trustworthy and accountable data, AI and autonomy for a successful society”) and EPSRC’s
 Digital Economy “Trust, Identity, Privacy and Security” priority area. Our culture of collaboration
 across machine learning, NLG and reasoning and cybersecurity gives us a differential reflected
 in our rich portfolio of funding bodies and partners/collaborators. Social, economic and scientific
 impact is a result of our fundamental and applied research and our strong culture of
 interdisciplinary research and engagement with government bodies, companies, the general
 public and other stakeholders, aiming at sustainable, co-designed research agendas.

 Computing Science’s current/future research plans address our cross-disciplinary collaborations,
 especially connecting AI/cybersecurity (motivated by initiatives such as UKRI’s “Digital Security

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by Design” and the rising importance of the Internet-of-Things) and reasoning/machine
 learning/NLG (motivated by world-wide interest in “AI and Data” as well as explainable and
 accountable AI). We plan to recruit another five FTEs with track records in complementary
 specialisms, including data mining, symbolic AI (knowledge representation and reasoning) and
 human-computer interaction, to diversify and strengthen the themes and consolidate cross-
 discipline collaborations. We facilitate and encourage cross-discipline collaborations through
 events (e.g., workshops, specialised research seminars and research “away days”) to develop
 fundamental and applied research outputs and grant applications. Our recruitment will look for
 candidates with clear evidence of interdisciplinary research and engagement with stakeholders
 (industry, government or third sector).

 1.3 Impact strategy

 Our impact strategy has three axes: i) cross-theme collaboration; ii) interdisciplinary research;
 and iii) engaging with stakeholders. The cross-theme aspect gives us a differential (e.g.,
 combining cybersecurity with persuasion techniques or NLG with formal argumentation), and the
 combination of approaches resonates positively with different research communities (as
 evidenced by our funded grants and research outputs). The second axis concerns
 interdisciplinary research with a broad range of disciplines (e.g., Biology, Healthcare, Law, Music
 and Physics), creating synergies and multiplying the impact. Finally, in our third axis, by working
 with industry, government, the third sector and the public, we conduct and evaluate/validate our
 research with real-life, high-impact/high-visibility problems and issues.

 In addition, Computing Science encourages the exploitation of the commercial potential of our
 research, supported by the University’s Impact and Knowledge Exchange team in the setup of
 spin-out companies and protection of intellectual property. One of our impact case studies
 highlights the journey of a spin-out company that grew to become one of the world leaders in
 commercial automatic text generation, Arria NLG. Our second impact case study showcases the
 commercial exploitation of fundamental computing science research on creating customised
 reports based on medical data, combining the expertise of healthcare professionals and
 computer scientists.

 Our projects establish novel cross-disciplinary collaborations with stakeholders across multiple
 segments of society. For example: “Trusted Things & Communities” (TrustLens, Digital
 Economy, EP/N028074/1) combines fundamental research on trust, risk and the Internet-of-
 Things with issues relating to governance and policy, engaging with Aberdeen City Council and
 local communities to shape future technologies and their use by society; and Collaborative
 Intelligent Spaces (CISpaces, U.S. Army Research Laboratory and the UK Ministry of Defence,
 W911NF-06-3-0001) combines data analytics with formal argumentation techniques to support
 the process of sensemaking, complementing human expertise in the generation of intelligence
 products and engaging stakeholders including expert intelligence analysts from DSTL, ARL and
 NATO experts.

 We have developed and exploited approaches to increase impact and visibility. This includes the
 co-design of research and early involvement with stakeholders, increasing their influence on and
 interest in the outcomes and, ultimately, the impact, as evidenced by the EPSRC-funded
 projects “Supporting Security Policy with Effective Digital Intervention” (SSPEDI, EP/P011829/1),
 with the National Grid and Aberdeen City Council, and “Trusted Things & Communities”
 (TrustLens, EP/N028074/1), with local communities.

 We also engage with the general public while solving real-world problems, extending and
 adapting fundamental research. These problems come from biology, oil and gas industries,
 transport engineering and medical and health sciences, and staff share best practices and
 personal contacts to engage with experts and professionals from these domains.

 Our research exploiting NLG to engage the general public in “citizen/crowd science” to help in
 (interdisciplinary) nature conservation projects illustrates this well. “BeeWatch” invited citizens to

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 submit photographs of bumblebees and enabled the identification of species using an online
 key. This research was a collaboration with the Bumblebee Conservation Trust (BBCT), funded
 by the Digital Economy Hub (EP/G066051/1), featured on the BBC news website and in the
 programme “Beechgrove Garden”. “Blogging Birds” is a collaboration between computing
 science, environmental scientists and the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB),
 harnessing data mining and NLG to create personalised “blogs” of red kites being re-introduced
 in England and Scotland and attracting attention from the general public and the media.

 Impact is increased through adoption and championing of open-source software, open access
 publications, open experimental data and data sharing solutions and documents explaining our
 research to the general public. A report published by the Software Sustainability Institute in
 2017, analysing ResearchFish data, showed that Aberdeen was second in the UK in publishing
 software outcomes from EPSRC-funded projects.

 We encourage staff, PhD students and PDRAs to follow the Software Sustainability Institute best
 practice guide; software is made openly available on web sites such as GitHub, Zenodo and
 BitBucket (e.g., nu-BDI, SimpleNLG and CISpaces). Data sets (e.g., supporting research on
 NLG, formal argumentation, the Internet-of-Things, machine learning and data provenance) are
 made available in the University’s research repository (with over 30 datasets) and external web
 sites (e.g., GitHub and GoogleDocs). Datasets are publicised through the institutional research
 pages. Open Access publication of research papers is encouraged. In 2014 31% of all our
 published outputs were open access and in 2020 the percentage was 59%. The University has a
 Research Data Management policy requiring a data management plan that sets out resource
 provisions for hosting data, software and documents on our servers, in addition to making
 resources available on public Web sites. Many colleagues engage with the general public or
 academic communities via “blogs” (e.g., Reiter and his “open source for NLG”) increasing the
 reach and impact of our research.

 The Unit continues to support the vitality and sustainability of our research impact by
 encouraging best practice in science communication and stakeholder engagement. For
 example, staff receive training in communication through media outlets supported by the
 University’s Communication team and the Public Engagement with Research Unit (PERU)
 (REF5a). Staff regularly present their research at events to the general public such as the
 Edinburgh International Science Festival, British Science Festival and TechFest.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 Our staffing strategy reflects major international research drives for AI, cybersecurity and trusted
 systems.

 Our Unit has experienced notable staff movement (from 18 FTEs in 2013 to 8.7 FTEs early in
 2020). However, we hired seven new staff members and at census date 15.5 FTEs are in post.
 Within the REF period, ten colleagues were promoted (three to Chairs, four to Readers and four
 to Senior Lecturers – see following section), evidencing investment in staff.

 Our ongoing recruitment is part of a University-wide strategy, placing “AI and Data” as one of our
 five interdisciplinary challenges for the next 20 years (as described in “Aberdeen 2040”, see
 REF5a). In line with our strategy, we recruited four FTEs with complementary research portfolios
 on AI and three FTEs on cybersecurity. The new recruits strengthen our HIUC (Leontidis, Yi,
 Yun, Zhong) and TIPS (Akram, Li, Sharma) themes, bringing their expertise (both in
 fundamental research and applications to real-world problems) as well as collaboration networks
 (from academia and industry). The discipline, through both research themes, has strong
 academic interdisciplinary collaborations (e.g., medicine, law, geography, biology, transport and
 arts), as well as partnerships with industry, government and other stakeholders, as reflected by
 several research grants and publications (see items 3 and 4 of this document).

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 HIUC was boosted by the following appointments: Leontidis, Yi and Zhong contributing to
 fundamental research on machine learning and its application to various important domains,
 such as nuclear energy (Leontidis), smart farming and driving assistance (Yi) and energy grids
 (Zhong). Yun contributes expertise on formal argumentation to support accountable and
 explainable/scrutable AI.

 TIPS benefits from: Akram’s research on core cybersecurity issues as well as “security for
 machine learning” and “machine learning for cybersecurity” (also creating cross-theme
 connections with HIUC); Sharma’s research on cybersecurity, with a focus on the Internet-of-
 Things and smart cities (including 5G networks); and Li’s work on identity, authentication and
 electronic signatures. Together with Collinson, TIPS has four FTEs with a solid track record in
 complementary cybersecurity topics, forming a new cybersecurity research sub-group and
 supported by GBP100K of institutional funding for a dedicated cybersecurity research and
 teaching lab. The flexible nature of the research themes facilitates strategic and opportunistic
 cross-collaborations, benefitting researchers through the exchange of ideas, approaches,
 techniques, collaborators from other disciplines, use-case partners and contacts with industry.

 We have attracted staff whose research is of international quality (evidenced by their
 publications, collaborations and grants), both as early-career researchers (Li, Sharma, Yi, Yun,
 Zhong) and mid-career researchers (with a track record of funded research and high-quality
 outputs; Akram and Leontidis). Our strategy is to sustain an international team, with current staff
 from the UK, USA, EU, China, Brazil, India, South Africa, Singapore and South Korea, providing
 a rich network of world-wide contacts and collaborations. Hiring decisions explicitly consider the
 interdisciplinary reach of candidates and how novel and relevant the application domains are.

 Our organisation model for research is lean (staff interact directly with the team director of
 research, head of Unit or head of School), flexible (with research themes allowing the easy flow
 of staff among them) and agile (with the ability to create cross-theme and interdisciplinary teams
 in response to research drives and target calls).

 Our staffing strategy addresses diversity, equality and inclusion issues in Computer Science. All
 interview panel members complete training on diversity and equality, including unconscious bias
 training, and panels include a fair representation of the wider academic community (including
 colleagues with protected characteristics). Many of our recent grants have more gender-
 balanced teams of PDRAs (the numbers are for staff based in Aberdeen): TrustLens
 (EP/N028074/1), 50% female; SSPEDI (EP/P011829/1), 40% female; RAInS (EP/R033846/1),
 50% female.

 2.2 Staff support and development

 The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (see REF5a) shapes our
 staff policies and procedures, enabling them to take advantage of workshops and training
 sessions as part of our yearly 10-day training allocation to support impact development,
 stakeholder involvement, grant finance management and so on. These skills contribute to staff
 professional development and increase our research sustainability, relevance and impact. The
 University of Aberdeen received the HR Excellence in Research Award in 2010 and successfully
 retained it for its researcher development programme. All ECRs have reduced teaching and
 administration loads to help accelerate their research and are assigned senior colleagues as
 mentors, with progress being reviewed annually.

 The Researcher Development Unit (see REF5a) offers many opportunities, including workshops
 and training for ECRs, research staff and post-graduate research students. The induction
 programme is attended by all new researchers, followed by longer-term support at the university
 level and through School and Unit-based provisions. Units across Scotland collaborate through
 the Scottish Computer Science and Informatics Alliance (SICSA) (a consortium of 14 Scottish
 Universities, promoting excellence in University-led research, education and knowledge

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exchange in Informatics and Computer Science) in providing discipline-specific staff
 development opportunities.

 We have an annual staff development programme for all researchers aimed at progress and
 future plans and wider career and professional development. The Unit shares indirect cost
 contributions from successful research grants between a strategic fund and investigators’
 discretionary accounts. The investigators’ fund incentivises grant applications, while the strategic
 fund supports new staff and research students. These funds enable travel, general research
 support (i.e., pilot studies, experiments and software development) and new collaborative
 initiatives with other disciplines/institutions. ECRs receive an initial discretionary allowance for
 each year of probation (to support academic visits, attendance at conferences, etc.) and 50% of
 a PhD studentship (50% externally funded).

 Staff retention is extremely important, especially in light of recent staff movement. The Unit
 provides a mentoring program that pairs new staff with experienced colleagues acting as a “first
 port of call” to help with teaching, research and administrative processes and to help new staff
 manage their career path. Mentoring takes place in an informal and friendly fashion with regular
 meetings. There is a healthy team spirit, where colleagues help and support one another. Some
 of our recently appointed staff have had flexible work arrangements in place due to COVID-19
 disruptions, working away from Aberdeen.

 The Unit, in line with institutional policy, values a healthy work-life balance and encourages staff
 to keep to core-working hours. The institution offers staff membership to a state-of-the-art sports
 centre within walking distance of the Department. The institution also offers preferential rates for
 private healthcare. Staff and research students are regularly reminded of our institutional on-line
 resources on mental and physical well-being and training sessions on mindfulness and stress
 management, among others.

 Our annual review exercise enables staff to discuss their performance and achievements with an
 experienced and trained colleague and to set goals for the following year. The review feeds into
 the annual promotion exercise, for which we share best practice and offer structured meetings to
 help with the preparation of promotion applications. Within the reported period the Unit had three
 staff promoted to Professor (Oren, Masthoff, Vasconcelos), three to Reader (Pan, Lin,
 Siddharthan) and four to Senior Lecturer (Pang, Guerin, Collinson, Sripada). Staff secondments
 further our research sustainability; during the REF period, Sripada and Reiter were seconded to
 Arria, and Pan was seconded to the Edinburgh Huawei Research Lab.

 2.3 Research students

 One of the Unit’s strategic goals is to increase PGR student numbers while enhancing their
 already high quality. PhD students are supported by the University “Elphinstone” PhD
 scholarships, by EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnerships (EP/N509814/1 and EP/R512412/1)
 and the various Scottish Funding Council (SFC) research pooling initiatives. More traditional
 modes of studentship funding (Industrial CASE awards, DTA studentships) are available, and we
 have had fully funded industrial studentships (e.g., by Arria NLG plc, Selex Galileo Ltd., IBM-UK)
 and students supported by EU H2020 “Fostering new skills by means of excellent initial training
 of researchers” (e.g., “Interactive Natural Language Technology for Explainable Artificial
 Intelligence” – NL4XAI, 860621 and “Personal Health Interfaces Leveraging Human-Machine
 Natural Interactions – PHILHUMANS, 812882). Some international students have received
 governmental funding (e.g., China, Nigeria, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia and Turkey). A strategic
 partnership with Curtin University (Australia) includes the funding of joint PhD studentships. We
 have PhD students visiting us from other UK institutions (e.g., Edinburgh, Southampton,
 Warwick), Europe (e.g., Spain, France, Netherlands) and the rest of the world (e.g., Brazil,
 China).

 The School encourages industrial collaborations by offering matching funds for studentships
 when industrial funding is secured for the balance; successful examples of this model include

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Arria NLG, Selex Galileo, and IBM-UK. All staff supervise research students. The recruitment of
 PhD students is undertaken through the institution’s Postgraduate Research School, responsible
 for recruitment, admission, progression and career development of all postgraduate research
 students (see REF5a).

 PhD students are allocated two supervisors. In exceptional cases, students may have three
 supervisors, especially when the topic is interdisciplinary (colleagues from e.g., Biology,
 Transport Engineering, Petroleum Engineering, Geography, Business, Medicine and Physics).
 Supervisors are required to undertake mandatory supervision training.

 Progression of PhD students is monitored through a system of six-monthly reviews, a progress
 report and oral examination after nine months and 21 months conducted independently by two
 members of staff not involved in the supervision, providing support to discuss all aspects of the
 PhD programme. Training for postgraduate research students is provided by the Postgraduate
 Research School, combining courses from the University’s generic skills programme with
 discipline-specific courses. At the beginning of their PhD, all students complete an initial skills
 audit to create their personalised Training and Development Roadmap. All students are required
 to present their work at research group seminars. At the annual “research jamboree”, a poster is
 presented by all PGR students in years one and two while final year PhD students give a
 presentation. PhD students also benefit from the learning activities (lectures and tutorials) of
 modules of the MSc in Artificial Intelligence programme, providing a structured way for those
 who need to brush up their AI skills or learn about new topics. PhD students are expected to
 attend Computing Science seminars, as these give opportunities for students to broaden their
 knowledge and learn how to organise and present research. We encourage and financially
 support PhD students to attend the annual PhD Conference organised by SICSA, the Scottish
 Informatics and Computer Science Alliance; our PhD students helped organise the 2016-2019
 editions of the event. We are also the Unit outside the Scottish central belt with the highest
 number of participants in all years the event has taken place).

 The Unit organises an annual “research jamboree” event where PGR students give short
 presentations and/or present posters. We invite representatives from public and private sector
 bodies, as well as colleagues from other Units, with a view to showcasing our research and
 giving PhD students the opportunity to talk about their research to disparate audiences (offering
 them a similar experience to that of a conference).The jamboree also provides opportunities to
 build or expand networks of contacts. Computing has three reading groups on Computational
 Linguistics, Machine Learning and Formal Argumentation, with regular meetings gathering staff
 and research students interested in the topics (the reading group on Formal Argumentation also
 attracts international staff and PGR students to their meetings, giving our PhD students access
 to international leaders in the field).

 Supervisors are trained to be aware of issues relating to protected characteristics (e.g.,
 rearranging furniture, adjusting personal space for PhD students on the autistic spectrum and
 rearranging times of meetings to accommodate religious holidays and observances). Ours is a
 diverse and vibrant population of PhD students; of the 45 PhD students who graduated within
 the reporting period, more than 80% came from outside the UK.

 The Postgraduate Research School offers a portfolio of training and development activities. To
 ensure sustainability, our Unit has “pathways” to support academic careers; one such pathway
 sees UG and PGT (MSc) students working on projects with a substantial research element,
 enabling a smooth transition to the PhD programme (at least seven of the PhD students who
 graduated in the period followed this pathway). Another pathway (with support from supervisors
 and careers services) sees PhD students becoming PDRAs with us (more than eight PhD
 students followed this pathway) or in other institutions. A third pathway supports the transition of
 PDRAs into academic careers in our own Unit (e.g., Pang, Kollingbaum) or at other institutions
 (at least four PDRAs are now academic members of staff in other HEIs). Some of our PhD
 students have now become established researchers in industry (e.g., IBM-UK Research, BT
 Research, Amazon-Alexa, Google and Trivago). Our careers service team supports PhD

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students in applying for jobs/positions, with the support of supervisors, in writing CVs and cover
 letters and in practising for their interviews.

 2.4 Equality and diversity

 Our School has an active Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee (EDIC), which received
 the Athena SWAN Bronze in 2016. EDIC has introduced carer support for conferences, return to
 work sabbaticals (for maternity or long-term illness) and active promotion support and
 encouragement. The School’s EDIC has created a neutral language guide that supports female
 and LGBT staff. It is also currently working towards creating more networks and increasing the
 range of PGR bursaries and scholarships available for women and other under-represented
 groups.

 Equality and Diversity training is mandatory for all staff and provides fundamental awareness of
 the legislative framework and its practical implementation. This training also highlights the
 University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy (see REF5a). Staff are encouraged to attend
 unconscious bias training. Staff and PGR students can join a range of groups such as the senior
 female network group, LGBT staff network group, the disability network group and the staff race
 equality network.

 Hiring committees must have gender representation and all members must have completed
 equality and diversity training. Supervisors of PhD students are trained on protected
 characteristics, and we share best practice (Unit-specific) on provisions to accommodate these
 (see previous examples). As a Unit, we strongly support our institution’s zero-tolerance policy on
 any form of discrimination. We provide our staff and students with additional communication
 channels to raise their concerns in a supportive, constructive and positive environment. Staff and
 research students are encouraged to report any disabilities or protected characteristics, which
 are handled sensitively, but also with a duty of care. Where appropriate, other support units and
 services are made aware of these, so that they can provide help or guidance.

 We provide flexible working hours (as well as arrangements for working from home) for staff and
 students who have to care for members of their families, who have health issues that might
 prevent them from leaving home or that might impact their ability to work normal hours. Specific
 past cases include: a researcher who became a carer and was able to work from home with
 reduced/special hours some days of the week; another researcher who had to look after his
 children was allowed to work flexible hours from home; and a research fellow who developed
 mental health issues was able to work from home, with close support from his line manager. Our
 Unit is child-friendly, and we accommodate the needs of our staff and students with young
 families, for instance, by avoiding meetings outside the school day and by allowing PGR
 students to work flexible hours (especially during School holidays).

 Our institution’s policies underpin the institution’s Mental Health and Wellbeing Strategy by
 setting out how the University will proactively support staff and students to maintain good mental
 health and wellbeing. Our School has its own Wellbeing coordinator, who acts as a point-of-
 contact between our staff and other University services/units that support physical, mental,
 workplace and personal wellbeing, as well as wellbeing at home.

 We provide extra support to our female students, pairing them with a mentor with a view towards
 introducing them early on to our pathways for academic careers. Our post specifications use
 gender-neutral language and include text explicitly inviting the application of individuals from
 across all equality protected characteristics.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our Unit attracted a total of over GBP13M of research funding, averaging just over
 GBP1.85M/year. We have a diverse portfolio of research grants funded by the EPSRC, EU,
 ESRC, Innovate UK, Cancer Research, GCRF and NERC, among others. The success of the
 Unit has had a strong influence on the institutional strategy, as our research themes align well
 with priorities of governments, funding bodies and the general public, with immense potential for
 societal and financial impact. Accordingly, a new director for the “Data and Artificial Intelligence
 Interdisciplinary Challenge” has been appointed, reflecting the strategy “Aberdeen 2040” and
 highlighting the institution’s commitment to the area (see REF5a).

 Research income was negatively affected by staff turnover over the reporting period and
 uncertainty associated with EU funding. However, there has since been a major recruitment
 drive toward strategic staffing and staff development as reported in Section 2.1. The Unit has the
 building blocks to regain its previous strength in terms of staff numbers and increased income.
 The quality of our AI and data-related research has ensured that the Unit remains competitive,
 as evidenced by our portfolio of awards and research outputs.

 Some of the major awards in the period featuring cross-theme and/or interdisciplinary research
 are (figures indicate the value to our Unit) RAINS (GBP789K, EPSRC EP/R033846/1,
 Edwards), SSPEDI (GBP756K, EPSRC EP/P011829/1, Collinson, Oren, Vasconcelos),
 Trusted Things & Communities (GBP783K, EPSRC, EP/N028074/1, Edwards), Social Media
 Enhancement (GBP505K, ESRC ES/M001628/1, Edwards), NL4XAI (GBP239K, EU 860621,
 Reiter), PORTIS (GBP330K, EU 690713, Kollingbaum), PHILHUMANS (GBP263K, EU
 812882, Reiter), and Smart Routing (GBP236K, Innovate UK 102615, Edwards). We also
 secured funding for doctoral training (GBP488K, EPSRC EP/N509814/1; GBP105K, EPSRC
 EP/R512412/1;GBP10K, NL4XAI, EU 860621; GBP65K, PHILHUMANS, EU 812882). These
 and other grants showcase our cross-theme efforts (e.g., SSPEDI combines HCI and policy-
 based reasoning) and interdisciplinary research with Engineering (PORTIS), Geography and
 Environment (RAINS and Trusted Things & Communities), Psychology (SSPEDI) and Sociology
 (Trusted Things & Communities). Other research is in partnership with and co-funded by
 companies from the Oil & Gas sector (Asset Reliability, Innovate UK KTP11653, Sripada; Data
 Quality for Oil & Gas E&P, The Data Lab and OGTC, Vasconcelos; Glycol Controlled Injection,
 OGIC, Vasconcelos).

 Strategically, Computing Science is well provisioned to exploit the funding landscape, as both
 HIUC and TIPS themes align with “AI and Data”, one of the grand challenges of the Industrial
 Strategy of the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy. Our TIPS theme aligns
 well with the UKRI Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund’s “Digital Security by Design”, especially
 in connection with the safe/secure adoption of AI and the Internet-of-Things. Finally, explainable,
 ethical and accountable AI has attracted much interest and funding (e.g., Knowledge Transfer
 Network’s recent CivTech Sprint Challenge on Explainable AI, with Police Scotland). By enabling
 collaboration among our staff across machine learning, NLG and reasoning and cybersecurity,
 we have a competitive differential.

 Our research strategy harnesses our culture of collaboration with other disciplines, industrial and
 use-case partners and other stakeholders. We will consolidate and expand our collaborations,
 especially with medical and health sciences, engineering, biology and the arts, and our
 engagement with different sectors of industry (e.g., energy, decommissioning, food distribution
 and food security) and government bodies (e.g., Aberdeen City Council, NHS Scotland and the
 British Office in Taipei through Edward’s participation in the recent Taiwan-UK AI Cooperation).
 Our research strategy delivers impact, through the combination of strands of our research
 themes, to provide solutions to problems from other disciplines, industry and governmental
 bodies and by disseminating research results to scientific and professional communities and the
 general public.

 3.2 Infrastructure



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our Unit shares best practice in attracting funding, with regular workshops and information
 sessions on grant writing. The institution’s Research and Innovation (R&I) unit provides support
 for business development, project finance planning and financial reporting and offers legal
 services (including those related to intellectual property issues and non-disclosure agreements
 when collaborating with companies), in addition to meeting the requirements for ethical, open
 and reproducible research. A clear internal application process via a Web portal is also available
 and all applications are reviewed internally by two independent assessors (see REF5a).

 R&I provides advice on identifying and nurturing impact, facilitating interactions with external
 organisations, identifying intellectual property opportunities and exploiting innovative ideas. The
 Public Engagement with Research Unit (PERU) provides advice on public engagement activities
 and on funding for them. The Researcher Development Unit (RDU) offers training on public
 engagement and offers many online tools from the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public
 Engagement to help develop ideas. Aberdeen Grants Academy (GA) supports our researchers
 in all stages of the research grant cycle, from conception of ideas, through development of
 funding applications to research delivery and realising the impact of our research. IT Services
 provide support in costing, procuring, purchasing and installing special hardware and software
 licences, as well as data storage solutions for research (including long-term archiving). The Unit
 also offers training on IT security awareness and a range of other services such as networking
 and bespoke research computing lab provision.

 The institution offers technical support and computational resources to ensure our research is
 open and reproduceable. The Aberdeen University Research Archive (AURA) provides access
 to the full text of research outputs and theses are held in our Digital Resources collections.
 Following our University policy for Research Data Management, IT Services provide technical
 support and computational resources (e.g., secure storage space, web servers and remote data
 bases) for staff.

 Our centrally managed and recently upgraded High-Performance Computing (HPC) services are
 remotely available to all research students and staff, offering access to a supercomputing cluster
 and software suite. Additional resources (e.g., access to EPSRC’s Archer and EPCC’s Cirrus, as
 well as a cloud computing infrastructure) can also be procured. Secure data storage services are
 available for research, catering to very large data collections, offering different degrees of
 security and privacy. Training and support are available for both HPC and data storage services.
 The institution offers a suite of licenced software including MATLAB, SPSS, NVivo and SNAP,
 among others. Our library services provide access to a wealth of computing-specific and
 mathematics-specific digital resources, including books and papers, as well as data collections.
 ABVenture Zone, our incubator for start-ups and spin-out companies, offers a range of support
 services for staff and students who wish to exploit their research commercially.

 The University of Aberdeen Research Governance Handbook provides a framework for research
 ethics and governance at the University. The University of Aberdeen provides mandatory
 Research Governance and Ethics training to all staff and PhD students involved in research.
 Computing disseminates the handbook to staff so that researchers are well informed of the
 ethical, legal, institutional and funder requirements. Staff use the UK Research Integrity Office's
 Code of Practice for Research checklist, which incorporates the key points of good practice at all
 stages of a research project.

 3.3 Facilities

 Our academic staff have individual offices and PDRAs and PhD students share offices in groups
 of four to six people. We are all on the same floor of our building. We have four dedicated
 computing labs that can be used as seminar/meeting rooms and to host research experiments;
 these labs have audio-visual resources (e.g., interactive white boards, high-definition screens
 and loudspeakers or projectors). The space provisions encourage interaction and collaboration.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff and PhD students are provided with a computer (desktop or laptop, with their choice of
 operating system) and are allowed to manage their own software (subject to the institution’s
 cybersecurity policies). The University of Aberdeen recently awarded a GBP100K investment
 fund to establish a dedicated cybersecurity laboratory, consisting of specialised hardware and
 software, with provisions for Internet-of-Things and industrial control systems. This lab helps
 catalyse Aberdeen’s cybersecurity research.

 2B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration with the research base

 Our Unit has developed and sustained a strong culture of collaboration and interdisciplinary
 research with many disciplines. Some of our external academic collaborators in funded research
 grants are the Universities of Trieste and Trento, University of Edinburgh, Eindhoven University,
 Delft University of Technology, University of Utrecht, University of Utah, Monash University,
 University of Santiago de Compostela and University of Malta. Exemplars of our government
 and third sector grant collaborators are NHS Scotland, Aberdeen City Council, Aberdeenshire
 Council, Birmingham City Council, National Railway Company of Belgium, Law Commission,
 Transport Systems Catapult and National Grid. Some of our industrial partners are Arria NLG,
 Orange (France), Accenture (Spain), IBM-UK, BAE Systems and Phillips Research North
 America.

 We collaborate with medical and health sciences, drawing from the critical mass and excellence
 of our Institute of Applied Health Sciences. An example of an ongoing collaboration is the
 GBP15M Industrial Centre for AI Research in Digital Diagnostics (iCAIRD), one of five
 successful bids to the UK Government Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF), focusing on
 the application of artificial intelligence to digital diagnostics to enable clinicians, health planners
 and industry to work together. Other projects use specific computing techniques to study and
 address real-life medical issues: “Proving the Utility of Fast Field Cycling MRI in stroke and small
 vessel disease” (PUFFINS, Scottish Government Chief Scientist Office, TCS/19/44), in which
 machine learning is used to increase the benefit of MRI technologies; PAtient-centred Care for
 Fibromyalgia: New pathway Design (PACFiND, Versus Arthritis, Ref. 21958), where data mining
 is carried out to improve healthcare services for patients with fibromyalgia; “Graph-Based Data
 Federation for Healthcare Data Science” (UKRI ISCF), which integrates healthcare data from
 different sources; and “Early-life origins of brain resilience to mental illness and cognitive
 impairment across the life-course” (Medical Research Council, Ref. MC-PC-MR/R019541/1),
 which explores “big data” management, data analytics and machine learning to support
 population studies.

 We collaborate with Physics in the project “A Systems Approach to Sustainable Sanitation
 Challenges in Urbanising China” (SASSI, NERC, Ref. NE/S012354/1), studying complex human-
 environment interactions in sanitation systems, and in the pilot project “Provenance of Food
 Delivery through IoT” (PROOFD IT, funded by the Internet of Food Things grant), investigating
 Internet-of-Things techniques to track food delivery. We collaborate with Transport Engineering,
 Geography and Environment Sciences in the project PORTIS, funded by the EU (Ref. 690713),
 using AI techniques to simulate government policies and determining how these impact on travel
 choices in port cities, in Smart Routing (Innovate UK, Ref. 102615), which aims to improve
 public transport by enabling people to combine their journey data and preferences with real-time
 transport information (privacy-preserving journey planning robust to network problems), in the
 Transport Systems Catapult, as a member of the University Partner Programme, and in the
 project Social Media Enhancement, funded by the ESRC (ES/P011004/1), developing tools
 combining argument mining, qualitative modelling and dataset annotation to advance the state of
 the art in social media analytics and data management. We collaborate with Biology through
 projects like BeeWatch, funded by the Digital Economy Hub, in partnership with the Bumblebee
 Conservation Trust (BBCT), exploiting NLG and “citizen/crowd science” to engage the general
 public in nature conservation projects (specifically the monitoring of bumblebees in the UK), and
 “Blogging Birds”, in partnership with the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds (RSPB),

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 harnessing data mining and NLG to create personalised “blogs” of red kites being re-introduced
 in England and Scotland and reaching out to thousands of members of the public who were able
 to follow the “daily lives” of birds.

 Our Unit has strong ongoing collaborations with universities and research centres in the UK,
 Europe and the rest of the world through informal collaborations such as co-authorship of
 scientific papers, reciprocal visits and hosting of PhD students. These institutions include the
 Universities of Warwick, Glasgow, Southampton, Oxford, Manchester, Bath, University College
 London, the City University of New York (CUNY), the AI Research Centre in Spain (IIIA-CSIC),
 Polytechnic of Warsaw, the University of Tokyo, Pontifical Catholic University in Rio Grande do
 Sul (PUC-RS, Brazil), the University of São Paulo and the University of Otago.

 4.2 Contribution to the research base

 Our research output has been presented and published at international conferences and in
 journals, attesting to the quality of our research and its theoretical/scientific contributions and its
 value when applied to solve real-life problems.

 Our research outputs have contributed to conferences such as IJCAI, AAAI, NeurIPS (formerly
 known as NIPS), AAMAS, ISWC and ICRA, among others and journals such as the AI Journal,
 ACM Transactions, Springer’s Cognitive Computation, Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent
 Systems, and others. Our staff serve in various international communities in different ways. For
 example, a number of staff contribute towards Journal Editorships – Vasconcelos (Associate
 Editor, Knowledge and Information Systems, Springer), Akram (Guest Editor, Special Issue of
 Future Generation Computer Systems, Elsevier; Associate Editor, Human-Centric Computing &
 Information Sciences, Springer), Leontidis (Editorial Board, Computers in Biology and Medicine,
 Elsevier, 2018-2019), Sharma (Associate Editor, Human-Centric and Inf. Sciences, Elsevier),
 and Zhong (Associate Editor, Neural Processing Letters, Springer). The following staff are
 members of (Senior) Programme Committees – Oren (IJCAI 2015-2021; AAMAS 2016-2021;
 ECAI 2016-2020), Vasconcelos (IJCAI 2017-2020; AAMAS 2014-2020; AAAI 2018-2020; ECAI
 2018-2020) and Leontidis (NIPS, NeurIPS 2018-2020; AAAI 2019-2020; IJCAI 2020; ICML
 2018-2019). Membership in Professional Bodies is exemplified by the following: IFIP Working
 Group on Pervasive Systems Security (Akram), ACL-SIGGEN (Reiter, Chair), IEEE (Leontidis,
 Vasconcelos, Akram, Sharma), ACM (Oren, Vasconcelos, Akram, Sharma), AISB (Vasconcelos)
 and BCS (Leontidis).

 A portion of the staff are members of advisory boards of funding bodies: Leontidis (Full College
 Member, EPSRC; Panel member of UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Scheme), Oren (Full
 College Member, EPSRC, 2016-ongoing) and Edwards (Member of ESRC Peer Review
 College, 2015, 2017-ongoing; Member of Steering Committee for the Innovate UK – EPSRC –
 KTN – Digital Catapult, 2014-2016). Our staff have been involved in the organisation of a
 number of conferences including Digital Heritage Conference 2019 (Leontidis, Organiser), INLG
 2017 (Reiter, General Chair), 25th Int’l Conf. on Conceptual Structures (Yun, Programme Chair),
 9th Int’l Conf. on Information Security Theory & Practice (Akram, Chair), IEEE Conf. on Trust,
 Security & Privacy in Computing and Communication (TrustCom 2018 & 2019, Akram, Track
 Chair), AAMAS 2014 Doctoral Consortium (Vasconcelos, Co-organiser), COMMA 2014 (Oren,
 Chair) and PRIMA-2018 (Oren, Co-Chair).

 Over the REF cycle, staff members served in the External Examination of PhD Theses – Oren
 (8), Vasconcelos (3), Edwards (2), Zhong (1) and Reiter (3). Staff also contributed to a number
 of Keynote/Invited Presentations and Tutorials, including “Computational Argumentation in the
 Context of Human-Agent Interaction” (Oren, Keynote, ECAI 2020 and AAMAS 2019),
 “Introduction to Formal Argumentation Theory” (Oren, EASSS-18), “Normative Multi-Agent
 Systems” (Vasconcelos, Tutorial, PUC-RS, Brazil, 2014), “Retinal Vascular Geometry: Novel
 Biomarkers of Progression from Diabetes to Diabetic Retinopathy” (Leontidis, Keynote, British
 Association of Retinal Screening Conference, 2016), “AI, Health & The Future of Accountable
 Intelligent Systems” (Edwards, UK-Taiwan AI in Healthcare Workshop, 2019), “Making Trust

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Transparent: Realising a Citizen-Centred Internet of Things” (Edwards, UK-Japan IoT
 Workshop, British Embassy, Japan, 2017), “Trusted Things & Communities: Understanding and
 Enabling a Trusted IoT Ecosystem” (Edwards, Royal Society of Edinburgh-Taiwan Ministry of
 Science & Technology Joint Workshop on Internet of Things, 2016), “Social Media, Linked Data
 & The Context Question” (Edwards, UK-India Social Media Workshop, UK Science & Innovation
 Network, 2014) and “Evaluating Natural Language Generation Systems” (Reiter, NAACL, 2016).

 4.3 Contribution to the economy and society

 Our research has contributed to various segments of the economy and society. Research on
 NLG yielded SimpleNLG, an open-source software system for natural language surface
 realisation, which is a reference implementation with thousands of adopters/users world-wide.
 The application of NLG (combined with data mining and process automation) to real-world
 problems has been very successful, leading to the creation of the company Arria, initially a spin-
 out SME that has grown significantly over the past six to seven years to become a world leader
 in the commercialisation of NLG technologies, creating jobs and contributing to the high-tech
 economy. NLG research has provided technologies to turn physiological data from vital sign
 sensors into readable reports specifically designed to be handed over to emergency services,
 which is now being exploited commercially by MIME Technologies to develop industry-leading
 medical emergency solutions for high-altitude and offshore environments.

 Our research in automated reasoning contributed to the open standard RuleML language used
 to specify queries and inferences in Web ontologies, mappings between Web ontologies and the
 dynamic Web behaviours of workflows, services and agents. Research on machine learning has
 provided algorithms, datasets and reproducible experiments to address problems like improving
 energy efficiency for food retailers, thus saving money and the environment. Research has also
 addressed anomaly detection in nuclear reactors via deep learning, increasing EU security.

 Our research has contributed to public engagement and understanding of research through
 projects like BeeWatch, which – through citizen science – made the general public important
 players/stakeholders in the monitoring of wildlife in the UK, and “Blogging Birds”, which asked
 the general public to follow the “daily lives” of birds. The Achieving Self-directed Integrated
 Cancer Aftercare (ASICA) project gathered computing staff and healthcare specialists to develop
 software for the education of skin cancer survivors. The software instructed on how to carry out
 self-examinations and enabled users to send images of skin abnormalities directly to specialists.
 The solution benefitted patients (e.g., people from remote communities were no longer required
 to travel to meet health workers, and patients become empowered as they initiate and control
 the process), specialists (e.g., images can be assessed without the need of a face-to-face
 consultation) and health services.

 Our research projects, across our themes, have helped build human capacity for the UK, training
 PDRAs to conduct ethical, open and reproducible research, while focusing on fundamental
 research (e.g., algorithms, computational models or formalisms) or applied issues (applying
 fundamental research to specific domains or to solve real-life problems, which includes learning
 about different domains). They have been coached to disseminate results and engage with
 stakeholders and the general public and have developed a valuable set of transferrable skills
 such as communication, teamwork, critical analysis, experimental design and evidence-based
 thinking, helping them to advance their careers in academia or in industry.

 Our staff contribute to various governmental initiatives such as Opportunity North East Digital &
 Entrepreneurship (Edwards) to grow a digital economy in the North East of Scotland, the
 Aberdeen City Deal (Edwards, Coghill) to support various strategic projects (e.g., agri-food and
 nutrition, bio-therapies and transport) and the Digital Catapult (Innovate UK, EPSRC and KTN;
 Edwards). We also contribute to the National Decommissioning Centre (Leontidis, Vasconcelos,
 Oren, Yi and Kollingbaum), a multi-disciplinary (Engineering, Geosciences, Physics and
 Computing), GBP38m partnership between the OGTC and the University of Aberdeen and part


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the Aberdeen City Region Deal, capitalising on our expertise in AI to devise technologies and
 solutions for the decommissioning of offshore infrastructure.

 Reiter is chief scientist with Arria NLG (global leader in natural language generation) and has
 been seconded twice to the company in the reporting period; Reiter was also an advisor to
 MIME Technologies (which seeks to provide inflight and off-shore first-aid support). Vasconcelos
 works closely with local energy companies, adapting and extending AI techniques to solve real-
 life problems (e.g., intelligent injection of glycol for BlueGentoo and improving data quality for
 HyperDAP).

 Our pathways (UG/MSc students to PhD students; PhD students to PDRAs; PDRAs to
 academics and researchers) contribute to bridging the AI and digital research skills gap,
 benefitting the economy and society. Additionally, we run a successful research-led MSc in AI
 programme, providing essential skills to the UK economy. We also help deliver the MSc in Data
 Science programme and the MSc in Health Data Science. We expect these programmes to have
 a combined intake of 100-120 students, who will be trained on state-of-the-art and state-of-the-
 practice AI research.




                                                                                           Page 14
