Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Aberystwyth University

 Unit of Assessment: 28: History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 The Department of History and Welsh History at Aberystwyth University is one of the oldest
 University History departments in the country (founded 1872) and has a longstanding tradition of
 research excellence in the fields of medieval history and European history, as well as a special
 responsibility for and leadership in scholarship on the history of Wales. The Department has set
 out in the current REF period to produce world-leading scholarship; to develop and consolidate
 an international research presence through individual and collaborative research initiatives; to
 expand its research impact; and to make a wider contribution to civic engagement and
 community outreach. We have taken steps to ensure the sustainability of the Department as a
 research-led unit, whilst maintaining the vitality of our current research.

 Unit context and structure
 Since REF 2014, the Department has been restructured and consolidated as a research-led unit
 of 13 members of staff (12.25 FTE) as part of a University-wide sustainability programme (see
 REF5a), and is now on a much more stable footing to go forward as a dynamic group of
 experienced researchers making important contributions in key areas of the discipline. It
 currently comprises eleven full-time and two part-time staff, as follows: two holders of University
 Chairs (Schofield, O’Leary), two Personal Chairs (Morus, Weiler), three Readers (Jones,
 Nicholas, White), two Senior Lecturers (New, Thompson), and four Lecturers (Arwyn, Emlyn,
 Li, Taylor, the last two early-career). We also have eleven Emeritus staff, who retain strong and
 close links with the Department.

 In consolidating, we have maintained our established strengths in medieval history (4.75 FTE:
 Schofield, Weiler, New, Emlyn, Taylor) and in the history of Wales from the medieval period to
 the present day (5 FTE: Emlyn, Jones, O’Leary, Thompson, White), cross-cutting with
 clusters of expertise in medical and scientific history (Thompson, Morus); historiography
 (Weiler, Schofield, previously Lambert); memory studies (Arwyn, Nicholas, previously
 Lambert); Methodism and Evangelicalism (Jones, White); and the history of the mass media
 (Nicholas, previously Phillips, Powell). We have also invested in expanding the geographical
 scope of our research, with a new specialism in the history of South-East Asia (Li, previously
 Phillips).

 In line with the University’s distinctive role in Welsh culture and society, the Department has an
 institutional responsibility to support historical research in the medium of Welsh. Five members
 of staff are Welsh-speakers and have disseminated their research in both Welsh and English.

 Our breadth of research expertise is demonstrated in the Department’s Research Centres: the
 Aberystwyth Centre for Media History; the Centre for Research in Historiography and
 Historical Cultures; the Centre for the Social and Cultural History of Wales; and the Centre
 for the History of Science, Technology and Medicine. All our centres reflect the
 Department’s overarching research interests in historiography, public and private
 understandings of the past, and new trends in historical study.

 We maintain active collaborative research relationships with scholars around the globe in joint
 research activities and research networks, including interdisciplinary networks. We also actively
 engage in national and international research dissemination, including organising conferences
 both independently and collaboratively; participating in conferences in the UK and around the
 world; and through our research seminar activities.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We also maintain a significant research outreach role, with a strong focus on developing civic
 and community knowledge exchange, from local cultural and heritage activities to schools’
 history teaching.

 Research and impact strategy
 Our research and impact strategy during the current REF period has been guided by the
 University’s Research and Innovation Strategy described in REF5a, particularly its core
 principles of encouraging ambitious research that challenges existing approaches and
 knowledge; maintaining a supportive and research-led academic environment; promoting
 inclusivity in research; and collaborating with external partners in Wales, the UK, and globally to
 generate important and innovative research with impact both within and beyond the academy.

 The Department’s research strategy has built on and further developed the strategic aims
 outlined in REF 2014, i.e., to:

       support and develop our research centres

       develop our grant application strategies, including targets for research grant capture, and
        collaborative applications

       support early career researchers (ECRs)

       maintain and develop postgraduate researcher (PGR) recruitment as an integral feature
        of our research culture and environment

       help shape the research infrastructure of the discipline going forwards.

 Underpinning all these aims has been the fostering of an inclusive and supportive departmental
 research environment where every member of staff is research-active and active in applying for
 research grants.

 The success of our research strategy can be measured in our grant capture over this REF
 period, with over 60% of staff (Jones, Morus, New, Nicholas, Powell, Schofield, Thompson,
 Weiler, White) in receipt of awards and a total of £1,187,000 awarded; in the activities of our
 research centres; in staff participation in research dissemination at national and international
 level; and in staff roles in peer review, editorships, and other marks of research esteem within
 the discipline.

 The Department’s impact strategy is embedded in our research strategy. We seek through all
 our research to develop both public and private engagement with the study of the past. Our staff
 are encouraged to see impact in their research, to seek out collaboration with outside agencies,
 including, but not limited to, museums, archives and heritage organisations, to relate their
 research to the world outside, and to develop research engagement both beyond the discipline
 and beyond the academy. Our REF 2021 impact case studies, and our community engagement
 as evidenced below, demonstrate how world-class historical research can engage with and
 influence external bodies in a range of instances and across disciplines, from heritage activity
 and source digitisation projects to forensic and environmental science.

 The development and implementation of the Department’s research strategy is led by the Head
 of Department (HoD) and Director of Research (DoR), in consultation with the Department’s
 Research Committee, chaired by the DoR, and under the aegis of the Faculty of Arts and Social
 Science (FASS). FASS was established in 2018 as part of a University-wide restructuring that
 replaced the institute-based structure from REF 2014. This has enabled the Department to
 reconfigure interdisciplinary links with subjects including Modern Languages, Welsh and Celtic
 Studies, and Theatre, Film and Television Studies. Coordination and collaboration within FASS
 is facilitated by the Faculty Research Committee, on which the Department is represented by the
 DoR, and by initiatives led by the Associate Dean for Research, Knowledge Exchange and

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Innovation, including the appointment of Senior Research Development Leads, a concordat to
 support ECR development, an impact group, monthly ‘women doing research’ workshops, and
 the creation of new interdisciplinary research centres The Department’s research strategy and
 output are monitored at University level by the Research Monitoring Committee, and ultimately
 by the University’s Research Committee led by the Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research.

 Protocols to ensure research integrity and ethical practice in research are maintained and
 administered by the University as described in REF5a. The Department provides initial
 assessment of ethical issues relating to research projects, from undergraduate to academic
 staff, with referral onwards to university-level committees as appropriate. Good research
 practice is overseen through adherence to discipline-wide standards and ethical protocols.
 These are reinforced by university-level mechanisms regarding good practice and opportunities
 for reflection upon academic excellence and best practice, for instance in Departmental research
 seminars.

 In addition to complying with university OA requirements, the Department has engaged directly
 with the Open Access agenda, encouraging and supporting the submission of particular OA
 publications by staff members and engaging in discipline-wide discussions regarding the delivery
 of OA and its potential impact on income streams for learned societies.

 Research and impact strategy going forward beyond REF 2021
 The Department has set strategic objectives for the next REF period that build on our
 achievements in the REF 2021 period and engage with the trajectory of the University’s
 Research and Innovation Strategy for 2019-2024 and with University initiatives as described in
 REF5a. In the next assessment period, we will:

       Continue to aim for increases in per capita grant capture, building on our past experience
        in developing successful major research award applications to pursue new grant
        opportunities, both collaborative and individual.

       Continue to pursue impact through our research activities; and build on our impact
        strategy by further developing our relationships in heritage, media and other sectors.

       Expand our international collaborative research initiatives, through our Departmental
        research centres and through independent collaborations.

       Expand our internal cooperation with other departments in interdisciplinary University
        research centres, e.g., the new Centre for the Movement of People and projected Centre
        for the History of War, and to contribute actively to the University’s Old College project,
        including its proposed public-facing activities and exhibitions.

       Maintain and strengthen our inclusive research environment, by securing the equal and
        effective participation of all staff in research activities, and by supporting staff whose
        research has been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts.

       Give targeted research support (e.g., priority in research leave) to early career scholars
        and to scholars developing major research grant applications.

       Further expand our PGR recruitment, and explore more opportunities to fund
        studentships through doctoral training partnerships and team project grants (e.g.
        Leverhulme Trust)

       Further develop our research seminars, conferences, symposia and workshop activities
        with a strategic focus on promoting our research centres and enhancing our research
        profile nationally and internationally, including wider use of livestreamed events.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Develop ongoing opportunities for civic engagement and local and community outreach
        through our research and our research dissemination activities.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our staffing strategy has always been to develop our research strength in key themes and
 areas, while offering specifically research-led UG and PGT teaching, and PGR supervision of
 the highest quality and expertise. Our staffing strategy going forward is to maintain and enhance
 the breadth, depth and vitality of our research, with emphasis in the short term on replacing our
 expertise in American history, and in the medium term on consolidating our research depth in
 modern history, within the context of maintaining a financially stable unit with a strong focus on
 active research grant capture. We are also committed as a department to supporting research
 expertise in Welsh History, and the dissemination of research outputs in both Welsh and
 English.

 The restructuring of the Department to enhance sustainability saw an element of staff turnover,
 with three retirements and four moves to posts elsewhere. Since then, the appointment of Li to
 replace Phillips has secured our emerging research specialism in South-East Asian History,
 and Weiler’s success in securing a Leverhulme Fellowship has enabled Taylor’s appointment to
 a fixed-term position. A new permanent appointment in American history is confirmed for 2021.
 New staff have either established research excellence or a research trajectory that promises
 excellence in the future, and are expected to contribute actively to the Department’s research
 strategy.

 In this REF period we have also recruited Research Assistants to work on six funded research
 projects as follows: ‘Imprint’; ‘Disability in Industrial Society’; the Gogerddan Estate Archive
 project; ‘Sharing Scientific Stories’; ‘Aberystwyth at War 1914-19’; and ‘People’s Voices in a
 People’s War: Aberystwyth 1939-45’. All our RAs are appointed in a competitive process, have
 shared office space in the Department, are encouraged to publish their own project outputs, and
 (where consistent with the terms of the award) are offered teaching opportunities as part of their
 career development.

 The University’s promotion procedures have historically sought to balance individual merit,
 internal competition and financial resources. Due to fiscal restructuring, promotions were
 suspended between 2017 and 2020, but despite this in the REF 2021 period the Department
 performed exceptionally strongly, with three staff promoted to Reader (Nicholas, Jones, White)
 and one to Senior Lecturer (New). In 2017 O’Leary was appointed to the prestigious Sir John
 Williams Chair of Welsh History. Staff are encouraged to apply as appropriate and their
 applications mentored by a senior colleague.

 The Department has always been committed to facilitating and enhancing staff personal, career
 and research development. The introduction of a University-wide workload allocation
 measurement model (WAMM) enabled us to distribute teaching and administrative burdens
 more equitably and effectively and so release more time for staff research. The University-wide
 annual staff appraisal process, the Effective Contribution Scheme (ECS), also enables the HoD
 to tailor the teaching and administrative workloads of staff members, and staff to provide
 feedback on their opportunities for research activity. Individual research priorities and direction
 are discussed with the DoR and HoD, and grant applications are supported and peer-reviewed
 at Departmental, Faculty and University level. The Department provides all staff with a personal
 research grant of £500, and Faculty-level financial support is available for conference
 attendance and research network activities. Under the new Concordat for Researcher
 Development, the University has extended its commitment to 10 days p.a. training and
 development for each researcher.

 Research leave for all research-active staff is a key element of the department’s research
 culture, allocated by the HoD and DoR, and with research leave objectives and outcomes

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 monitored at Faculty level. Previously awarded on a one-semester-in-seven rota, departmental
 research leave was temporarily suspended for a year following restructuring, but reinstated by
 careful and targeted use of resources and support teaching. We are currently in transition to a
 new Faculty-wide research leave model of one-semester-in-eight.

 New members of staff are guided through probation by a Departmental mentor, and ECRs have
 their teaching and administrative workloads specifically monitored by the HoD. Faculty-level
 support mechanisms for ECRs include mentoring and financial support for research activities.
 Research development training at University level includes research proposal writing and grant
 management and is supported by the University Concordat to Support the Career Development
 of Researchers. The informal ‘Shut Up and Write’ initiative, inspired by a Women in Research
 Network discussion and co-organised by Arwyn, helps junior staff develop their research by
 collaboratively setting aside time for writing.

 Research students
 The Department’s postgraduate research culture is particularly strong. Postgraduate research
 students are considered an integral element of the Department’s research culture and are
 welcome participants in departmental research activities and initiatives, including research
 seminars, conferences and associated social events. The Department also supports research
 initiatives generated by the postgraduates themselves, including the annual Aberystwyth
 Postgraduate Conferences. In this REF period we have added to the international outreach of
 our postgraduate research culture by welcoming visiting research students from France, the
 USA and China.

 As a department we support postgraduate recruitment in both English and Welsh. The criteria
 for acceptance include excellence at MA or equivalent, and a research proposal that indicates
 synchronicity with both the prospective supervisor’s research specialism and the Department’s
 research strategy. We have a longstanding tradition of welcoming both full-time and part-time
 students and both early- and later-career applicants, and we have a strong record of seeing
 MPhil students transfer to PhD after a year of study. Our PGR recruitment is especially
 impressive. We currently have 21 PhD students at different stages of their doctoral research,
 one MPhil student, and three visiting students. 13 of our PhD students are full-time and 8 part-
 time; the current gender balance is 4:3 M:F; one student is conducting their research through the
 medium of Welsh.

 Postgraduate student funding has come from a range of sources, including university
 scholarships and departmental fee waiver awards, AHRC DTP awards, a Leverhulme Trust
 Research Project Grant, the Pantyfedwen Foundation, the Eleanor James Scholarship, and local
 county council awards. Just over half our students are self-funded.

 All our PhD students have access to study facilities and financial support. They are allocated
 shared offices with networked computer facilities within the Department, and the University also
 provides PGR study space on campus. The Department has a research fund to help with PGR
 research travel and conference expenses and to organise research workshops.

 Research training and skills development are integral features of our doctoral programme. The
 University Graduate School runs a programme of postgraduate research training modules, a
 compulsory Research Ethics module and academic career development workshops to which
 members of the Department contribute. Tailored research training for History PhD students
 includes instruction in languages (including medieval Latin), palaeography, and source-specific
 research methodologies.

 Our PhD students are assigned a principal supervisor, with whom they meet regularly (typically
 at least one hour per fortnight or equivalent), and a second supervisor who provides additional
 support and research expertise. Every member of staff (excepting early-career staff) is currently
 supervising at least one PhD student, with an average of two and a University-set maximum of
 six students. Research monitoring is carried out annually, with students submitting written

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 evidence of research progress and an action plan for their next 12 months’ research, and
 discussing their progress, their supervision and any research support needs with the
 Department’s Postgraduate Research Monitoring panel. Its recommendations are reported
 upwards to the Faculty and University PGR Research Monitoring Boards, and actions confirmed
 as required.

 The department takes postgraduate career mentoring and development particularly seriously.
 Our students are encouraged to join research networks, to present research papers at the
 departmental research seminar, to participate in conference organisation, and to present
 conference papers as soon as appropriate. We financially support the Aberystwyth Postgraduate
 Conference (2017, 2018, 2019, postponed 2020), organised by the students themselves and
 attracting participants from the UK and overseas, which provides a forum for students to present
 and share their research and attend workshops on article writing and publication by
 departmental staff with journal editing experience. We also offer mentored undergraduate
 seminar teaching for our PGRs.

 During REF 2021 22.5 History PhDs were awarded (compared to 14.5 awards for REF 2014 and
 13 for REF 2008), an increase in the annualised rate of 11% compared to REF 2014. They have
 moved into a range of careers in the heritage sector and elsewhere, and four have been
 appointed to permanent academic posts in other UK institutions.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The Department promotes equality and diversity through established University procedures and
 networks, and through a supportive Departmental environment that seeks to encourage
 inclusivity among staff and students alike. The University is accredited as a Disability Confident
 Employer; is one of Stonewall’s Top 100 UK Employers for an LGBT+ friendly workplace; and
 has established networks addressing BAME and LGBT+ staff, Women in Research, and
 Disability and Wellbeing.

 At REF 2021 census date the Department’s academic staff had a gender balance of almost 50%
 (7M:6F), the strongest representation of female staff in our 125+ years history, up from c.25% in
 REF 2008 and c.33% in REF 2014; and both BAME and LGBT+ representation. We have
 always demonstrated very strong support for flexible and part-time working for personal and
 family reasons, and during REF 2021 had three staff on part-time contracts; three staff also took
 paternity leave.

 All Departmental staff complete equality and diversity training and unconscious bias training as
 part of their staff development. This is implemented at all levels, from the hiring, mentoring and
 promotion of staff, through PGR supervision and examination, to the personal tutor system
 which alerts staff to equality and diversity issues among students. The Department appoints its
 own disability, equality and diversity officers (including an Equality champion), and staff play
 active roles in the University’s Women in Research Network, the Faculty-level women’s support
 network, and the University-wide female academic mentoring programme; White is also a
 member of the ‘Established Scholars’ focus group for Women and Research in Social Sciences
 and the Humanities.

 Principles of equality and inclusion were incorporated into the REF 2021 selection process, as
 outlined in the University’s Code of Practice, with unconscious bias training required for all
 members of the REF Reading Committee and supplementary reviewers. The Department’s REF
 Reading Committee also included an independent member from a cognate department to
 monitor fair practice. Applications for output reductions for Individual Staff Circumstances have
 been assessed through an anonymous process, with decisions made outside the department.

 The Department supports a bilingual research environment in which English and Welsh
 languages have equal status. The maintenance of a secure and positive research environment
 for our Welsh-medium staff and students is one of the Department’s key ongoing objectives and
 places us at the forefront of Welsh-medium scholarship, including researching and publishing in

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Welsh (Arwyn, Emlyn, O’Leary, White), participating in Welsh-medium research networks
 (Emlyn, O’Leary, Thompson, White), supervising, examining, editing and peer-reviewing
 Welsh-medium research (O’Leary, White, Thompson) and contributing to Welsh-language
 public engagement activities (Arwyn, Emlyn, Morus, O’Leary, Thompson, White).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Over this REF period the Department has generated a research income of £1,187,000,
 representing £96,900 per capita FTE. This compares to £1,067,000 (£72,100 per FTE) for REF
 2014 and £227,726 for RAE 2008. Over 60% of staff have been successful in new research
 grant awards, half of them six-figure sums.

 This income generation reflects the vitality of our sustained Departmental strategy targeting
 large grant capture alongside smaller awards. Grants have been awarded across the entire REF
 period; several substantial grants awarded during REF 2014 have carried over; and several new
 projects will run well beyond REF 2021, maintaining the momentum of our grant capture success
 going forwards. Awards have come from both public and private funding bodies and have been
 used to fund major projects (both collaborative and individual), research-facilitating events,
 community research and outreach, and personal research. They include the following
 (*indicates award carried over from REF 2014):

 AHRC:
    £236,618.86 (of £626,679): ‘Imprint: A Forensic and Historical Investigation of
       Fingerprints on Medieval Seals’ (with University of Lincoln) (2016-18) (New)

       £185,664.01 (of £606,845): ‘Unsettling Scientific Stories: Expertise, Narrative and Future
        Histories’ (with York and Newcastle Universities) (2015-18) (Morus)

       *£8,147 (of £22,675; AHRC development grant): ‘Recreating the Late Victorian Popular
        Science Experience’ (Feb-Dec 2013) (Morus)

       £4,098: Anglo-Norman Dictionary project (2017-2021) (Schofield)

 British Academy:
     *£9,500: ‘Seals in a Local Context (Mar-Aug 2013) (Schofield)

 Leverhulme Trust:
    £155,304 (Major Research Fellowship): ‘Unity, Diversity and the Past in Europe c.1100-
       c.1300’ (2019-22) (Weiler)

       £59,892.34: ‘The Political Works of Richard Brinsley Sheridan’ (2016-18) (Powell)

       £115,527: ‘George Whitefield and Transatlantic Protestantism’ (2015-17) (Jones)

       *£140,507 (Major Research Fellowship): ‘The Great Famine: Dearth and Society in
        Medieval England’ (2012-15, extended to 2016) (Schofield)

       *£175,421 (of £249,000) (Research Project Grant): ‘The British Press in WW2’ (2011-14)
        (Nicholas)

 Wellcome Trust:
    *£153,298 (of £907,220): ‘Disability in Industrial Society: A Comparative Cultural History
       of British Coalfields, c.1780-1948’ (with Swansea, Northumbria, Glasgow Caledonian and
       Strathclyde Universities) (2011-16) (Thompson)



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Other:
    £43,090 (National Lottery Heritage Fund): ‘People’s Voices in a People’s War:
        Aberystwyth 1939-45’ (2020-22) (Nicholas)

       £50,600 (Heritage Lottery Fund): ‘Aberystwyth at War 1914-1919: Impact, Experience,
        Legacy’ (2018-19) (Nicholas)

       £5000 (Marc Fitch Fund): ‘George Whitefield and Transatlantic Protestantism’ (2016)
        (Jones)

       £2,658 (History Research Wales): ‘Gogerddan Estate Archive’ (2015) (White)

 In addition, in December 2019 New was awarded a £123,189 three-year Leverhulme Trust
 Major Research Fellowship for ‘Identity, Interaction and Exchange in Medieval England’
 (commencing Sept 2020). This is the third such Fellowship awarded to the Department in the
 last eight years, and marks over £3/4m research income from the Leverhulme Trust alone over
 the past nine years.

 Research grant capture to enhance the vitality and sustainability of the Department’s research
 going forward is encouraged through Departmental, Faculty and University-level initiatives. The
 University’s Department of Research, Business and Innovation hosts talks, research cafes and
 ‘Grants Factory’ workshops, and reviews grant applications. Faculty-level Senior Research
 Development Leads encourage collaborative inter-disciplinary research activities and provide
 grant application mentoring. All staff are encouraged to develop research grant applications,
 supported by a dedicated Research Development Officer with quality-enhancing processes
 including internal peer review of all proposals. Equality and inclusion in access to research grant
 capture is addressed through targeted measures including an annual project development
 sandpit for ECRs and ringfenced ECR pump-priming research funds, and Faculty ‘women doing
 research’ workshops covering topics including international research, mentoring, leadership and
 the REF.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The Department of History and Welsh History is located in a spacious modern building (opened
 2006) that it shares with the cognate Department of International Politics. All staff have their own
 offices for research and supervision, and priority access to meeting and teaching rooms in the
 building. Research project staff have shared offices, and Emeritus staff their own dedicated
 office. Our PhD students share offices located together on the ground floor, with networked
 computers and individual desk and shelf space.

 The Department’s research facilities are of the highest order. The University library, the Hugh
 Owen Library, has built up its collections over more than a century, is a member of the UK
 Research Reserve and a European Documentation Centre. It has a dedicated History librarian,
 maintains an active purchasing policy, and is particularly alert to the provision of electronic
 research resources, including a significant number of on-line archive collections of specific
 relevance to historians.

 The Department also benefits from the easy proximity of the National Library of Wales, one of
 the five copyright libraries of the UK, just a five-minute walk away. The NLW is of inestimable
 value as a research resource for our staff and students alike. It is the national repository for
 manuscript collections for Wales from the medieval period to the present; the home of the
 University of Wales Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies (CAWCS); and a hub for
 Welsh media resources, including the National Screen and Sound Archive for Wales, the Welsh
 Newspapers Online digitisation project, and the new National Broadcasting Archive for Wales
 (NBAW). These resources, as well as the NLW’s world-class printed, visual and material
 collections, enable us to support a hands-on research culture that we embed in both our
 research and pedagogy. Departmental staff actively collaborate with the NLW in acquiring new


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 archival materials (for instance, the NBAW), that in turn enhance our research profile and
 research engagement.

 Aberystwyth is also home to the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of
 Wales (RCAHMW), and the Ceredigion Archives, both of which provide additional resources for
 historical research as well as research training for History postgraduates.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Overview and Collaborations
 The Department’s research initiatives over the REF 2021 period have made a significant
 contribution to the discipline’s research base through both collaborative and individual activities,
 and at the local, national and international level.

 First, our longstanding weekly research seminar series promotes connections and collaborations
 with other scholars, showcasing new research by our own staff and invited scholars from the UK
 and overseas, and attracting an audience of staff, students, emeritus colleagues and members
 of the wider Aberystwyth history community. The move to online seminars during the COVID-19
 pandemic saw a striking expansion in audience numbers, inclusivity and diversity, something we
 aim to build on with livestreaming of seminars, debates, and other research events going
 forward, and a wider range of participants, including overseas collaborators. We also support
 and participate in Welsh-medium research seminars organised by the University, the NLW and
 CAWCS, promoting interdisciplinary research scholarship and collaboration in Welsh.

 The Department’s research centres play a core role in the vitality and sustainability of our
 collaborative research agenda, by facilitating internal and external research collaborations and
 organising national and international conferences, symposia and public engagement activities:

       The Centre for Media History, co-directed by Nicholas and Dr Jamie Medhurst of the
        University’s Department of Theatre, Film and Television, and the first such centre in the
        UK, promotes the study of media in historical and transnational context. It is associated
        with the Centre for Media History, Macquarie University, the Centre for Cinema History,
        Lingnan University, Hong Kong, and the Centre for Media History, Bournemouth
        University; is a co-convenor (with Bournemouth, Lunds and the Han-Bredow-Institut,
        Hamburg) of the ‘Entangled Media Histories’ research network; and is the home of the
        journal Media History. During the REF 2021 period it organised two international
        conferences, ‘Newspapers, War and Society’, and ‘Shared Histories: Media Connections
        between Britain and Ireland’ (the latter with Dublin City University), and a research
        symposium for leading scholars, ‘The British Press in WW2’; and oversaw the publication
        of two special issues of Media History and two edited collections arising out of its
        research activities. In 2015 it marked its tenth anniversary by launching a series of
        Annual Lectures. In summer 2020 it was due to fulfil a longstanding ambition and co-host
        (with Macquarie and Loughborough Universities) the first international conference of
        media history centres from around the world; this is now postponed to 2021.

       The Centre for Research in Historiography and Historical Cultures, co-directed by
        Lambert (to 2017) and Weiler, explores trends in historiographical and other
        representations of the past. During REF 2021 it supported a series of panel sessions at
        the Leeds International Medieval Conference and a series of postgraduate history
        symposia hosted by the department, and published a major edited collection arising out
        of its research activity that brought together scholars from around the world.

       The Centre for the History of Science, Technology and Medicine, co-directed by
        Morus and Thompson, is dedicated to the cultural study of science, technology and
        medicine, a growing field in which its co-directors are leading figures. During REF 2021 it
        supported two major externally-funded collaborative projects, ‘Unsettling Scientific
        Stories’ (AHRC, with York and Newcastle Universities) and ‘Disability in Industrial

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Society’ (Wellcome Trust, with Swansea, Northumbria, Glasgow Caledonian and
        Strathclyde Universities). Its work is particularly strong in research impact, providing
        impact case studies for both REF 2014 and REF 2021.

       The Centre for the Social and Cultural History of Wales promotes the study of the
        history of Wales and ‘four nations’ approaches to the history of the UK. During REF
        2021 it supported the ‘Disability in Industrial Society’ project (see above) and co-
        organised the Ireland-Wales International Research Network conference ‘1916 in Ireland
        and Wales’, with the support of ‘Wales Remembers’/’Cymru’n Cofio’. It also provides a
        hub for the postgraduate student community working on the history of Wales.

 Collaborations with other University departments include the Centre for Media History
 (Nicholas, with Theatre, Film and Television Studies), the Centre for the Movement of People
 (Arwyn, with Modern Languages), and a new initiative on the history and literature of medicine
 in Wales (Thompson, with Welsh and Celtic Studies). Collaborative activities have included
 organising conferences and editing publications arising from their proceedings, running seminar
 series, and developing research grant proposals.

 Collaborative projects with other HEI’s constitute a vital element of the Department’s research
 grant capture. These include ‘Disability in Industrial Society’ (Thompson, with Swansea,
 Northumbria, Glasgow Caledonian and Strathclyde Universities); ‘Imprint’ (New, with Lincoln);
 and ‘Unsettling Scientific Stories’ (Morus, with York and Newcastle). In the early part of the
 assessment period, collaboration with Bangor University was facilitated through the Aber-Bangor
 Institute of Medieval and Early Modern Studies, including a conference on ‘Travel and Conflict in
 the Medieval and Early Modern World’ (organised by Emlyn) in 2015. Our ongoing grant
 capture initiatives maintain this collaborative focus.

 The Department also maintains an active presence in collaborative research networks across
 the discipline, and across international and disciplinary boundaries. These include the Four
 Nations History Network (O’Leary); the Ireland-Wales International Research Network (with
 Cork and Cardiff) (co-manager O’Leary); the international Tyndall Correspondence Project
 (Morus); ‘Political Culture in the Latin West, the Islamic World and Byzantium, 700-1450’ (with
 Oxford and Ghent) (Weiler); a research network on food and food security in the Middle Ages,
 sponsored by the Spanish government, with workshops in Brussels, Lleida and Rome
 (Schofield); and ‘The Nordic “Civil Wars”’ (with Oslo) (Taylor). Schofield is also a member of
 the Scientific Committee of the Datini Institute, Prato, and New a member of the ArcHives
 international science/conservation/historical research network (run through Cambridge and
 Copenhagen) investigating pre-modern wax, bee colony die-off and historical climatic events.

 Members of the Department also collaborate individually with scholars both nationally and
 internationally. Schofield has organised sessions with colleagues at the University of Valencia
 at the last two World Economic History Congresses. Weiler has developed research links with
 colleagues at UNC Chapel Hill and is planning a joint seminar series on historiography with
 Bochum University. Nicholas has developed historical mapping templates with historians at
 Queens University of Charlotte, USA, and advises on Greek media history research initiatives at
 Panteion University, Athens. New is exploring the chemistry of medieval sealing wax with
 colleagues at Reading University.

 The Department also collaborates with non-academic bodies in Aberystwyth and beyond. The
 Ceredigion Archives, Ceredigion Museum and National Library of Wales are partners on our
 ‘Aberystwyth at War 1914-1919’ and ‘People’s Voices for a People’s War’ projects. White is
 honorary curator of the Calvinistic Methodist Archive at the NLW. Nicholas is on the Advisory
 Group of the NLW Broadcast Archive of Wales.

 Contributions to the discipline and research base
 Our staff contribute to the discipline’s research base as members of leading advisory panels,
 consultative bodies and academic editorial boards; by organising national and international

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conferences and conference panels; and in disseminating our research nationally and
 internationally through conference papers, research seminars and other academic settings. Our
 staff’s national and international research reputations are further demonstrated through our PhD
 examining in the UK, Europe and USA.

 The significance of research in the Department and the contribution of individuals to the
 research base and discipline has been recognised during the assessment period by honours
 and awards including the election of Morus, O’Leary and Schofield as Fellows of the Learned
 Society of Wales, and Schofield as a Fellow of the Academy of Social Science. Two members
 of the Department have been honoured by overseas institutions: Weiler was Dorothy Ford Wiley
 Visiting Professor, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, in 2015; Jones was elected
 Fellow of the Evangelical Studies Program at Baylor University, Texas, in 2019.

 Members of the Department have contributed to the vitality and sustainability of the discipline
 and of the wider scholarly community through leadership roles in learned societies and subject
 associations. Morus was elected to the Council of the Learned Society of Wales and serves as
 Director of MYRDDIN, the Welsh Network for the History and Social Study of Science. Jones is
 Convenor of the Association of Denominational Historical Societies and Cognate Libraries. New
 is Chair of SIGILLVM, the international network for the preservation and study of seals and
 sealing practices,

 Contributions to the research base have additionally been made as members of grant award
 panels or peer review colleges, including the AHRC Strategic Review College (Schofield), and
 the AHRC Peer Review College (New, Schofield). Additionally, Nicholas has peer-reviewed
 applications to the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) and AHRC; and Thompson is an
 Advisor on Wellcome Trust applications. Schofield is also a REF 2021 sub-panel member and
 is Chair of the Advisory Board of the AHRC project ‘The People of the Peasants’ Revolt’. Morus
 was a member of the AHRC Advisory Group ‘Science in Culture’, to 2014.

 Through editorial work for academic journals, staff in the Department have supported scholarly
 publishing and shaped disciplinary trajectories. During this REF period, six staff have served as
 editors or co-editors of academic journals as follows: Proceedings of the Wesley Historical
 Society (Jones), Welsh History Review (O’Leary), History of Science (Morus, to 2015),
 Economic History Review (Schofield, to 2017), Llafur: Journal of the Welsh People’s History
 Society (Thompson), and Ceredigion: Journal of the Ceredigion Historical Society (White).
 Staff have also served as members of editorial or advisory boards for Twentieth Century British
 History (chaired by Nicholas); British Journal for the History of Science; Continuity and Change;
 Early Popular Visual Culture; Economic History Review; History of Science; Journal of Religious
 History, Literature and Culture; Llafur: Media History; Y Traethodydd; The Medieval Journal;
 Wesley and Methodist Studies; and as peer reviewers for c.30 other journals across a wide
 range of specialisms.

 The Department’s presence on leading academic publishers’ editorial boards is also strong,
 particularly in the fields of medieval history and Welsh history. Schofield is General Editor of
 The Medieval Countryside series for Brepols, and Chair of the Users Advisory Board for the
 Bibliography of British and Irish History (Royal Historical Society/Institute of Historical
 Research/Brepols), while Jones is co-Editor of the Routledge Studies in Evangelicalism series.
 Staff members serve on the editorial boards for the British Academy’s Social and Economic
 History series (Schofield), Ashgate’s Rural Worlds series (Schofield), Rowman & Littlefield’s
 Global Epistemics series (Morus), the ARC Humanities Press series War and Conflict in Pre-
 Modern Societies (Taylor), Boydell & Brewer’s Writing History in the Middle Ages series
 (Weiler), and the University of Wales Press series Studies in Welsh History (White), Re-
 Thinking Welsh History and Gender Studies in Wales (both O’Leary), and Scientists of Wales
 (Morus). Members of the department have also acted as peer reviewers for leading academic
 publishers, including: Oxford, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Princeton, Chicago, Stanford, Pittsburgh
 and Harvard University Presses, Boydell & Brewer, Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge, University of
 Wales Press, and Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol.

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conference organisation, leadership and participation are significant elements of both the
 Department’s research environment and its international research reputation and are supported
 financially at both Departmental and Faculty level. National and international conferences
 organised by members of the Department include:

       11th, 12th and 13th Anglo-American Seminars in Medieval Economic History, Wells 2013,
        Stirling 2016, Worcester 2019 (Schofield)
       ‘Newspapers, War and Society’: Fifth Gregynog Media History Conference, Gregynog,
        2014 (Nicholas)
       ‘George Whitefield: Life, Context and Legacy’, Pembroke College, Oxford, 2014 (Jones)
       ‘Travel and Conflict in the Medieval and Early Modern World’, Bangor, 2015 (Emlyn)
       ‘1916 in Ireland and Wales’, Ireland-Wales International Research Network, Aberystwyth,
        2016 (O’Leary)
       ‘Shared Histories: Media Connections between Britain and Ireland’, Sixth Gregynog
        Media History Conference, with Dublin City University, Dublin, 2016 (Nicholas)
       ASEAUK conference, London, Sept 2016 (Phillips)
       ‘Peacemaking and the Restraint of Violence in Medieval Europe’, Oslo, 2018 (Taylor)
       British Archaeological Association annual conference. Shrewsbury, 2019 (New)
       EUROSEAS conference, Berlin, 2019 (Phillips)
       British Society for the History of Science Annual Conference 2020 (postponed) (Morus)

 The vitality of the Department’s research is also demonstrated by invitations to deliver keynote
 addresses to conferences, research networks and learned societies, including the following: by
 Jones (Annual Lectures to the Wesley Historical Society and the Congregational History
 Society); Morus (British Society for the History of Science Annual Conference, Swansea, 2015;
 International History, Philosophy and Science Teaching Group Annual European Conference,
 Flensburg, 2016); New (Scottish Medievalists Annual Conference, 2014); O’Leary (Wales-
 Ireland International Research Network, Cardiff, 2014; Launch of the Four Nations’ History
 Network, London, 2015; Centre de Recherche sur les Identités Nationales et l’Interculturalité,
 Nantes, 2017; Inaugural Conference of the AHRC Network on Anti-Popery in British History,
 Newcastle, 2018; Conference for the Agrégation Interne Civilisation Britannique, Rouen, 2019);
 Schofield (Bangor Medieval Colloquium, 2016; conference on medieval food markets’
 development and integration, Lleida, 2020); and White (Oxford Centre for Methodism and
 Church History/Wesley History Society, 2019).

 Over the REF 2021 period the thirteen current members of the Department have also presented
 over seventy conference and research papers across Britain and the world. These include
 papers delivered to annual history conferences (including the German Historical Society; British
 Society for the History of Science; British Archaeological Association; Anglo-American
 Conference; Association for Asian Studies; EuroSEAS, Social Science Historical Association;
 Leeds International Medieval Conference; European Social Science History Conference; World
 Economic History Conference; and North American Association for the Study of Welsh Culture
 and History); national archives and museums (TNA, British Museum, State Archives of Belgium);
 and other national and international conferences and symposia. Members of staff also regularly
 present their work-in-progress at research seminars in history departments across the UK,
 including (in this REF period) the universities of Oxford, Cambridge, St Andrews, Stirling, York,
 Leicester, Manchester, Huddersfield, Liverpool John Moores, Cardiff, Bangor, UCL and the IHR.
 Our international research outreach is particularly impressive, with staff presenting papers and
 participating in symposia at institutions across Europe (including Athens, Berlin, Brussels,
 Cologne, Lleida, Madrid, Odense, Paris, Rome, Saratov, Tel Aviv, Valencia, and Vilnius);
 Canada (Kingston, Toronto); the USA (Boston, Chicago, Denver, Philadelphia), East and South-
 East Asia (Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur, Kyoto, Seoul, Shanghai, Singapore, Taipei, and a five-
 lecture series by Schofield in Wuhan); and Australia (Canberra, Macquarie).

 All senior members of the Department are in regular demand as external examiners for doctoral
 degrees, for universities including the following: Cambridge; Kings College London;

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Huddersfield; Leicester; Manchester; Nottingham Trent; Oxford Brookes, SOAS; York; Bangor;
 Cardiff; Edinburgh; National University of Ireland Galway; University of Girona; University of
 Paris-Sorbonne; University of Valencia; University of Delaware.

 Departmental staff are actively involved in developing historical research resources both for
 teaching and for academic research and research development. Emlyn was a consultant on a
 project to develop teaching resources on the Middle Ages for the Coleg Cymraeg resources
 library. New was advisor to the Portable Antiquities Scheme; the British Academy English
 Episcopal Acta Project; the L.T.C. Rolt archive deposit at Ironbridge Gorge Museums Trust; and
 the St Padarn’s Church Community Heritage and Conservation Project, Aberystwyth. Nicholas
 is Consultant Editor for the Adam Matthew Digital archive collections: ‘The First World War’,
 ‘Mass-Observation in the 1980s’, ‘British Service Newspapers of WW2’, and ‘Topical Budget
 Newsreels 1911-31’, and has developed a set of Year 9 history resources on local history and
 the First World War. Thompson is adviser on five successful Wellcome Trust record
 conservation projects. White was liaison for a NLW/Farmers’ Union of Wales project into the use
 of tithe maps and associated place-names to research historical land use.

 Contribution to economy and society
 Departmental staff have also played a proactive role in contributing to the economy and society
 through public engagement activities and knowledge exchange with civic communities and with
 local, national and international media.

 Departmental research interests inform our ongoing engagement with wider public and policy
 matters. On the UK/international stage, Phillips spent two years of the REF period under part-
 time secondment to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, advising senior policy colleagues
 about the history and culture of Southeast Asia and contemporary policy challenges, and
 delivering training directly to UK diplomats in foreign embassies. Departmental staff have also
 participated in Welsh government initiatives. O’Leary was a member of the Welsh Government’s
 First World War Centenary Historical Interpretation Group 2013-18. Arwyn and O’Leary were
 speakers at the Interdisciplinary Workshop on Migration (Aberystwyth, July 2017), with
 representatives of the Welsh Government, Home Office and Wales Strategic Migration
 Partnership; Arwyn also participated in the Community Sponsorship in Wales academic
 roundtable with representatives of the Home Office, Goodfaith and Social Finance (Aberystwyth,
 Oct 2017). Thompson is a member of the Welsh National Advisory Group of Disability Research
 on Independent Living and Learning (DRILL); Nicholas is a member of the Steering Group of
 the National Broadcast Archive for Wales.

 Knowledge transfer and outreach is something with which all our staff actively engage. New in
 particular has led on a significant number of initiatives, in collaboration with heritage
 organisations including MALD/CyMAL, the Portable Antiquities Scheme, the Archives & Records
 Association, and ICON, and at venues including the British Library, Museum of London, National
 Museum Wales, Royal Cornwall Museum, and Exeter Cathedral Archives. These have included
 training events for heritage professionals with the Oxford Archivists Group/Conservation
 Consortium; the West Yorkshire Archives Service; PAS Cymru/National Museums Wales/Saving
 Treasures; ARA West Midlands; and ARA Wales. Locally, Nicholas organised archive research
 training at the Ceredigion Archives and the NLW for volunteers on the ‘Aberystwyth at War
 1914-19’ project; and Arwyn has provided oral history research training for local and community
 oral history projects.

 Other staff have given public lectures at leading venues such as the Hay Festival (Morus, 2017);
 Gregynog Festival (O’Leary, 2017); National Eisteddfod (White, 2017); the Antiquaries Society
 and Hereford Cathedral’s ‘Magna Carta 2017’ (New).

 Departmental staff have also been involved in public exhibition activities. Morus was consultant
 for the Science and Industry Museum/Wellcome Collection international touring exhibition
 Electricity: The Spark of Life. Taylor has worked with the Forsvarsmuseet, Oslo. Li co-
 organised a photographic exhibition, The Golden Leaf, for the Centre for Photography and Film,

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Singapore. O’Leary curated a bilingual online exhibition, ‘The Great War and the Valleys’, and
 Nicholas co-curated a public exhibition, ‘Aberystwyth at War, 1914-1919’, at Aberystwyth Arts
 Centre, to coincide with the Armistice Centenary.

 The vitality of the Department’s research has been further demonstrated through engagement
 with the Welsh, UK and international media. Arwyn, Emlyn, Jones, Morus, O’Leary,
 Thompson and White are regular contributors on BBC Radio Cymru and BBC Radio Wales,
 and Morus, O’Leary, Thompson and White are familiar faces on S4C. While in post, Phillips
 was a regular commentator on BBC World and the BBC World Service on Thai history and
 current affairs and published an article in the New York Times on the death of King Bhumibol.
 Our media engagement has typically reflected both our research specialisms and ongoing
 research projects. Arwyn has published articles on ‘Fallen Women’ in the Western Mail (Nov
 2016), on ‘German Expellees’ in Golwg (June 2017) and on German refugees in a blogpost for
 British Archives Online (May 2018) - as well as multiple discussions of Donald Trump’s foreign
 policy for BBC Radio Cymru. Li has presented a podcast for ‘Myanmar Musings’ (2018).
 Morus’s ‘Unsettling Scientific Stories’ project led to him featuring in Dibendraw (S4C)
 discussing Marconi (May 2015); Great Lives (BBC Radio 4), discussing Nikola Tesla (January
 2018); and Victorian Sensations (BBC4) (April 2019); he has also been interviewed on
 Counterpoint (ABC Radio, Australia), and Sunday Morning (Radio New Zealand) (both April
 2020); written articles for The Independent (Oct 2018), Aeon, and BBC Science Focus Magazine
 (July 2019); and published an article on ‘Frankenstein: the real experiments that inspired the
 fictional science’ on the popular academic website The Conversation (Oct 2018) that by July
 2021 had over 109,000 online reads across the world. New drew on her ongoing research on
 ‘Medieval CSI’ to present a podcast for BBC History and features for BBC History Magazine (Jan
 2016), and New Scientist (Jan 2017). Perceived parallels between WW2 and the COVID crisis in
 spring and summer 2020 saw Nicholas invited to discuss the ‘Phoney War’ on The Archive
 Hour (BBC Radio 4); music and news provision in national emergencies on BBC local radio and
 LBC, and food rationing and family separation in BBC Archive blogposts. O’Leary featured in
 Bás nó Saoirse/Death or Liberty (Tile Films (Ireland)/Roar Films (Australia)), broadcast in three
 languages on TG4 (Ireland), S4C (Wales) and ABC (Australia) (Oct 2015). Thompson drew on
 his research on the history of health provision in Corff Cymru (S4C) (2016); Matron, Medicine
 and Me (BBC1) (2016) and National Health Stories (BBC Radio 4) (June 2018). Weiler has
 written on medieval elections for BBC HistoryExtra. White contributed to Huw Edwards a’r
 Cymry Estron (S4C) (May 2015) and The Man who Killed Richard III (S4C /History Channel)
 (Nov 2015). Meanwhile, two staff members have featured on BBC1’s Who Do You Think You
 Are?: White (Greg Davies, Feb 2017) and Thompson (Ruth Jones, recorded spring 2020). In
 addition, White was a jury member of the 2014 BAFTA Cymru Gwyn Alf Williams Award, for the
 TV programme/series which contributed most to an understanding of Welsh history.

 Finally, local and community outreach is an increasingly important and rewarding element of the
 Department’s research engagement activity. During the current REF period we developed a
 series of new initiatives that have enabled us to contribute more actively to local and community
 history, developing historical engagement at a community level, and bringing our own historical
 research to community arts, youth and heritage groups and the local schools curriculum. We
 have given history talks at the NLW (Emlyn, White), local pubs (Schofield), the
 Carmarthenshire Antiquarian Society (White), the Powysland Club (New and Schofield) and the
 U3A at Llandrindod Wells (Nicholas). Nicholas’s HLF funded community project ‘Aberystwyth
 at War 1914-1919’ united local archive bodies, heritage groups and volunteers in collective
 research on the local area, and featured Armistice Service readings, WWI-themed public film
 screenings, an exhibition, an interactive online map of Aberystwyth servicemen and their home
 addresses, and workshops with local schools’ Year 9 students. A follow-up project exploring
 Aberystwyth in WW2 was launched in spring 2020. We aim to increase our local and community
 outreach role alongside our international, national and public research engagement, and make it
 a key element of our Departmental research and impact strategy going forward.




                                                                                          Page 14
