Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 21: Sociology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview
Building on our prominent position in REF 2014 – 2nd under the ‘intensity’ criterion – Sociology at
Bristol over the current period has prioritised high quality publications, grant-capture and impact,
whilst sustaining our inclusive, collegial research culture. Strategically levered new appointments
mean that 26 people are entered in this REF submission (from 17 in 2014). Previous core research
concentrations – in ethnicity and citizenship, migration, gender, and social and cultural theory -
have been extended, with new/enhanced expertise in digital sociology, sociology of work, cultural
consumption, and religion/(post)secularism. The unit has both supported and benefited from the
marked shift towards interdisciplinarity within the university (UoB; see REF5a), playing a leading
role in major cross-UoB initiatives. Overall, we seek to champion and epitomise sociology’s
characteristically synthesising impulse – theoretical and empirical, specialist and generalising,
qualitative and quantitative, pure and applied, intellectually demanding yet policy relevant.

1.2 Structure and Leadership: Institutes and Centres
Sociology at Bristol sits within the School of Sociology, Politics and International Studies, and is
productively engaged at all levels of UoB’s research structures. Our role in establishing two new
cross-disciplinary institutes is particularly noteworthy.

Migration Mobilities Bristol (MMB) is one of seven Specialist Research Institutes (SRI)
established in 2018, bringing together scholars from a range of departments and schools, with
sociologists pivotal to this acceleration/concentration of migration research. Directed by Anderson
(appointed 2017, previously professor and research director, COMPAS, Oxford) the MMB
management team includes O’Connell Davidson (appointed 2015, previously professor at
Nottingham) as Anti-Racism Strategic Lead, and Charsley (co-founder with Fox of the precursor
Faculty Research Group on migration). MMB rethinks understandings of migration by rejecting
conventional divisions between those whose movement is problematised as ‘migration’, and those
whose mobility is invisible and accepted as legitimate. It investigates structures of domination
along lines of race, class, nation, gender and age that underpin state controls over mobility,
enabling synergies with sociologists working on ethnicity and citizenship, gender and work. Fox,
Morgan, Okyere and Tschalaer are also active in MMB.

The Bristol Digital Futures Institute (BDFI) is one of five University Research Institutes (URIs).
Co-directed by Halford (appointed 2018, previously professor at Southampton, President of the
BSA), BDFI is a flagship initiative at the heart of the university’s new Temple Quarter Enterprise
Campus development (see REF5a). Co-directed with Engineering, BDFI is premised on the
centrality of social scientific knowledges and methods to understanding and shaping digital futures.
This genuine interdisciplinarity enables sociologists Downer, McAndrew and Milyaeva to contribute
to BDFI’s emerging agenda. In 2019, co-steered by Halford, BDFI secured £100m funding from the
RCUK Research Partnership Investment Fund to build an infrastructure of research facilities to
create, utilise and evaluate new digital technologies, in collaboration with 27 partners from local
authority, technological, creative, business and civil society sectors.



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
Of the university’s other interdisciplinary institutes, Karlsen participates in the Elizabeth Blackwell
URI on health, McAndrew in the Jean Golding URI on data science, O’Toole in the Brigstow URI
on ‘living well’, and Downer and Paddock in the Cabot URI on sustainability and environment.

The SPAIS Centre for the Study of Ethnicity and Citizenship (CSEC) is directed by Modood
and Fox, with O’Toole, Braginskaia, Charsley, Haynes, Karlsen, McAndrew and Morgan as
participants. This Centre has an international reputation – frequently referred to as ‘the Bristol
school’ – for its work on multiculturalism, religious identity, Muslim minorities, governance,
citizenship, integration, and ethnic inequalities. In 2019, the Centre marked its 20th anniversary with
a major international conference on ‘Multiculturalism, Nationalism, Religions and Secularism’.
CSEC edits the Palgrave Politics of Identity and Citizenship book series and the journal Ethnicities.

The Gender Research Centre (GRC) features Perrier’s and Yamashita’s research on caring
labour, parenting and families. Anderson, Charsley, O’Connell Davidson and Tschalaer contribute
to the GRC’s expertise in gender, sexuality, migration, domestic labour and sex-work. Halford’s
interests in gender and organisational change pre-dated her digital sociology profile, the GRC
providing the setting for cross-fertilising the two fields. Intersectional feminist theory is pursued
comprehensively across these topics and scholars.

Sociologists work alongside other Politics and IR colleagues in the school’s Global Insecurities
Centre (GIC), in particular Downer’s interrogation of nuclear power rationalities and dangers,
Paddock’s research on food security, and O’Toole’s work on securitisation and governance of
British Muslims. MMB’s focus on political constructions of forms of migration as security threats,
and connections between global insecurities and patterns of human mobility, constitute further
productive links with the GIC.

PGRs are centrally involved in all our Centres, through collective events including visiting speaker
seminars, ‘brown bag’ discussion meetings and regular social occasions, though doctoral
supervision, and the twice-yearly SPAIS staff-PGR parties.

1.3 Research and impact strategy
To realise our REF2014 aim to ‘buttress and extend our recognition as a nationally and
internationally recognised centre for conceptually and empirically rigorous sociological research…
that is socially relevant and problem-oriented’, we have pursued four strategic objectives:

1) Attract and retain excellent researchers
As detailed in Section 2, since 2014 we have made nine strategically driven appointments and
embedded a supportive research culture that has ensured high retention.

2) Strengthen established core research areas; stimulate new fields of enquiry
Bristol’s long-standing expertise in ethnicity and citizenship, spearheaded by Modood’s work on
multiculturalism, secularism and Muslim minorities, has been advanced in the current period
through his participation in the HERA-funded programme Negotiating Diversity in Expanded
European Public Spaces, and the H2020 GREASE project on Radicalisation, Secularism and the
Governance of Religion. He continues to shape public and policy debates on the accommodation
of Muslims, as evidenced in his Impact Case Study. Expertise on Muslims and governance is
extended by O’Toole’s work on state-Muslim engagement and the impact of Prevent on Muslim
civil society activism, pursued through an ESRC-AHRC project (with Modood) on Muslim civic
engagement, Public Faith and Finance and collaboration with Holmwood (Nottingham) on the

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
Birmingham Trojan Horse affair – all underpinning her Impact Case Study. CSEC has continued to
contribute to public and policy discourses on integration, with Charsley’s re-conceptualising of
integration (along with Spencer at Oxford), Fox’s Everyday Integration project, and Braginskaia’s
postdoctoral research exploring faith organisations’ role in refugee integration. Enquiry into ethnic
inequalities continues, including socio-political impacts of ethnic and religious diversity
(McAndrew), racial social justice movements (Morgan), and health and ethnic inequalities:
Karlsen’s 2020 co-authored article on this theme currently shortlisted for the 2021 SAGE Sociology
Prize for Innovation and Excellence.

Social and cultural theory has always been a prominent Bristol strand. Osborne’s studies of
regimes of truth and power now encompass engagements with literatures on political reason,
liberal governmentality and populism though his Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship Political
Ethics and the Liberalism of Fear. McLennan’s residual interests in Marxism, pluralism and
ideology are reworked in a new appraisal of Stuart Hall’s oeuvre, having contributed regularly to
debates around sociology’s Eurocentrism. Atkinson’s thinking with and beyond Bourdieu advances
through theoretical publications and substantial empirical projects on class, symbolic capital and
family life, notably a £1million H2020 project: Comparative Analysis of Social Spaces in Post-
Industrial Nations (CASSPIN). Morgan’s research on social movements and his brand of cultural
sociology stem from a developed pragmatist humanism, while Tsilipakos re-visits central questions
in the philosophy of social science from an interpretative perspective. Downer’s STS-informed
critique of risk and resilience rationalities and Milyaeva’s case-study framework for economic
sociology remain conceptually grounded whilst eschewing grand narratives. Such new points of
departure, in dialogue with continuing analytical orientations, make for stimulating theoretical
reflection and debate within the Unit (for example in the Theory reading/discussion forum).

Our gender research has been revitalised in the current period by Anderson’s and O’Connell
Davidson’s thinking on gendered aspects of migrant and precarious labour, and Halford’s interest
in gendered organisation of work. Tschalaer focuses on gender and queer refugees, with
continuing work from Charsley on gender and marriage migration. ‘Post-maternalism’ is central to
Perrier’s exploration of the politics of motherhood and feminist pedagogies, while Yamashita
conducts comparative research on gendered care and welfare systems (e.g. her Japan Society for
Promotion of Science project on the dual burdens of care).

Our new digital sociology footprint is shaped by Halford’s focus on digital innovation in the
workplace and the politics of digital data, artifacts and expertise. Her research on Digital Futures
was awarded the 2014 SAGE Sociology Prize for Innovation/Excellence. The first wave of BDFI
projects includes Halford’s ESRC-funded Social Sciences, Social Data and the Semantic Web, and
her Alan Turing Institute Fellowship addressing social divisions posed by new forms of
computational data and AI. Milyaeva explores economic dimensions of digital society and personal
data, and is Co-I, working with Computer Scientists, on the National Cyber Security Centre funded
project: How many shades of NIS? Understanding Organisational Cybersecurity Cultures and
Sectoral Differences. Downer is Co-I in a major EPSRC award on ‘Trustworthy Autonomous
Systems’, while McAndrew’s illumination of social attitudes data includes analysis of social media.
She is PI of a recent UKRI award studying social trust and viral misinformation during the Covid
crisis.

Re-centred around MMB, our migration research has been boosted by Anderson’s interrogation of
the definition and boundaries of the field, advancing a post-national approach. The title of her
H2020 ETHOS project Towards a European Theory of Justice and Fairness registers her abiding

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
concerns, synergising with O’Connell Davidson’s major work on modern slavery and her ESRC
Advanced Grant project on Modern Marronage, which includes Okyere’s research on child labour
and migration. That study closely engages with grassroots organisations and NGOs working for the
rights of migrants, refugees, and other marginalised groups in Brazil, Europe and Ghana. This
concern with impact and community engagement is echoed in Charsley’s work on marriage
migration and its policy implications, evident in the ESRC Marriage Migration project and
collaboration with community groups underpinning her Impact Case Study. Fox’s research on
racism and Eastern European migrants is cemented in his leadership of the ESRC Everyday
Integration project (with Anderson and O’Toole) which explores spatial, social, labour market and
civic (im)mobilities through partnership with Bristol’s Mayor, City Council, and over 30 community
organisations. Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow Tschalaer’s extensive network of refugee and
asylum-seeker groups drives her research on exclusions of queer asylum seekers.

Interests in the sociology of work have been reinforced with Marshall’s and Haynes’s research on
cultural entrepreneurship and precarious labour in the gig economy and creative industries,
connecting with Anderson’s and O’Connell Davidson’s framing of migrant domestic labour and sex-
work as intrinsically hazardous and unstable, and to Okyere’s research on child labour in Africa.
Halford contributes her expertise in digital labour and care work with the ageing to this strand.

The study of culture and consumption gathered pace to cover class, food and music. Atkinson’s
H2020 CASSPIN award was the only British sociology success in a year when the discipline was
specifically flagged for funding. New ECR appointment Paddock deploys concepts of habitus and
cultural capital in her research on changing forms of consumption, sociality and sustainability in
food subcultures, also leading a GCRF Network on Food Insecurity and Climate Change in the
Caribbean, connecting with Perrier’s work on gender and food-provisioning. Making and valuing
music is another enhanced strand: McAndrew uses social network analysis to study music
production and consumption and Marshall analyses taste and consumption in relation to economic
and technological imperatives in the music industry, his article on this being nominated for the
2020 SAGE Cultural Sociology Innovation/Excellence Prize. Haynes’ research focuses on
‘local/global’ production and consumption of music, with particular emphasis on racialisation. She
is Bristol PI for the HERA-funded comparative European project Festiversities: European Music
Festivals, Public Spaces and Cultural Diversity.

A final emergent focus is on secularism, post-secularism and religion, bringing into alignment
Modood’s work on multiculturalist accommodation, McLennan’s on critical sociology and post-
secularism, and Senior Research Fellow Flanagan’s exploration of the border-zone between
sociology and theology. The religion/secularity theme is pursued empirically through research on
religion, social attitudes and civic participation (McAndrew); religion, political values and voting
behaviour (Surridge); governance of religious minorities (O’Toole); Muslim and Jewish faith-based
refugee integration initiatives (Braginskaia); and Public Faith and Finance (O’Toole and
Braginskaia).

3) Deepen and diversify methodological expertise
Historically, sociological research at Bristol has been predominantly qualitative. Studies based on
interviews, focus groups, participant observation, ethnography, and discourse analysis continue,
but we have invested in diversifying our methodological range.

Recruitment to two new posts specifically labelled ‘Social Research' (O’Connell Davidson,
Atkinson) signalled this intent. O’Connell Davidson uses novel biographical narrative and

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
participatory methods and, with Okyere, integrates ethical-political reflexivity with comparative
fieldwork methods in culturally sensitive contexts. Atkinson exhibits advanced capability in life
stories, time diary analysis, visual methods, geometric data analysis, principal component analysis,
and multiple correspondence analysis.

Also on the quantitative side, Surridge deploys multiple statistical data analysis and social survey
construction, as in her post-Brexit examination of ‘left behind’ attitudes and the social patterns
explaining the 2017/2019 election results. McAndrew’s appointment resulted from our successful
engagement with the Nuffield Q-Step initiative, bringing her expertise in social network techniques
and the quantitative dissection of trends in religious identification and practice. Karlsen uses
multivariate analysis in her work on ethnic and religious health differences, while her
interdisciplinary applied health science research delivers, for instance, model-based analysis of the
costs and outcomes of non-invasive pre-natal tests for Down’s Syndrome. Halford’s grounded
approach to digital forms and usages blends epistemological and methodological issues as it re-
orientates classic sociological concerns around big data and computational methods. Milyaeva
examines inter-relations between technology, economy and society – especially in the study of
markets – through the disciplined case-study approach of sociological STS, also deploying digital
methods and the use of big data. McAndrew’s work on religion and on music both utilises and
builds large datasets from internet sources.

Co-produced and participatory methods have developed particularly in research on ethnicity,
integration and migration. Within the ESRC-AHRC Connected Communities Productive Margins
programme, O’Toole and Modood co-produced research with British Muslims on civic engagement.
Karlsen’s Faculty and Brigstow URI-funded work with local Somali communities critically
interrogates FGM policies. Charsley conducted ESRC-IAA funded work with QED Foundation
(Bradford) on pre-settlement integration programmes for Pakistani migrant husbands, and with
Reunite Families UK, co-created the multi-media Brigstow project Kept Apart (on family separation
by the UK’s immigration regime). O’Connell Davidson’s Brigstow-funded work with Caribbean
elders and civic actors in Bristol updates Ken Pryce’s seminal account of Caribbeans in Bristol.
These methodological innovations have also played an important role in furthering our fourth aim.

4) Embed a culture of impact and engagement; cultivate relationships with research users
Engagement and partnerships with public, policy and community audiences to promote fairer, more
just outcomes are central to much of our research, often driven by collaborative and co-produced
research with civil society and community groups. Section 3 details the mechanisms for embedding
impact and engagement. As a result, we have been able to influence policy and inform public
debates on religion in public life, the accommodation of Muslims, race equality, refugee rights,
trafficking and modern slavery, FGM, integration, the social bases of support for Brexit and the
scrutiny of miscarriages of justice, as detailed in Section 4 and exemplified in our Impact Case
Studies.

1.4 The next 5 years: capitalising on momentum
Through building on our achievements to date, we intend to:
   •   Ensure that our programmatic research, publications, impact and engagement are driven
       by the highest standards and aspirations.
   •   Continue to make strong strategic appointments across the full career range.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
   •   Enhance research intensity through a balanced approach to educational and research
       activities, e.g. through curriculum review efficiencies, retaining good study leave provision,
       and protecting the current teaching buy-out formula for grant success.
   •   Attract additional PhD awards and support post-doctoral Fellowship applications.
   •   Diversify funding streams through cross-disciplinary collaborations aimed at, for example,
       EPSRC, Global Challenges Research Fund, AHRC, Wellcome.
   •   Bolster our capacity for impact by investing in relationships with external partners and
       taking further our evolving models of impact, co-production, and collaboration.
   •   Deepen our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity through the work of the SPAIS
       EDI Committee, Athena Swan and Race Equality Charter.
   •   Maintain our supportive, inclusive research culture.
   •   Exploit the new embedding of digital practices emerging during the Covid crisis – e.g. more
       numerous international exchanges/webinars – in the pursuit of more environmentally-
       sustainable external engagement.
   •   In line with UoB’s open research policy (see REF5a), continue to move towards maximally
       accessible outputs, reports, and interactions.
1.5 Open Research and Research Ethics
SPAIS Staff systematically use the university repository (‘Pure’) which requires strict conformity to
Open Access norms. The expertise profiles of all schools have recently been reorganised for better
public use and bespoke consultation. Papers, blog exchanges and Facebook networking going
beyond the School’s summaries can be found on the personal websites of individuals (e.g.
Modood), projects (e.g. ETHOS, Festiversities, CASSPIN, Modern Marronage), Centres and
Institutes (e.g. Ethnicity and Citizenship, MMB). Additionally, MMB has widened the reach of its
specialist research through its educational spin-off Online Academy. The school has co-funded
Open Democracy platforms for work having tangible public resonance, such as O’Connell
Davidson’s on modern slavery, and the collaboration between our GREASE and an external sister
project, BRAVE.

The SPAIS Research Ethics Working Group provides advice on ethical issues and rigorously
operates an ethical approval process for all applications (including doctoral research plans) which
can be dealt with at School level. The Faculty Research Ethics Committee deals with ethical
approval for significant funded research and advises on more complex ethical issues.


 2. People

2.1 Overview
Progressive staffing strategies with commitment to equality and diversity should be integral to the
cultural practices of sociology of all disciplines. On both fronts, Bristol’s already positive record in
the last REF statement has been bettered in this cycle, with EDI and career-stage considerations
systematically pursued in recruitment, support, and representation in the REF. Taking advantage
of UoB’s commitment to research-enabling staff-student ratios, together with institutional
consensus around strategic research priorities (see REF5a), the size, reach and composition of
our research community has been markedly enhanced.

2.2 Recruitment and promotions
58% of the unit’s personnel is now female, a proportion broadly mirrored in the gender composition
of our REF2021 outputs. Six of the nine replacement or additional appointments made since 2014
were women. The pivotal leadership contributions of the three of these colleagues recruited at
                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
professorial level (O’Connell Davidson, Anderson, Halford) were underlined in Section 1. Balancing
this, Leverhulme, ESRC and MSCF early-career awards gained in this period brought in three
other ECR women sociologists, two of whom (Braginskaia, Tschalaer) are included in REF2, the
third (Griffiths) having taken up a five-year Fellowship at Birmingham. MMB expansion, together
with our steadily rising attainment of large research grants (see Section 3) enabled us to recruit
Okyere at SL level.

Partly due to the unit’s outstanding educational effort – high NSS ratings, excellent league table
positions, buoyant student recruitment – we secured four new lectureships in 2016, enabling us to
recruit Milyaeva, Morgan, Paddock and Tsilipakos. The research ambition of these early career
colleagues is reflected in the number and individuality of their selected outputs. Meanwhile, our
engagement with the Q-step programme generated a further lectureship in quantitative
methodologies (McAndrew), who also features strongly in our publications profile.

All appointments are approached with gender-balance and other EDI considerations fully in mind,
including candidate short-lists and the composition/procedures of interview panels. These
considerations also mark our promotions strategy, mentoring schemes, and Staff Review and
Development (SRD) processes. In the current cycle, several recruitments and promotions were
made at professorial level, our professoriat becoming ten-strong, five of whom are women, with
four women (out of five promotions) also moving up to Senior Lecturer level. The collegial,
egalitarian and research-intensive environment at Bristol makes for excellent staff retention:
retirements aside, no core-funded staff have left in the whole REF period.

2.3 Staff support and development
Support for research productivity is assured in a variety of ways, including:
   •   careful management of workloads: core-funded staff have a 40-40-20 distribution of
       teaching, research, and administration/citizenship, organised through a transparent
       workload model. Everyone is entitled to one clear research day per week during term-time.
       Time costed into successful grants as PI/Co-I gains a corresponding reduction in teaching
       load.
   •   study leave provision of one in eight teaching blocks, on approval of a research plan. We
       also actively support applications to the University Research Fellowships scheme (URFs),
       which provide one-year or six-months’ research leave. In this REF period, six URFs were
       secured (Charsley, Karlsen, McAndrew, McLennan, Modood and Surridge).
   •   personal support and mentoring: the school Research Director (RD) has oversight of all
       colleagues’ research, advising on grants and fellowships, potential collaborations,
       interdisciplinary links and dissemination. Annual Staff Review and Development (SRD)
       meetings between individuals and their line-managers provide opportunities to reflect
       upon and further plan research priorities and career trajectories. Informal meetings between
       staff and line managers continue through the year, supplemented by meetings with the RD,
       Impact Director (ID) or Centre Directors. Throughout, the emphasis is on peer-level
       reflection and mentoring rather than performance management.
   •   individual research accounts for all staff of £1k p.a. to support research and impact
       activities, supplemented by the SPAIS International Conference Fund providing up to an
       additional £1.5k.
   •   a highly collegial and supportive research culture with a considerable amount of
       spontaneous mutual reading, commentary, and sharing of experience. Numerous SPAIS



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
       and Centre seminars, lunchtime talks, ad hoc reading groups, work-in-progress meetings
       and external speaker events take place.
   •   tailored support at different career stages:
           o   New Lecturers have reduced teaching loads for their first two years to enable
               participation in the University CREATE (Cultivating Research and Teaching
               Excellence) programme, which includes research and leadership strands, and are
               allocated a mentor for guidance on School research processes, and individual
               research and career advice.
           o   The SPAIS ECR staff network coordinates ECR issues with School Committees,
               and links with the Faculty ECR Network.
           o   Bristol is committed to the UK Concordat for the career development of researchers,
               supported by Bristol Clear, a research staff development hub providing training,
               resources, mentoring and peer support for research skills and career planning (e.g.
               dedicated University Mentoring Circles), and a structure for the representation of
               research staff within university governance (see REF5a). The SPAIS Contract
               Research Staff Group has representation on School Committees.
           o   Mid-career colleagues are encouraged to participate in UoB capacity-building
               programmes, such as the Future Leaders and Leading Collaborative Team courses.
               The Bristol Women’s Mentoring Network and the Female Leadership Initiative
               support women’s career development and promotion.
           o   We promote participation in the various university leadership programmes for
               Readers and Professors, such as the Bristol Senior Leaders programme,
               Leadership Master Classes and Senior Leadership coaching.


Our successful staff development strategy is evidenced through the promotions of Charsley, Fox,
Marshall, and O’Toole to professorships, and progression of Downer, Haynes, Paddock, Perrier
and Yamashita to SL.

2.4 Support for, training and supervision of PGR students
The Sociology PGR programme has grown steadily since REF2014: 37 students were registered in
the current period compared to 34 in the last REF cycle. Bristol PhD candidates attract significant
funding – 32 scholarships in the current period, including 17 ESRC and 14 overseas funded
scholarships.

PhDs awarded (% of Sociology supervision, no professional doctorates)
 2013-14   2014-15    2015-16    2016-17 2017-18       2018-19     2019-20             Total
 2.00      1.50       4.50       2.00       2.75       5.50        5.50                23.75

PGRs in SPAIS have two co-supervisors, not uncommonly one from each of Sociology and
Politics. Monthly supervisions and annual monitoring at both School and Faculty level ensure the
quality/progress of their work. Supervision also covers career planning and pastoral support. The
South West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP) provides a wide range of support and
professional/academic development opportunities, including introductory and advanced methods;
workplace and public engagement; funding; and peer support. Bristol Doctoral College provides
resources and training to PGRs through its Personal and Professional Development Programme,
events and showcases, and coordination of PhD scholarships (see REF5a).



                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
SPAIS organises regular PGR workshops and conferences, including the SPAIS PGR/staff annual
one-day conference, covering topics such as effective field-working, writing for publication, getting
published, public engagement and research impact. We regularly provide funding for PGR writing
retreats, self-organised conferences and professional development workshops. For example, in
2018, supported by SPAIS and SWDTP, the PGR-led working group organised a major Critically
Queer conference, with 140 delegates, including academic and activists, a keynote from Elizabeth
Dermott (Lancaster), and academic, activist and publisher stalls. Additionally, the Centres and
School Research Groups provide opportunities for mentoring and feedback and a lively intellectual
milieu for our PGR students, who help co-organise their events. PGR representatives participate in
School meetings. The shared PGR offices are in the main SPAIS buildings, facilitating easy
interaction with academic staff.

PGRs have opportunities to gain teaching experience, with paid training and induction sessions.
Unit convenors provide on-going support to teaching teams, and an annual teaching observation
system provides constructive peer review feedback. More general career development support
comes from supervisors, SPAIS training sessions, and UoB Careers Service. Work placements
and internships are organised by the UoB careers officer and SPAIS staff. In the current REF
period, SPAIS PGR students have produced over forty academic research publications, with
twenty people going on to take up first Lectureship or Research Fellow positions at, for example,
Sussex, Nottingham, Southampton, LSE and UoB itself, and internationally at universities in
Germany, Czech Republic, Turkey, Australia, Singapore, Colombia, Chile and Botswana.

2.5 Equality and Diversity
As indicated, the results of our systematic commitment to EDI issues are reflected in our staff
profile. 50% of our professoriate (5/10) at the census date were women; 61% of core-funded and
contract-research and 60% of REF-eligible staff and PGRs are female. 32% of our REF-eligible
staff are non-British, and 11% are Black and Minority Ethnic. Our PGR cohorts are notably – and
increasingly – diverse in terms of ethnicity and nationality backgrounds.

We continually strive to enhance our EDI practice. The school will submit an Athena SWAN Bronze
award in April 2021. A Self-Assessment Team has been formed to collect and analyse data on
gender in/equality within the School, to inform a five-year action plan. Part-time and flexible
working is supported, with pro-rata entitlement to research leave and research funds. Those taking
maternity or additional paternity leave are provided with ‘Keeping in Touch’ days and can access
the Carer’s Leave Scheme and Maternity/Paternity Coaching. Line managers participate in the
Inclusive Managers Workshop and facilitate participation of BAME colleagues in the University’s
and external BAME mentoring and staff support schemes (such as the BAME staff network, and
the Stepping Up and Elevate programmes to support BAME colleagues and BAME women to
move into senior leadership). All staff are strongly encouraged to participate in Bystander at Work
training within the Stand Up Speak Out programme to promote awareness and reporting of
unacceptable behaviour at work, also the Disrupting Racism programme. Reports of unacceptable
behaviour, including bullying, micro-aggressions and unconscious bias can be made to the
University’s Report and Support portal. The SPAIS EDI Committee identifies equalities and
inclusion priorities and objectives to be pursued by the School, such as the impact of Covid-19 on
staff with caring responsibilities, the gendered distribution of pastoral responsibilities, and
decolonising the School curriculum.

The Sociology REF committee ensured that EDI issues were fully incorporated into its REF
processes and submission. Output selections were based on a two-layer process stretching over

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
nearly the whole REF period. Each potential inclusion was initially read and assessed by a pair of
core-funded staff members, with all colleagues across career levels involved (also providing
opportunities for ECRs to gain insights into REF processes and publication quality). The
overseeing REF Committee of senior colleagues – comprising five women and one man – then
undertook a thoroughgoing process of ‘meta-review’, re-reading candidate publications and taking
into account the first-phase reviews. EDI breakdowns informed the final profile, including decisions
about reserve items for books claiming double weighting. The REF coordinator periodically fed
back to everyone entered into the REF the workings and deliberations of the group. Throughout,
the emphasis has been ensuring the process is transparent, collegial and supportive.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Overview
Over the course of the REF period, Sociology at Bristol has embedded a more comprehensive,
enabling research infrastructure and has subsequently achieved marked success in terms of the
number and value of research grants. The major grants attained in the current assessment period
have greatly boosted our central research specialisms, enabling ambitious new research
programmes to emerge, together with the nurturing of international, cross-disciplinary and external
partnerships.

All sociologists are located (alongside Politics/IR colleagues) in SPAIS’ four large, attractive,
adjacent Victorian buildings in the heart of the university precinct. These have been renovated to
meet contemporary needs, now providing a welcoming staff/PGR common room, bespoke seminar
rooms, and pods used for project meetings, individual research discussions, and brainstorming.
Research-only staff and PGRs are automatically allocated shared offices, with several professors
additionally opening their individual office spaces to accommodate junior researchers. This level of
collegiality enhances ongoing exchange and collaboration, which during the Covid-related
restrictions to normal office life has transferred well to on-screen interaction. Faculty and University
research support for our work is extensive (see REF5a). In particular, the excellent Research,
Enterprise and Development division (RED) provides comprehensive advice and administration
regarding research development and grant applications, while the Faculty Research Director chairs
the committee of School RDs, sharing best practice across the seven Schools.

3.2 Income
The current period saw a significant rise in funding from £2.6million in REF2014 to just under £4
million in this REF period, derived from a wide range of sources, including European (£2.1million),
UKRI (£1.5million), charitable (£205k) and overseas (£26k). By way of illustration, our total annual
income rose from £400k in 2012-13, to £1.1 million in 2019-20, leaving aside the infrastructural
£100m from the RCUK Research Partnership Investment Fund for BDFI development.

As can be seen from the thematically grouped list of significant awards, our grant success extends
across the unit’s areas of specialism and reflects the synergies between them: for example,
several grants in the area of integration span both our longstanding expertise in ethnicity and
citizenship and our strengthened focus on migration, whilst funding for research on trafficking and
modern slavery brings together themes of work, migration and gender.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
3.3 Religion and governance of diversity
   •   Modood (Bristol PI), ERC H2020: GREASE: Radicalisation, Secularism and the
       Governance of Religion: Bringing together European and Asian Perspectives (£327k; PI:
       Triandafyllidou, Sociology, Ryerson; RA: Sealy)
   •   Modood (Bristol PI), HERA: PluriSpace: Negotiating Diversity in Expanded European Public
       Spaces (£224k; PI: Kastoryano, Sociology, Science Po; RA: DuPont)
   •   O’Toole (PI) Barrow Cadbury Trust: Public Faith and Finance (£30k: RA: Braginskaia) and
       ESRC IAA Impact Project, Faith & Finance (£20k, CI Braginskaia, with Faith Action)
   •   Braginskaia, Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship: Minority faith and civil society
       responses to refugee integration in England and Scotland (£73k; mentored by O’Toole)

3.4 Integration
   •   Fox (PI) Anderson and O’Toole (CIs), ESRC: Everyday Integration (£769k; RAs Hyacinth,
       Wang and Yeo, with 30+ Bristol partners)
   •   Charsley (PI), ESRC-IAA: Pre-departure integration training for Pakistani migrant husbands
       (£20k, with QED Bradford)
   •   Karlsen (CI), ESRC-GCRF Socially Inclusive Cities Network (£149k, led by Mir, Health &
       Social Care, Leeds)
   •   Karlsen (CI) NIHR RCT Evaluation of Strengthening Families, Strengthening Communities
       (£1.5million, led by Watt, Population Health Sciences, UCL)

3.5 Racial and social justice
   •   Anderson (Bristol PI), ERC H2020: ETHOS (£275k, PI: Knijn, Social and Behavioural
       Sciences, Utrecht; RA: DuPont)
   •   Modood (PI), Qatar National Research Fund: School experience, educational aspirations
       and scholastic achievement (£38k, CI Khattab)
   •   Tschalaer, ERC MSCF Queer Muslim Spaces (£159k, mentored by Anderson)

3.6 Trafficking and modern slavery
   •   O’Connell Davidson (PI), ERC H2020 Advanced Fellowship: Modern Marronage: The
       Pursuit and Practice of Freedom in the Contemporary World (£1.4 million, CI Okyere; RA:
       Martins Junior)
   •   O’Connell Davidson (PI), British Academy, Revisiting Child Sex Tourism, Rethinking
       Business Responses (£198k)
   •   O’Connell Davidson (PI), British Academy Writing Workshop: Decolonising trafficking and
       modern slavery (£20k, with Okyere and Martins Junior)

3.7 Digital societies
   •   Downer (CI) EPSRC Trustworthy Autonomous Systems (£4.3million/£550k, with
       Engineering Bristol)
   •   Halford (PI), ESRC: Social Sciences, Social Data and the Semantic Web (£202k)
   •   Halford (PI), LV Insurance: Explainable AI for local communities (£368k)
   •   Milyaeva (CI), National Cyber Security Centre How many shades of NIS? Understanding
       Organisational Cybersecurity Cultures and Sectoral Differences (£250k, with Computer
       Science, UoB and Bristol Cyber Security Group)



                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
3.8 Culture and consumption
   •   Atkinson (PI) ERC H2020: CASSPIN: Comparative Analysis of Social Spaces in Post-
       Industrial Nations (£1 million, RAs: Kunz, Marzec, Saar)
   •   Haynes (Bristol PI) HERA: Festiversities: European Music Festivals, Public Spaces and
       Cultural Diversity (£208k, led by Woodward, Southern Denmark; RA Mogilniska)
   •   Marshall (PI) ESRC Transformative Award: The Value of Music in the Digital Age (£5k)
   •   Paddock (PI), GCRF Network: Food security at the time of climate change: sharing and
       learning from bottom-up responses in the Caribbean region (£174k)

3.9 Social theory
   •   Osborne, Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship: Political Ethics and the Liberalism
       of Fear (£93k)

3.10 Gendered care
   •   Yamashita (CI), Japan Society for Promotion of Science, Inter-generational Approach to
       Dual Responsibility of Care: A Vision for Inclusive and Comprehensive Local Care System
       (£74k, PI Soma, Yokohama)

3.11 Research infrastructure and facilities
Research support in SPAIS is led by the Research Director (O’Toole 2016-2020), who Chairs the
School Research Committee, to develop SPAIS’s research, grant and impact strategy, manage its
research budget and priorities and implement policy, in coordination with Faculty and University
support.

In Section 1 we set out the institutional and school-level structures which support our research and
within which Sociologists play vital roles. MMB and BDFI are key mechanisms for interdisciplinary
collaboration and nurturing the development of ECRs and PGRs in migration and digital sociology.
Within the School, the three Centres (CSEC, GRC, GIC) are characterised by close working
relationships between colleagues in Sociology and Politics, and by the contributions of
considerable numbers of PGR students to research events, debates, and staff appointments
presentations. The Research Institutes and Centres also have access to budgets and
administrative support for planned research events and ad hoc initiatives.

A number of more informal School Research Groups provide sociologists, other UoB colleagues,
and interested PGRs with a responsive environment for discussing their work and fostering
exchange/collaboration, including the Social, Cultural and Political Theory and Religion and
Secularism in Public Life groups. The Faculty Research Groups (FRGs) constitute a further
mechanism for promoting interdisciplinary collaborations. Marshall leads the FRG on Cultural
Work, in which Haynes, McAndrew and Milyaeva participate; the Families and Parenting FRG
includes Perrier and Yamashita; Charsley and Yamashita are part of the Gender FRG; Anderson
and O’Connell Davidson contribute to the Futures of Work FRG. Sociologists also contribute to
research centres in other faculties, such as the Centre for Black Humanities (Anderson,
O’Connell Davidson, Okyere).

A series of mechanisms have progressively been embedded to increase our grant capture, nesting
our own tailored and discipline-specific support within the grant development infrastructure in the
wider Faculty and University (see REF5a):


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
   •   Close collaboration with RED to optimise grant capture. RED provides comprehensive
       high-quality support to Schools for grant activity, including identifying funding opportunities,
       and anticipating potential future opportunities through horizon-scanning, the application
       process, and understanding the priorities and cycles of the major funders. RED runs an
       internal demand-management (University Peer Evaluation and Review – UPER) process to
       ensure the quality and fit of our UKRI grant applications, which has resulted in a University
       of Bristol success rate of 36% for UKRI applications in 2019-20.
   •   Support to plan funding applications, provided by the RD, with planning of external
       funding applications embedded in the annual SRD. Research Centres organise
       opportunities for members to pitch grant ideas and receive feedback. The RD, working with
       RED, runs regular training sessions and clinics on demystifying funding processes, ECR
       opportunities and particular funding schemes.
   •   Advice on funding opportunities, with the RD working closely with RED to provide
       personalised advice, weekly bulletins on upcoming opportunities and access to the
       Research Professional funding database.
   •   Seed funding: a SPAIS Grant Incentivisation Fund allocates up to £2k p.a. per applicant to
       enable research grant development. Staff can also apply to the Faculty Strategic Research
       Fund (£500-£5k per applicant), University International Strategic fund, Cabot, Brigstow and
       EBI seed-funds and GW4 and WUN collaborative schemes. We prioritised supporting
       colleagues to access seed-funding to develop their trajectory to grant ideas, leading to
       some major successes. E.g. Haynes secured Faculty and UoB/Transformative Social
       Science seed-funds, which facilitated her involvement in the Festiversities programme.
       O’Connell Davidson’s Brigstow seed-fund fed into her Modern Marronage project.
   •   Support throughout the grant application process: all grant proposals are reviewed by
       the HoS, RD and School Manager, who give feedback on the intellectual quality, funding
       scheme fit, fit with applicant’s stated research agenda and school research strategy, impact
       and dissemination plans, and available school resources. RED provides feedback on
       drafted bids and runs grant application writing workshops, retreats, mock-ESRC panels.

3.12 Impact infrastructure and facilities
SPAIS’s Impact Director (ID) leads the development of our impact strategy, chairing the School
Impact Working Group, whose members includes case study leads and ECRs. Its purpose is to
advance impact training and initiatives, and share good practices, expertise and experience. The
ID works with PolicyBristol (the University’s policy unit), the Impact Development team in RED, and
the University Public Engagement Team (PET), pushing colleagues to design and plan research
impact and public engagement. Our strategy is based on:
   •   Support, advice and training for impact and engagement: the ID provides one-to-one
       advice, training sessions, referrals to appropriate forms of support from the university and
       impact training opportunities. The Impact Development team in RED advises on designing
       and planning research impact. PolicyBristol runs training sessions with the Parliamentary
       Outreach team on the role of POST and on providing effective oral and written evidence to
       Parliamentary Committees. With support and training from PolicyBristol, for example,
       Karlsen’s research was featured in a POST briefing on counter-extremism. They assisted
       O’Toole with briefings and a mock hearing in preparation for giving evidence to the Lords’
       Select Committee on Citizenship and Civic Engagement.
   •   Workload relief for prospective impact case study enables those colleagues to develop
       their research impact.
   •   Impact and engagement funding is provided by the School, e.g. O’Connell Davidson’s

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
       Beyond Trafficking and Slavery website (hosted by Open Democracy) is co-funded by
       SPAIS. PolicyBristol’s open-call, fast-response Travel Fund facilitates meetings with
       research users. The ESRC IAA provides exploratory awards, impact projects and
       Knowledge Exchange Fellowships to support staff to build partnerships with external actors
       and develop impact. E.g. Charsley’s exploratory award and follow-on impact project to work
       with QED on Integration of Pakistani migrant husbands to the UK; O’Toole and
       Braginskaia’s impact award working with FaithAction to enable the APPG on Faith and
       Society and faith groups to access findings from the Public Faith and Finance project;
       Karlsen’s IAA funding to co-produce research with the Bristol Somali Forum on the impact
       of FGM and safeguarding policies; O’Connell Davidson’s impact award to work with the Sex
       Workers Association of Jamaica on Ending Violence Against Sex Workers. The Brigstow
       URI provides seed-funding and resources to enable co-produced research with external
       partners on themes of ‘Living Well’ (funding O’Connell Davidson’s co-produced research
       with Bristol’s Caribbean elders, and Charsley’s work with Reunite Families UK).
   •   Support for disseminating and communicating to external audiences: PolicyBristol’s
       regular Horizon Scanning briefings enable our researchers to connect with upcoming
       parliamentary, government and City Council agendas. PolicyBristol supports researchers to
       turn findings into Policy Briefings and disseminate to relevant policy audiences. In the
       current period, Charsley, Griffiths, Karlsen, Milyaeva, Tschalaer, and O’Toole produced 12
       Policy Briefings with recommendations on: supporting the integration of migrant spouses;
       frameworks for assessing integration; the conditions of detained refugees and queer
       asylum claimants; enhancing Muslim women’s civic engagement; improving data on
       regional race disparities; addressing discriminatory effects of FGM safeguarding measures;
       and regulating digitisation. PET supports SPAIS academics to participate and organise
       public engagement events with advice, toolkits and funding, such as the annual Thinking
       Futures festival (part of the ESRC Festival of Social Sciences). E.g. it supported: Halford’s
       2019 workshop on ‘Imagining our Technological Future’; Fox’s 2018 ‘Future of the City’ bus
       tour event and 2016 ‘Bristol after Brexit’ event (which fed into his ESRC Everyday
       Integration proposal); Haynes’ and Marshall’s 2014 ‘Beats and Tweets’ public talk and live
       music event for musicians, artists, music consumers, and record labels.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Overview
In line with our ambitions as a nationally and internationally excellent hub for critical, innovative,
impactful work, Bristol sociologists have made numerous contributions to external audiences and
research-users. Strengthening our international profile and connections was a further key strategic
priority for the current period, reflected in the connections and contributions to the world-wide
academic community detailed in this Section.

4.2 Contributions to the research base
Our colleagues are active in a range of learned societies, professional associations, national and
international funding councils, academies and advisory boards.

Fellowships and senior professional contributions:
   •   Anderson: Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and member of the Academy of Finland
       Review Panel.
   •   McLennan: Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (2008-present).

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
    •   Modood: Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (2004-present) and British Academy
        (2017-present).
    •   Halford: Fellow of the Alan Turing Institute and President of the BSA (2018-21). EPSRC
        Digital Economy Programme Advisory Board (2017-), chair of ESRC New and Emerging
        Forms of Data Strategic Advisory Group, RCUK Digital Economy Programme Advisory
        Board (2018-).
    •   O’Connell Davidson: member of the COST Working Group, ‘Comparing European
        Prostitution Policies: Understanding Scales and Cultures of Governance’ (2013-17).
    •   Fox: member of the Advisory Council, Association for the Study of Ethnicity and
        Nationalism.
    •   Karlsen: member of the Understanding Society Advisory Committee and is one of nine
        experts on the Inclusive Data Taskforce for the Office of National Statistics.
    •   Surridge: Advisory Board for the UK section of the World Values Study.

Editorial responsibilities:
    •   Ethnicities: Modood is founding Co-editor; Fox and Haynes are editorial board members.
    •   Ethnic and Racial Studies: Fox (until 2017) and O’Toole (2018-present), editorial board.
    •   Cultural Sociology: Marshall, McAndrew and Morgan, editorial board.
    •   Economy & Society: Osborne, editorial board.
    •   Nations and Nationalism: Fox, editor.
    •   Intersections – East European Society and Politics and Journal of Romanian Studies: Fox,
        editorial board.
    •   Migration and Society: Anderson, editorial board.
    •   Sociological Research Online: Haynes, editorial board.
    •   AntiTrafficking Review: O’Connell Davidson, editorial board.
    •   Nordic Journal of Migration Research: Anderson, editorial board.
    •   Engaging with Science, Technology and Society: Downer, editorial board.
    •   International Journal of Aviation: Downer, editorial board.
    •   New Zealand Sociology: McLennan, editorial board.
    •   Bristol University Press: Halford, editorial board.

An enhanced international profile and connections was a key priority for the current period. In
achieving this, we secured funding for visiting fellows, and supported international travel, visits,
meetings and conferences. In addition to delivering many UK plenary lectures, our sociologists
regularly receive international invitations to take up visiting fellowships, deliver keynotes and join
international advisory boards. For example:
    •   Anderson was Distinguished Visitor at the Zolberg Institute for Migration and Mobilities,
        New York (2017), Distinguished Visitor at the New School, New York (2018) and Visiting
        Fellow at REMESO, University of Linköping (2019). Honorary Doctorate, University of
        Malmö. Member of advisory boards: IMISCOE; WAIT (the temporalities of irregular
        migration) U of Bergen; National Centre of Competence on Research, Switzerland;
        Migration Policy Centre, EUI, Florence. Keynotes given at Santa Cruz, Mellon Foundation
        John E. Sawyer Seminar (2016); Understanding and Tackling the Migration Challenge, the
        Role of Research, European Commission, Brussels (2016); Third World Association of
        International Lawyers, American University, Cairo (2015).
    •   Halford was Visiting Fellow, Research School in Social Sciences, Australian National
        University (2018/9) and Distinguished Visitor, GESIS-Leibniz Institute for Social Sciences,
        Germany (2019). Advised the Research Council for Culture and Society, Academy of
                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
       Finland (2018); on organising board, International Social Media and Society Conference
       (2018-20); Advisory Board, ACM Web Science Conference (2015); ESRC representative at
       joint UK/Japan scoping workshop on AI and the Social Sciences (2018). Keynotes on data
       science given to conferences in ANU Canberra (twice), Naples, Amsterdam.
   •   McLennan was Distinguished Visiting Scholar, Sociology Association of New Zealand
       (2018), three keynotes given in Wellington and Auckland. Visiting Professor, University of
       California Berkeley (2016, 2018). Plenary lecture, Charles University Prague, 2015.
   •   Modood was Robert Schuman Fellow at the EUI Florence (2013-15), Thinker in Residence
       at the Royal Academy of Flanders, Brussels (2017), Visiting Distinguished Professor at
       Deakin University, Melbourne (2018), Visiting Distinguished Professor at Nanyang
       Technical University, Singapore (2019). He typically gives 5 international keynotes a year,
       including European Sociological Association; President’s Panel of the American
       Sociological Association; the Max Weber Lecture at the EUI Florence; the Europe Lecture
       at U Michigan (Ann Arbor); Korean Association of Multicultural Education, Seoul.
   •   O’Connell Davidson’s international keynotes included: Migration & Poverty conference, U of
       Salzburg (2019); Annual Conference of the Norwegian Coordinating Unit for Victims of
       Trafficking, Oslo (2018); Joining Forces against Human Trafficking Conference, Austrian
       Ministry for Europe, Integration and Foreign Affairs, and Vienna Institute for International
       Dialogue and Cooperation (2016).
   •   Fox gave a plenary at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences Centre for Social Sciences,
       Institute for Minority Studies, Budapest (2015) and International Symposium, Zentrum für
       Südosteuropastudien, Universität Graz (2019).
   •   Downer was Visiting Fellow, Columbia University (2014) and gave a keynote at the
       University of Darmstadt (2015).
   •   McAndrew was visiting fellow, Hitotsubashi University (2020).
   •   Charsley gave a keynote to the Institute of Social Research, Oslo (2018).
   •   Marshall gave a keynote to IASPM-Norden, University of Oslo (2014).
   •   Yamashita was Visiting Researcher, Institute of Social Science, University of Tokyo.
   •   Atkinson was Invited speaker to the CERAPS laboratory, Lille (2019) and Bourdieu and
       Geometric Data Analysis workshop, University of Potsdam (2019). Invited author for his
       book on class, Queensland University of Technology (2020).
   •   MMB is embedded internationally in networks across Europe (e.g. IMISCOE, European
       University Institute, the European Public Law Office – Athens, REMESO – Sweden), North
       America (e.g. the TransOceanic Mobilities Network) and with MMB Latin America.

Co-authorship is part of our research relationships and cooperation with international colleagues,
for example: Fox with colleagues in the Central European University, Budapest; Downer with U
British Columbia; Charsley with Copenhagen; Perrier with University of Western Sydney; Paddock
with colleagues in Upsala and Cairns; Modood with UNSW Sydney and Deakin.

In the current period, we drew on the University’s Benjamin Meaker Visiting Fellowship and SPAIS
Richard Hodder Williams Visiting Fellow schemes to enable four international fellows to visit us for
one-three months: Bartlett, University of Western Australia; Luibheid, University of Arizona; Levey,
University of New South Wales; and Sharma, University of Hawai’i Manoa.

4.3 Contributions to economy and society
Key to our research and impact strategy is a commitment to critical, meaningful engagement and
sustained relationships with communities and policy makers. This is evident in the many
contributions of our sociologists across our research themes:

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
Religion in public life: Modood sat on the national Commission on Religion and Belief in British
Public Life (CORAB). O’Toole and Braginskaia advised the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Faith
and Society on faith responses to the financial crisis and austerity politics (2016).

The accommodation of Muslims: Modood worked extensively with the Muslim Council of Britain
and the Runnymede Trust on Muslim inequalities and Islamophobia. He gave evidence to the All-
Party Parliamentary Group on British Muslims’ enquiry into Islamophobia, informing the definition
of Islamophobia adopted in its 2018 report, and subsequently adopted by the Scottish
Government, many local governments, political and public bodies. He gave evidence to the Home
Affairs Select Committee on Islamophobia (2019). O’Toole gave evidence on the impact of Prevent
on Muslim civic to the House of Lords Select Committee on Citizenship and Civic Engagement in
2017. Her evidence was cited in four of the Committee’s recommendations. Her research informed
Bristol City Council on mechanisms for Muslim engagement in local governance. She is Associate
Partner of the Bristol Muslim Strategic Leadership Group. Karlsen contributed evidence to the
Home Affairs Select Committee Inquiry into Countering Extremism, which was quoted in its report
(2016).

Race equality and justice: Karlsen and O’Toole collaborated with Black South West Network to
establish the Bristol Race Equality Network (BREN), an initiative, acknowledged in the University’s
MoU with BSWN. Karlsen sat on the advisory body to the Race Equality Unit in the Cabinet Office.
McLennan is a Trustee of the Stuart Hall Foundation, which has established a significant
intellectual public presence largely focusing on matters of racial justice. He chairs its academic
committee, establishing partnerships with 15 universities (including Harvard, Oxford, Manchester
and Cape Town) to provide named (‘Hall’) doctoral scholarships specifically aimed at people from
black/culturally diverse/socially disadvantaged backgrounds.

Refugee rights: Anderson hosted a visit by the UN Special Rapporteur on the Rights of Migrants
to Bristol. She is member of the Bristol City Council Inclusive Cities group, Chair of the Permanent
People’s Tribunal sessions on violations of the rights of migrant and refugee peoples in Europe,
which reports to the general public, European Parliament, migrants’ organisations. She was Jurist
of the Permanent People’s Tribunal (2017-18), Personal Adviser to the CEO of the Irish Refugee
Council (2015-16) and Social Justice Advisor to the Paul Hamlyn Foundation (2009-15).

Trafficking and modern slavery: Anderson advised the UN Special Rapporteur on Modern Day
Slavery and the International Organization for Migration. O’Connell Davidson and Okyere run the
Open Democracy Beyond Slavery and Trafficking website.

Protection of Sex Workers: O’Connell Davidson worked with the Sex Work Association of
Jamaica to produce policy briefings on violence against sex workers and bring members of SWAJ
to Brazil to meet other sex work organisations and the British Council. She also advised Amnesty
International.

FGM policies and their impact: Karlsen co-produced research with the Bristol Somali Forum to
investigate the impact of FGM safeguarding policies on Somali families and children. They
reported the findings to FGM-affected groups in Bristol, local policy makers, safeguarding leads in
health, police and education, activists and academics, leading to the introduction of more inclusive
safeguarding practices. Her evidence to the Scottish Parliament for the Female Genital Mutilation
(Protection and Guidance) (Scotland) Bill informed its recommendation that FGM safeguarding
should ‘minimise the risk of racialisation and stigmatisation’.

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment Statement (REF5b)
Integration: Charsley is Technical Advisory Panel member for the UK Government Integration
Areas Fund and Controlling Migration Fund (2018-present); she was Invited Speaker to a DFID/
Home Office/ DCLG workshop on Transnational connections between UK and Pakistan. She works
with QED Foundation on integration programmes, and her expert testimony to the Judicial Review
of the English language requirement for spousal immigration led to changes to immigration
regulation (see her ICS). Fox, Anderson and O’Toole’s Everyday Integration project works with
Bristol Mayor, City Council and thirty+ community partners to develop a new Integration Strategy
for Bristol. Modood is a founding advisory council member of These Islands (2017-), which
promotes a multicultural approach to British national identity.

Political attitudes and Electoral and Brexit politics: Surridge’s analysis of factors determining
the Leave Vote and party support in the 2017 and 2019 General Elections attracted significant
media attention: E.g. over 2019-20, she was a regular contributor to Radio 4, Radio 5 Live, ITV’s
Peston Show and Sky News, commissioned to contribute 9 media articles (including Guardian,
Financial Times and Prospect). Her research was covered in 35 news articles.

Miscarriages of justice: Naughton gave invited evidence to the Ministry of Justice: Review of the
Criminal Cases Review Commission (2018), and the House of Commons evidence session on the
Criminal Cases Review Commission (2014). He visited Armenia as part of the UK FCO British
Horizons: British Professional Exchange Programme to advise governmental and NGOs on the
and remedy of miscarriages of justice (2016). Previously the dominant figure in the Innocence UK
movement, he is currently Director of Empowering the Innocent, a research and clinical legal
education project focusing on reforming the remit and standards of the CCRC.

Use of digital data and methods: Halford was a member of UK bio-bank ethics committee (2019)
and of the Digital Government Partnership, Cabinet Office (2017-18).

Gendered forms of care: Yamashita advised the Japanese Cabinet Office, Yokohama City
Council; and Sony Life Insurance (2016) on dual burdens of care.

Food security and provisioning: Perrier was Expert Advisory Panel Member of the Bristol Good
Food Alliance (2017). Paddock is advisory board member of the Food Climate Research Network
and FoodSource board (2016-present).


In sum:
Sociology at Bristol has undergone expansion, strengthening and renewal. The unit’s national and
international academic ambitions, internal culture, and practical procedures are thoroughly aligned
to enable it to consistently produce leading research, alongside committed engagement with, and
impact upon, politics and society.




                                                                                           Page 18
