Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northumbria at Newcastle

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 English at Northumbria is a vibrant discipline. Interdisciplinarity is central to our work and we
 believe that the most important challenges of the modern world can best be met through research
 that crosses traditional boundaries. Our research environment is thus designed to facilitate
 excellent research and innovation across disciplines and in meaningful partnership with local,
 national and international communities within and beyond the academy. In this document we
 demonstrate how these fundamental qualities shape our culture and our disciplinary practices at
 Northumbria to create an exciting environment for world-leading, transformative research in
 English.


 Unit Context and Structure
 English comprises three sub-units, Literature, Creative Writing and Linguistics, and is home to 46
 active researchers (44.5 FTEs). This represents a substantial increase from the 29 submitted in
 REF2014 and the 8.5 in RAE2008. Our literary scholars cover a chronological range from the
 Early Modern era through to the present day. Their work is informed by an appreciation of the
 various contexts (theoretical, cultural, political, and socio-economic) of literary production, and of
 the physical and visual properties of texts as printed and digital artefacts. Our creative writers
 produce significant work across a range of forms and genres and interrogate the interface between
 the creative and critical. Our Linguistics and Applied Linguistics researchers are committed to
 empirical and interdisciplinary research, with specialisms in cognitive linguistics, language
 teaching and learning, discourse studies and sociolinguistics. We take a holistic view of research,
 seeing publication, grant capture and impact activity as equally important and mutually beneficial.


 Since 2014 researchers in English have produced 16 monographs, 3 scholarly editions, 17 essay
 collections and special issues, 155 journal articles and book chapters, and 13 works of Creative
 Writing including novels, short story and poetry collections, and plays. Research grant and
 contract income has grown from £382,000 in REF2014 to £663,517 in this cycle, continuing our
 transformation in grant capture from RAE2008’s £55,000. Moreover, new awards in cycle have
 increased to over £1.4M. We have received funding from AHRC, British Academy, Wellcome
 Trust, Arts Council England, British Council, Heritage Lottery Fund and other funding bodies, and
 have hosted 2 Leverhulme, 1 Wellcome and 1 Vice-Chancellor’s Fellows and a Leverhulme
 Visiting Professor. Attesting to the department’s prominence, and to our contribution to the
 research sustainability of our disciplines nationally and internationally, we have been home to
 seven major academic journals, including English: the journal of the English Association, in this
 cycle. In July 2017, English co-hosted the English: Shared Futures conference, the first such event

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in English Studies, celebrating the vigour and diversity of our disciplines. Our postgraduate
 research culture has been transformed, with PhD completions in cycle rising from 8 to 50. Staff in
 English have led Northumbria’s involvement in two AHRC DTP schemes in this REF cycle, the
 Heritage Consortium 2013-19 (led by Walker 2013-16) and the Northern Bridge Consortium
 (NBC) 2019-24 (led by Terry 2019-20; Stewart 2020-). We have been awarded 4 NBC
 studentships in the first two years.


 The breakdown of numbers by staff member, PhD enrolments and PhD completions in cycle is as
 below:


  Staff FTEs     PhD Enrolments to July 2020 (by headcount)                 PhD Completions


  44.5           92                                                         50


 This represents a significant growth in research intensity in line with Northumbria’s ambitions and
 our strategic plans.


 Overview of Sub-Units
 Literature
 Literature boasts substantial strength in Early Modern scholarship, especially relating to the
 commemoration, adaptation and appropriation of Shakespeare and his contemporaries
 (Smialkowska, Hansen, O’Brien). Walker works in seventeenth-century literature, Frazer on the
 politics of early modern mobility, Heyam on medieval and early modern gender and sexuality,
 while O’Brien’s critical and creative work explores modern appropriations of Renaissance forms
 and biographies. Hansen and Smialkowska are currently interrogating the idea of Shakespeare
 as an ‘extreme’ or ‘offensive’ writer. This builds on their longstanding work on Shakespeare in
 public spaces and popular culture, which is brought to life beyond the academy in the North East
 through Hansen’s long-running Shakespeare Club reading group.


 Literature is home to one of the largest and most distinguished groups of scholars in eighteenth-
 century studies in the UK and internationally, whose work is complemented by colleagues working
 across the Regency and into the long-nineteenth century. Work produced in this area contributes
 to our larger strategy for interdisciplinary research, encompassing print and visual culture
 (Goodwyn, van Hensbergen, H. Williams), medical humanities (Blackwood, Lawlor,
 Wetherall-Dickson), American and transatlantic studies including the history of slavery and
 abolition (Carey, Elliott), literature and finance (Terry), the history of Romantic childhood
 (Newbon), and Romantic era poetics (Stewart). Advancing our strategy for impactful
 collaboration, researchers in this field have been particularly active in taking their research beyond


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the academy, for example through leadership of an AHRC Being Human Hub (2014/5) and
 Wetherall-Dickson’s advisory role for the John Murray Publishing Archive digital project
 partnership between NLS and Adam Matthew Digital. The group has received AHRC, Leverhulme
 and British Academy funding in cycle for a range of major collaborative and cross-disciplinary
 research projects, which have enabled new external partnership working and have expanded our
 staff base and PGR community.


 In twentieth- and twenty first-century studies, the sub-unit has a strong and longstanding research
 record in modernism (Baxter, Bazin, Einhaus, Taylor) and in women’s writing and
 interdisciplinary feminist cultural studies (Bazin, Gibson, Nally, Waters, White). In the current
 cycle we have augmented this with increasing strengths in postcolonial and contemporary
 literatures. In 2017 K. Shaw was appointed to a chair in contemporary writings; her expertise in
 contemporary genre fiction complementing Gibson’s. In turn, K. Shaw’s research facilitated the
 appointment of De Cristofaro, whose Wellcome Fellowship examines the sleep crisis in
 contemporary literature, taking a medical humanities approach in collaboration with colleagues in
 Psychology. Similarly, Baxter’s expertise in postcolonial literatures brought Mussi to English as a
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellow, working on the Canadian Truth and Reconciliation Commission.
 Once again, there is a strong commitment amongst these researchers to public engagement
 exemplified by White, Waters and Bazin’s annual feminist film festival with local cinemas, and K.
 Shaw’s influence on parliamentary policy around social inequalities in publishing.


 Creative Writing
 Work produced by Creative Writing in this cycle includes new novels by Green and T. Williams,
 F. Shaw’s first work of Young Adult fiction, short fiction (Crumey, Fish), poetry collections
 (Burnett, O’ Brien, T. Williams), drama (O’Brien, Sumwanyambe), and creative non-fiction
 (Burnett, Hildyard). Two significant practice-based research projects have run in this cycle: T.
 Williams’s AHRC-funded project (£44,184) on the interrelation of writing practice and everyday
 life (to October 2013), and Hildyard’s Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship, ‘Speaking Animal’
 (2015-19), which explored the nature of animal sentience, and how writing navigates the distance
 between humans and other animals. Hildyard’s and Crumey’s scholarship is powerfully
 interdisciplinary, with both authors publishing in cycle outside the scope of UoA27 (biology and
 astrophysics, respectively). Green leads the Practice Research group at Northumbria and with T.
 Williams has written analytically on the reflective component of creative writing. Central to
 Creative Writing’s research strategy is their collaboration with the regional writing agency New
 Writing North (NWN). Creative Writing plays an active role in some of NWN’s major projects and
 initiatives, including the Northern Writers Awards (2000-) and the multidisciplinary Crime Story
 Festival (2014-).



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Linguistics
 Linguistics comprises a rich range of expertise. Internationally significant work in Cognitive
 Linguistics has been produced in this cycle by Dabrowska (Linguistics), Street (Language
 Sciences) and Duffy (Cognitive Linguistics and Language and Cognition). In 2015, Linguistics
 colleagues hosted the biennial International Cognitive Linguistics Conference (ICLC-13) (the only
 time it has been held in the UK). Hall, Guariento, Leung and Naeb contribute to our international
 reputation for research into language learning and teaching, for example through Hall’s editorship
 of ELT Journal and the Routledge Handbook of English Language Teaching (2016), the definitive
 work in its field. Clark, Feeney, Huang, MacLeod, McKenzie and Wallage add strengths in
 theoretical linguistics, discourse studies and sociolinguistics. Linguistics colleagues have
 contributed significantly to our strategic goal to expand external grant capture in this cycle.
 McKenzie’s research on attitudes towards spoken language variation, for example, has attracted
 grants from the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS), the Japan Foundation
 Endowment Committee (JFEC), and a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship (awarded 2020).
 Naeb was Co-I on the EC-funded Diglin (digital literacy instructor) project (2012-15), which uses
 innovative learning materials to help migrant learners acquire the host country language, and on
 the ‘EU-Speak’ project (2015-18), funded through Erasmus+, to improve educational outcomes
 for low- and non-literate adult migrant learners. These international projects exemplify the success
 of our strategy of supporting colleagues to work collaboratively in response to contemporary
 challenges.


 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our strategic plan for 2013-20 committed us to increase external research funding through
 improved staff development; to develop and deepen collaboration with partner organisations; to
 expand PhD numbers; to develop an international profile in cultural heritage studies; to host
 increased numbers of visiting scholars; and to expand our interdisciplinary research. All these
 aims have been met and details of our achievements are set out over the course of this document.
 Our forward plans for the next six years retain these commitments and introduce the following new
 aspirations:


   •   to extend our interdisciplinary working, especially where this allows us to use our research
       to address pressing contemporary challenges
   •   in turn, to amplify our engagement and impact through such research to the benefit of local,
       national and international partners and audiences
   •   to provide leadership in English Studies through involvement in subject associations, such
       as the English Association, and the management of learned societies to ensure the
       sustainability and relevance of our discipline, nationally and internationally, for future
       generations


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   to expand our good practice in ECR and MCR development to ensure effective peer support
       at all career levels, including the professoriate
   •   to diversify our funding streams for faculty and PGR research


 Core to our strategy in this cycle are two underpinning values: interdisciplinarity and collaboration.
 In line with our strategic goal to foster interdisciplinary scholarship, research across our sub-units
 was reorganised in this cycle around interdisciplinary research groups that incorporate staff from
 within and beyond the Humanities Department (the departmental home of English): ‘American
 Studies’, ‘Eighteenth-Century and Romantic Studies’, ‘Environmental Humanities’, ‘Gendered
 Subjects’, ‘Medicine, Health and Wellbeing’, ‘Medieval and Early Modern Studies’, ‘Power and
 Politics in Language and Literature’, ‘Practice Research’, and ‘Scholarly Editing and Print Culture’.
 Membership is intentionally fluid, with many staff belonging to more than one group and
 periodically changing affiliation where this reflects their developing research interests. This
 reorganisation has been successful in encouraging cross-disciplinary synergies and facilitating
 engagement with contemporary challenges. For example, since its formation the Environmental
 Humanities research group has developed a range of collaborations with Northumberland Wildlife
 Trust involving colleagues in Creative Writing and History.


 To underpin English and Northumbria’s shared strategy for international, interdisciplinary and
 impactful research in this cycle, Northumbria’s Institute of the Humanities (IoH) was established
 with major capital investment. The IoH reflects the interdisciplinary and partnership values at the
 core of our ethos, providing a physical and intellectual home for the work of our research groups.
 Its objectives encompass campaigning for the value of Humanities, facilitating partnerships
 outside Northumbria and the promotion of interdisciplinarity within and beyond traditional
 ‘Humanities’ disciplines. For example, in 2018 the IoH hosted a workshop bringing together 9
 researchers from English with specialists in Design and Computer and Information Studies, to
 explore how emerging technologies can enrich cultural heritage practices, and how digital
 technologies, including AI, can enhance new engagements with historical, archival and textual
 material. The workshop built on Nally’s role as Co-I of the AHRC-EPSRC ‘Memoryscapes’ project
 (2017: £60,000), which used immersive and haptic technologies to explore how heritage can be
 embedded in urban redevelopment schemes to enhance access to and interpretation of shared
 histories. The IoH has also generated a particularly rich vein of interdisciplinary activity in
 Environmental Humanities following the appointment in 2016 of Carey plus two environmental
 historians. Carey and T. Williams participated in a public symposium that officially launched
 Environmental Humanities at Northumbria (2017), and members of English have contributed to
 further public events including on The Humanities and Climate Change (2018).




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As the work of the IoH outlined above suggests, our research seeks to intervene in the multiple
 challenges we face today: environmental, medical, legal, social, political and cultural.
 Collaboration and partnership working are essential to our strategy for translating the power of our
 research into meaningful change within and beyond the academy. This commitment is
 underpinned by Northumbria’s strategic partnerships with a range of cultural and creative
 organisations in the region, including several with which English works closely such as NWN and
 Tyne and Wear Archives & Museums (TWAM). This approach has been key to our impact strategy
 and the co-designing of projects with partners, often accompanied by collaborative research grant
 applications, exemplifies how we put this strategy into practice. For example, H. Williams has
 partnered with Shandy Hall through HLF funding, Nally with the Discovery Museum (TWAM) using
 ACE funding, and van Hensbergen with the Laing Art Gallery (TWAM) with an AHRC award.
 Each of these projects has created collaborative research that benefits partners not only in final
 outcomes but also through the shared production of research.


 Practical strategies to develop our impact culture have responded to our ethos of seeing research
 in the round. Our approach has addressed training, workload, sabbaticals, funding, and
 recognition in promotion. Throughout the cycle we have scheduled training on impact for all staff
 alongside bespoke events for Impact Case Study (ICS) leads and for PGRs, drawing on external
 speakers and the considerable expertise of colleagues in English. In addition, colleagues and
 PGRs can apply for QR to attend external training. We have supported six ICSs in cycle, with a
 final submission of four. ICS leads and contributors receive workload hours to develop their
 activities and also have access to a Faculty-administered impact fund to support costs including
 RAs. In 2018 K. Shaw benefitted from an impact sabbatical to focus on her collaboration with
 NWN.


 Our impacts have been felt both in the civic and cultural life of the North East, through our deep
 relations with many of the region’s cultural institutions, and internationally, notably through our
 innovative research in digital technologies for international language learning. Through our
 research (demonstrated by our selected ICSs and more broadly) we have impacted positively on
 educational practices and the aspirations of young people at home and internationally;
 marginalised communities, including migrants and young offenders; the cultural life of the North
 East; literary creativity and the regional sustainability of literary industries; heritage preservation
 and remembrance of the past; and the vitality and sustainability of English Studies. Our four case
 studies illustrate our strong commitment to taking our research beyond the academy and
 demonstrate the power of our research to create and sustain beneficial impact towards a brighter
 tomorrow.




                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open access and ethical research practice
 We are committed to making our findings freely available to the widest audience possible in
 compliance with the principle of open access. Indeed, the imperative for OA publication is keenly
 felt in English because of the number of journals we edit. Both ELTJ (ed. Hall: 2013-17), and
 English (eds Baxter and Hansen: 2016-20) are published by Oxford University Press and adopt
 the protocols of ‘Oxford Open’. Hansen and Baxter successfully proposed to OUP a new model
 of free-to-view virtual special issues of English, the most recent designed specifically to support
 teachers during the Covid pandemic. This virtual issue has averaged 1400 downloads per month
 since launching, representing approximately 34% increase in article usage, with the highest
 number of downloads during term time. Although access is not precisely on the same basis as OA
 this innovation has been warmly praised by OUP and the English Association. Meanwhile C21
 Literature: journal of 21st-century writing, based at Northumbria since K. Shaw’s appointment in
 2018, is an online only, open access journal published through the Open Library of Humanities
 (OLH) with no embargo period or APCs.


 Staff have been briefed on OA requirements through a series of roadshows led by Northumbria’s
 Research & Innovation Services (RIS), and through regular email reminders from the UoA lead.
 Where there is a case for an output to be gold-funded from the institutional block grant these are
 invariably supported. We also benefit from Northumbria’s FigShare open data repository. In the
 new REF cycle we plan to expand our OA practices through engagement with and leadership of
 new opportunities for OA publishing and data curation. Exemplifying this commitment is H.
 Williams’s AHRC-funded Sterne Digital Library project, which will create an OA Laurence Sterne
 and Sterneana database, hosted by Cambridge Digital Library.


 Research carried out in English complies with Universities UK’s ‘Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity’, taking guidance from the Concordat on matters such as plagiarism, the impartiality of
 peer review, data management protocols, and research ethics and governance. Northumbria
 operates an online research ethics system whereby researchers assess the risk levels posed by
 their projects. No research project in English can be undertaken at UG or PG level or by
 researchers without an ethical audit. Researchers must undergo tri-annual ethics training and are
 not permitted to supervise doctoral students unless their training log is up to date. Traditionally,
 the Humanities ethics coordinator is drawn from Linguistics (currently Wallage), whose research
 methodologies can give rise to more complex ethical issues than traditional literary scholarship.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staff Strategy
 Embracing Northumbria’s commitment to exceptional people, shared ambitions and organisational
 sustainability, institutional investment in the staff base has included not only new appointments
 but also a focus on supporting staff at all career levels to strengthen their research profiles. Using
 supportive mentoring processes, we have encouraged ambitious grant capture, monitored the
 quality of publications and guided the transition from early to mid-career. A key objective of our
 strategy, and Northumbria’s, has been to enlarge our capacity for excellent research publications.
 The success of our mentoring approach, and of Northumbria’s Academic Employment Framework
 (implemented in 2014), is evident in both the overall number and the proportion of staff submitted
 to REF2021, 8 of whom were in post but not submitted to REF2014.




 We have been strategic in our approach to appointments, using new and replacement posts
 alongside externally funded fellowships to meet our objectives. Thus, many of our new
 appointments have been made to increase our capacity for interdisciplinary work. Carey and
 Burnett, for example, were appointed as part of Northumbria’s strategic investment in
 Environmental Humanities. Carey’s work also engages with the interdisciplinary research of
 American Studies as does Mussi’s, while Blackwood and De Cristofaro enhance our strengths
 in Medical Humanities. Fish, O’Brien and Sumbwanyambe in Creative Writing work
 collaboratively with colleagues in Performing Arts.


 New appointments have also powerfully enriched our impact and knowledge transfer activities,
 supporting our strategy for partnership working. K. Shaw brings experience of embedding writing
 activities in larger cultural regeneration projects to our partnership with NWN. MacLeod provides
 expert forensic linguistic consultation to police forces and collaborates with colleagues in


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Criminology. Fish’s ACE-funded project engages external and international partners to explore
 displacement and the criminal justice system.


 To meet our strategic objective to increase research grant capture and to attract more visiting and
 international fellows, we have targeted external fellowship funding. Building on our success at the
 turn of the cycle with a Leverhulme Visiting Professorship (M. Davidson), we have hosted two
 Leverhulme EC Fellows (Mussi 2018-present; Hildyard 2015-19) and a Wellcome Trust EC Fellow
 (De Cristafaro 2020-present).


 Our staffing strategy is informed by a commitment to creating an equitable, diverse and inclusive
 research culture. ED&I is embedded in all areas of activity, guided by the Departmental Director
 for ED&I (Elliott). The ED&I Director sits on the Department Executive and convenes the
 departmental ED&I Committee. This committee has fed into the processes for output selection to
 ensure these are equitable. As a consequence, our output submission maps clearly and equitably
 onto the staff base from which it is drawn in terms of gender, race and other protected
 characteristics. The ED&I Director is also consulted at key stages in recruitment processes,
 including for PGR. Of the 18 appointments made in cycle 12 are women and 4 from Black and
 racialised minorities. We have also sought to address gender imbalances in certain areas and a
 shortage of senior female colleagues at the start of this cycle. K. Shaw is the first woman
 appointed, and Baxter the first woman promoted, to literature Professorships at Northumbria.
 Burnett is the first Associate Professor of African heritage in English and the first woman
 appointed to Associate Professor in Creative Writing. In the same cycle 5 women have been
 promoted to Associate Professor (Baxter, Einhaus, Nally, van Hensbergen and Wetherall-
 Dickson), providing an important basis for succession planning that will ensure more diverse
 leadership in the future. These promotions have been underpinned by our mentoring of women’s
 research careers in English. One consequence has been a quadrupling of successful grant
 capture led by women since REF2014, with women now outnumbering men as PIs (mirroring
 overall gender distribution in English).


 Staff Development
 For REF2014, we submitted 14 researchers who met the REF ECR definition. Since then, we have
 invested significantly in the development of this cohort while appointing 12 new ECRs in this cycle.
 As part of our strategy to develop ECR research capacity, ECRs are encouraged to enrol on
 Northumbria’s ECR Development Programme, which introduces them to the funding landscape,
 preparation of grant applications, impact and the larger contexts of academic research. Additional
 ECR events supported by RIS have included a ‘world café’ on developing our research ‘culture’,
 and a researcher resilience event facilitated by an external consultant. We aim where practicable
 to accelerate the access of ECRs to the sabbatical scheme, subject to satisfactory probation.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECRs are also permitted to act as principal supervisors to PGRs, provided they are embedded in
 an experienced supervisory team, in which a strong mentoring dynamic is operative. The success
 of our strategy for ECR development is evident in the fact that 5 staff appointed in the last cycle
 who met either REF or AHRC ECR definitions at the census point have since been promoted to
 Associate Professorships: Nally, Stewart, van Hensbergen, Einhaus and T. Williams.


 English currently has three postdoctoral researchers (Mussi, De Cristafaro, Blackwood). Each
 is line managed by the PI or senior expert in their field and receives mentoring that concentrates
 on both research and career development. They are accommodated within the physical space of
 the IoH in the Humanities postdoctoral research hub, a space designed to promote
 interdisciplinary and collaborative research.


 Northumbria runs an ECR Forum (Einhaus was rep 2016-19, Mussi 2019-20), and the ECR voice
 is influential through University and Faculty Research & Knowledge Exchange committees and
 via implementation of feedback from the Careers in Research Online Survey (CROS). We uphold
 the principles set out in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and in
 the ‘Review’ of the Concordat published in 2018. Between 2019-20, Terry was deputy chair of
 Northumbria’s Concordat group and oversaw the introduction in English of new policies relating to
 researcher support. We consciously bring the Concordat to the attention of our PGRs; and have
 introduced mandatory training for PIs to ensure they create an appropriate developmental culture
 for PDRAs on their projects.


 Northumbria’s Performance and Development Appraisal (PDA) scheme was significantly revised
 with the Academic Career Framework to enable clear objective setting and training assessment.
 PDAs are used to help staff identify opportunities for career development and both mentors and
 line managers are expected to help staff map themselves against Northumbria’s Academic
 Employment and Career Frameworks and to create personalised route maps for promotion.
 Importantly, while PDAs set training to be undertaken, they also provide staff with the opportunity
 to request training. This is collated so that staff can be supported either through funding to attend
 external training or through bespoke training at Northumbria.


 Mentoring is also central to our approach to staff development. Staff are invited to choose their
 mentor, who may be drawn from outside English or indeed the department. Individual preferences
 (including for same-sex mentoring and cross-disciplinary mentoring) are always accommodated.
 While no fixed pattern of meetings is dictated, it is recommended that interactions between mentor
 and mentee occur on a monthly basis, with mentors expected to read outputs, drafts of grant
 applications, and other work on request. A key role of the mentor is to encourage the mentee’s
 ambition in terms of aiming at the most prestigious outlets for their research and at the greatest


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international reach. We consciously guard against the mentoring relationship drifting towards a
 line-managerial one, with mentoring operating responsively and developmentally rather than
 managerially. To enhance our mentoring provision, all mentors in English attended a workshop
 conducted by Gary Reed of Advance HE in 2018, which introduced a coaching approach to
 mentorship. In 2020 a number of senior colleagues in English received additional training as part
 of a Faculty-wide female mentoring scheme to be launched in 2020-21. In line with our strategic
 commitment to apply our good ECR development practices to mid- and senior career researchers,
 in this cycle we have introduced mentoring for all professors, making a clear statement that
 progression within professorial bands requires the same developmental support as promotion at
 lower levels. The success of this approach is evident in the promotion of Hall and Baxter first to
 Associate and then full Professorships in this cycle.


 Supporting Northumbria’s strategic aim to grow high quality research, our researchers have
 benefited from Northumbria’s sabbatical system. The UoA lead maintains a sabbatical rota based
 on a 1-in-6 cycle. 38 staff in English have benefited from sabbaticals during the current REF
 period, with staff entering the cycle immediately upon arrival (with the exception of those on
 specific research contracts e.g. Leverhulme ECFs). Staff on fractional contracts enjoy equal
 access to the scheme. Customarily, staff apply to Northumbria’s sabbatical scheme to take up
 their pre-identified slot, though the scheme also permits staff to apply independently of any local
 rota. We have sponsored three colleagues in this cycle with ‘accelerated sabbaticals’ where the
 sabbatical semester is brought forward in light of a pressing publication deadline. We ensure that
 staff receive the full value of teaching buy-out from funded projects, allowing them to make the
 most efficient use of their research time by taking it in blocks and we offer sabbaticals out of cycle
 to extend the research time available to those who have won research grants. We also offer
 sabbaticals out of cycle where sabbaticals have been displaced by maternity/parental leave to
 ensure staff benefit from full access to the scheme. Colleagues can justify the award of a research
 sabbatical through publication, grant applications, or impact/knowledge exchange activities. K.
 Shaw’s sabbatical, for example, embedded her in NWN’s offices to support her ICS. The success
 of our approach is evidenced by the fact that all 8 staff included in this submission who were in
 post but not submitted for REF2014 have been able to take 2 sabbaticals in this cycle to support
 their research, including Hall who also gained his in-service doctorate.


 As noted above, we are strongly committed to creating an equitable, diverse and inclusive
 research environment. To that end colleagues in English are engaged in a variety of activities to
 address inequalities where we find them, whether in the department, the institution or nationally.
 For example, we are currently preparing a departmental Athena SWAN bronze award application
 led by Elliott, following Northumbria’s recent successful institutional submission. Elliott is also
 Humanities Director of ED&I, while Burnett is Faculty Director of ED&I.                 Baxter and


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sumbwanyambe are members of Northumbria’s Race Equality Charter Advisory Group while
 Elliott and Burnett are members of the Self-Assessment Team, and many in English are
 members of the University’s Decolonising Northumbria Network. All interviews for jobs are
 conducted by mixed gender panels, and all participants are required to undergo fair selection
 training. The Department set aside a full Away Day (2019) to undertake unconscious bias training
 and to participate in wide-ranging discussions of ED&I matters relating to our disciplines. The
 Department has adopted a range of measures to promote equal opportunities for all staff. All
 seminars have been brought forward (to 4pm) to facilitate attendance by staff with caring
 responsibilities, committees are scheduled in standard working hours and not allowed to overrun,
 and meetings are transparently minuted with clear action points. Where colleagues experience
 special or personal circumstances, they are supported through tailored adaptations to their
 workload including options for part-time, remote and flexible working. More broadly, we are
 sensitive to the fact that work progresses faster when researchers can block out time rather than
 grabbing it in snatches and we therefore guarantee one day per week free of teaching for all staff,
 with the possibility of more than one where the timetable permits.


 We aim to create a supportive culture which acknowledges the difficulty of success in research
 and celebrates achievement. Good communication is a crucial part of building this culture of
 solidarity and recognition. Colleagues are kept informed of developments in the external research
 climate and reminded of departmental research objectives through Away Days and the research
 sections of the department handbook. All funding awards, including short-term library fellowships
 and PhD successes are publicised in the department via email and significant publications are
 marked by the IoH, which hosts regular collective book launches. The successful hosting of
 symposia and conferences (including those run by PGRs) is always recognised by a public email
 thanking the organiser. We also incentivise certain kinds of research activity. Grant holders benefit
 from Northumbria’s Research & Enterprise Reward Scheme which provides a small proportion of
 the grant overhead through a personal research account, to be used on research-related
 expenses. Where a research event generates a surplus, we try to ensure that some of this is
 ringfenced for further use by the successful organisers. When Patten, for example, led the
 organisation of the international Cognitive Linguistics conference in 2015, her efforts were
 recognised through a University GEM (Going the Extra Mile) award and through use of part of the
 conference surplus to purchase a personal laptop and linguistics corpora supporting her own
 research. Likewise, following Carey’s successful leadership of the ISECS conference in 2019,
 match funding from English QR has been provided to support visiting fellowships in Eighteenth-
 Century Studies hosted by Northumbria over the coming five years.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduate Research Students
 In line with our objective to expand our PGR community, our research student population has
 grown substantially, enabling us to report 50 completions in this cycle compared to 8 in REF2014.
 This increase reflects our growing reputation as a provider of doctoral education, while also being
 driven by more prominent advertising of our PhD opportunities, and by Northumbria’s strategic
 investment in the form of fee discounts at Masters level and Research Development Fund (RDF)
 studentships. Furthermore, our significant growth in fee-paying and government-funded overseas
 students in Linguistics has resulted from improvements made to our pre-application support for
 prospective candidates. Each year applicants compete for around 28 studentships allocated to the
 Faculty through the RDF scheme, with candidates in English winning on average 5 per year in this
 REF cycle. Our success in this internal competition is an endorsement of our capacity to attract
 excellent candidates and our record of supervising students to timely completion.


 This success has been complemented by our involvement in two AHRC consortia in this cycle.
 Between 2013-19, Northumbria was one of seven members of the Heritage Consortium,
 coordinated by Hull and led by Walker for Northumbria (2013-16). The Consortium was supported
 by £1.85M from AHRC and £1.11M in institutional match-funding. Over and above its financial
 commitment, Northumbria made available for five successive years an MRes studentship in
 Heritage, partly as a feeder qualification for prospective PhD applicants to the Consortium.
 Northumbria’s involvement crossed several disciplines, with English receiving our first award in
 2018, with a candidate who had previously taken the Heritage MRes. Since 2019 we have been
 part of the Northern Bridge Consortium (NBC), comprising seven universities in North East
 England and Northern Ireland. NBC’s application (co-authored by Terry) was one of only two (of
 11) to receive the maximum grade of 6, and the size of the funding award, equating to 335
 studentships over five years, creates a huge opportunity for the region, the NBC institutions, and
 English at Northumbria. We have won four NBC studentships in the first two years, including two
 CDAs. We envisage that our ability to engage successfully with future rounds will be enhanced by
 Stewart’s role as Northumbria’s NBC Academic Director. PGR recruitment (whether for self-
 funded or scholarship applicants) is informed by our commitment to pursue equitable, diverse and
 inclusive processes. We seek to ensure that advertisements are written inclusively and that RDF
 studentships are available to international applicants. We endeavour to have mixed-gender panels
 at every stage of selection and that interviews accommodate specific needs (e.g. accessible
 rooms).


 Students are encouraged to be pro-active in accessing external research funding for events and
 supervisory teams are expected to advise on this. Successes include Davies-Shuck’s receipt of
 £500 from BSECS and BARS collectively for her ‘Character to Caricature’ conference at
 Northumbria (2018), and Al-Dhaif’s receipt of £500 through the British Association of Applied


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Linguistics Language Learning and Teaching SIG’s scholarship to attend their annual conference
 (2018). In 2017 the IoH funded Horvat and Sánchez-García’s two-day international ‘Queer
 Screens’ conference with keynote Prof Jack Halberstam (Columbia University). More recently
 Renwick co-led a Medieval and Early Modern symposium on Sex and Gender Politics with
 colleagues in History, funded by the IoH. Additional internal funding is available through
 Northumbria’s PGR Research Events Support Scheme. Our PhD students can apply for funding
 for fieldwork, conference attendance and event organisation through the English QR budget and
 the Graduate School’s conference bursary scheme, with requests being funded up to an average
 of £500pa. Larger-scale expenses, such as overseas data collection, can be accommodated, with
 research costs flagged at Project Approval.


 Our students are encouraged and supported to take their research beyond the academy and to
 consider the impact potential of their work through bespoke training and the facilitation of
 opportunities by PGR leads and the IoH Director. Thus, English students have collaborated with
 their Humanities peers to run an interdisciplinary public-facing Summer Speaker Series in the city,
 and regularly contribute to events run through the Being Human Festival. For example, Hume
 gave a public talk about Chinese-North East relations for Being Human (2015) as well as
 contributing a blog to the IoH’s Global Geordie’s MOOC (2016). Both the Heritage Consortium
 and NBC have further facilitated formal partnership working for PGRs through CDAs and
 placements that often draw and benefit from our established partnerships with organisations like
 TWAM.


 We have created a research culture in which doctoral candidates work alongside academic staff,
 with each seeing the other as engaged in a shared enterprise. Several PhD candidates have had
 work accepted by leading academic journals while still within maximum duration, e.g. Blackwood
 (Literature and Medicine 2016) and Horvat (Feminist Media Studies 2020). Interviews for
 studentships always incorporate a question on how the applicant can enhance our research
 culture, and attendance at the IoH seminar series is mandatory for funded students. Students are
 required to present their research at one of our Faculty PGR student conferences, organised by a
 PGR-led planning committee under the guidance of departmental PGR leads. PGRs are expected
 to join at least one of our research groups and are encouraged to collaborate with research group
 members as well as various regional research fora. For example, the North East Forum for
 Eighteenth-Century and Romantic Studies (2004-) brings together staff and students from the four
 local universities and has provided a supportive environment for many PGRs to give their first
 academic paper. In Creative Writing, staff and students meet for regular writing workshops and
 also share their work with graduating MA students at an annual public reading at the Lit&Phil. We
 also look to provide PGR internship opportunities on projects or in connection with major



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conferences (e.g. Being Human Festival, ICLC-13, English: Shared Futures). All PhD students are
 encouraged to construct a public-facing profile via Northumbria’s research portal.


 English has dedicated PGR leads for both Linguistics and Literature & Creative Writing. Their role
 is to process applications, including identifying appropriate supervisory teams; to provide welcome
 and induction for incoming students; to programme the annual Humanities PGR training; to
 oversee student progression and completion, including attending the Faculty Research Degrees
 Sub-Committee which approves progression decisions; and to act as subject contacts for our
 engagement with NBC, including convening applicant scrutiny panels.


 We take seriously our responsibility to prepare students for life beyond the PhD. All students enroll
 on Northumbria’s Professional Development and Researcher Training Programme, which is
 mapped against the four Vitae learning domains covering intellectual abilities, personal
 effectiveness, research governance, and engagement. Training consists of live sessions and
 interactive online courses. While most courses are optional, those relating to induction,
 progression, and research ethics are mandatory. These are monitored through Annual
 Progression reporting. Students in English also benefit from the Humanities PGR Training
 Programme which runs over 20 weeks from October to May. The programme includes sessions
 on conference presentation and organisation, academic publication and open access, CV drafting,
 impact and searching for jobs within and outside academia. We have recently introduced
 additional sessions enabling students to identify Athena SWAN and the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers as providing relevant contexts for their career progression.
 One-off PGR training events are also run under the auspices of the IoH, such as a week-long
 ‘Article Accelerator’ event (2018), which aimed to enhance student writing skills and academic
 employability.


 Our students are housed in the ‘Glenamara Centre’, a postgraduate suite located close to the IoH
 and with access to a shared student-staff common room. The Centre consists of hot-desking
 facilities for students in their first two years, and dedicated workstations for final year students.
 PGRs also benefit from the new (from 2018) ‘Research Commons’ in the University Library, a
 dedicated area for PG and academic researchers. Student satisfaction is monitored through an
 internal survey and through PRES, with PGR leads implementing an ‘Action Plan’ following each
 survey. 2019 overall satisfaction for English (89%) is markedly above the global-weighted
 benchmark (80%).


 The Covid pandemic has brought general and specific challenges to staff and PGRs alike. As well
 as providing increased flexibility to accommodate these challenges such as extended deadlines
 for PGR Annual Progression reporting, staff and PGRs have been able to access QR for


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 alternative resources to assist their research (e.g. digitisation costs, new software for online
 interviews). Both staff and PGRs also have access to a suite of mental health and wellbeing
 support including counselling.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 RGCI has grown from £382K reported to REF2014 (over five income years) to £663,517 over the
 seven years of the current cycle, equating to an increase from £76.6K to £94.8K pa (28%).
 Comparison with RAE2008’s £9,236 pa shows a spectacular rise in RGCI over the longer stretch.
 New awards in cycle have also increased significantly from REF2014’s £600K to over £1.4M in
 the current cycle. The curve is strongly upwards, with £427K of new awards won in the financial
 year 2019-20 alone.


 Our strategy towards grant capture is underpinned by our holistic approach to research. Staff use
 the PDA process to develop not only annual but mid-range plans. Research grant application is
 core to this, with plans designed to facilitate research ambitions and agendas. Staff then tap into
 appropriate training and mentorship to support their personal and collaborative agendas. Training
 includes information sessions, departmental workshops and full research grant application
 programmes, tailored to specific needs. For example, alongside the ECR Development
 Programme noted above, RIS run a Fellowship Ready programme and an elite Next Generation
 Large Award Holders programme for researchers who have already won small or medium-sized
 grants to help them transition to larger-scale applications. H. Williams attended the ‘Next
 Generation’ programme in 2018, which supported the development of her successful AHRC
 application. Workshops are offered for particular schemes such as BA/Leverhulme small grants,
 Leverhulme Fellowships, and AHRC Leadership Fellowships, and our research policy manager
 runs regular application clinics.


 We emphasise the importance of long lead-in times when researchers are aiming at schemes with
 fixed deadlines to provide adequate time for thorough development and scrutiny. Thus, all
 applications are submitted to Faculty-coordinated peer review and normally receive two reports.
 We aim to ensure that peer review includes insights from not only those with relevant research
 expertise but also those experienced with the funding scheme (e.g. members of the funder’s Peer
 Review College or those with prior success in that scheme). Applications sent for final approval
 are accompanied by a statement on how the PI has addressed issues identified in peer review.
 This process ensures that all applications leaving the Faculty are competitive, and we monitor
 closely the success of our applications in reaching the second stage (e.g. PI response, or
 Leverhulme full application stage).




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This strategy for increased income generation through dedicated support, holistic forward
 planning, and increased research grant application has reaped notable dividends in this cycle.
 Lawlor, for example, has been PI on two large Leverhulme-funded projects: ‘Fashionable
 Diseases: Medicine, Literature and Culture ca. 1660-1832’ (£262K, 2013-16) and ‘Writing Doctors:
 Representation and Medical Personality ca. 1660-1832’ (£299,317, 2018-21). Our commitment to
 developing ECRs has been particularly productive. The first few months of the cycle saw the
 completion of T. Williams’ AHRC Fellowship, ‘The writer walking the dog: creative writing practice
 and everyday life’ (£44,184, Jan-Oct 2013). Since then, major AHRC grants have been won by H.
 Williams (Sterne Digital Library [Co-I Newbould, Cambridge]: £199,996, 2019-21), and van
 Hensbergen who won an AHRC ECR Leadership Award for her project on ‘Learning through the
 Art Gallery: Art, Literature and Disciplinarity’ (£189,346, 2019-21). Nally won an ACE Grants for
 the Arts award (£25,528), channelled through the University, for a project with TWAM, leading to
 an exhibition at the Discovery Museum (2016-17). Of these, three who were ECRs at the previous
 REF census point are now Associate Professors (T. Williams, van Hensbergen, and Nally). Our
 aim to enrich our research culture through increasing the number of visiting scholars has also
 been fulfilled through successes in competitive funding. At the start of the current REF income
 period we won a Leverhulme Visiting Professorship, which brought Michael Davidson, a
 distinguished poet and leading figure in disability studies, to join us from UC San Diego (£38,774,
 2013–14). Hildyard’s Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (2015-19 – including maternity) was the
 first such award to be hosted by English, followed by Mussi’s (2018-21) and De Cristofaro’s
 Wellcome Fellowship in 2020. De Cristofaro has since won a Marie-Curie fellowship, which we
 have been able to negotiate she will take part way through her Wellcome Fellowship. These
 successes arise from careful selection through annual Expression of Interest calls (e.g. for
 Leverhulme ECFs), which enable us to nurture talent through close work with external candidates.


 In addition to our successes with large grant schemes we encourage colleagues to apply to smaller
 schemes and to recognise the value of funding outside the familiar Research Council routes. Thus,
 Terry (2016) and I. Davidson (2017) won BA/Leverhulme small grants for projects on editing John
 Cleland’s letters and on recovering the poet Lee Harwood respectively, Hall has twice won British
 Council ELT Research Partnership Awards for projects relating to English as an Additional
 Language, while K. Shaw won a British Council contract for research into international trends in
 English Literature teaching. We recognise the value of these smaller funds as stepping-stones
 towards larger successes, such as Terry’s Leverhulme Fellowship which was awarded in March
 2020 a few months before his untimely death. Another example of how our approach to smaller
 funding schemes has paid off is Fish’s successful applications to support her project ‘The Other
 Side of Me’. The project’s £16,400 from ACE, James Knott Trust and County Durham Community
 Foundation, enabled her to collaborate with leading Indigenous Australian dancers, whom she
 brought to the UK in early 2020, and to work with young people in Aycliffe Secure Centre. Our


                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approach, which encourages colleagues to think laterally about funding means that not all grant
 capture is reported through HESA. Notable awards not reported include two ACE (GftA and NLP)
 awards (£26,200 in total) to support F. Shaw’s forthcoming novel, a Folger Shakespeare Library
 Short-term Fellowship ($7,500) won by Smialkowska (2014), and more recently a Huntington
 Library fellowship for Leverhulme-funded PhD student, Laurence Sullivan.


 Infrastructure and Facilities
 To support our strategy for expanding grant capture and increasing the international and
 interdisciplinary profile of our research, we have reorganised our research management structures
 in the department. Research in English is now overseen by the UoA lead (Baxter) who also acts
 as Co-Director of Research for Humanities with her equivalent in History, Charlotte Alston. As Co-
 Director, Baxter also co-leads on the partnership agenda, Knowledge Exchange, research
 income, and co-convenes the Department Research Committee, whose membership consists of
 the Director of the IoH, PGR leads, the departmental Grant Application Coordinator (T. Williams),
 and the departmental Ethics Coordinator. Colleagues in English work closely with a research
 policy manager, who gives guidance on funding opportunities, and with dedicated Faculty pre-
 award and post-award officers. We also have access to impact officers based in RIS who advise
 on developing and evidencing impact.


 As part of Northumbria’s 2013-18 Strategy, major estates and staffing investments were made to
 establish the Institute of Humanities. This included four new appointments, with Carey coming into
 English as Professor, and a capital expenditure of £54,410 to create bespoke research spaces
 and facilities for the IoH, including meeting rooms, microfiche readers, high spec software and
 hardware to support linguistics research, and facilities to display our research in multiple media.
 Like all buildings on campus this space is fully accessible to ensure an inclusive environment for
 researchers and our audiences. The establishment of the IoH created an intellectual home for
 Humanities researchers across Northumbria and facilitates our strategic commitment to
 interdisciplinarity. In practical terms, the IoH provides seedcorn funding and runs a weekly public
 cross-disciplinary seminar series, as well as hosting symposia, networking sandpits, and other
 research and knowledge exchange events. The IoH’s competitive seedcorn funding schemes
 include an annual call for £2,000 ‘Banner Projects’, which support interdisciplinary research grant
 development, and a rolling call for smaller funded projects to support symposia and other smaller-
 scale collaborative work. ‘Banner Project’ funding can be used for sandpits, academic networking,
 and costs related to the involvement of partner organisations. To be eligible, projects need to cross
 a disciplinary boundary. K. Shaw, Smialkowska and T. Williams have all recently led successful
 applications to this scheme.




                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In response to the changed circumstances wrought by Covid, IoH activities have moved online,
 with online symposia, reading groups, our weekly seminar series and other fora being used to
 continue the rich research conversations in our disciplines. We have embraced this move online
 as an opportunity to internationalise our future events, for example hosting Professor Greg Garrard
 (U British Colombia Okanagan) virtually in our seminar series.


 In addition to IoH funds, all staff can apply to have research expenses covered from departmental
 QR allocations, with a nominal £1000 allowed pa for each researcher. All requests are expected
 to align with PDA objectives. Researchers can also apply to the Faculty’s Research Bidding Fund,
 which supports scoping costs including RA support.


 As this document has already articulated, impact is central to our research. Impact activities are
 supported by the Faculty’s Business Development Manager and Northumbria’s impact support
 team, based in RIS, who advise on suitable pathways to impact and evidence collection. Impact
 objectives are supported through the PDA process, and resources are available through the
 Faculty Impact Support Fund and the IoH’s ‘Banner project’ scheme. The impact support team run
 a rolling programme of training as well as offering bespoke and one-to-one support. We have also
 made strategic use of Northumbria’s Visiting Fellow scheme to appoint Fellows, such as Dr
 Matthew Shaw, with relevant expertise who have run workshops for staff and PGRs on
 approaches to impact and partnership working. Where colleagues require external training, we
 use QR or the Faculty Impact Support Fund to cover these costs. In this cycle we have supported
 colleagues in accessing external training on interview techniques, influencing public policy, and
 writing for non-academic audiences.


 Alongside this targeted investment, our activities are well-served by the resources of the University
 Library. Northumbria has invested significantly in the Library Collection in recent years, spending
 an average of £86K pa on discipline specific resources for English and an additional £1M per
 annum on related multidisciplinary resources. This investment supports the ongoing development
 of comprehensive e-book full-text database resources and digitised primary sources. The library
 also delivers the ‘Northumbria Skills Programme’, which includes tailored support for developing
 researchers to help them realise the knowledge, competencies, and transferable skills identified
 in the Vitae Researcher Development Framework.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 A central strategic goal this cycle has been to increase the capacity of our research to speak to
 contemporary challenges. As has been demonstrated, we have worked to meet this goal through
 the organisation of thematic research groups, training and mentorship, support for CDAs, internal
 and external funding schemes, and investment in infrastructure. The result has been an increased

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 culture of collaborative and partnership working with tangible benefits to a range of academic and
 non-academic audiences. Our case studies, showcasing impacts on NWN, Seven Stories: The
 National Centre for Children’s Books and the Lit&Phil among others, all illustrate how we generate
 impact from close and durable cultural partnerships.


 Collaboration and Contribution to the Economy and Society
 Northumbria’s partnerships, underpinned by Memoranda of Agreement, connect academic
 research with professional expertise, facilitate cross-institutional collaboration, and engage us in
 promoting the cultural vitality and well-being of the region. NWN, for example, has been based on
 Northumbria’s campus since 2009. We manage our relationship through regular partnership
 meetings, representation on NWN’s board, collaboration on flagship initiatives such as the Crime
 Story Festival, and sponsorship of the Northern Writers Awards ceremony. Our work with partners
 is guided by K. Shaw, who is Faculty lead for partnerships.


 Our commitment to research that has tangible benefits beyond the academy underpins our
 development of a sequence of AHRC-, co- and university-funded bespoke CDA projects which
 began in 2009. Through these CDAs we strengthen our partnerships and provide clear and skilled
 trajectories for PGRs into careers within and outwith HE. An example of this strategy in action is
 the trajectory of Joanne Edwards. Her MRes Heritage studentship was linked to the Heritage CDT
 and embedded her in the Laing Art Gallery (TWAM). Having completed her MRes, she won an
 NBC-funded CDA with Seaton Delaval Hall. We also currently supervise an RDF-funded CDA with
 NWN and another NBC-funded CDA with TWAM. Running parallel to this we also use our
 collaborative projects to develop career pathways for postgraduate researchers while also creating
 benefit to our partners. For example, a current RA connected with van Hensbergen’s AHRC
 Fellowship is embedded in the Laing.


 Beyond our formal partnerships, our strategy of building potential impact into every research
 project has led to considerable contributions to the social good, not least among some of our most
 vulnerable communities. Such developments include MacLeod’s work in the field of forensic
 linguistics, especially in advising police forces on conversational interactions between officers and
 victims during police interviews. Fish’s project ‘The Other Side of Me’, exploring how story and
 dance can help young people communicate their experiences of the criminal justice system, also
 grows out of this strategy. In 2018, Fish ran a week’s cross-art collaboration at Aycliffe Secure
 Centre, and a case study, focusing on this themed week, will be made available through the
 National Criminal Justice Arts Alliance Evidence Library. Hansen’s Shakespeare on the Road
 project, 2018-19, has given rise to a new collaboration with homelessness charity, The People’s
 Kitchen in Newcastle, initiating a reading group and training so that the charity can continue to
 lead this group at the end of their collaboration with Hansen. This work extended Fish’s earlier


                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 creative work on homelessness in Newcastle and Nairobi with Kenyan author, Billy Kahora (2014-
 15). Both Hall and Naeb meanwhile are generating impacts through their research-led
 engagement with teachers of low-literate and culturally diverse learners of English (see Naeb’s
 ICS).


 The same strategy of building collaboration and co-creation into research has likewise resulted in
 a rich strand of impact developed through interactions between our researchers and teachers and
 learners in schools. Einhaus’s research, showcased in her ICS, has investigated how WW1 is
 taught in the English classroom. F. Shaw’s much-fêted debut in the Young Adult fiction genre,
 Outwalkers (2018), which deals with the themes of migration, borders, state surveillance and
 ethnic nationalism, has led to a series of school workshops with years 5, 6, 8 and 9 (Newcastle,
 York, Devon and Somerset), in which pupils have engaged with these complex issues from their
 own vantage point. Van Hensbergen’s AHRC-funded project has produced a new learning offer
 for KS4/5 English pupils, with van Hensbergen leading the design of new workshops at the Laing
 that develop pupils’ aptitude in Literature and Creative Writing through engagement with visual
 art. Over 100 local school pupils and teachers participated in a successful pilot, which has
 permitted the extension of the learning offer to cover the Laing’s sister-gallery, the Shipley Art
 Gallery in Gateshead. Once again, we have ensured that PGRs also benefit from the opportunities
 of this collaborative project, with PGRs leading on the design and delivery of individual school
 workshops, under van Hensbergen’s mentorship. Involving our PGRs in this way contributes to
 our strategy for PGR development, enabling us to expand the professional experience of our
 postgraduate cohorts through hands-on experience of translating research expertise into social
 and cultural benefits. The success of this approach is evident in the AHRC’s specific invitation to
 van Hensbergen to apply for a further 2-year fellowship to expand this work.


 As well as impact and knowledge exchange, we are committed to engaging a wider public with
 our research. We pursue this via a variety of routes, from contributions to media outlets, including
 BBC Radio (3&4), Guardian, New Statesman, USA Today and the Wall Street Journal, to regular
 and one-off public talks and events. These latter include appearances at festivals such as Latitude,
 Hay Literature, and Edinburgh Book Festival, and programming such as Read Regional. One
 example of the range of public engagement that individual projects can give rise to is Hildyard’s
 innovative creative-scientific Leverhulme ECF, which led to her producing a voiceover script on
 cyanobacteria for the ‘Hidden Worlds’ exhibition (2018-23) at The Eden Project, Cornwall, and
 delivering a keynote talk on climate change at the Venice Biennale (2019).


 We also make use of formal funding routes for public engagement, as with H. Williams’ project
 'Novel Impressions: Literature and the Hand-Press in the Eighteenth Century', which was awarded
 a British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award in 2019 to support a programme of public


                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement activities around eighteenth-century print culture. Likewise, when the first
 SAS/BA/AHRC-funded Being Human Festival call was announced in 2014, we embraced this
 opportunity to celebrate the Humanities beyond the academy. We secured funding that year to
 lead a programme of ten public events under the title, ‘Eighteenth-Century Legacies: The Past in
 our Present’. The following year we were invited to coordinate a programme as a regional ‘hub’,
 and we have had events funded by the Festival in each ensuing iteration.


 While we recognise that opportunities for public engagement can arise incidentally, we ensure
 that all researchers in English are able to pursue engagement activities through regular training
 opportunities (e.g. one-to-one media training) and the cultivation of meaningful relationships with
 our formal and informal partners (e.g. Lit&Phil, Newcastle City Library, TWAM and Tyneside
 Cinema). Our success with the Being Human scheme, for example, results from our strategic
 development of and commitment to staff and PGR expertise in public engagement combined with
 an embedded culture of partnership working. This commitment, in turn, is exemplified by H.
 Williams’ role as an NCCPE Public Engagement Ambassador (2012-17), delivering training
 nationally to academics and PGRs.


 Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base
 We are passionate about promoting the discipline and the Unit is one of the most influential
 nationally in its contribution to initiatives and debates concerning the future of English Studies. We
 pursue this through multiple strands of collaborative activity.


 One strand reflects the impact of our research on curriculum, pedagogy and public understanding.
 Clark is a founding member of ‘Integrating English’ a project that promotes public understanding
 of English as a diverse but ultimately unified discipline. The organisation addresses itself to subject
 practitioners in both schools and universities, and produces resources, badged under its
 ‘LangLitLab’, for teachers at KS3 and KS4. K. Shaw is involved in delivering CPD for English
 teachers through the English and Media Centre (EMC), and, as editor of the journal C21 Literature,
 has played an important role in advising on the teaching of post-millennial texts on the new A level
 curriculum. Most recently K. Shaw has run a research consultancy project for the British Council
 surveying the teaching of post-2000 British literature around the world. Meanwhile, Hall’s work
 with the British Council has been highly influential on how researchers and practitioners
 understand ELT globally.


 Our collaborative approach to supporting the disciplinary research base also manifests in our
 national and international activities. For example, in line with our strategic aim to raise our
 international research profile, we have fostered a range of relationships, including the brokering
 of an institutional partnership with Palacky University (Czech Republic) leading to a successful


                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Erasmus+ project; regular collaborations with the British Council (Hall, K. Shaw); as well as major
 international collaborations on the development of research on, and digital delivery of, ESL for
 adult learners (Naeb) leading to Naeb being invited onto the Council of Europe’s Expert Working
 Group on Literacy and Second Language Learning for the Linguistic Integration of Adult Migrants.
 In this cycle, our research has been published and/or contracted in Czech, French, Mandarin,
 Portuguese, Serbian, Spanish and Russian, with additional translations from Latvian and
 Estonian. At a national level we co-hosted the ground-breaking ‘English: Shared Futures’
 conference in July 2017. This vibrant interrogation and celebration of the state of the discipline
 was the first event on this scale to encompass all areas of English (Language, Linguistics,
 Literature and Creative Writing). The conference hosted around 100 sessions including academic
 panels, literary salons, and ‘how-to’ masterclasses especially aimed at developing researchers. In
 keeping with our commitment to public engagement, we co-curated the ‘Fringe’ programme of
 public events held across the city with English at Newcastle University. The second English:
 Shared Futures, to have been hosted in Manchester in 2020 (delayed due to Covid), includes
 Clark on the organizing panel.


 We contribute extensive leadership to the discipline through disciplinary and learned societies.
 Baxter sits on the English Association’s Higher Education Committee, and on a working group
 (University English, English Association, Institute for English Studies) for Decolonizing the
 Discipline, establishing a national network for sharing good practice, developing guidance, and
 hosting workshops and events. Carey was President of the Association for the Study of Literature
 and Environment, UK and Ireland (2015-19) and is President of the British Society for Eighteenth-
 Century Studies (2020-23); De Cristofaro, Ditter (PGR) and K. Shaw sit on the executive of the
 British Association for Contemporary Literary Studies; Duffy was elected Vice-President of the UK
 Cognitive Linguistics Association (2019); Green sits on the Higher Education Committee of the
 National Association of Writers in Education; Leung on the Executive of the British Association
 for Applied Linguistics; Naeb is President of Literacy Education and Second Language Learning
 for Adults (2020-); Walker is President of the International John Bunyan Society (2019-); K. Shaw
 sits on the executive of University English, and both K. Shaw and Clark have contributed to the
 current ‘Campaign for the Humanities’. Carey was also Chair of the 2019 International Congress
 on the Enlightenment Organizing Committee, one of the largest Humanities conferences ever held
 in the UK with 1700 delegates.


 This subject leadership is augmented through the high number of academic journals edited in
 English. Chief among these is English: The Journal of the English Association, one of the oldest
 English Studies journals in the UK, (eds. Baxter and Hansen, 2015-20). Other journals based in
 English during the cycle are Cognitive Linguistics (ed. Dabrowska, 2009-14); ELTJ (ed. Hall, 2013-
 17); Charles Lamb Bulletin (ed. Newbon, 2018–20); C21 Literature: journal of 21st-century writing


                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (ed. K. Shaw, 2018–); Bunyan Studies (ed. Walker, 2010–); and The Shandean (ed. H. Williams,
 2016–). We value the enrichment of our research culture that comes from hosting these journals.
 Editors provide opportunities for PGRs to participate in aspects of journal management and have
 run training sessions for ECRs and others, for example demystifying the peer review process.
 Both Bunyan Studies and the Charles Lamb Bulletin have benefited from subventions from English
 QR to cover some fixed costs. C21 Literature is a genuinely innovative journal in being fully open
 access and online, and in compressing the submission to publication timeline down to as little as
 6 weeks, whilst maintaining rigorous peer review.


 More broadly colleagues in English review for over 120 international academic journals and more
 than 20 academic publishers including Yale, Cambridge and Oxford. They sit on editorial boards
 of leading journals and publishers such as Literature and History, Journal of Pragmatics,
 Routledge Handbooks in ELT, and Shakespeare. Baxter (2014-), Clark (2014-20), and van
 Hensbergen (2019-) are members of the AHRC PRC. Baxter is also a member of the AHRC
 GCRF PRC (2018-) and many more review for national and international grant awarding bodies
 including British Council, Canada Council for the Arts, Leverhulme Trust, Netherlands
 Organisation for Scientific Research and SSHRC. The interdisciplinary and impactful reach of our
 research is also visible in the wide range of sectors that call upon us for consultancy from the Bank
 of England to the Algerian Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research; from the Italian
 version of REF (VQR) to JISC Historic books. Through all these activities we aim to invigorate our
 discipline and to engage meaningfully with our communities both at home and around the world.




                                                                                              Page 24
