Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: De Montfort University
 Unit of Assessment: 34
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 Research-active staff submitted in the Unit (16) are drawn primarily from three research groups
 (see section 2), with support from individuals from other Centres whose activity most closely
 follows the research trajectory and impact agenda of this Unit. The three main groups are:
 •   The Media Discourse Centre (MDC, composed of 16 individuals and led by Professor Stuart
     Price with 7 FTE submitted);
 •   The Media and Culture Research Centre (MCRC, with 8 individuals, led by Dr Simon Mills
     with 7 FTE submitted);
 •   The Cinema and Television History Institute (CATHI, with 16 members – the majority of
     whom are entered in UOA 33 – led by Professor Justin Smith. Four primary members are
     submitted to the REF, two with outputs and two with case studies).
 The three collectives pursue independent, yet coordinated and complementary research
 agendas within the broad field of Media and Communication, with a particular orientation to
 inclusive, transnational inquiry, ‘real-world’ research, and a shared conception of the public
 good. This is exemplified by the Unit’s close alignment with the United Nations’ Sustainable
 Development Goals (SDGs; and see 1.2 for our record of SDG conferences) and the local,
 national and global research goals agreed within the institution as a whole (REF5a).
 DMU’s explicit commitment to the pursuit of demonstrable excellence, within both established
 and emerging fields of inquiry (documented in its Research Strategy for 2018–2023), and its
 reputation as one of the UK’s most inclusive and diverse HEIs (REF5a) has helped to form and
 sustain the Unit’s strategic goals.
 This statement refers to staff who have contributed to the Unit over the assessment period.
 Those submitting to the Unit (including the 2 ICS authors and the Category B submission) are
 indicated in bold.
 1.1.1 Development of research collectives
 Since the division of this field into UOAs 33 and 34, academics submitting to UOA 34 have
 expanded their portfolio to encompass new forms of sociological, political, philosophical and
 textual inquiry. The REF’s separation of Film from Media accelerated the growth of these
 activities, though we retained the productive relationship between the three Centres, evident in
 the interdisciplinarity that underpins our achievements. For instance, those members of CATHI
 whose case studies or outputs are more closely aligned with the research orientation of UOA 34,
 are entered in this Unit.
 MDC began as a Group in 2007 and is focused on the critical analysis of public events, culture
 and politics within the contemporary global social order, while MCRC, which emerged as a
 Group in 2017, examines the relationships between media, culture, technology and society. The
 Cinema and Television History Centre became an Institute in 2018 (CATHI), while MDC and
 MCRC were recognised as Centres in the same year. Together, the three collectives cover the
 broad range of academic activity that constitutes Media and Communication, with each
 contributing forms of specialist inquiry (such as, respectively, the critique of global media events,
 the study of technological developments, and the production of community media/documentary),
 that substantiate our claim to offer a progressive and inclusive environment for outstanding
 forms of Media research.
 1.1.2 Institutional support and Unit growth
 Since REF 2014, when all entrants were included in UOA 36, new programmatic and strategic
 initiatives, including the University’s drive to recruit a new generation of Early Career
 Researchers (ECRs), allowed our research collectives to expand their intellectual horizons.

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Central to this strategy was an orientation to the SDGs, with particular reference to SDG 16
 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions), exemplified for instance in our work on social
 movements, protest, peace journalism, the mediation of far-right politics, and feminist public
 culture (an edited volume on the mediation of the SDGs will appear in 2022). An additional focus
 has been new work on the media framing of the Covid-19 pandemic, due for publication later in
 2021.
 In line with this focus, from 2014 on, we secured the appointment of new staff with interests in
 Investigative and Peace Journalism (Danbury, Tiripelli), Media and Protest Movements
 (Hanska, Harbisher), Feminist Media and Film Theory Practice (Havas, Kubatta, Wright), the
 Rise of the Far Right (Kamenou, Lee), Nation Branding and Visual Culture (Chao), Multicultural
 Film and Media (Acciari), Philosophies of Resistance (Checchi), Race and Ethnicity (Aujla-
 Sidhu, Researcher in Training (RIT)), Briscoe-Palmer (RIT), and Palmer) and Public Relations
 (Lahiri).
 These appointments increased the breadth of our research base, which included established
 interests in the Philosophy of New Media (Mills), Media and Sport (Paul Smith), and Critical
 Media Discourse and Mediated Protest Cultures (Price).
 The work of three distinct but mutually supportive Centres was underpinned by DMU’s
 commitment to the SDGs (in particular, SDG 16), meaning that the Unit could pursue its
 research and impact within a truly global, yet determinedly moral context.

 1.2 RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY
 The Unit’s research and impact strategy for 2014–2020 is driven by a focused set of principles,
 goals and standards, determined in many cases by institutional and sector-wide developments
 and, in recent years, by our commitment to the SDGs. The most important impetus, however,
 has been our desire to make a sustained and significant contribution to Media and
 Communication as a coherent field of critical analysis, with the emphasis on an interdisciplinary,
 transnational and inclusive form of inquiry. The Unit also seeks to produce research that
 expands the parameters of Media, Communication and Film scholarship and, in line with DMU’s
 precepts, to make genuine links with external partners (for example, the Communication and
 Business Institute in Jakarta, and the Laboratório dos Estudos de Mídia e Relações
 Internacionais (LEMRI) research institute in Rio de Janeiro).
 1.2.1 Key strategic aims: research
 i    To substantiate further a broad and sustainable research base, underpinned by our
      commitment to recognised international initiatives like the SDGs and the coordinated
      response to Covid-19.
 ii   To contribute to the University’s promotion of equality and diversity, through our staffing and
      research agendas.
 iii To enable the acquisition of internal and external research income guided by annual targets
     set by the Faculty.
 iv To increase the number and quality of outputs.
 v    To extend our international collaborations.
 vi To increase PhD recruits and completions.
 vii To increase the number of staff undertaking research supervision.
 1.2.2 Progress against key strategic aims: research
 i    Research base: since 2014, 15 new research-active staff have been appointed. MDC ran
      three international SDG conferences in 2019 and 2020 and began new work on books about
      the sociopolitical impact of Covid-19 (publication in 2021), protest during the ‘Covid era’ (due
      2022) and the mediation of the SDGs (due 2022).




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ii   Equality and diversity: submitting staff are 50% female and 19% BAME. In 2014, all staff
      entrants identified as White and 75% were male. One of the Unit’s staff is the Faculty lead for
      our Decolonising DMU initiative.
 iii Income: highlights include Chao’s AHRC grant of £44,876, Lahiri’s ESRC/AHRC/GCRF
     award of £22,911 and Briscoe-Palmer’s £45,000 from the Heritage Lottery Fund.
 iv Outputs: 40 outputs submitted from 16 FTE staff, chosen from 33 articles, 22 book chapters,
    6 monographs and 6 edited books / special journal issues.
 v    International collaboration: new MDC link with the Brazilian LEMRI institute; the initiation of a
      community-based MCRC project in Kerala, India; the MDC Centre in Babylon University,
      Iraq; MDC collaborative work with Panteion University in Athens; and SDG projects
      undertaken by MDC with the Communication and Business Institute in Jakarta.
 vi Expansion in numbers of PhDs and completions: from an initial completion of two PhDs
    reported in REF2014 to a total of nine in the current period (2.3), with 17 students currently
    enrolled.
 vii Increase in staff supervision: since 2014, new staff supervisors are Harbisher, Havas,
     Lahiri, Lee, Mills and Tiripelli.
 1.2.3 Key strategic aims: impact
 i    To develop new forms of engagement with local and global communities, building on the
      outreach work undertaken in the two case studies.
 ii   To measure the Unit’s research by public engagement, community impact and popular
      publication.
 1.2.4 Progress against key strategic aims: impact
 i    Lahiri’s community work on the Covid-19 pandemic, Harbisher’s transnational SDG film
      festival, Lee’s initiative on digital literacy in Mexico, Price’s 20-year lecture programme in the
      University’s annual Cultural Exchanges festival, and Kubatta’s establishment of the
      DocHub@DMU to showcase new documentaries in partnership with Leicester’s Phoenix
      Cinema are developing future impact through festival development. These build on the
      expertise garnered from our two submitted case studies, produced by Acciari and Porter,
      both of which demonstrate a strong orientation to community engagement in Leicester, while
      attaining a national profile through organisations like the British Film Institute (BFI).
 ii   The Unit is tracking work that has future impact on teaching cultural awareness and
      behavioural change through Vertigo Ventures-Impact Tracker, in the following areas: the
      philosophy of new and digital media; feminist cultural studies; protest, media and culture;
      peace journalism; sport and the media; investigative journalism; SDG conferences; cultural
      life and cinematic consumption in the global/local context of Leicester city (in line with impact
      case study submissions) and the sociopolitical impact of the Covid pandemic.
 1.3 CURRENT RESEARCH AND IMPACT ACTIVITY
 As these outcomes were pursued and attained, a new set of local and institution-wide schemes,
 designed to reinforce research capability and enhance the profile of our media research and
 scholarship, began to emerge. This included DMU’s commitment to the DMUfreedom
 programme (2016), followed in 2019 by the University’s teaching and research Decolonisation
 programme. In 2018, DMU had its Athena SWAN Bronze Award renewed (REF5a).
 These imperatives inform our strategic aims (see 1.2), underpinned by collective dedication to
 high-profile interdisciplinary research engagement (we ran over 40 conferences, public lectures
 and academic symposia in this period, together with three bookfairs, two Black Film Festivals,
 and three ‘Mediation of SDGs’ MDC conferences). In addition, our achievements included
 membership of journal boards, fulfilment of invitations to give keynote presentations, links with
 overseas institutions, conference attendance, commitment to Media, Communication and
 Cultural Studies Association (MeCCSA) events and leadership of its official networks (see
 section 4).

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.4 FUTURE RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY
 The Unit’s five-year research development plan begins, therefore, from its alignment with the
 University’s equality and social justice agenda, exemplified by close engagement with feminist
 research and intersectional practices, a commitment to the development of critical work on the
 SDGs, the study of Digital Communication, and community engagement with its contacts in the
 Creative and Heritage industries (including further development of impact work with Channel
 Four through contacts like its Visiting Professor in Media Discourse and Journalism, Krishnan
 Guru-Murthy).
 The Unit will develop its research and impact in established areas of research (identified in 4.1):
 •   feminist theory, with a particular emphasis on challenging the assumptions perpetuated
     within normative culture, feeding into SDG 5 (Achieve gender equality and empower all
     women and girls) and events on International Women’s Day;
 •   journalism studies, preparing, for instance, a Leverhulme bid and another for the Royal
     Academy on the Israel–Palestine conflict;
 •   philosophical inquiries into the impact of technology, through new publications and symposia;
 •   political resistance and dissent, launching publications like Power, Media and the Covid-19
     Pandemic: Framing Public Discourse, 2021;
 •   race and the media, focused on new interventions in the impact agenda;
 •   sport and the media, with an emphasis on policy;
 •   subcultural music, through publication and impact;
 •   political controversy, musical subcultures, media and health, supporting University-wide SDG
     initiatives; and
 •   festivals and festivalisation, representing an opportunity to develop the impact agenda.
 Future activity in these spheres will be set within the context of international collaboration,
 including the LEMRI consortium of research centres in Rio de Janeiro, community projects in
 Kerala, joint research projects with Complutense, Spain, and collaboration with the Universities
 of Coimbra and Aveiro, Portugal.
 The Unit will also promote further community engagement through MDC’s collaboration with the
 Documentary Media Centre and other initiatives, and through MCRC’s extensive contacts with
 academics in fields like New Media, Punk Scholarship, Contemporary Media Industries, and
 Public Relations.

 1.5 RESEARCH INTEGRITY AND OPEN ACCESS
 Research in the Unit follows the University’s processes for ethics and integrity and encourages
 its members to disseminate their work to the widest possible audiences. This includes the
 circulation of material through DORA, the DMU Open Research Archive repository, which
 provides staff with enhanced visibility, boosting their profiles within the field of Media and
 Communication and beyond. Researchers follow the Policy for Managing Open Access and the
 Research Data Management Policy. Since 2019 our researchers and Postgraduate Research
 (PGR) students can use the Research Data Management repository, DMU Figshare, to make
 their research data accessible.

 2. People
 2.1 STAFF IN THE SUBMISSION
 Staff gained since 2014 are Acciari, Chao, Checchi, Harbisher, Havas, Kubatta, Lahiri, Lee,
 Palmer, Tiripelli and Wright, while staff losses since 2014 are Danbury (who has left the
 institution), Hanska (returned here as a Category B staff member), Kamenou (returned to UOA20)
 and Wood (who has taken up a new position).


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.1 Staff submitting to REF 2021
 Outputs (16 FTE):
 •   MDC members: Chao, Checchi, Harbisher, Lee, Palmer, Price, Tiripelli and Hanska
     (Category B).
 •   MCRC members: Gordon, Havas, Lahiri, Mills, Scott, PSmith and Jordan (secondary
     member).
 •   CATHI members: Acciari and Kubatta; Case Studies: Porter and Wright.
 2.1.2 PhDs
 •   Current PhDs, total: 17
 •   PhD completions, total: 9
 Comparisons with 2014 are difficult to make, because of the division of UOA 36 into two distinct
 units (33 and 34) for REF 2021. However, the sum total of completions represents a
 considerable increase on the period to 2014, when ‘pure’ media doctoral completions stood at
 two.
 Category A staff data
 The 16 staff providing outputs include two professors (Lee and Price), five associate professors
 (Chao, Jordan, Kubatta, Mills, PSmith), seven senior lecturers (Gordon, Harbisher, Lahiri,
 Palmer, Scott, Tiripelli, Wright), and two lecturers (Checchi, Havas).

 2.2 STAFFING STRATEGY AND DEVELOPMENT
 Our strategy over the assessment period has been to consolidate and expand the Unit’s
 research base by:
 •   identifying research-active individuals who could apply for a Research and Innovation
     Allowance (RIA), while encouraging other staff to apply to the Researcher-in-Training
     scheme (RIT);
 •   supporting ECR staff in their efforts to increase their range of publications and obtain
     funding, utilising VC2020 funding, the ‘Future Research Leaders’ scheme, and the
     introduction of identified senior mentors to support ECRs;
 •   encouraging interdisciplinary collaborations with colleagues outside of the Unit and Faculty;
 •   supporting the trajectory of our own PTHP (Part-Time Hourly Paid) and highly diverse cohort
     of PhD candidates, by offering training and guidance as they begin to produce publications
     and make an impact at conferences and symposia; and
 •   substantiating the above by implementing the University’s programmes dedicated to diversity
     and the support of ECR staff.
 Formal support mechanisms include the Research Services Directorate, an institution-wide
 resource that provides one-to-one guidance and advice for the production of funding bids which,
 once submitted, are passed to senior academics (from 2020, formally constituted as a
 University-wide Peer Review College). DMU’s dedicated research support structure also
 includes a Doctoral College, which devotes its energies to supporting PhD candidates (see 2.3).
 The Unit works, therefore, within a system based on the notion of career progression and
 individual development: ECR staff, for example, can apply for institution-wide support through
 the Future Research Leaders’ Scheme (which includes an allowance of £1,500). Chao has
 benefited from such an award, while those who gained posts as VC2020 lecturers were, in the
 first year of their contract, allocated 50% of their time for research and up to £5,000 in funding.
 The Researcher-in-Training scheme assists those beginning the research process and includes
 an allowance of 320 hours (1 day per week). The Unit has been able to benefit from the
 implementation of University-wide initiatives, particularly with regard to career progression to
 associate professor, and the provision of new research-active staff (Acciari, Chao, Checchi,

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Harbisher and Tiripelli) recruited under the VC2020 lectureships scheme. The University offers
 all staff the opportunity to apply for the Research and Innovation Allowance (in addition to a 10%
 scholarship allocation), which provides a range of awards of 320, 480 or 640 hours (equating to
 1–2 days per week, excluding the 10% allowance). In the year to July 2020, Unit staff received a
 combined total of 8,160 hours for research activity.
 An annual competitive University Research Leave Scheme (for one term) is also offered to staff.
 In MCRC, a new venture is to identify nominated mentors for staff, while running a series of on-
 site writing workshops, during which members are encouraged to seek advice on work in
 progress, career development, grant application and the ethics of research. MDC, meanwhile,
 employed one-to-one advice sessions, led by experienced mentors, while also providing its full-
 time members and doctoral candidates with outlets for publication. These included the 2016
 special edition of Critical Discourse Studies, 2016’s Sites of Protest and the edited volume
 Journalism, Power and Investigation (which appeared in 2019 and contains the work of five
 MDC members).

 2.3 SUPPORT MECHANISMS FOR POSTGRADUATE RESEARCHER STUDENTS
 We have also expanded our PhD numbers. In the last REF, UOA 36, recorded six completions
 (two of which were ‘pure’ Media students), which has now risen to nine. As at July 2020, 17
 students were registered as PhD students within the Unit. Discussions at School level have
 identified the need to create an identifiable Postgraduate Taught route for students to move into
 PhDs, and the Unit is contributing to this process. Within the census period, MDC gained a fully
 funded DMU PhD bursary for the study of news culture and public exhibitions.
 The training regimen for PGR students is delivered in part through a central mechanism,
 monitored by the University’s Doctoral College, and underpinned through online and face-to-face
 tutorials and training sessions (such as those devoted to data collection, ethics, employability
 and English language). The Faculty also runs a ‘three-minute’ thesis event and a more extended
 series of PhD presentations. Five of the more senior staff advise PGR students on the quality of
 publications and encourage them to attend and present at our own and others’ conferences. Ten
 staff are currently involved in PhD supervision, and, with the help of an online PGR management
 system, all staff have monitored the health and well-being of their PGR students during the
 current pandemic, supported by (where appropriate) standard interruptions used to mitigate the
 effects of Covid-19 on the academic community.
 PhD students are able to access ring-fenced funding for travel to symposia and research training
 events (up to £500) and can take advantage of the Doctoral Training Programmes that are run
 within the Faculties and the Doctoral College. In addition, our cohort of doctoral candidates
 make an essential contribution, as PTHP lecturers and tutors, to the research environment of the
 Unit. In some cases, they have already produced publications, and all take an active part in
 conferences and PGR events. Three PhD-led events in MDC included ‘The Black Experience in
 the Film and Media Industries’ (2018), ‘Research Methods in Media Discourse’ (2016) and ‘Anti-
 Fascism on Film’ (2014). Within the census period, PGR destinations have included a Reader in
 Media in Canterbury Christ Church University, two lecturers in Brazil and Iraq and an associate
 professor at DMU.
 Lee’s Leicester Media Productions offers considerable infrastructural support, as does the
 externally run Documentary Media Centre facility, a close partner of the MDC: both represent
 major resources for stimulating postgraduate practice-based research. The recruitment of a
 large cohort of overseas students (nine since 2014) has ensured the internationalisation of our
 research agenda and has paved the way for our current expansion in the numbers of doctoral
 candidates. These relationships have helped us reconfigure the subject’s parameters, as new
 currents of research emerge, and older ones are reinvigorated. This can be seen in MCRC’s
 recent interventions in the debates over AI and Big Data, and MDC’s hosting of the symposium
 ‘Degradation: Profiting from Environmental Catastrophe’ (2019), designed to address SDG 13 on
 Climate Action.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All students are monitored through our PGR management system with a minimum of 12 (6 for
 part-time students) mandatory records of discussion with supervisors per year. They are
 reviewed annually by a panel that includes an independent assessor.

 2.4 EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
 Table 1, a comparison with our former submission in UOA 34, reflects the changes in staffing
 (although some of the original members are submitting to UOA 33).
 Table 1: UOA 34 (UOA 36 in 2014)
         Male Female White BAME/ Not dis-                Profs/      Readers/        ECAF/L/SL
                               other closed              Senior      AP/PL
                                                         staff
  2014 75%       25%       100%     0         0          42%         25%             33%
  (12)                                                               F = 33%         (F = 50%)

  2021 50%       50%       69%      19%       12%        12%         25%        63%
  (16)                                                               F = 75%;   F = 50%;
                                                                     BAME = 25% BAME = 20%
 Note: VC2020 lecturers = 2; VC2020 senior lecturers = 4.

 The whole principle of inclusivity, equality and diversity is central to our research: without
 adherence to this principle, media theorists would be unable to produce a convincing critique of
 the racialised, patriarchal culture that suffuses mediated exchange. A genuine belief in the
 values of true diversity and economic and social equality, is reflected in our recruitment practices
 and in the composition of our diverse staff base (which is equally divided between genders).
 Within the Unit, women are well represented at the level of associate professor (4 out of 6) and
 at senior lecturer (5 out of 8). Some 19% of staff identified as BAME.
 A member of MDC is Faculty Champion for the Fair Outcomes initiative and is also one of the
 leads for the Decolonisation DMU Initiative (REF5a). Flexible working and regular periods of
 leave are recognised within the University as a vital component of a healthy research culture.
 We regard ourselves, therefore, as one of the leading elements in DMU’s drive to achieve a
 more equitable and diverse structure. The University’s Flexible Working Policy allows all eligible
 employees the chance to request a change to working patterns, such as a reduction or variation
 of working hours, or working from a different location. A supportive approach to working from
 home has been particularly important during the Covid-19 pandemic.
 Within DMU, equality and diversity training is mandatory for all staff, and members of interview
 panels have to attend dedicated sessions to ensure that they understand University policy on
 protected characteristics. In addition, the 2016 charter DMUfreedom, was based on ‘the premise
 that all our staff and students be afforded the respect, inspiration, space and support to reach
 their full potential’.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 INCOME
 3.1.1 External funding
 A decline in income in the Unit over the assessment period (from over £500,000 reported in
 2014), can be attributed to the division of staff into two UOAs (33 and 34) and to the Unit’s
 emphasis on the development of ECRs (rather than in the appointment of senior staff) in order to
 both sustain and develop our research culture. However, over the assessment period, staff have
 been included in some significant awards.
 Income over the REF period began with Corah’s 2014 research project on e-learning and online
 video (part-funded by the European Regional Development Fund, and worth £44,833). Lahiri’s
 role as CI for the ESRC/AHRC/GCRF, netted an award of £22,911 (for the project ‘Mental

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Health Literacy in Urban and Rural Communities in Kerala, India: An Interdisciplinary
 Approach’). Jordan secured £2,500 from the Clore Leadership Programme. In addition, Chao
 was also awarded a £44,876 AHRC Research Networking Scheme for her project ‘Art
 Diplomacy and Nation Branding: The Visual Politics of Reinventing China’. MDC’s Kamenou
 (returned to UOA 20) was in receipt of two awards, from the FES Cyprus Office, and the
 Embassy of Ireland in Cyprus, which came to a total of £5,322. MCRC and SLRC member
 Briscoe-Palmer was awarded £45,000 from the Heritage Lottery Fund.
 3.1.2 Internal funding (in addition to Faculty research budgets)
 The Unit received internal funding for a range of activities in the period, amounting to around
 £48,000, which included Harbisher’s award of £24,000 Global Challenges Research Fund
 (GCRF) seed-funding for an SDG conference in Jakarta (which encompassed the new SDG film
 festival in Bali in 2019), followed by another £4,000 GCRF awarded in 2020 for the next SDG
 conference.

 3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE
 The creation of the Leicester Media School (LMS) in 2014, and the appearance in 2018 of new
 or enhanced research clusters, saw the creation of increased research capacity. Instead of one
 Centre (formerly, Cinema and Television History, CATH), one Group (MDG) and (from 2018)
 one nascent special interest group on New Media, we gained two Centres and one Institute: the
 Media Discourse Centre (directed by Price), the Media and Culture Research Centre (led by
 Mills), and the Cinema and Television History Institute (led by JSmith). MDC and MCRC each
 received a yearly budget of £5,500, while CATHI was in receipt of some £11,000: these sums
 were designed for direct staff support at conferences, and were separate from Faculty resources
 for equipment and space. Meanwhile, the broadening of the field of study led to increased
 demand for research-active staff to sustain our efforts. These staff are, in turn, supported
 through our mentoring schemes, while new PGRs are offered training and opportunities to
 contribute to symposia, through Doctoral College schemes, Doctoral Training programmes and
 individual tutoring.
 Physical infrastructure was also reconfigured in this period. In 2016, faced with a large cohort of
 international students, MDC acquired a secure research facility for students (many of whom are
 working with sensitive data from Latin America and the Middle East). This new facility, located in
 the Clephan Building, functions as the main hub for MDC activity. In 2020, the newly formed
 MCRC began to work with the Faculty and School to identify its own space. Its staff are also
 concentrated, for the most part, in Clephan, where it has a suite of offices, while roughly half the
 cohort of MDC occupy another, nearby corridor in Clephan. CATHI has a large facility in
 Clephan, with PCs, printing and an archive room, while it has also given dedicated space to
 some of its extensive research archives. In addition, CATHI benefits from DMU’s annual
 investment of £155,000 in the Phoenix cinema and arts venue as a public-facing resource where
 teaching and research activities take place on a regular basis.
 The Doctoral College is located in Gateway House. Since 2019, a Researcher Development
 Manager has been appointed who coordinates the central training, for both staff and PGR
 students, which takes place online and in a designated training room in Gateway House. The
 Doctoral College also provides an advice centre for students which has moved to a virtual ‘Open
 Room’ since the pandemic and is open for students on a daily basis.
 Material facilities for staff and students consist of office and research space, served by
 computers and nearby printers. Through a competitive bidding process, permanent staff can
 acquire items of supplementary equipment, including cameras, iPads, laptops and voice
 recorders for data collection. Digital single lens reflex cameras (DSLRs) have been used
 extensively by members of MDC staff, during their forays into fieldwork in Spain, Brazil and the
 UK. These cameras have been invaluable for data collection, as has the MDC’s one video
 camera, employed in supporting the creation of a documentary feature Herencias del ’36 (the
 Legacy of ’36), shot over a three-week period in Spain in 2015. PGR students have used DSLRs
 in recording, for example, conference events (like the Modern Slavery section in MDC’s
 Leicester SDG conference of autumn 2019). The Faculty has also supported, on occasion, direct

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff expenditure on books required for research purposes, and has in addition allowed
 individuals from the Unit to supplement their research inquiries by providing (from a dedicated
 Faculty research fund) discretionary support for conference costs. Unit funding for equipment in
 the REF period has amounted to approximately £12,000. Library expenditure for Media Studies
 over the assessment period has amounted to £122,750 on titles and £324,560 on electronic
 resources supporting Media Studies.
 The day-to-day management of the Unit is as follows: each collective has a Director, a Deputy, a
 Head of PGR students (who monitors recruitment and well-being of PGRs and PhDs) and its
 own dedicated budget, which staff are able to call upon to attend conferences. These budgets
 are provided by the CEM Faculty, and consist of some £5,500 each for the Centres and some
 £12,000 for the Institute. Heads/Directors of Centre/Institute report directly to the Faculty
 Associate Dean, Research and Innovation, who coordinates the efforts of the Faculty’s leads.
 Research expertise and administrative support is provided by the Faculty’s Research and
 Innovation Office. The University Research Directorate also provides the Faculty with a
 Research Development Officer who assists colleagues in research funding applications and pre-
 and post-award staff to help manage research projects.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4. 1 COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE: NETWORKS
 AND EVENTS
 The Unit has established a number of partnerships, and operates within an extensive range of
 networks, both academic and public, in order to substantiate its claim to conduct research of
 benefit to society as a whole. As noted above, the MCRC conference Big Data, AI and Robotics
 was organised by the MCRC’s Lahiri and Mills, while MCRC’s Gordon organised a major
 international conference entitled Doing Metal, Being Punk (2018). Public-facing events also
 encompass MDC’s long-standing relationship with DMU’s ‘Cultural Exchanges’, which has run
 for over 20 years, and which is a key element in the University’s programme of local, regional
 and national civic engagement.
 In the period 2014–2021, MDC used the public-facing infrastructure of Cultural Exchanges, a
 University annual festival, aimed at the local community, to host a number of significant events.
 Overall yearly footfall is in the region of 2,500, mainly members of the public. MDC events have
 included the Leicester Media School’s Legality/Illegality conference (2018), which included 30
 representatives from UK and overseas universities, together with speakers from the BBC and
 the Guardian. This occasion also saw the launch of Chao’s single-authored monograph, Cultural
 Resistance, 9/11, and the War on Terror (2017). One of MDC’s strongest external links is with
 the radical charity Global Witness. SDGs 13 and 16 are of particular interest to MDC, which first
 established a relationship with Global Witness in 2015, when it ran a collaborative on-site
 symposium, ‘Cultures of Denial’. This was supported by Global Witness and the MeCCSA Social
 Movements network. At this event, a senior representative of the organisation gave a keynote
 speech on Global Witness’s ‘Rubber Barons’ investigative report, which described the ‘land-
 grabbing’, environmental destruction and social injustice caused as a result of the corrupt
 relationship between the government of Myanmar and the illegal logging trade. This contact has
 since produced two chapters for our edited books (Sites of Protest in 2016, and Journalism,
 Power and Investigation, 2019). The event exemplifies our work within the field of the SDGs.
 Other major interventions that have used the Cultural Exchanges infrastructure, included a
 public discussion in 2017 on ‘Journalism and the Public Good’ with Dorothy Byrne (Head of
 Channel Four News and Current Affairs, and MDC Visiting Professor) and investigative journalist
 Greg Palast. In 2019, MDC hosted four Cultural Exchanges events, including ‘Degradation’ (on
 environmental catastrophe, which featured four speakers) and a screening and panel discussion
 of the documentary ‘Generation Revolution’, which included a talk by the novelist Will Self. In
 March 2019, the three Centres contributed to a public-facing Faculty Showcase. MDC ran a
 specialist seminar on confidential research techniques, led by a senior researcher from the
 investigative journalism group Bellingcat (40 attendees).



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1.1 Research streams
 In addition, the Unit has identified ten research streams which reinforce a commitment to the
 research base, economy and society:
 1      Feminist theory, gendered identity and women in the public sphere
        Havas (MCRC/CATHI member), Palmer (MDC and Stephen Lawrence Research
        Centre) and Wright (CATHI) analyse the academic interpretation of the female persona
        within mediated culture and politics, a current of research that informs the practical
        documentary and film production pursued by Kubatta, whose work includes a new
        documentary that forms part of a longitudinal study into gendered identity and behaviour.
 2      New research in Journalism studies
        Led by MDC, the Unit has formed another notable addition to our publication and public
        engagement activities. This development came to fruition with the establishment of a
        postgraduate Investigative Journalism course in 2016, run in conjunction with our partner
        Channel Four. Tiripelli organised MDC’s December 2019 lecture event with Professor
        Jake Lynch, the founder of Peace Journalism. The publication in 2019 of Journalism,
        Power and Investigation, edited by Price, provided three full-time staff and two MDC PhD
        candidates with a platform for their research. The public dissemination of this current of
        research took place within both academic and public circles. In 2016 Tiripelli produced
        the monograph Media and Peace in the Middle East. Tiripelli was invited to produce a
        report on media in times of crisis for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of
        Europe.
 3      Philosophical inquiries into the impact of technology
        Mills gave a number of invited lectures, including one on ‘Culture & Technics’, at the
        Centre for Critical Thought, Kent (2018). He also gave the keynote at the day symposium
        on Simondon held at Kingston University in 2017. In 2018, this strand of our research
        was further enhanced by the MCRC’s conference Big Data, AI and Robotics (organised
        by the MCRC’s Lahiri and Mills). Mills was also an invited speaker at the Simondon and
        Big Data event (2015), held at Werkkonferenz, the Exhibition Design Institute of the HS
        Düsseldorf University of Applied Sciences (HSD).
 4      Political resistance, surveillance, social media, protest and social movements
        The initiative on protest and media has encompassed the production of two books in the
        ‘Protest, Media and Culture’ book series (in 2015 and 2016, both edited by Price).
        MDC’s International conference ‘Surveillance, Social Media and Identity’, held in October
        2018 at DMU was attended by 50 delegates from Brazil, China, Cyprus, Portugal and the
        UK. Two keynotes were provided by our staff (Harbisher and one doctoral candidate),
        while other members (including Aujla-Sidhu, Checchi, Kamenou and Lee) and MDC
        research associates gave papers. Price is also a founding member of the MeCCSA
        Social Movements network and Visiting Professor at Universidade do Estado do Rio de
        Janeiro and Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro.
 5      Race, the media, and forms of political and cultural ‘invisibility’
        MDC, in collaboration with DMU’s Stephen Lawrence Research Centre (REF5a), and the
        MeCCSA Network, ran a conference on Windrush and Political Discourse, which
        included papers from Aujla-Sidhu (MDC Researcher-in-Training), Briscoe-Palmer (MCRC
        Researcher-in-Training), Lahiri (MCRC) and Price (MDC). Lahiri holds an Associate
        Fellowship with the Institute of Commonwealth Studies at the University of London.
 6      Sport and the media
        A strong current of work is produced by PSmith. His journal article (‘The Next Big
        Match’, European Journal of Communication, 31(5)) was awarded a prize for the best
        research contribution published by that journal. In addition, he is a member of the



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        International Journal of Digital Media and Policy and a board member of Communication
        and Sport.
 7      Study of ‘subcultural’ music scenes
        Work in the Unit has included extensive studies of ‘subcultural’ music scenes, enabling
        us to collaborate with external bodies. The Punk Scholars Network (PSN), founded by
        MCRC’s Gordon, is an international network that contributes to the annual subcultures
        conference KISMIF (Keep It Simple, Make It Fast), held at the University of Porto,
        Portugal, and Gordon has organised keynote papers. The PSN produces the journal
        Punk & Post-Punk, while Gordon curated and introduced a week-long exhibition on
        Crass at Leicester’s Light Gallery. The innovative PSN/MCRC conference Doing Metal,
        Being Punk was organised by Gordon in 2018.
 8      Political culture and controversy
        The Unit’s interest includes in-depth critiques from MDC of far-right politics, dependent
        on both empirical data and cultural/political analysis. Kamenou’s analysis of female
        adherents of Golden Dawn was disseminated in 2018 at a Panteion, Athens event (at
        which Price also delivered an invited paper). Price produced work on the mediation of
        austerity and organised two one-day events on Brexit (in 2016) and on Election 2017.
 9      Media and health
        A subgroup founded within the MDC area, devoted to media and health and led by Lee,
        has organised events including a public lecture and Q&A on addiction, and an MDC
        symposium on Mental Health, addressed by health professionals and the DMU mental
        health team (both in 2019).
 10     Festivals, ‘festivalisation’ and international film projects
        The Unit’s interest is expressed in its impact case studies, produced by Acciari, whose
        work explores South Asian Cinema and its cultural and historical relevance to public
        communication in Leicester, and by Porter, whose studies of Silent Cinema in the UK
        have underpinned the work of this Unit and which has secured major funding to support
        public dissemination. Acciari’s case-study work (the Cultural Impact on the South Asian
        Communities in Leicester) exemplifies the Unit’s determination to promote global forms
        of diversity: the practical outcomes of this project are evident in the creation of new
        partnerships with the UK Asian Film Festival which, though previously based at core sites
        in London, was brought to Leicester for the first time. Acciari ran community screenings
        and, since 2017, has brought the UK Asian Film Festival to Leicester. this impact on local
        and national film organisations extended to an exhibition ‘Restoring India’, resulting in a
        major archival loan to DMU by London’s Cinema Museum. Acciari has also facilitated a
        new film festival course at EFL-University, Hyderabad, where she established the
        Kinaara Student Film Festival.
        This research runs in concert with Jordan’s work on festivalisation, the Black Film
        Festivals and events initiated in 2019 by MDC doctoral candidates, and Harbisher’s
        SDG Film Festival series, run with our partner in Jakarta. Porter’s case study has also
        reinforced the place of Leicester in the public dissemination of movies, focused on Silent
        Film. This long-standing intervention has run since 1998, and has directly influenced BFI
        digital policies and UK independent cinema exhibition. The reputation of the British Silent
        Film Festival (sponsored by the BFI), has had a global impact, contributing to similar
        events in Italy and the USA, and led to the launch of the Scottish silent film festival,
        HippFest.

 4.2 COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE: NETWORK
 MEMBERSHIP AND EDITORIAL ROLES
 The esteem in which our staff are held was confirmed by their memberships of the editorial
 boards of a number of academic journals, a function that MCRC has taken to heart. Mills, for
 instance, has reviewed work for European Journal of Cultural Studies, Sociological Review,

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Information, Communication and Society, Convergence, Contemporary Political Theory and
 Journal of the British Society for Phenomenology. Checchi of MDC has reviewed work for
 Organisation Studies, Theory and Critique and Urban Studies.
 Other activity includes PSmith’s work as a reviewer for European Journal of Communication,
 Communication and Sport, Journal of Digital Media and Policy, Journal of Sports Economics,
 Journal of Media Business Studies, Journal of Information Policy, Digital Sports Journalism and
 Convergence. Jordan, who is an expert in the study of festivals, has conducted reviews for
 Cultural Trends, and for the International Journal of Arts Management, Law and Society. Havas
 has produced reviews for Television and New Media, for Sage, and for Taylor & Francis. Price is
 co-editor of the Rowman & Littlefield book series, ‘Protest, Media and Culture’.
 In addition, Lee was appointed to the International Editorial Advisory Committee of The
 Caribbean Press, and is founding editor of the international journal and book series,
 Transgressive Culture. His second book series has been established with the publishing house
 Gylphi. Price and Harbisher are founding editors of the open-access International Journal of
 Media Discourse. Havas and Price have both given talks at the BFI, Havas at the ‘Broad
 Strokes: Trailblazing Comedy Screenwriters’ event, on the comedy of Tina Fey, and Price on
 security and the war on terror. Price was also invited keynote speaker at the 2015 ‘Conference
 on Conflict, Terrorism and Society’, Kadir Has University, Istanbul, and in 2019 was keynote at
 four conferences/symposia in Brazil and Portugal. Other forms of engagement include academic
 blogging, an approach employed by Havas to disseminate work for Critical Studies in Television
 Online (2015–2016), an example of which was published by the Women’s Film and Television
 History Network blog in 2017.
 MDC has an active affiliation with the national association, Media, Communication and Cultural
 Studies Association (MeCCSA). Price was a founding member of the MeCCSA Social
 Movement Network, while Aujla-Sidhu is a member of the Radio Network and was also involved
 in the reformulation of the Race and Post-Coloniality Network in 2019. Harbisher runs the
 Practice Network and is on the MeCCSA Executive.
 Price is an AHRC and ESRC peer reviewer.
 4.2.1 International links and activities
 In addition, new on-site research initiatives have helped reinforce the Unit’s reputation,
 particularly with regard to international links. MCRC has created links through Mills’s keynotes
 on new media and technology, while Lahiri’s grant for the research project ‘Mental Health
 Literacy in Urban and Rural Communities in Kerala, India’ represents global impact. MDC has
 established links with Panteion University, Athens, through Alexandra Halkias, its Visiting
 Professor in Media Discourse and Gender Studies, and has a Memorandum of Understanding
 with Babylon University, Iraq. MDC is part of a consortium of research institutions in Rio de
 Janeiro. Harbisher ran a combined research/documentary film trip to Bali in 2019, in order to
 establish links with overseas partners. This encompassed the first ‘Bali Microdoc’ film festival in
 Jakarta, Indonesia, and included a one-day film-making workshop in Jakarta, hosted by the
 London School of Public Relations (LSPR), and a one-day conference on SDGs and the media
 (organised by Price and Harbisher). This was followed by another SDG event, held in Leicester
 in September 2019, and two more online events run by LSPR Jakarta in December 2020.
 Internal links include MDC’s collaboration with CURA (the Centre for Urban Research into
 Austerity) and both Centres’ links with the Stephen Lawrence Research Centre (REF5a). In
 conjunction with this development, the work of the Documentary Media Centre is helping the
 Unit to initiate community-facing projects, which then map onto its global ambitions. Where these
 have moved online, owing to the coronavirus outbreak, the Unit has still managed to reach a
 global audience. The DMC, for instance, ran a 24-hour online news event on Conflict and
 Reportage for UN World Press Freedom Day (40 attendees), while the Media Discourse Centre
 presented a Webinar on Covid-19 and propaganda for its LSPR partners in Jakarta, attracting
 over 200 participants. Both events took place in May 2020.




                                                                                             Page 12
