Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: UOA23 Education

 Section 1. Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 A1. Context
 The School of Education (UoA 23, hereafter ‘the School’)’s stated mission is to ‘advance the
 academic study of education with a commitment to equality, diversity and social justice’,
 which we pursue across our research, teaching and collaborations. The School has three
 interdisciplinary Departments: Disability, Inclusion and Special Needs (DISN), Education
 and Social Justice (ESJ), and the Department of Teacher Education (DTE). These
 Departments function as our principal organisational units and provide intellectual homes for
 colleagues. The School is committed to the foundation disciplines in education – sociology,
 history, philosophy, psychology – and colleagues are supported in working within and across
 these and other disciplines.

 The School plays a leading role in shaping and sustaining our field nationally and internationally.
 We ally world-class research that identifies and confronts challenges of inclusion and social
 justice to engagement with practice and policy audiences regionally, nationally and
 internationally. The School’s approach to engagement with practice and policy audiences is
 informed by our contribution to the University’s mission as England’s first Civic University in one
 of the UK’s most diverse cities. We collaborate with the University of Birmingham School
 (REF5a 4.2.2); deliver research-informed teacher education throughout the West Midlands, as
 well as through the School of Education in Dubai (REF5a, Section 1); and enjoy partnerships
 with external agencies including government departments (e.g. the Department for Education),
 leading international charities (e.g. John Templeton Foundation), national campaigns and think
 tanks (e.g. Runnymede Trust). Rigorous and influential academic research that informs a
 sustained and strategic contribution to education policy, practice and public debate is a hallmark
 of the School.

 We are home to five University Research Centres that focus on specialist areas within the
 School’s overarching commitment to social justice and inclusion. The Centres enjoy international
 and national reputations for rigorous research and influence on policy and practice. They provide
 a structure for the School to sustain our research leadership and deepen our expertise in key
 areas, with strategic senior and early career appointments made in the last 5 years. The Centres
 are the Autism Centre for Education and Research (ACER); the Centre for Research in
 Race and Education (CRRE); DOMUS – Interdisciplinary Research in Histories of
 Education and Childhood; the Jubilee Centre for Character and Virtues; and the Vision
 Impairment Centre for Teaching And Research (VICTAR) (see C2). The School is also home
 to a number of research groups including the Biosocial Research Network, MOSAIC Group for
 Research on Multilingualism, and Language and Cognition at Birmingham (LACAB). These
 groups offer a flexible structure and support for research and public engagement activities in
 areas of shared interest or emerging concern. Our flagship research centres and school
 research groups create concentrations of research expertise and community in the School
 through which we progress our strategic commitment to inclusion and social justice in education.

 A2. Research Strategy



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 At the heart of our research strategy is research that informs and shapes education policy and
 practice to the benefit of educators, students and communities.
 We identified four 5-year strategic objectives in REF 2014, which were refined and a 5th
 objective added in 2016. These have provided strong foundations for our activity and
 development, and form the bedrock of our research strategy in what is now a 10-year plan.

 Objective 1 – ‘to advance our specific contribution to scholarship in social justice, inclusion and
 character education’ – fulfilled through our continued support for research in these areas
 including our flagship research centres, through strategic recruitment of high calibre staff (see
 B1 and C2) and an effective research support infrastructure (see C5). Our 2016-2020 Strategic
 Plan committed us to ‘extend and deepen the impact of our research’ and we have excelled
 in doing this through strong supports for impact (see C6 and ICSs).

 Objective 2 – ‘to provide a vigorous research environment which enables all staff to develop their
 scholarship and research leadership to the highest level’ – which guides our approach in
 maintaining the inclusion of students and academic staff (on all contract types) in the research
 activities of the School, creating a vibrant and vital research environment (see B4 and B7). We
 also prioritise the quality of research outputs, providing development and support opportunities
 (see C5). These refinements reflect the revised objective to ‘provide a thriving research
 environment which enables staff and students to be active in research and scholarship to
 achieve the highest standards of scholarly output’.

 Objective 3 – ‘to expand our international and interdisciplinary research presence and
 profile’ – we dedicate support, time and financial resources to international and interdisciplinary
 activity. For instance, through our targeted partnerships with University of Illinois Urbana-
 Champaign (REF5a, 2.1.8 and D2) and Southeast University, Nanjing (see A4); and through the
 volume of our prestigious international keynotes and visiting positions (see D3).

 Objective 4 – ‘to maintain a focus on the distinctiveness of research’ – foregrounds our
 commitment to rigorous research that contributes to ‘socially just, inclusive and inspiring
 education’ (see C2).

 Objective 5 - ‘to maintain and encourage further collaborative research and scholarship
 activities with local and regional stakeholders including our partner schools’ – we ensure
 our research-based expertise reaches stakeholders in our region and that learning from our
 partners informs our research. Hosting the Birmingham Schools Strategy Group (see D1) and
 our leading contribution to the University of Birmingham School (UoBS) research working
 group are key successes.

 Our Research Centres provide a structure for the development of the School’s capacity to
 deliver these objectives, by combining research expertise with regional, national and
 international profile, and a wide range of partners including NGOs and government policy actors.
 These qualities support our success in impact, evidenced by our impact case studies each of
 which is based on the work of a Research Centre (see ICSs).

 In the next five years, the School will maintain a substantive focus on social justice and inclusion
 through its Research Centres, while remaining responsive to emerging priorities through
 research groups. We will build on research income success by diversifying our sources of
 income, encouraging greater ambition in the value of bids and scale of research projects, and
 supporting early and mid-career colleagues to develop their research agendas and grow their

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 role in bidding for external funding. The School will grow the international profile of our research,
 including through high-profile international events led by Centres, and building on our targeted
 partnerships with international universities (see D2 and A4).

 A3. Impact Strategy
 Offering our research expertise and insight to the education sector and working in partnership to
 shape and influence education is at the heart of our mission. Impact is embedded in our
 research environment, and the closeness of this relationship is expressed in Objective 1 of our
 research strategy. Our Impact Development Group, convened by our School Impact Lead
 (see C7), brings together a cross-section of our academic community and is tasked with
 developing our strategy for maximising impact. Key to this strategy is establishing research
 impact as a collective endeavour that is integral to all our research, and identifying and growing
 opportunities for impact. This group is working with leaders in the field of social learning and
 value creation (Bev and Etienne Wenger-Trayner) to map the value created through our impact
 work and identify new routes to value creation. This mapping activity is key to the future of the
 School’s impact work, establishing new pathways to impact from the School to local, national
 and international stakeholders.

 We define impact broadly, encompassing activities from advising policy-makers to working with
 schools to shape practice. However, all our work aims to deepen the impact of our research in
 advancing social justice, inclusion and character education. This definition enables us to
 maximise our influence at regional, national and international levels, and across educational
 practice, campaigning and policy-making. Our Research Centres lead the School’s impact on
 policy, society and civil society organisations, nationally and internationally; e.g. CRRE founding
 director Gillborn was cited in the House of Commons Education Select Committee on
 Underachievement in Education by White Working Class Children; VICTAR influenced the Our
 Right to Study national campaign and contributed to UK government policy on Disabled
 Students’ Allowance for students with vision impairment; ACER has improved local authority
 autism services and delivered training to over 275,000 educators of children with autism.
 Working with the Secretary of State for Education, Jubilee Centre has made character education
 a policy priority at DfE, changed professional standards at Ofsted, and shaped pedagogical
 practice. Each of our research centres boasts strong links with NGOs, think tanks and charities
 to facilitate impact development, including Kick it Out and Runnymede (CRRE), Autism
 Education Trust (ACER), Step Up to Serve (Jubilee Centre), and the Royal National Institute of
 Blind People (VICTAR). Across the School, we currently work with more than twenty such
 organisations.

 Partnership working enables our research to influence practice through local and regional
 stakeholders (realising Objective 5), and at national and international levels. For example, the
 Impact Leads (formerly Youdell, now Kitching) and Head of DTE (Child) have developed a
 strong partnership with the Chartered College of Teaching (CCT), and created a programme of
 three massive open online courses (MOOCs) for teachers, titled ‘Education Research that
 Matters’. This programme puts cutting-edge research in teachers’ hands, and provides a
 platform for them to develop and implement school-level interventions based on our research
 and supported by our researchers. Over 1200 teachers from 58 countries signed up to the first of
 these courses. We are also integrally involved with the University of Birmingham School,
 which since opening has engaged in research with staff and students from the School of
 Education. Colleagues in the School (Youdell, Child) are part of the University School Strategy
 Group, which is generating a renewed vision for research-informed teacher education and
 professional development. The AHRC funded Voices of War and Peace project (Grosvenor)

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 worked with the Library of Birmingham and based the project’s public engagement centre there.
 Following school closures related to Covid-19, academics from across the School (including
 Allan, Bhopal, Crawford, Child, Diamond, Gholami, Kitching, Perry, McGimpsey, Youdell)
 have established a Commission on Education and Covid-19 with Birmingham City Council’s
 Director of Education and Skills to understand variations in educational provision and learning
 achieved at home, identify emergent gaps, and inform the future of educational provision.

 A4. Interdisciplinary Research
 Advancing the study of social justice, inclusion and character in education (Objective 1) requires
 an interdisciplinary approach to research and impact. The School has developed an
 interdisciplinary research agenda and ways of working that are embedded in our Research
 Centres and our departments and School research networks.

 The School is at the leading edge of the emerging field of Biosocial Education, bringing
 interdisciplinary research in education together with the life sciences. The Biosocial Research
 Network, hosted by the School and led by Youdell, brings together researchers from across the
 University, including Education, Social Policy, Human Geography, Psychology, Sport and
 Exercise Science, and Biosciences. This has supported Youdell and colleagues from
 Psychology to develop a partnership with Southeast University (SEU), Nanjing, to work on a
 joint Biosocial Learning research programme. SEU has established a government-funded
 Institute for Brain Science to which members of the Biosocial Research Network will provide
 expertise.

 Our Research Centres are conduits for interdisciplinary research in their areas of substantive
 research concern. The Jubilee Centre is a member of an interdisciplinary research centre
 based in Genoa, Italy and brings world-leading philosophers to the School through its visiting
 professorial fellow scheme (e.g. Professor John Haldane, Director of the Centre for Ethics,
 Philosophy and Public Affairs at the University of St. Andrews). CRRE has strong links with legal
 scholarship on race inequity and recent CRRE publications have engaged collaborators in
 philosophy and political science on critical understandings of citizenship globally and in
 conflict zones. Research in the School outside the research centres also has a strong
 interdisciplinary character, e.g. the Miratho Project funded by ESRC/DfID and led by colleagues
 in the School (Bathmaker); McGimpsey’s interdisciplinary work across education, policy,
 sociology and youth studies; and Gholami’s work across sociology, politics, and policy.
 Bassetti leads the University’s Language and Cognition network of researchers from
 education, psychology, modern languages and linguistics.

 At University level, interdisciplinary research is supported through the Institute for Global
 Innovation (IGI) and the Institute for Advanced Study (IAS) (REF5a 2.3). The IGI addresses
 pressing global challenges and Kiwan leads one of its work streams focusing on inclusive
 communities within the IGI’s “Resilient Cities” theme. This pairs her with engineers, atmospheric
 scientists, policy specialists and economists all working to understand how global cities can
 respond to shocks such as sudden population growth, economic changes, or natural disasters.
 The IGI provided logistical and financial support for Kiwan, with Youdell, to secure Disability
 Under Siege, an AHRC Network on Education in Conflict and Crisis focused on children with
 disabilities which combines education, sociology, psychology, migration studies, refugee
 studies, disability studies, arts, and health.

 A5. Open Research


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open Research: In the field of education, potential for Open Research lies particularly in
 working with stakeholders in participative ways, and this is often a core part of our research
 from project inception. ACER and VICTAR both include people with disabilities as a central part
 of research and writing teams, and ACER’s outputs include papers arguing for user engagement
 in research. CRRE was launched by Baroness Doreen Lawrence, and research steering groups
 have included representatives from the Runnymede Trust, the Stephen Lawrence Charitable
 Trust, and a local race equality charity. The Jubilee Centre has designed its programmes in
 collaboration with the charity Step Forward Britain. Grosvenor used AHRC funding to run
 activities engaging communities in commemorating and uncovering hidden histories of the First
 World War. Lynch has used IGI/GCRF funds to set up a disability inclusion network in Southern
 Africa which brings in views of local stakeholders. This activity led to a British Academy grant
 (Exploring the historical and cultural contexts of early childhood education for children with
 disabilities in Malawi, £236k). We further incorporate these principles into PGR research training
 programmes.

 Open Data: Traditionally, data pertaining to sensitive and/or confidential information about
 schools and pupils has been restricted. The University is a signatory to DORA (see REF5a 2.2),
 and the School recognises the significance of research outputs beyond journal articles, including
 opening access to datasets. There will be occasions where even anonymised and composite
 data cannot be made open, but we encourage researchers and participants to actively engage
 with this agenda through an open approach to conducting research and using our peer-review
 process to explore opportunities for generating open data.

 Open Access: Open Access to the research outputs of the School is a key part of our approach
 to Open Research and making research available to users beyond HEIs is an established part
 of our practice. The School encourages staff to make use of Gold Open Access via dedicated
 funding from the College of Social Sciences (CoSS). The School hosts the Journal of Philosophy
 in Schools (JPS), an Open-Access online peer-reviewed journal, now in its seventh volume and
 averaging over 1,500 downloads per article. Our Research Centres support Open Access by
 making research available to stakeholders via their websites; e.g. ACER and VICTAR have
 made much of their work open access on their website through arrangements with research
 funders and NGOs.

 We also use MOOCs to make our research more widely accessible. The Jubilee Centre
 launched the ‘What is Character? Virtue Ethics in Education' MOOC in 2015. The course has
 had more than 15,000 learners internationally, and the School’s ‘Education Research That
 Matters’ MOOC builds on this experience (see A3).

 A6. Research Integrity
 The formal University ethical review process is held in high regard in the School, and Bassetti
 is a member of the Humanities and Social Sciences Ethical Review Committee. All staff are
 supported to enact research integrity as a core part of their practice through a number of
 initiatives. The School Research Toolkit brings together key information about research
 support, research integrity and ethical review. It also ensures integrity in publication by providing
 clear guidance on appropriate authoring of research outputs, emphasising issues of consent, co-
 authoring with participants and co-authoring with junior colleagues. Our research mentor
 programme means that all junior colleagues have senior colleagues with whom to explore
 matters of research integrity and ethics. Our research proposal review process ensures that
 experienced colleagues advise during the preparation of research proposals, and a formal pre-
 submission review checks the quality and integrity of all proposed research. We support the

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 integrity of future research through the training and supervision of doctoral students, which
 develops their understanding of research integrity and involves them fully in ethical review. For
 example, Kiwan supported PGR Wen-Yu Wu (funded on a Global Challenge Scholarship) in
 gaining ethical approval for work on refugee young people’s experiences of accessing Higher
 Education. This required consideration of researcher and participant safety in accessing
 refugees living in refugee camps, taking account of Foreign, Commonwealth and Development
 Office (FCDO) guidelines and cultural issues regarding the mobility of refugee young women
 students. Likewise, our PGT and UG dissertation students undertake a full ethical review
 formally assessed by their supervisor/programme teams.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2. People

 B1. Staffing Strategy
 We are proud to be the home to a vibrant, creative and well-regarded team of colleagues, from
 our world-renowned professors (e.g. Arthur, Allan, Bhopal, Gillborn, Hand, Kristjánsson,
 Youdell) to emerging research leaders (e.g. Day-Ashley, Gholami, McGimpsey, Perry) and
 outstanding early-career researchers (e.g. Hewett). We achieve our objectives in major part by
 our capacity to attract, appoint, develop, reward and retain academic staff of the highest
 international calibre. Our staffing promotes interdisciplinary work that advances the study of
 social justice, inclusion and character education by bringing together expertise from across the
 contributory research disciplines (recruiting psychologists (e.g. Symes, Darnell), philosophers
 (e.g. D’Olimpio), sociologists (e.g. McGimpsey, Perry), and historians (e.g. Roberts)) and
 enhancing our Research Centres (e.g. recruiting professors Bhopal and Kiwan to CRRE and
 Peterson to Jubilee Centre, and early career researchers Crawford and Roberts to CRRE and
 DOMUS respectively).

 B2. Recruitment Strategy and its Effectiveness
 Our commitment to inclusion and social justice is reflected in our recruitment strategy which
 foregrounds achieving equality, diversity, vitality and sustainability. We recruit across the
 range of levels of seniority to sustain research leadership, ensure succession and grow future
 researchers. As positions become available we are seeking to increase the proportion of women
 in Reader and Chair positions and to maximise the diversity of our academic staff in relation to
 ethnicity and disability.

 We attract diverse applicants by ensuring diverse recruitment advertising, using
 mainstream and targeted outlets to place adverts that use gender-neutral language. We align
 with CoSS policy by ensuring diverse recruitment panels and avoiding single-sex shortlists
 where possible. We organise and run recruitment days according to Equality and Diversity
 principles, with all panel members having recent E&D recruitment training and able to enact
 constructive E&D interviewing. We provide induction and mentoring for all staff on arrival.

 Our approach to recruitment is effective. Women make up 54% of the School’s staff with
 Research or Research and Teaching contracts. We have recruited seven BAME academic staff
 since 2017 from research professor to beginning lecturer positions. Over the REF period, the
 proportion of women in Reader and Chair positions in the School has increased from 32% to
 42%, ahead of the University target of 30% (REF5a 3.4.5).

 B3. Staff Profile – Contract Type and Duration of Cat A Staff
 Stability among senior research staff over the REF period has enabled the School to combine
 strategic senior appointments with a focus on recruiting outstanding Early Career Researchers
 and supporting their emergence as research leaders through promotion. There are currently 36
 Category A staff in the School. Of these 15 are Professors, 11 of whom were members of staff
 prior to 2014. Of the remaining 21 Category A staff three are Readers, six are Senior Lecturers,
 11 are Lecturers, and one is a Research Fellow. Just one of these staff is on a fixed term
 contract and three are on part-time contracts. Nine of the 36 Category A staff achieved
 promotion during the REF period (three Research Fellows achieving full lectureships, four
 promotions to Senior Lecturer or Reader, and two colleagues becoming Professor).




                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 B4. Early Career Researchers
 We are committed to supporting the sustainability of Education and growing the next
 generation of researchers. Our thriving community of Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 includes four new lecturers within five years of their PhD, 10 postdoctoral research fellows, three
 research associates, and over 175 doctoral students. The School supports the development and
 advancement of ECRs through a number of strategic initiatives.

 All ECRs have full access to research-related financial resources in the School, including
 seed corn research funds and conference travel funds. These are promoted to ECRs
 through formal communications, managers and mentors, and a personal research-induction by
 the Director of Research. In the last three years, ECRs received seven awards of seed-corn
 funding and all ECR lecturers received conference travel funds during the period.

 ECRs are encouraged to play a full role in the School research community, at meetings,
 presenting at School seminars and the School annual conference, and making use of support
 from the Research Office. We have appointed a School ECRs Lead (Crawford), with dedicated
 time and resources who is a member of the School Research & Knowledge Transfer
 Committee (RKTC). There is a standing ECRs item on the RKTC agenda, allowing ECRs to
 shape the School’s research agenda, policy and practice.

 All ECRs are provided with quality line management and career development support, in
 fulfilment of our Objective 2, including an annual Professional Development Review (PDR), and
 career advice and support from their line manager, who is often the principal investigator on a
 research project or director of a research centre. Centre Directors and Heads of Department are
 responsible for mentoring ECRs to establish the strongest possible profile in line with their
 longer-term career aspirations and the role of research and impact in the School’s mission. The
 Director of Research (Gillborn) also offers popular termly confidential research surgeries to
 discuss research and scholarship.

 The University and the School recognise that ECRs are a source of information, expertise
 and support for each other. We encourage our ECRs to participate in the College-level Early
 Careers Network, which offers regular events and workshops. The School ECRs Lead has
 established an ECRs Group and runs targeted workshops, with dedicated administrative
 support and budget. Recent workshops on publishing for ECRs have been well attended.

 B5. Academic Leadership
 In our ten-year strategy we commit to operating a robust as well as collaborative
 governance and leadership culture and structure that draws on senior staff (academic
 and professional services) to provide appropriate leadership and management across the
 School.

 Our Senior Management Team (SMT) reflects the demographics of School staff. Since 2016 the
 Head of School has been a woman, as are seven of the eleven members of this committee. The
 timing of SMT meetings has regard for equality, diversity and inclusion, and accommodates
 members with caring responsibilities. The School has further areas of responsibility which are
 advertised across the School and women and BAME staff are encouraged to apply. These are:


    Director of Internationalisation (Professor, minority ethnic, female).
    Director of Postgraduate Research (Senior Lecturer, female)

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Heads of Department (2 female,1 male minority ethnic)
    Research Centre Directors, (3 female Professors one of whom is minority-ethnic, 2 male
     Professors).

 The School is committed to ensuring transparency in the advertising and appointment of Senior
 School roles and having targeted conversations with women and BAME colleagues to
 encourage them to apply.

 B6. Staff Development
 Our staffing strategy commits us to investment in professional development for staff to
 improve practice, promote excellence and support colleagues in growing their capacities
 and talents. We achieve this through an established culture of opportunity and encouragement,
 a mentoring system, and dedicated professional development funds to which all staff can apply.

 All staff have an annual Professional Development Review (PDR) conducted by a senior
 colleague trained in the process. The aim is to review the year’s activity in relation to agreed
 objectives, and develop individual research plans that promote career growth and School
 strategic goals. These plans establish short and longer-term objectives pursuant to these goals,
 and targeted training and development support. The School makes use of PDR meetings and
 mentoring to encourage all staff to attend UoB’s courses on leadership development, and
 external courses such as the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education's Aurora initiative
 (REF5a 3.4.4). The PDR process is also important for planning and supporting study leave (see
 B7).

 Staff on research and teaching contracts have a 33 per cent workload allocation for research,
 while teaching-focused staff have a 10 per cent time allocation for scholarship and research. All
 staff are encouraged to access the School’s research and scholarship support, e.g. conference
 attendance funding, professional development funding, paper and bid writing mentoring, seed
 corn funding.

 B7. Research Leave (Study Leave)
 We recognise that periods of study leave are integral to academic scholarship and achieving our
 research goals. To ensure that research leave is allocated equitably and well-used, we employ
 the following strategies:

    Heads of Department and Departmental Research Leads promote early planning of
     applications through the PDR process.
    The expectations of what will be produced during study leave are clear and achievable and
     included in academic planning.
    Dedicated funding for teaching cover to facilitate study leave from the School and College
     e.g. Quality Outputs Support Scheme.

 In awarding study leave the School considers the career position of applicants, responsibilities
 that impede research activity, and protected characteristics in order to ensure equitable
 allocation to junior and minoritised staff. Five of the 10 periods of study leave allocated between
 2015/16 and 2019/20 were to women including one BAME colleague.

 B8. Research Students



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have a thriving community of over 200 doctoral students across PhD, EdD and the Applied
 Educational and Child Psychology Doctorate (App Ed and Child Psy D) programmes. While we
 retain the highest numbers of PGR students in CoSS, we have reduced the size of our EdD and
 PhD cohorts as part of efforts to prioritise the quality of students, their supervision, and our
 student support. This has included implementing clear guidance about the maximum number of
 PGR students that any individual staff member should supervise, reflecting differences in
 seniority and experience.

 Table 1. Total numbers by year: SoE doctoral programmes by population
                                                Year

     Programme       13-14    14-15      15-16      16-17      17-18      18-19      19-20
     Ph.D. Full-
                      43        42         45         38         34         32         39
     Time
     Ph.D. Part-
                      70        65         73         61         62         56         52
     Time
     Ed.D.
                      86        72         73         74         69         64         66
     Programmes
     App Ed and
                      38        37         43         45         46         49         51
     Child Psy. D.

 Table 2. Total numbers by year: SOE doctoral degree completions
                                                Year

     Programme       13-14    14-15      15-16      16-17      17-18      18-19      19-20
     Ap. Ed. and
                      11        9          9          11         10         12         11
     Child Psy. D.
     Ed.D.            11        8          11         6          8          7         4.5
     EdPsychD         7         1          4          4          1          1          0
     Ph.D.            12       6.5         22        12.6       14.9       11.9        12
     Grand Total      41       24.5        46        33.6       33.9       31.9       27.5

 We value being part of the ESRC Midlands Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), securing our
 students access to ESRC studentships and research resources and demonstrating the high
 quality of our research training and doctoral supervision. We have the highest number of PGRs
 in CoSS, and our staff and students regularly win ESRC studentships across the Collaborative,
 Joint and Open competitions (winning one Collaborative and two Open studentships in 2019/20).
 We are also successful in CoSS studentship competitions, winning two in 2019/20.

 In addition to their normal activities, which includes research seminars and events run by
 Departments and Research Centres (see C1), PGRs are integrated into the research culture of
 the School through

      Annual PGR conference: a one-day event organised by PGRs and funded by the School
       that fosters informal interchange with supervisors as attendees.
      PGR involvement in the annual School Research & Scholarship Conference: PGRs
       both attend and present at this in-house research event.
      School PGR Newsletter: a dedicated newsletter for postgraduate students. They also
       receive copies of the School’s research update for staff.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We provide dedicated facilities to PGR students:

    Study facilities: 24-hour access, 365 days a year, to four PGR study rooms, offering 24
     computers in total with printing, access to University software, and lockers to store work
     securely.
    Student hub: to promote work with peers, the student hub contains a café, computer
     breakout rooms, a quiet area, an area with a large monitor for group discussion, Wi-Fi and
     free device charging.
    Support for personal development: CoSS provides a fund of £4,000 per year for support in
     attending conferences or training. This provision is partly delivered through the DTP.
     Opportunities for development are coordinated by PGR directors at School and CoSS levels,
     and Hand oversees the University’s contribution to the DTP.

 In responding to Covid-19 social distancing requirements, the School has prioritised students’
 wellbeing and continued engagement in their academic learning communities. Supervision has
 continued online or socially distanced in person when regulations allow. PGRs continue to have
 full access to academic events and training opportunities with information coordinated in an
 online PGR Hub. The School annual research and PGR conferences proceeded online in 2020.
 Students have access to an online PGR Common Room, and training is available for
 supervisors on enhanced support for PGRs during this period.

 Our support for the career development of PGR students includes access to supported UG
 teaching experience and membership of taught programme teams through our Graduate
 Teaching Assistant (GTA) roles, which help prepare PGRs for junior academic positions.
 Postgraduate teaching opportunities are advertised and there are transparent application and
 selection processes led by the Director of Undergraduate programmes. The School offers
 regular events for PGR students on careers in Education featuring alumni and academics.
 These strategies are showing positive results; for example, in 2018/19 and 2019/20 we awarded
 the George Cadbury Prize for the best PGR outcome to Holly Henderson and Matthew Barnard,
 each of whom had also worked in GTA roles, and both went on to full-time lectureships in other
 universities. Ruth Wareham completed her doctorate on the place of faith schools in liberal
 democracies in 2018, going on to work outside the academy as Education Campaigns Manager
 for Humanists UK.

 B9. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Social Justice, equality and diversity are core elements of the School’s mission, and a strong
 theme in much of the research across the School, including the work of our Research Centres.

 Our research in disability and inclusion is led by ACER and VICTAR. Both centres put equity and
 diversity at the heart of their research by working collaboratively with major advocacy groups to
 advance equality and inclusion for people with disabilities, and by including people with
 disabilities in research and writing teams. CRRE’s members tackle race disparities by
 influencing national policy, advising other universities on their practices, and informing the
 University’s work on diversity. CRRE members are active on University EDI committees and
 helped shape the University’s successful application as part of the Race Equality Charter. A
 College pilot to ensure greater shortlisting of qualified BAME applicants to academic roles was
 based on advice from Gillborn, while he and Bhopal have given evidence to Parliamentary
 Select Committees and invited meetings with officials at the Cabinet Office (see D1).


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The School Equality Lead (Bhopal) Chairs the School’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Committee, promoting equality by providing information to staff on equality matters and raising
 any concerns about equality with SMT. CoSS’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee
 was Chaired by Allan (to summer 2020) and has recommended interventions in relation to the
 representation and progression of staff with protected characteristics. Bhopal is the CoSS
 academic lead for Black and Minority Ethnic Students’ Experience, promoting initiatives to
 ensure equity for students including PGRs. The School also offers targeted support for those
 with protected characteristics, ensuring these colleagues can access research resources,
 staff networks such as the BAME and LGBTQ+ networks, as well as professional development
 opportunities. The School is committed to flexible and remote working in line with University
 policy to support equality and diversity as well as staff wellbeing, and is committed to enabling
 maternity, paternity and adoption leave. Staff on parental leave can make use of up to 10
 ‘Keeping in Touch’ days and are supported on return, e.g. through an assessment of any
 adjustments required, reduced workload on return, structured return to full duties, provision of a
 breastfeeding room within the School, and signposting of the University’s family-friendly policies.

 The School ensured consideration of equality and diversity in the selection of REF outputs
 through its Output Review Group. This group membership was inclusive of protected
 characteristics including gender, age, ethnicity and disability, as well as ECR representation.
 The group was guided throughout by the University’s Code of Practice and undertook equality
 impact assessments analysing the output profile in relation to protected characteristics among
 staff to highlight potential under-representation. A tiebreak rule was instituted, whereby if outputs
 were judged to be of similar research quality, the inclusion of outputs by women and staff of
 minority ethnic background was favoured. The final selection of outputs showed no under-
 representation by any of the protected characteristics on which we have data.

 The School is committed to supporting staff with caring responsibilities through sensitive
 timetabling and provision of support e.g. using the School conference fund to extend funding
 available from the College Dependent Travel Support Fund to cover the cost of shared
 accommodation when travelling with dependents.

 To support general wellbeing, all staff are entitled to a research mentor in addition to their line
 manager. Our well-established Staff Voice group feeds into departmental and SMT meetings
 and the School Forum. We also regularly meet informally in the staff common room for tea and
 cake, and schedule annual social events.
 Section 3. Income, Infrastructure and Facilities

 C1. Valuing and Supporting Research
 In our ten-year plan we commit to continuing to provide a thriving research environment which
 enables staff and students to be active in research and achieve the highest standards of
 scholarly output. To achieve this, we involve all staff in research and scholarship, including
 ECRs and those on teaching-focused contracts, and provide time, resources and infrastructure,
 including access to the University’s Library Research Suite (REF5a 4.3) and identical access to
 conference and seed-corn funding for developmental research activity. Departments and
 Research Centres provide a lively programme of research seminars and invited talks, e.g.
 the DOMUS Seminar Series, which has run 21 events during the REF period. We are committed
 to sustaining the diversity of research in the School, including advancing social justice-orientated
 research where funding is difficult to secure, by providing research support and resources


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 irrespective of individuals’ external research income. Staff on a research and teaching contract
 have one third of their time dedicated to research. Staff on teaching contracts have a ten per
 cent scholarship allowance. The Head of School has discretion to allocate further research
 time (up to a total of 40 per cent) for those making a substantial research or impact contribution.
 Staff who secure large external grants may have up to an additional 20 per cent time allocated to
 research (with additional time possible depending on the funding agreement). All staff have at
 least 1 day each week without timetabled teaching to maintain time for research and
 scholarship.

 The School has had to adapt to the administrative and teaching demands brought about by the
 Covid-19 pandemic and, in doing so, prioritised PGR activities (see B7), and maintained support
 from the College Research Support Office (CRSO) for staff. This has enabled the School to win
 significant awards for research into educational and social justice challenges brought about by
 the pandemic, e.g. Kiwan secured GCRF funding to research effects of the pandemic on the
 education of refugee children with disabilities in the Middle East. Zhu Hua received a British
 Academy grant for research exploring communication and resilience among Chinese students
 residing in the UK during the pandemic.

 C2. Research Centres
 As mentioned in Section 1, the School is home to five Research Centres that provide the
 intellectual home and infrastructure for advancing research and impact in social justice, inclusion
 and character education (see Objective 1).

 The Autism Centre for Education and Research (ACER) has built an international reputation
 for its work on benchmarking and transforming educational practice in autism, and has extended
 the global reach of the School’s research. Recent international collaborations include work with
 colleagues at Universita Cattolica del Sacro Cuoro, Milan; University of Illinois; ELTE University
 in Hungary; the World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE) in Qatar, and Deduktia in
 Finland. ACER is led by Guldberg and includes Kossyvaki, MacLeod, Perepa.

 The Centre for Research in Race and Education (CRRE) was established in 2013 following
 the strategic appointment of Gillborn. Since then it has produced field-leading research and
 contributed to political, policy and public debate, e.g. on the significance of genetics to
 educational outcomes, and the use of ‘Big data’ in education policy. CRRE is the UK’s leading
 centre for critical research on race inequity in education. CRRE is now led by Bhopal and
 includes Crawford, Gholami, Kitching, Kiwan, Youdell.

 DOMUS: Interdisciplinary Research in Histories of Education and Childhood is the
 intellectual home of the historians of education in the School. DOMUS enabled the public
 engagement work of the AHRC-funded Voices of War and Peace project (Grosvenor), using
 university-community partnerships to engage diverse communities in producing local histories
 that connect with national and global knowledge. Led by Martin, DOMUS also includes Day-
 Ashley, Grosvenor, Myers, Roberts and Emeritus Professor Watts.

 The Jubilee Centre for Character and Virtues was established in 2011 with a substantial grant
 from the John Templeton Foundation (see C3). The Jubilee Centre has won over £12M since
 2014, for research on the importance of virtue for public and professional life, and influences
 policy and educational practice globally, e.g. its recently launched CPD programme involves
 participants from over 55 countries. Led by Arthur, Kristjansson and Peterson, the Centre
 includes six research fellows and eight PhD students.

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The Vision Impairment Centre for Teaching and Research (VICTAR) drives the School’s
 longstanding expertise in the field of vision impairment. VICTAR has strong links to key NGOs,
 including RNIB and Sightsavers International, and supports a unique Longitudinal Transitions
 Study that has just entered its second decade. Its work influences policy and practice in the UK,
 e.g. good practice guidelines on disabled students’ experience at universities and UK
 government policy on Disabled Students’ Allowance, and internationally, in Malawi, Kenya and
 Uganda. Led by Douglas, VICTAR is also home to Hewett and Lynch.

 Two new investments have further enhanced the School’s research environment. First, the
 University of Birmingham School, established in 2014, is the only secondary University
 Training School in the UK, and we collaborate closely in developing, undertaking and
 disseminating research. Projects completed to date have focused on inclusion (Allan), character
 education (Arthur), and subject-specific studies of mathematics and science. Second, the
 Education Leadership Academy (ELA), launched in 2019, works with governments and
 schools in the UK, UAE and Indonesia to design and deliver professional development informed
 by leading-edge research. ELA is led by Diamond and includes Perry, Kitching and Allan.

 C3. Research Grant Capture
 Our five strategic objectives are supported by our capacity to consistently secure substantial
 levels of research income from a range of sources. Members of the School are encouraged to
 respond to invitations for tender, funding calls and open competitions, and the School has
 secured research income from a wide spread of agencies including research councils and
 major research funding bodies. In the REF period we have secured £19,052,873 in external
 research income in over 100 separate grants from over 50 funders. 20 of our 36 Category A staff
 have received income to work on these projects, mostly as PI.

 Our Research Centres provide a strong infrastructure for attracting funding, offering a sound
 intellectual basis for work that targets national and international issues in education, with
 extensive national and international networks and defined routes to impact. Staff within our
 Research Centres received £17,042,596 of the £19,052,873 awarded to the School.

 Our research income-generation strategy targets Research Councils, research funding bodies,
 government agencies, and NGOs and philanthropic organisations. We emphasise consistent
 application to competitive research council programmes and building sustained research-funding
 relationships. We have won over £1.9M in Research Council income, primarily from the AHRC
 and ESRC to support work including co-produced histories of diverse communities in the UK,
 research in multilingualism in the UK and South Africa, and research on improving early
 childhood development and education in Malawi. Other major research funding bodies include
 the British Academy (supporting interdisciplinary research on biosocial education), the
 Educational Endowment Foundation, the European Commission, the Leverhulme Trust and the
 Nuffield Foundation (supporting the Longitudinal Transitions Study of visually impaired young
 people). Government agencies have funded the School, including the Department for
 Education (supporting research on character education), Department for International
 Development (researching the role of private schools in developing countries), Health Education
 England and the FCDO. Key NGO and philanthropic organisations with which we have
 ongoing research funding relationships include the Autism Education Trust, the John Templeton
 Foundation, the Kern Family Foundation, Thomas Pocklington Trust, RNIB, and the University
 and College Union. This funding represents multiple grants used to support established ongoing
 lines of research often linked to our Research Centres.

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The quality of our work with stakeholders is reflected in the substantial support given to the
 School for impact activities, with seven impact projects supported by the first ESRC IAA
 (£42,000) and further projects being supported by the second phase. External funding for impact
 activities has come from partner agencies including RNIB, Save the Children, Sightsavers, and
 the Autism Education Trust.

 Philanthropic donations, generated with the support of DARO, support a range of activities, such
 as a new studentship on digital learning and covid-19, and a variety of developmental and pilot
 work.

 C4. Support for Producing Research Outputs
 Our research outputs are derived from rigorous high quality research and scholarship. We have
 put in place extensive support to achieve this while ensuring our submitted outputs represent the
 broad range of our research. Our system of internal research output reviews ensures every
 member of staff is offered detailed expert feedback on outputs by two colleagues (moderated
 by the Director of Research and external experts). We have established an Output Incubator
 that provides detailed guidance for colleagues working on outputs that have the potential to be
 highly rigorous or world leading research, or to underpin significant impact activity. We have
 been mindful of matters of equality and diversity as well as interdisciplinarity in selecting outputs
 for REF (see B9).

 C5. Research Support Infrastructure
 We invest in high quality infrastructure to support and sustain our research culture and
 practice. The School has a full-time Senior Research Administrator and a part time Research
 Administrator who support research and impact activity. We ensure that our research
 infrastructure is appropriate, sufficient and supports growth. This includes bidding support
 from CRSO and post-award support from a dedicated team in the College. The School and
 Research Centres draw on CoSS’s annual contribution of £7k and 0.2 admin per centre to
 provide administrative support for research projects, visiting scholars, and workshops, seminars,
 and conferences.

 The School’s Research and Knowledge Transfer Committee drives School-level research
 strategy and practice through its remit to oversee our research and scholarship. Key initiatives
 include:

    Every member of staff can nominate a research and scholarship mentor within their
     department.
    A School level review process for research proposals, providing formative feedback and
     quality assurance.
    New Ideas sessions where staff share research in progress.
    The Director of Research hosts termly confidential research surgeries.
    A School-specific Research Toolkit bringing together research-related information on: our
     University research database (PURE); Conference Funding; Authorship Guidelines; H-
     Indices; Bid Writing/Project Funding; Peer Review; Study Leave; ECARS; and REF.

 Dedicated financial resources also sustain our research:




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    The School provides £32k annually to our international conference scheme, providing up
     to £1,500 per member of staff regardless of contract or seniority. Applicants are asked to
     show how the conference will help them to develop as internationally recognised scholars
     and to present their papers inside the School.
    Seed-corn funding of £15k annually.

 C6. Impact Infrastructure
 Our commitment to impact is reflected in the role of Impact Lead (formerly Youdell, now
 Kitching) who works to embed the value of impact across the School, and put in place School-
 level processes to support it aided by College and University level impact infrastructure. The
 Impact Lead co-ordinates impact activities; disseminates potential impact strategies; supports
 colleagues across the lifespan of their impact work, including Impact Case Study development;
 and develops new opportunities for impact. School-level processes have included workshops
 for ECRs and PGRs on embedding impact into research; research proposal review promoting
 impact planning within research bids; an Impact Development Group to develop shared
 approaches to impact; an Impact Expert Panel, convened in 2018, with four key non-academic
 research users from NGOs to consider how our impact could be enhanced.

 The University recognises the significance of impact-focused work, including it in the research
 and scholarship allocation within the University’s workload model. This has enabled the School
 to allocate time to those extensively involved in impact activity, e.g. our Impact Case Study
 Leads, and the Jubilee Centre has dedicated funding for its own Impact Officer.

 The School develops partnerships as part of our impact infrastructure, supporting public
 engagement with our research. As well as our partnership with the University School (see A3
 and D1) we host the Birmingham Schools Strategy Group, connecting us with schools in the
 West Midlands (see D1), and offer engagement events and seminars connecting practitioners to
 research. The Voices of War project collaborated with cultural organisations in Birmingham
 including the Library of Birmingham (see A3), IKON Gallery and BBC Birmingham to create
 workshops and interactive exhibitions.

 C7. Future Plans
 We have exciting plans for the School, in particular in relation to the physical environment. Our
 goal is to be a fully accessible and sustainable School of Education. We have already
 renovated our building, improving accessibility and creating new flexible work-social space that
 has supported research engagement activity in relation to Objective 5 (see D1, C7 and C1). Our
 longer-term ambition is for a School building that facilitates interdisciplinary, open-research
 partnerships in which engagement and impact are central. We also want to offer novel forms of
 Open Access to our research outputs, and are exploring ways to provide easy-to-find digests of
 key outputs that open up our research to a wider audience.

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 D1. Contributing to Economy and Society
 We have a commitment to ‘ensure that educational knowledge coming out of research and
 scholarship at the University of Birmingham is made available to society’, which we fulfil by
 engaging with diverse communities of practitioners and policy-makers as well as wider publics
 regionally, nationally and internationally.


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Through our unique partnership with the University of Birmingham School, we have created a
 new interface for the discussion and generation of educational research and research-informed
 practice. Rush-Hour Research, for example, is a series of after-school seminars where
 University academics present their research to teachers, parents and community-members. A
 range of research projects involve collaboration between our academics and staff in the UoB
 School (see C2).

 We are a major hub for diverse communities of education practitioners across the West
 Midlands. We host and support the Birmingham Schools Strategy Group which has
 representatives from approximately 20 key schools, academies and specialist education facilities
 in the city. Through this group we make new research available to schools and broker
 relationships with researchers. We enjoy strong links with Birmingham City Council, providing
 expert input, research and evaluation to its Education and Skills and Employment
 Directorates: advising on and evaluating a major youth unemployment initiative (McGimpsey,
 Youdell); providing expert advice and analysis regarding PREVENT (Arthur, Gholami); leading
 work on safeguarding for children not in school (Child); and collaborating on anti-racism, and
 working with diverse communities (Gillborn, Gholami, Kitching, Naseem, Youdell, Zhu Hua).

 We influence public debate concerning the future of schools. The 2016 Green Paper, Schools
 that Work for Everyone, underlined universities’ role in sponsoring schools. We were identified
 during consultation as one of the leading sponsors of schools and the School subsequently
 hosted a conference on school sponsorship, attended by senior leaders from HEIs across
 England.

 The School has made a major contribution to society, in the UK and internationally, through its
 flagship research centres: ACER’s work on autism education; the Jubilee Centre on character
 and values education; and VICTAR on education for people with visual impairment. This work is
 set out in detail in our Impact Case Studies.

 We make a significant contribution to race equality in education through CRRE. The Centre’s
 findings have informed public and political debates, challenging stereotypes and advocating
 for greater inclusion in educational institutions and society. Gillborn was a witness for the
 House of Commons Education Select Committee inquiry into white working class
 underperformance and was quoted in the Committee’s report (see A3). CRRE findings about the
 persistent Black/White attainment gap have received extensive media coverage (for example,
 Times Educational Supplement, January 2017) and led to Gillborn’s involvement in confidential
 Whitehall policy discussions. In 2018, he was invited to a Cabinet Office meeting on the future
 direction of the Race Disparity Audit, and subsequently was the sole academic invited to a
 roundtable on BME students, as part of the Timpson Independent Review of School
 Exclusions.

 CRRE also promotes inclusion and enhances understandings of racism in education through
 changes to pedagogical practice and curricula. Bhopal has shaped A-level sociology
 resources, and influenced public discussion of the allocation of A-level and GCSE results during
 the Covid-19 pandemic (e.g. The Guardian, August 2020). Gillborn’s leading work on Critical
 Race Theory has influenced its take up in UK and US university curricula. It is now part of the
 new A-level sociology of education curriculum and is cited in AQA’s A-level sociology
 textbook. Kiwan’s work advancing UNESCO’s global education policy guides citizenship
 curricula in member states, increasing interest around this in North Africa.

                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We are responsive to national and international priorities. We have made key contributions
 to tackling inequalities in education, with CRRE’s Bhopal intervening in policy debates and
 responses around inequality in education. In September 2018 she gave evidence to the Women
 and Equalities Committee inquiry on Tackling Inequalities faced by Gypsy, Roma and
 Traveller Communities. Bhopal is also shaping professional guidelines, practice and
 institutional policy around race inequality in UK universities through research on the role and
 effectiveness of the Race Equality Charter (REC). Two projects examining the REC and
 Athena Swan have informed AdvanceHE’s 2019 review of the Charter, and the policy of key
 sector organisations including project funder UCU. Bhopal’s podcast guide for teachers on
 ‘Understanding Race and Education’, published by the Times Education Supplement has been
 downloaded over 2000 times. Kiwan has informed UK debates on citizenship and education;
 the House of Lords Select Committee on Civic Engagement and Citizenship cited her
 findings (2017) about the negative implications of long waiting lists for access to language
 courses for migrants. The School worked rapidly to establish the Commission on Education
 and Covid-19 (see A3) which submitted evidence to a parliamentary select committee inquiry
 (Guldberg, Kitching, McGimpsey, Petty, Youdell) and supported two funded projects led by
 Kiwan and Zhu Hua (see C1).

 Our research is shaping international policy regarding citizenship and inclusive education.
 Kiwan led the development of the UNESCO international framework on Global Citizenship
 Education, which is the basis for awareness raising and increased resources for GCED policy
 and curricula globally. Guldberg has applied her work to curriculum development for children
 with autism overseas, including Italy, Greece and Qatar, and Lynch and Schuelka have
 engaged in projects on inclusion in Sub-Saharan Africa and Bhutan. Day Ashley’s research on
 the role of private and other non-state schools in expanding education in developing countries
 was cited by DfID in Education Policy 2018, Save the Children’s Global Policy Position on
 User Fees in Education and Private Schools (2016), The World Bank’s World Development
 Report 2018, and Oxfam International. The work is now guiding Save the Children’s activity in
 India.

 D2. Working collaboratively for social justice in education
 We place collaboration at the heart of our work, and encourage colleagues to be adventurous
 when exploring possibilities to engage diverse communities with research.

 International academic collaborations contribute to the high quality of our research. The School
 promotes greater international collaboration through our dedicated International Lead (Zhu
 Hua). We have actively supported University-wide international collaborations. CRRE hosted a
 postdoctoral fellow (Crawford) funded by the BRIDGE partnership between UoB and the
 University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign (UIUC) (REF5a 2.1.8) who is now a permanent
 lecturer. The Biosocial Network helped to organise a joint international conference, held at UIUC
 in 2017, and ACER has won British Academy funding for a joint research project with colleagues
 in the UIUC Department of Special Education.

 We pursue our commitment to inclusion and social justice through collaborative relationships, of
 varying scale and degrees of formality, which foreground equal partnership and exchange e.g.

    Voices of War and Peace (Grosvenor): funded by AHRC and Heritage Lottery Fund,
     supports community engagement activities developing public histories of the First World


                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     War. The project recently won continuation funding for work co-designed with community
     groups.
    Transforming Autism Education: ACER’s international training programme collaboration
     with Italy and Greece.
    Royal National Institute of Blind People (RNIB): training and dissemination across
     England with VICTAR.
    Sightsavers research in Malawi with VICTAR.
    Birmingham City Council (BCC): including DTE’s research on safeguarding in the context
     of non-school-based education provision.
    Equality Challenge Unit: the Race Equality Chartermark scheme is informed by CRRE
     research.
    CRRE partners with NGOs in the field of race equality, including the Runnymede Trust,
     Stephen Lawrence Charitable Trust, Race on the Agenda, and Kick It Out.
    Oxfordshire Local Authority: ACER is providing research to the Early Years Autism
     Project.
    US Military Academy at West Point: the Jubilee Centre is collaborating on character and
     values.
    UNICEF Montenegro: the Jubilee Centre is working in primary schools.

 D3. Contributing to the Sustainability of the Discipline
 We influence the future directions of the field through our Editorial Board Membership: 18
 colleagues serve on 38 peer-reviewed journals (many more journals draw on our collective
 expertise for reviewing).

 The School hosts the SSCI-listed peer-reviewed journal Educational Review (Editor: Martin).
 More than 200 HEIs across the world subscribe to the journal and 2981 institutions worldwide
 had access in 2018, with 211,910 article downloads. ER’s impact factor (2.042) is the highest of
 UK generalist education journals.

 We are proud to be involved in the Editorship of high-quality peer-reviewed journals, indicating
 our international standing in several fields, e.g.

    British Journal of Sociology of Education (Executive Editors: Bhopal, current & Youdell,
     2016 - 2019).
    Journal of Philosophy in Schools (Editors: Peterson & D’Olimpio).
    Paedagogica Historica: International Journal of the History of Education (Managing Editor:
     Grosvenor).
    Race Ethnicity and Education (Editor: Gillborn).
    Theory and Research in Education (Editor: Kotzee).
    Women’s Studies International Forum (Editor: Bhopal).
    Writing Systems Research (Editor: Bassetti).

 Our contribution to the discipline is evidenced through our service on grant review panels
 (Swedish Research Council 2017-2019 (Youdell); Academy of Finland 2015, 2018 (Youdell);
 Research Grant Council of Hong Kong 2018 (Schuelka); through important honours of national
 and international standing (e.g. Best Book in Education, 2016 (Kristjánsson; through admission
 to the Academy of Social Sciences (Allan, Bhopal, Gillborn); and through personal awards
 recognising achievement and lasting influence (e.g. New Year Honours List (Arthur OBE,


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bhopal MBE), and Gillborn named as one of the 60 most influential living educators (Kappa
 Delta Pi, US-based honour society).

 We undertake numerous Expert Advisory roles: 28 appointments, between 21 people, for a
 wide range of organisations, e.g. Hungarian Academy of Sciences (Guldberg), Universities of
 Cyprus, London, Roehampton, Simon Fraser Southern Queensland, (Bhopal), Higher Education
 Academy (Perry), National Centre for Content and Language Integrated Learning (Child),
 Centre for Justice in Education, Chile (Youdell), World Bank Review (Davies), Federal
 University of Sao Carlos (Kossyvaki), West Point Military Academy (Arthur).

 Since 2014, colleagues have delivered over 100 keynote lectures at international and national
 academic and professional conferences, covering the breadth of research in the School e.g.

       Character Education: The Virtue at the Centre of Adolescent's Life, International
        Conference, Universidad Panamericana, Mexico City, 2017 (Arthur)
       Diasporic Living and the Secular – Lessons for Identity, Citizenship and Education, Non-
        religion and Secular Research Network Conference, Kings College London, 2018
        (Gholami)
       Educating Virtuous Emotions: Aristotle and the Alternatives, North American Association
        for Philosophy and Education (NAAPE), Chicago 2018 (Kristjansson)
       Genetics, difference and solidarity in education, Nordic Education Research Association
        Annual Conference, Helsinki, 2016 (Youdell)
       Making a difference in autism education, HAS-ELTA Autism in Education Conference,
        Budapest, 2018 (Guldberg)
       The Challenge of Criticality: Researching Race and Racism in Contemporary Europe,
        Public Lecture for the University of Copenhagen, 2018 (Gillborn)
       Social Justice, exclusion and white privilege in universities, Annual British Sociological
        Association Equality Lecture, 2018 (Bhopal)
       The promise and the limitations of the SDGs: Moving beyond access to education,
        United States Agency for International Development, Guatemala, 2018 (Scheulka)

 Our staff have given more than 90 invited seminars and delivered a great many more papers in
 symposia and panels at key conferences.

 We are involved in international academic exchange, attracting international world-leading
 and emerging writers as Visiting Scholars and to give invited presentations for both academic
 and professional audiences. Recent visitors include Professor Hickey-Moody (RMIT, Au) who
 worked with educators from the West Midlands on Interfaith Arts Education, and Professor
 Valerie Harwood (Sydney, Au) who presented on educational aspirations and social marketing
 (each supported by Australian Research Council funding). Colleagues from the School also take
 up invitations as Visiting Scholars internationally e.g. Allan is Visiting Professor, University of
 Örebro, Sweden; Bhopal is Visiting Professor at Harvard University.




                                                                                             Page 20
