Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: Newcastle University

Unit of Assessment: UoA 28 History

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.a. Unit Context

Located in the School of History, Classics and Archaeology (HCA) within the Faculty of Humanities
and Social Sciences (HaSS), History at Newcastle celebrates and gives agency to the
multitudinous voices of the past. Historical justice connects our work thematically, underpinning our
research, impact strategy, and wider initiatives to shape the Faculty and University research and
engagement agendas in the spirit of Newcastle University's ethos as a civic university which
makes a difference to society locally, regionally, nationally and internationally (ILE 2.11). We
believe that researching the diverse experiences of past peoples helps contemporary societies
understand their past, present and future; we analyze how historic inequalities, global and local,
have ongoing repercussions; and demonstrate how History can be used to address contemporary
problems and develop solutions. We are committed to fostering a research culture which is
inclusive and supportive, and are further embedding EDI policies to cement this goal.

The breadth of our research, geographically, thematically and chronologically, acknowledges that
our region remains embedded within global history and that a deeper understanding of the past
emerges when comparisons can be made across time and space. Our expertise stretches from
Anglo-Saxon England and Medieval Iberia to twentieth-century Sudan, China and Mexico, with
significant expertise in British, American and European History. Our location within HCA, alongside
Classics and Archaeology, provides a rich intellectual environment with a deep chronological
perspective and methodological range.

Following a period of reflection prompted by the 2014 REF, and supported by institutional
investment, the Unit collectively implemented a strategy to revitalize its research and impact from
the ground up. Following an external review in 2017-2018, a steering group of seven Unit members
ranging from Lecturer to Professorial grades was appointed with members bought out of teaching
duties in 2018-2019. The group evaluated the Unit’s position within the national landscape,
identified distinctive strengths, and devised strategies for their cultivation. Thematic meetings and
circulated draft reports enabled all Unit members to feed into the review. Leading historians from
other institutions provided external moderation. Our current research vision, and the structures
designed to support research and impact within the Unit, result from this process. Through them
we foster an inclusive, collegial and co-operative research culture which values individual and
collaborative scholarship, research leadership, grant capture, impact and engagement.

The appointment of 15 new permanent staff since 2014 (see Section 2) has allowed us to develop
nationally significant hubs of expertise in oral history, the history of ideas, and maritime, medical,
and environmental humanities, while continuing to nurture a nationally leading, vibrant labour
history group. Investment in the Unit, and a collective redesign of our research and impact culture,
is now driving an upturn in funding and in the recruitment of postgraduate and postdoctoral
researchers.

To facilitate cross pollination amongst the school’s geographically and chronologically diverse
portfolio, we developed nine Research Strands across the whole of HCA in 2015, designed to
dismantle barriers between our disciplines, and to provide capacity for deep-time and cross-cultural
research perspectives, locally and globally. Historians wholly or partly lead five of these strands:




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Issues of historical justice permeate the strands. Our activities explore the role of ideas and beliefs
in provoking conflicts and revolutionary situations, and the legacies of these conflicts. Our research
examines the impacts and aftermaths of colonial oppression and slavery, as we simultaneously
decolonize our curriculum. We explore persecution on the grounds of belief systems and reveal the
labour movement’s efforts to secure greater rights. We acknowledge that social injustices,
nationally and globally, generated profound health inequalities which persist today, and that
medicine sometimes served as a tool of oppression. Our strands offer a research community for all
School research staff and PGR students. Strand coordinators receive a workload allowance for the
role. Informal meetings between them have encouraged colleagues to collectively foster research
and impact activities by all Unit members, including ECRs and PGRs. We introduced reporting
mechanisms in 2019 to capture, share, and publicize research activity and best practice.

Beyond HCA, we have delivered on our REF 2014 strategic objective to build research
collaborations by embedding historians in wider University networks. Members of the Unit are
active in Faculty Research Groups with Historians involved in the leadership of seven including:
Medieval and Early Modern Studies @ Newcastle; the Anthropocene Research Group; the Asian
Studies Research Group; the Materiality, Artefacts, Technologies in Culture and History Group;
and the Labour and Society Research Group. Several Unit members have been involved in the
development of the Newcastle University Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs), which are
part of the new University research strategy (ILE 2.2.1). S. Campbell, Siemens and Tindley have
been closely involved in the development of the Heritage NUCoRE. Our expertise in public history,
memory studies and historical consciousness will help shape this Centre’s initiatives. Unit
members have also been involved with the Cities NUCoRE and have been engaged in early
discussions around the NUCoREs in Landscape (which will be led from the School), Rare
Diseases, Cancer, and Climate and Environmental Resilience. Interdisciplinary collaboration within
and between Faculties is also reflected in our Medical Humanities Network, the AHRC-funded
project ‘Wastes and Strays: The Past Present and Future of Urban Commons’ and the UKRI
GCRF ‘Living Deltas Hub’.

1.b. Strategic Aims in Research

Newcastle historians are motivated by a sense of historical justice that addresses claims of moral
and intellectual recompense for past sufferings, warns of dangers forgotten from yesterday, and
seeks to build a more just future. Such understandings of the past revitalize democratic debate and
civic society, help guard against prejudice, challenge misapprehension, and provide ways of facing
the problems of the global present.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our review process identified four research priorities for the coming years:

   -   Improving our grant capture to help colleagues achieve their research ambitions.

   -   Building a vibrant postdoctoral culture to make History at Newcastle an international
       destination for ECRS.

   -   Improving research mentoring to support career development and promotion, facilitating
       individual ambitions.

   -   Re-calibrating our impact and engagement efforts by viewing these as collective
       responsibilities and successes which benefit our partner institutions and the wider public,
       the researchers who participate in them, and the Unit collectively.

We have made significant progress in these areas. Grant income has more than doubled in the
second half of the cycle along with the number of individual RES account holders. We have
recruited four postdoctoral fellows in this cycle (via the Leverhulme, British Academy, Marie
Sklodowska-Curie and internal NUAcT schemes) and four others attached to specific research
projects. As outlined in Section 2, all staff have a mentor, and receive workloading for mentoring.
We now have an Impact Forum and initiatives planned for 2021 and beyond are detailed in Section
1.c.

Our fifth priority has been to invest in areas of research strength.

The Oral History Unit and Collective (OHUC), directed by Smith, launched in January 2018 with
an investment of £665,313 by Newcastle University. Building on preexisting strengths within the
Unit in oral history, OHUC’s establishment transformed Newcastle into a centre of excellence in
oral history, with national and international scope and ambition and significant infrastructural
support. Working across disciplines and in partnership with local history groups and community
historians, charities and industrial partners, OHUC explores oral history’s role in communicating
the past in the present. It furthers our research ambitions and fundamentally connects research,
engagement and impact work. OHUC provides a forum for knowledge exchange, developing the
skills and careers of ECRs working in oral history and supporting researchers within and outside
the University through monthly drop-ins, a regular reading group and seminar series. The foodbank
histories project (see Section 4), exemplifies OHUC’s innovative work. Collective members work on
local, national, and international projects across the key themes of Work and After, Medical
Humanities, and Social and Historical Justice. A further theme, Public History, cuts across these
areas. This is a rapidly developing field within the Unit, reflected in our publications and impact
work, and cemented by the recent appointment of Atkinson-Phillips to a lectureship in public
history.

The Maritime Humanities Hub builds on work undertaken in the Labour and Society, Conflict and
Revolution, and Empires and After research strands, and has been strengthened by new
appointments. Led by Ghervas, it acknowledges Newcastle’s historical role as a vibrant port city
and tells the story of Newcastle and the sea, while reviving links with distant cities with which
Newcastle once had strong connections. Two Hub interns have worked with staff at the local
Discovery Museum to develop its digitization plans and work is also ongoing with staff at the
Robinson Library. These activities build on other Unit initiatives, including Dale and McCorristine’s
work, and the We Made Ships educational public history website, created by Atkinson-Phillips and
Bush, which provides insights into the history of shipbuilding in the North East via oral histories,
photographs and video resources.

Environmental Humanities research in the Unit stems back to Berry's interdisciplinary work on
the Rivers of the Anthropocene project and climate change, which led to her role on the UKRI
GCRF Living Deltas Hub, described in Section 3. The appointment of Tindley, Hickman and
McCorristine to permanent positions strengthened our environmental history expertise. As we
outline in Section 4, all have successfully secured external funding to build cross-institutional
collaborative networks.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Work on the History of Ideas has evolved from the Ideas and Beliefs research strand. Recent
initiatives include Morton's AHRC-funded research network on Anti-Catholicism, and the Civil
Religion reading group (established by East in 2016 when she was a Leverhulme Early Career
Fellow) which has brought various scholars to Newcastle, not least for an international conference
in 2019. Colleagues working in this area have successfully secured external funding from the
AHRC (Morton, Hammersley) and British Academy (Hammersley) and attracted postdoctoral
researchers via the British Academy and Marie Sklodowska-Curie schemes (Somers, Mithen).
Mithen has recently established a new reading group to examine the history of scholarship in the
early modern era, and the light this history sheds on the current humanities research environment
in relation to issues such as publishing, impact and the relationship between the academy and the
wider world.

Two initiatives have emerged out of the Life Cycle, Bodies, Health and Disease strand:

The Medical Humanities Network is led by Long, Sauerteig and Sehrawat in partnership with
collaborators from Archaeology, English, Media, Culture and Heritage, Sociology and the Policy,
Ethics and Life Sciences Research Centre. It reframes Newcastle’s long-standing expertise in
medical history, evidenced in our last REF submission, repurposing it into a cross-Faculty network
to support research activity in the interdisciplinary medical humanities. The UoA has considerable
strength and depth in the History of Medicine across periods and regions and has won research
grants in this area from the Leverhulme Trust (Andrews, Sehrawat) and Wellcome Trust (Dale,
Long). We have secured Wellcome funding for PGT and PGR students, while a series of thematic
workshops are helping us define our distinctive areas of expertise and identify new pathways to
interdisciplinary research.

Tindley and Caruana-Galizia (an ECR History teaching associate) founded The Family Histories
Discussion Forum in 2018, holding an inaugural networking event in May 2019. It connects
School researchers from PGRs to Professors and interrogates the centrality, fluidity and appeal of
‘family’ as a subject and object of research from an interdisciplinary perspective, fostering
collaborative research. It has established links with heritage and archive stakeholders, and
amateur historians and family history associations, with an eye to developing public engagement
and impact activities building on Hionidou’s ICS which is increasing public understanding of Greek
family history.

Adjusting to Covid-19: The Covid-19 pandemic has impacted heavily on research activity,
particularly among colleagues with caring responsibilities and preexisting health conditions. As
leader of Newcastle UCU’s health and safety working group (March 2020-), Smith emphasized the
need to consider disability and mental health issues when devising home working risk
assessments and highlighting the challenges experienced by staff with caring responsibilities.
These issues will also be addressed by the School’s EDI committee, in partnership with the
University’s EDI team. We have continued research activity wherever possible during the
pandemic, retaining our 2020-2021 research leave schedule and maintaining our research culture
and support. Many of our research activities moved online after Easter 2020; this made them more
accessible to a range of colleagues and helped counter the isolation generated by the shift to
home working.

1.c. Strategic Aims in Research Impact

Our strategy to achieve research impact and further our commitment to historical justice, locally,
nationally, and internationally, centres on two areas:

   •   Increasing public understanding of the past and of its relationship to the present.

   •   Influencing policy makers and developing tools to underpin action in the future.

Our impact case studies advance these aims and are underpinned by the theme of historic justice,
which is key to the UoA's future impact strategy. Brewster's ICS informs local government and
regional NGO policy-making in rural Mexico while countering historical injustices in the way local
indigenous communities have been viewed. Hionidou’s ICS informs library and archive policy and

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
transforms public perceptions of family history in Greece. Tindley and Berridge’s case studies
(discussed in Section 4) focus primarily on influencing government policy. These case studies were
selected on the grounds of merit from a much larger pool of potential projects. Those selected also
reflect the work of researchers at all career stages from Lecturer (Berridge) via Senior Lecturer
(Brewster) up to Professor (Hionidou and Tindley). Three are led by women and one by a man. We
continue to nurture other impact projects, and, supported by the measures described below, Unit
members are developing new relationships with local, national and international organizations,
which we outline in Section 4.

Following our Review, we implemented structures to ensure that impact is a collective endeavor.
Our Impact Forum encourages colleagues to consider how to integrate co-production with
stakeholders and beneficiaries into research design and delivery. It is chaired by the Unit's Impact
Champion (originally S. Campbell, now Hickman), who sits on the School Research Committee
(SRC) and liaises directly with the Faculty Impact Officers. The Forum nurtures ongoing impact
work, enabling colleagues to share good practice, discuss the relationship between engagement
and impact and consider evaluation methods. A workshop with impact expert Dr Jamie Gallagher
scheduled for March 2021 (postponed from spring 2020 due to Covid-19) will provide Unit
members with a fresh, external perspective as we develop our future impact plans.

In line with our commitment to working collaboratively with partners both within and beyond
academia, we are committed to managing and sharing our research data in a legal, ethical and
open manner. Colleagues from across the Unit are making use of the data.ncl repository (ILES
2.3.3 and see Section 3) and our oral historians are working to address the practical and ethical
challenges to preserving and curating oral histories to maximize their re-use potential. Our OHUC
has worked with the University Library to establish an oral history archive within the Library’s
special collections. The Library commits to store, preserve and curate unique and distinctive oral
history materials which are deposited with accompanying metadata documentation, (enhancing the
material’s re-use potential) and signed oral history agreements, to comply with GDPR
requirements. The policy encompasses material produced within and outside the University and
establishes digital standards for deposits to enhance preservation.

Smith, OHUC’s director, is also promoting and supporting data sharing and data reuse in the Living
Deltas hub, described in Section 3, drawing directly on oral historians’ knowledge and practice in
archiving and data reuse. This will ensure that the Hub community can better understand how delta
populations can achieve delta sustainability.


2. People
2.a. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

We have invested heavily during the REF census period in new, preponderantly open-ended,
appointments to ensure the Unit’s long-term sustainability and to develop our ambitious new
research vision, build research leadership, and develop current areas of expertise. We have also
demonstrated our commitment to career development for existing staff members, and for Unit
ECRs and PGRs, and have sought to create a more level playing field by ensuring that our
policies, practices and ethos are inclusive, nurture diversity and promote equity. Wherever possible
we ensure that opportunities are open to all staff regardless of their contract type. We have
implemented measures to rebalance workloads for colleagues who undertake significant
leadership roles and develop impact case studies, embedding these commitments in our Athena
Swan Action Plan.

Our submission includes 46 Category A staff members, 27 men and 19 women, with a combined
fte of 44.4. 40 of these Category A staff are on open-ended contracts, and six are on fixed-term
contracts, of which four are in research-only posts. We have increasingly invested in open-ended
contracts, recognizing that job insecurity causes stress, stifles creativity, and makes it difficult to
retain talented staff; the unit has helped four colleagues employed on fixed-term contracts move to
open-ended contracts over the census period. Unit members have played a leading role in
reducing the use of fixed-term contracts across the University through their work in UCU. Perry, as

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Vice-Chair of Newcastle UCU’s Branch Committee, launched the Branch’s anti-casualization
campaign in 2017. Clark, the Branch’s first Anti-Casualization Officer (2017-2020), worked with
People Services to conduct a University-wide scoping review of the EDI dimensions of
casualization at Newcastle. He negotiated a new framework with People Services, generating
University-wide guidance which limited the use of non-permanent and hourly paid contracts to
specific circumstances, identified pay progression and career development rights, and enabled
colleagues employed on fixed-term contracts for four or more years to be moved to open-ended
contracts. The University’s new policy on fixed-term contracts has arisen out of this work.

Annual Performance and Development Reviews (PDRs) and Personal Research Plans (PRPs)
encourage all School members to engage in short- to mid-term planning and to identify training
needs. Following a review of processes during the preparation of the School's Athena Swan
Bronze submission, PDR reviewers now proactively discuss pathways to promotion with their
reviewees and encourage staff who meet the criteria to apply. New staff members have a goal-
setting meeting after arrival followed by a review later that year. They undergo a two-year
probation period and are assigned a mentor with whom they discuss their research and teaching
trajectory. Interim and final probation reviews are completed via the PDR process. A baseline
workload allowance of 15 hours annually covers the giving and receiving of mentoring and
continuing professional development. Additionally, all staff are encouraged to maintain mentoring
relationships beyond the probation period or develop new ones. The mentoring staff have received
or require in future is discussed at PDR meetings. Our School is piloting the University's ‘Engage
and Aspire project’ which aims to revise and integrate the PDR and PRP processes and to develop
new ways of rewarding collective endeavor and working in an inclusive and collegiate way.

The School’s workload allocation model provides an annual 650-hour research allowance for all
staff on permanent or fixed-term T&R contracts, and these staff have a weekly designated
research day, free of teaching and administrative responsibilities. All research-active staff are
entitled to one semester of sabbatical leave in seven (up from one in eight in 2014). In the interests
of parity of esteem, T&S staff are allocated one semester in seven for scholarship purposes as well
as having time for scholarship activities built into their regular workload. Applications for sabbatical
leave are evaluated at School and Faculty level, with a standard expectation that colleagues will
have submitted at least one external funding application since their previous leave. Staff submit a
report of the main outcomes at the end of their sabbatical.

Appointments: Decisions about appointments are made following consultation with all Unit staff.
Recruitment priorities are constantly reviewed in order to operationalize our research strategy and
meet our teaching needs. Guidelines ensure that appointment panels have a gender balance and
require all panel members to undertake unconscious bias training, supporting our commitment to
equity and transparency in appointments. The strategic appointments made during this REF cycle
cut across geography and chronology, enabling us to develop and deliver our research strategy
and ensure the sustainability of the Unit.



                                         Leavers 2014-2020




                 Allen             Labour History       Senior      Retired
                                                        Lecturer
                 Baldoli           Modern               Senior    Professorship in
                                   European History     Lecturer  Milan
                 Paton             Caribbean            Reader    Professorship at
                                   History                        Edinburgh
                 Saunders          Russian History      Professor Retired



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                       New Staff 2014-2020




               Atkinson-Phillips       Public History        Lecturer
               Berridge                African History       Lecturer
               Campbell                Labour History        Lecturer (Senior
                                                             Lecturer 2020)
               Dale                    Russian History       Lecturer
               East                    History of Ideas      Lecturer
               Ghervas                 Russian History       Professor
               Hickman                 Medical/Environmental Senior Lecturer
                                       Humanities
               Long                    Medical Humanities    Senior Lecturer
               McCorristine            Environmental         Lecturer
                                       Humanities
               Mills                   History of Ideas      Lecturer
               Mobley                  Caribbean History     Lecturer
               Morton                  History of Ideas      Lecturer (Senior
                                                             Lecturer 2020)
               Siemens                 European History      Professor
               Smith                   Oral History          Professor
               Tindley                 British History       Senior Lecturer
                                                             (Professor 2020)


Dale, Ghervas and Siemens who joined the Unit between 2015 and 2018, have taken on research
leadership to establish Newcastle as a significant regional hub for modern European and Russian
History. Ghervas is also the driving force behind Newcastle’s new Maritime Humanities hub.
Several of the appointments strategically expand and diversify our geographical expertise. These
include Mobley who leads on School-wide proposals to decolonize the curriculum and Berridge
who has developed an impact case study, 'Shaping Western responses to Sudan's civilian uprising
(2018-2019)’.

Other appointments expand existing strengths and develop priority areas. Smith joined the Unit in
2017; he served as Chair of the Oral History Society between 2004 and 2017 and directs the
OHUC. In addition, the University funded three, three-year RA posts as part of its investment in the
OHUC (Atkinson-Phillips, Bradley and Clark). Atkinson-Phillips has since progressed to a T&R
Lectureship in Public History within the Unit, while Clark secured an ESRC New Investigator Award
in December 2020. As well as extending our expertise in early modern intellectual history, Mills
brings expertise in Arab language sources, joining up with Archaeology to build on the UNESCO-
recognized Gertrude Bell Archive for research, and with our medieval Islamic world specialist,
Clarke. S. Campbell has taken a leading role, as Impact Champion, in developing the Unit’s impact
agenda and is establishing the cross-disciplinary Irish Studies Network. Tindley and Long were
appointed in nineteenth- and twentieth-century British history posts respectively. Tindley has
undertaken two Scottish Government-commissioned projects on land reform, served as
Consortium Director for the AHRC Northern Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership, and in
November 2020 was appointed Head of HCA. Long is developing Newcastle’s Medical Humanities
Network and has secured a Wellcome MA Programme Award. Hickman and McCorristine are
strategic new permanent appointments whose expertise lies at the intersection of medical and
environmental Humanities. In addition to these appointments, Tisdall joined Newcastle in January
2020 as one of the first wave of NUAcT appointments. This scheme provides funding for five years'
research (including a linked PhD student) culminating in a permanent academic position (ILE
3.2.4). Her expertise spans medical humanities and the history of childhood. Gribling, who joined
Newcastle in 2019 as a University-funded postdoctoral researcher, examines uses of the past,

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
heritage and childhood in British culture and society.

Several colleagues have joined the unit on fixed-term T&R, Research or T&S contracts. Reflecting
our commitment to nurturing the careers of ECRs, we are committed to the Concordat to Support
the Career Development of Researchers. As such our postdoctoral researchers can apply for
internal funding and spend ten days annually away from their assigned responsibilities to
undertake CPD and training to further their career goals. These have included PI training, working
towards HEA membership and developing digital humanities skills. The Unit’s focus and research
environment has attracted postdoctoral scholars via the Leverhulme, British Academy and Marie
Sklodowska-Curie schemes (East, Hope, Somers and Mithen). Several colleagues have also been
recruited to work on externally-funded projects (Collins, Dee, Kennaway and Warrington). Finally,
three colleagues joined us on 12-month 1.0 fte T&S posts in 2018 to free up time for seven T&R
colleagues to undertake the History review.

Support to establish, maintain and rebuild research momentum: The Unit is committed to
supporting the career development of colleagues who join us on fixed-term contracts. Many have
received support to organize activities within the School’s research strands. Empires and After, for
example, supported three workshops organized by temporary ECR lecturers (Mongey 2017 and
2019 and Khan 2019). Others have successfully secured external funding. Clark won a British
Academy / Leverhulme Trust Small Grant and a British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award
in 2018. Our success in helping these colleagues develop their careers is reflected in outcomes.
Lawrence, a former teaching fellow in the Unit, secured a permanent lectureship at Kent in 2015.
Some have progressed to permanent appointments within the Unit. S. Campbell, McCorristine and
Mills joined the Unit on fixed-term contracts before securing permanent lectureships following
intense international competitions in 2015 and 2019. East, originally a Leverhulme Early Career
Fellow in the School between 2015 and 2018, was subsequently appointed as a History teaching
fellow in 2018-2019 and then to a permanent lectureship in the Unit in 2019. Hope, an Economic
History Society Anniversary Fellow in the School in 2018-2019, was appointed to a lectureship in
2019.

We take pride in ensuring all colleagues have access to assistance at various points in their career
to develop their research. In 2018-2019 one colleague received funding from the University’s
Returner Support Programme (ILES 3.4.2) which she used to buy herself out of some teaching in
order to kickstart her research. We also recognize that School leadership roles entail a significant
administrative workload that can hinder research. Our workload allocation model provides tariffs for
all such roles, while colleagues who serve on School Executive Board receive an additional
semester of sabbatical leave following their three-year term of service. Hionidou, who served as
Head of History 2015-18, and Deputy Head of School 2016-18, benefited from this arrangement.
She used her sabbatical to complete two monographs and develop impact work. Hammersley, who
preceded Hionidou as Head of History, also received a year of sabbatical leave when she stepped
down in 2015. This opportunity enabled her to develop a successful British Academy mid-career
fellowship, described in Section 3, which led to a monograph. Both were promoted to chair in 2020
(though after the census date).

The School was awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in May 2020. Several historians were
members of the Self-Assessment Team (Schulz, Kirk, Smith, Hammersley, Berridge, Berry, East).
The development of this application opened discussion not just on gender parity, but also around
intersectionality and wider EDI issues. The School's EDI Committee (established in 2019) is taking
the action plan forward. It identifies action points in five areas:

1) School structures and operations, including a commitment to reaching proportionate gender
representation on School committees within three years. In 2018 we appointed our first female
Head of School (Berry) and in 2019 our first female Director of Research (Hammersley).
2) Collegiate working practices, with a redesign of the induction process (introduced in 2019-2020)
and new support schemes for childcare costs incurred by staff undertaking university-based duties.
3) Staff recruitment, with equitable gender representation on appointment panels and mandatory
unconscious bias training for all panel members.
4) Promotion and Career Progression, including introducing drop-in sessions for colleagues

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
interested in applying for promotion, incorporating discussion about promotion into the PDR
process, and providing bespoke mentoring for colleagues putting together promotion applications.
These policies have already begun to bear fruit.
5) Research culture and environment, placing greater emphasis on supporting female staff in
developing large grant applications through one-to-one advice and support and grant-writing
workshops.

Our Unit includes staff of various nationalities - American, British, German, Greek, Indian, Irish,
Italian, Spanish and Swiss – but there is little ethnic diversity within our unit. Tackling this is a key
goal for the next REF census period and we are coordinating our commitments to deliver greater
gender equality for researchers through our current Athena Swan plan with central University
initiatives such as the Race Equality Charter and Sanctuary Status scheme. Our School’s EDI
Committee is developing an increasingly intersectional approach to EDI issues; committee
members are actively developing LGBT+ histories content for our curricula and exploring how to
tackle ableism in academia. Baker and Perry, who served as Newcastle UCU Branch Vice Chair
2015-2017 and Chair 2017-2019 (Baker), and Vice Chair 2017- (Perry) have, in their work as
branch negotiators, challenged the gender, disability and BAME pay gap at Newcastle, and
highlighted other EDI issues which affect staff health, wellbeing and research capacity.

Our ongoing work to decolonize the curriculum recognizes the need to embed BAME history
integrally within our teaching and research and is fundamental to our strategy to generate a more
inclusive research and teaching environment for all staff and students. The School EDI Committee
organized an Autumn Diversity Programme in 2019, including two workshops for staff and PGRs to
kickstart the School’s process of decolonizing the curriculum. One was hosted by Priyamvada
Gopal, and the other chaired by Mobley, with contributions from Kenneth B Morris Jr, Co-Founder
and President of Frederick Douglass Family Initiatives, and Dr Keith Magee, Director of the Social
Justice Institute in Boston, Massachusetts. Dr Magee will soon be joining us on a part-time basis
as Professor of Practice in Social Justice.

Other measures help Unit members to pursue research and impact while maintaining a work-life
balance. In 2019 we established a 9.30am-4pm policy for School-level meetings to make it easier
for colleagues on part-time contracts and those with caring responsibilities to attend. We timetable
our History seminar during normal working hours. Colleagues are encouraged to use email
signatures to protect their designated research day, evenings and weekends, and to take their full
annual leave entitlement, with restrictions on taking leave during term time recently being relaxed
to optimize periods to focus on research. In addition, colleagues such as Allen have benefited from
the University’s flexible retirement scheme.

2.b. Research Students

Our infrastructure encourages retention and progression from undergraduate studies to
postgraduate research, and beyond. Research scholarships enable second year undergraduates
to undertake a funded, 6-8 week summer research project, developing experience relevant to
postgraduate study. Our PGT degree programmes align with our areas of research expertise, and
we have secured a Wellcome MA programme grant, which funds three MA studentships in our
History of Medicine MA programme between 2019 and 2021, and is designed to recruit PGT
students who have the potential to progress to doctoral study.

PhD Recruitment: Our PhD students’ research stretches from modern British, American and
European political and social history to projects on the history of health and medicine – and even
death and the supernatural – in European and colonial contexts; the religious, social and
intellectual history of early modern Britain; and multidisciplinary projects co-supervised by
colleagues in Archaeology, Classics and Public Health. Several students who completed PhDs
early in the cycle secured funding directly from the AHRC. In 2014, Newcastle, Durham University
and Queen’s University Belfast secured AHRC funding for the Northern Bridge Consortium, a
Doctoral Training Partnership. Sixteen of our PGR students have secured funded studentships,
predominantly AHRC Northern Bridge funding, and our success rate has increased over the cycle:


                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Four of the AHRC studentships were collaborative doctoral awards where the students are jointly
trained and supervised by Unit members and staff at a partner organization. Unit members are also
supervisory team members on interdisciplinary AHRC-funded studentships, led by colleagues in
different subject areas. The second phase of Northern Bridge integrates the expertise and
resources of the three original institutions alongside Northumbria, Sunderland, Teesside and Ulster
Universities, and will support 335 PGR students studying 28 disciplines. The scheme offers tailored
training, including language study, placements with non-academic partners, and an evolving suite
of specialized courses. Of our currently registered students, just over half are supported by
external funding.

Support for PhD Students: Each PGR student is assigned a supervisory team at application
stage. We consider the expertise fit, include at least one colleague who has supervised another
candidate to successful completion, and enable ECR colleagues on open-ended contracts to
develop supervisory experience as soon as possible. The supervisory relationship is regulated by
the University's Code of Practice for Research Degrees, which enshrines established best practice
in the sector. Students meet with their supervisor or supervisory team each month, recording
details in the E-Portfolio system. In addition to training via the Northern Bridge programme, our
students also benefit from the 700 hours of training and activities for PGR students provided
annually by the HaSS Faculty. These activities are supplemented at School level by tailored
sessions on themes such as publishing and careers. The School’s PG Forum offers a programme
of student-led seminars and social events and hosts an annual Conference for PGRs within and
beyond Newcastle, publishing selected conference papers in an e-journal. Our Research Strands
integrate PGR students into their activities. Ideas and Beliefs supported the Graduate Conference
in Intellectual History, organized by PGR strand members in 2015 and featuring papers by PGR
students from across the UK and beyond and keynotes by Quentin Skinner and Hammersley.
Labour and Society’s PhD students have organized its Social Theory Reading Group since 2017,
help organize workshops, and publish in edited collections arising from these events. For example,
Partridge, a PhD student associated with the strand, co-organized the 2017 workshop, ‘Visualising
Labour: Workers and Work in Photography and Film’ with Perry, and subsequently published an
article stemming from this conference in a special 2019 issue of Labour History Review. A
research allowance of £250 p/a for full-time students and £125 p/a for part-time students helps
meet research expenses. The School's PG Student Voice Committee enables PGRs to shape the
School agenda in relation to their needs.

Post-PhD: Some of our former PhD students have progressed to postdoctoral positions and
lectureships. For example, Lowther secured a Leverhulme early career fellowship at Durham,
Knapton was appointed to a three-year lectureship at UEA, and Hepworth held a fixed-term

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
lectureship at UCLAN before being appointed to a fixed-term lectureship at Newcastle (maternity
cover). Nielsen, who secured her PhD from Newcastle in 2014, is now a Senior Lecturer in History
and Heritage at Northampton University.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Funding

In line with our commitment to historical justice, and our belief in a mixed ecosystem of research,
Unit members are encouraged to seek research funding to address real-world problems, to
conduct in-depth archival research in repositories across the globe, and to build networks and
teams to tackle broad interdisciplinary projects and build future capacity. We encourage and
support applications from early career as well as established colleagues.

Our grant income over the REF cycle tangibly demonstrates our Unit’s journey. During 2014-17, as
we focused on revitalizing our research and impact culture, grant income remained relatively low.
However, since 2018 it has risen steadily to £329,242 in 2019-20. This upwards trajectory was
underpinned by a diversification of funders and award holders.

Research Grant Income Awarded 2014-2020




As described in Section 2, we have placed particular emphasis on attracting, nurturing and
retaining high-calibre early career scholars. We intend to build on this success in the coming years
with a second Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellow (Gaby Mahlberg) joining the Unit in December 2020
and four History applicants selected in internal competition to be developed for the Leverhulme
Early Career Fellowship scheme.

More senior colleagues within the Unit have also secured fellowship awards from the British
Academy (Hammersley) and Leverhulme Trust (Sehrawat) allowing them to engage in archival
research and finish significant individual research projects. These projects speak to the theme of
historic justice by deploying historical research to transform current attitudes on the nature of
democracy (Hammersley) and to demonstrate the impact of the history of colonialism on the
persistence of poor medical care for vulnerable populations in the global south today (Sehrawat).

Unit members have also designed and contributed to multidisciplinary collaborative projects

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
particularly in the growth areas of medical and environmental humanities. This period saw the
completion of the Leverhulme-funded project ‘Fashionable Diseases: Medicine, Literature and
Culture, ca. 1660-1832' on which Andrews worked as CI, alongside collaborators based in English
at Northumbria University. The project brought a postdoctoral researcher Kennaway to Newcastle
to work with Andrews and resulted in co-authored publications. In 2019, Hammersley commenced
work as CI on the interdisciplinary AHRC-funded project, ‘Wastes and Strays: The Past, Present
and Future of English Urban Commons’. Led by Chris Rogers (Law, Newcastle), and with
Alessandro Zambelli (Portsmouth School of Architecture), this interdisciplinary project studies
urban commons across England, promoting them as publicly accountable, open, green, spaces
vital for culture, health, wellbeing and biodiversity. It brings two postdoctoral researchers, Dee and
Collins, into History.

The GCRF Living Deltas Research Hub award of £15.3 million, led by PI Andy Large (Geography,
Newcastle) and running from 2019 to 2024, brought Unit members Berry and Smith in as CIs to a
large, interdisciplinary network of more than fifty co-investigators (scientists, social scientists and
humanities researchers) located on four continents. The hub addresses questions of social and
historical justice, aiming to achieve more equitable livelihoods for delta dwellers; sustainable
management of delta landscapes; stronger local to regional monitoring toward sustainable
development; and better local and national policies for delta sustainability. Smith, together with a
Research Associate (Warrington) and a development oral history consultant, will co-design small
area participant studies, focusing on memories of environmental change and continuity across
generations and genders. This work will facilitate the inclusion of delta dwellers’ voices and
memories to policy discussions that will shape our planet’s future.

Networking and seed grants won in the second half of the REF cycle will draw new colleagues into
the development of ambitious, multidisciplinary, collaborative research agendas, building capacity
towards bigger projects, knowledge exchange and impact in the next REF cycle. AHRC Network
grants were awarded to Morton (2017-19), Tindley and Hickman, the latter two under the 2019
Landscape Decision highlight notice. Tindley and Hickman’s grants, together with Hickman’s other
projects (including a 2019 Wellcome grant for which she is a PI), Long’s Wellcome-funded Seed
Project (2018-19) and McCorristine’s 2020 Irish Research Council New Foundations award,
illustrate the Unit’s commitment to work that engages with and seeks to address real-world
challenges that face society in the twenty-first century particularly in the environmental and medical
humanities.

Infrastructure

The UoA is based in the historic Armstrong Building, part of the original nineteenth-century college
out of which Newcastle University developed. This building was refurbished at a cost of £27m
between 2013 and 2019. It houses the School Office and a separate Finance Office where our
professional services staff are based, offices for academic staff, an open-plan office space for PhD
researchers, computer labs equipped with specialist software, student facilities, and rooms suitable
for hosting research events such as seminars and conferences. A separate research suite in the
adjacent Old Library Building provides open-plan office space, meeting rooms and
videoconferencing facilities for postdoctoral scholars and project teams.

The University’s archival, rare books and museum collections hold a wealth of historic material.
These include the family papers and a photographic archive relating to the Trevelyan family; the
Gertrude Bell Archive, which is included on the UNESCO International Memory of the World
Register (2017) (one of only two UK university archives recognized in this way); a unique collection
of British Civil War pamphlets; and ethnographic collections from around the world. We work
closely with staff from the Robinson Library to support the Unit’s research. The Library’s pioneering
approach to securing e-resources has benefitted the Unit, with subscriptions to major resources
such as State Papers Online, the Irish Newspaper Archive, and the Perdita Manuscripts collection
purchased during this REF cycle. This approach has been crucial in the lockdown periods resulting
from Covid-19 and during this time the Library has prioritized the funding of e-resources. The
establishment of an oral history archive in the Library’s special collections, described in Section 1,
reflects significant institutional commitment to developing and supporting research resources for

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Unit members. While Ghervas has worked closely with colleagues in the School of Engineering on
the marine technology archive that is in the process of being moved to the Robinson Library.

Research Support Structures and Personnel

The School Research Committee (SRC) is chaired by the School Director of Research and its
members include the Head of School; each subject's Head, Research (UoA) Coordinator and
Impact Champion; as well as the School Postgraduate Research Director and Ethics Officer; and
professional services staff from the School's Research Finance team. The academic membership
of the SRC is evenly balanced in terms of gender and it works closely with the School's Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Committee to promote EDI in the research environment. The SRC
fosters a dynamic research culture through the development and implementation of policies and
strategic distribution of internal research funding. It organizes an annual research away day that
includes both School-wide plenaries and subject-specific sessions focusing on innovation and
medium- to long-term research horizons (e.g. UKRI cross-cutting funding opportunities,
OpenAccess publishing, Digital History) and works closely with the History Impact Forum and
Research Forum (established in 2019) to foster a collaborative and inclusive research culture and
to support the development of new initiatives.

A History-wide, term-time research seminar series features national and international speakers.
These are often organized jointly with Research Strands and are scheduled into the teaching
timetable and held within working hours so all colleagues can attend. The series has continued
virtually during Covid-19 restrictions. Complementary activities include the Modern European
History seminar series, established in 2018 and supported by the Conflict and Revolution research
strand, and the Early Modern Civil Religion reading group, operated by the Ideas and Beliefs
strand. Since October 2019 a weekly lunchtime research slot has been organized at School level
to support the integration of ECRs, encourage discussion of interdisciplinary research, and build
collegiality and collaboration across the three subject areas. It too has continued to function in
virtual form during lockdown.

All Unit staff can access a library of successful grant applications via the School's intranet and
since 2019 we have held a grant-writing workshop each semester to which all staff can submit draft
proposals for peer review, supplemented by more specialist work-in-progress sessions organized
by research strands. The School Research Director and the Faculty Research Funding Managers
(2FTE) offer targeted advice on the early scoping of research projects (including for EU and
International schemes) as well as reading and commenting on draft applications. The School
Finance Office supports research projects throughout the application and implementation phases.
Research integrity is supported via advice from the School Director of Research and Ethics Officer,
together with the Faculty Research Ethics Committee and the University Grants and Contracts
office. Grants and Contracts review all proposals to ensure compliance with ethical, legal and
professional standards. The University supports FAIR data principles and the Research Data
Management team oversee an open repository for datasets (data.ncl.ac.uk) and provide advice on
data archiving. The HaSS Impact Officers (2FTE), Business Development Managers (2FTE) and
Engagement Support Team (3FTE), as well as staff from the Press Office, work with the School
Director of Research and the UoA's Impact Champion to advise on embedding impact activities
within research programmes and on building collaborations with external partners. The University
also offers a range of professional development activities via its Staff Development Unit. The
‘Getting Those Grants’ sessions and the ‘PI Development Programme’ have particularly benefitted
staff within the Unit.

Many of the externally-funded projects described above were initially supported by internal
schemes at School, Faculty and University level. All research-active staff can access the School’s
Research Support Fund to support archival research and conference attendance (£900 p/a or
£1,400 p/a for colleagues within eight years of their doctorate who are not funded by an external
grant). The allowance is increased by a small percentage in proportion with the amount of external
income a colleague has applied for. The School proactively nurtures Research Strand activity by
providing £2,500 of ring-fenced funding per Strand for activities annually, accessed via an
application to the SRC to ensure fair and transparent distribution. All colleagues, including PGRs

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and ECRs, are encouraged to apply. Colleagues can also apply to the School’s Promoting Events
and Networks scheme, managed by the SRC, which provides up to £1,500 to support activities that
may lead to a research bid, publication, or the development of an international network. The Head
of School's Discretionary Fund is often used to support specific initiatives such as providing
seedcorn funding for early-stage project development.

Further money is available at Faculty and University level. The Pioneer Awards introduced by the
Newcastle University Humanities Research Institute (NURHI) and Newcastle Institute for Social
Science in 2019 offer seedcorn funding for early-stage projects: S. Campbell and McCorristine
benefited in 2019-20. The Faculty Research Fund (two calls annually) assists with the completion
of major research projects. It provides up to £4,000 for specific activities, the development of small-
scale funding bids, or high-quality research outputs. There have been eleven successful
applications to this fund over the cycle from Unit members, including two ECRs (Mongey and S.
Campbell). The Bid Preparation Fund offers up to £10,000 for the preparation of grant applications.
There have been eight successful applications during the cycle. The Faculty Impact Fund is open
to any member of HaSS academic staff who wishes to conduct an impact project based on their
research. Five colleagues (Perry, Hionidou, Brewster, Houston and S. Campbell) have secured
money from this fund during the cycle. Colleagues within the Unit have also benefited from wider
University schemes including the University’s Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support Fund, which
supported Dale’s project on physical disability and psychological trauma among Red Army
veterans in 2019 (£4,600); the University Conference Fund, which funded the Ideas and Beliefs
strand international conference on Civil Religion in 2019; and the Catherine Cookson Foundation,
which provided McCorristine and Atkinson-Phillips with grants respectively to publicize the history
of Newcastle Gaol and to create the ‘We Made Ships’ website. Several colleagues have developed
their impact work with internal funding from the Faculty and University, including the ESRC IAA
block funding awarded to Newcastle in 2015 and 2019 (ILE 4.1.5).

Members of the Unit have helped to shape NUHRI’s research agenda by leading various initiatives
supported by the Institute that transcend disciplinary boundaries and involve engagement with
external stakeholders. These include the Family Histories Discussion Forum, the Maritime
Humanities Hub, the Medical Humanities Network, the Irish Studies Network and the Recovery
Voice workshop held in 2018. The AHRC-funded project Wastes and Strays was another NUHRI
initiative, which emerged out of the AHRC Commons Event in York in 2016 involving Hammersley,
NUHRI fellow Emma Cheatle, and colleagues from York and Brighton.

The recent (post-census date) award of an ESRC New Investigator Grant (£292,188) to Clark to
investigate the relationship between historic deindustrialization and wellbeing in later life; a Marie
Sklodowska-Curie postdoctoral fellowship to Gaby Mahlberg; and an AHRC Project Grant on which
Hickman, as Co-I, secured a £440,000 share of £988.538.80 funding to examine how public rights
of way in postwar Britain were mapped and experienced (PI O’Hara, Oxford Brookes), indicate that
we are on the path to further grant success in the next cycle.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our focus on historical justice and engaging with the past in order to understand the present and
inform the future, means that we need to work with a diverse range of regional, national and
international stakeholders and beneficiaries, including government bodies, NGOs, museums and
archives, libraries, community groups and schools. Moreover, it is not simply a matter of
communicating with these partners, where possible we seek opportunities to co-design and co-
produce knowledge. Our new Impact Forum enables us to share best practice and nurture new
collaborations, supported by our Impact Champion and the Faculty Impact team.

Communicating research to diverse publics

Beyond specific impact and engagement projects, Unit members are committed to sharing their
research through schools, education bodies, and public lectures. Tindley, for example, participates
in annual adult education weekends in Sutherland, while Houston delivered a session on
responses to the assassination of Martin Luther King for 110 Darlington sixth-form students at the

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Bowes Museum in 2017. Farr gives public lectures at local libraries and schools, including annual
lectures for Queen Elizabeth Sixth Form College, Darlington, while Hammersley has been working
for several years with schools in conjunction with the Robinson Library's educational outreach
team and the National Civil War Centre. The Inspiring Archives project, funded by the Heritage
Lottery Fund in 2017, kickstarted this work on the Civil War in the North East of England. Ashley
established a lecture series with the Literary and Philosophical Society, to which many Unit staff
have contributed.

We also share our research through media channels; Farr appears almost weekly on local and
national broadcasters commenting on contemporary politics, while Garrett served as a consultant
for Samurai Age Productions in 2019 for Netflix. Andrews, Clarke, Grant, Hammersley and East
have all appeared within this cycle on Radio 4's flagship programme, ‘In Our Time’ (audience c.2
million), while Long and Berry have appeared on BBC 1's 'Who Do You Think You Are?’ (audience
c.6 million).

Research collaboration, networks and partnerships

As outlined in Section 1, Unit members have developed new, interdisciplinary collaborative
research networks this cycle, notably via the OHUC and in medical and maritime humanities. The
Ideas and Beliefs strand have developed several collaborations. Morton’s 2017-2019 AHRC anti-
Catholicism networking grant allowing him to develop an international network of over 50 scholars
from 14 countries over four workshops, in partnership with cultural venues Ushaw House and
Auckland Castle, which is developing a Faith Museum that explores religious intolerance.
Hammersley’s involvement in the 2019-2021 ‘Wastes and Strays’ project represents a good
example of collaboration both within and beyond the institution (Law at Newcastle Architecture at
Portsmouth and Sheffield). Long collaborated with three charities during her 2018 Wellcome Seed
Award (Antenatal Results and Choices; Down’s Syndrome Association; Shine). Moreover, as
described in Section 3, networking grants and the GCRF Living Deltas Hub are enabling Unit
members Berry, Hickman, McCorristine, Smith and Tindley to develop cross-institutional,
interdisciplinary and international networks to further research on landscape and the environment.

Tindley has played a pivotal role as Director of Northern Bridge in developing PGR capacity across
the region, serving as PI on the successful bid to extend the consortium in 2019, totalling
£3,134,088. Approximately 20% of these studentships will be Collaborative Doctoral Awards
(CDAs), which enable us to develop partnerships with regional and national bodies. Colleagues
currently supervise PhD students in collaboration with the National Trust, Tyne and Wear Archives,
the Buccleauch Estates, the National Library of Scotland and the Newcastle Literary and
Philosophical Society. Co-supervision brings benefits to the partner body and society through more
co-designed and co-produced research which has greater impact.

Engagement and Place

Our impact and engagement work - which aims to secure health, social and cultural benefits for our
regional, national and international partners - preceded the launch of the University’s Engagement
and Place strategic objective in 2018 and continues to deliver on this objective (ILE 2.1.2). The
collaborative work undertaken with regional partner organizations by the Labour and Society
research strand (and associated Faculty Research Group) over the census period demonstrates
our Unit’s commitment to historical justice, applying our research in public contexts, and engaging
with local institutions and community groups, in line with the University's civic agenda. Strand
members support colleagues in transitioning from engagement to impact, and fulfilling our ambition
of enriching public understanding of the past and its relationship to the present. Perry's work on
Ellen Wilkinson and the Jarrow March, for example, formed the basis of the 80th Anniversary
commemoration of that event in 2016. The ‘Marching into History’ exhibition, co-designed by Perry
and Adam Bell (assistant keeper of social history for Tyne and Wear Museums), ran at South
Shields Museum and Art Gallery from October 2016 to February 2017, attracting 12,222 visitors.
Perry also collaborated with the Poet Tom Kelly and South Tyneside Libraries to undertake a
creative writing project with three local schools on the Jarrow Crusade, compiling a booklet of
children’s contributions. He participated in the conceptualisation and making of the film Who Were

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the Marchers? produced by local filmmaker Gary Wilkinson. This was shown at the Customs
House in South Shields, filling the 150 capacity, and has received over 4,300 views on YouTube.
Perry was also interviewed for a BBC bitesize video for GCSE students on the Jarrow March.
These interventions changed public discourse about the Crusade from a nostalgic stylized account
that silenced and anonymized the marchers, to one that presented the marchers as historical
actors. The project nurtured local pride in what remains an economically disadvantaged area and
developed self-worth amongst local school children.

The Foodbank Histories project is a collaboration between the OHUC and Northern Cultural
Projects. The team (including Atkinson-Phillips and Hepworth, a former PGR and now fixed-term
lecturer) interviewed 33 foodbank users, volunteers and activists about their life histories and
involvement with the Newcastle West End Foodbank. By listening to and sharing stories of clients,
volunteers and supporters of Britain’s busiest foodbank, the project challenges myths about
poverty and underlines its historical and social context. It shifts conversations about foodbanks
away from victim-blaming and towards questioning the social structures that lead people into food
poverty. Philip Alston, UN Special Rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights, ‘found the
Food Bank Histories produced by the Oral History Collective at Newcastle to be extremely
informative and very instructive in terms of locating the evolution of food banks in the UK within a
broader context.’ The oral histories collected as part of the Foodbank Histories project formed the
basis of Live Youth Theatre’s performance ‘Fed Up’, delivered in three performances in July 2019
outside the Newcastle United Supporters’ Foodbank donation station at the Grainger Market and at
Newcastle City Library. As part of the 2018 AHRC-funded Being Human Festival (for which
Newcastle was one of the hubs), Foodbank Histories organized an exhibition at Newcastle’s
Grainger Market which showcased the research. Foodbank donations increased by one-third
during the exhibition.

The Irish Studies Network, co-founded by S. Campbell (another member of the Labour and Society
Strand), and a colleague from English, launched in October 2019. It is establishing Newcastle as a
major locus for Irish Studies research in the UK and is fostering multi-disciplinary approaches and
partnerships by actively engaging scholars from Digital Humanities, Geography, Law, Linguistics
and Politics, as well as NU’s Institute for Health and Ageing, to expand fundamental knowledge in
the field. It is also developing partnerships with the Tyneside Irish Centre, Tyne and Wear Archives
and Museums and the University’s Special Collections.

While the collaborative partnerships described above demonstrate our commitment to working with
local partners to effect change in the region, our impact work also has a global reach, generating
societal and cultural benefits to communities far beyond the North East. Our work for Freedom City
2017, a city-wide programme of 54 events which were held at 37 venues to commemorate the 50th
anniversary of Dr Martin Luther King being awarded an honorary degree by Newcastle University,
reflects our commitment to both the local and the global. Houston was a driving force in this
initiative, serving on the Steering Committee which advised on all aspects of the programming
throughout the entire city. His personal contribution was to curate an international exhibition, ‘“Not
As It Is Written”: Black Pittsburgh in Voice and Image’, held jointly at the Great North Museum and
the Carnegie Museum of Art (Pittsburgh) in 2017. The show paired historic images, taken by
African American photographer Charles “Teenie” Harris, with selections from a recent oral history
project documenting Black Pittsburgh that Houston had directed. Set against the backdrop of civil
rights event anniversaries, and in a new era of contemporary Black activism, the exhibition
presented a case study of race relations in one city. Houston secured an ESRC-IAA grant to
develop a free companion app which showed the exhibition in its entirety and enabled users to
post their reflections via their own photos and audio recordings. Allen, Hammersley and Perry
collaborated with local illustrators to bring the history of civil rights and politics on Tyneside to life
for 8- to 12-year olds through the Freedom City Comic: 37,000 copies were distributed through
libraries, Seven Stories The National Centre for Children’s Books, and the Great North Museum.
Freedom City 2017 was judged best North East Event of the year in the 2018 Journal Culture
Awards.

Our impact work also reflects the global reach of our Unit’s research. This includes Brewster's ICS,
'Using the past to reaffirm indigenous identity in present-day Mexico', described in Section 1, and

                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Smith’s contribution to the Living Deltas project, described in Section 3. We also transfer
knowledge across international communities through our publications: Lawson’s translation of Mao
Haijian’s 1995 book, Tianchao de bengkui yapian zhanzheng zai yanjiu (published in 2016 as The
Qing Empire and the Opium War: Collapse of the Heavenly Dynasty), brought a modern classic of
Chinese History to English-speaking audiences: as the American Historical Review observed of the
book, there is ‘an unconscionable scarcity of translations in English of works on Chinese history
written in China’. Similarly, Hionidou’s 2020 H κατοχική πείνα μέσα από προφορικές μαρτυρίες. Η
περίπτωση της Χίου, της Σύρου και της Μυκόνου (The Greek Famine of the 1940s through Oral
Histories. The Cases of Hios, Syros and Mykonos) makes rare and valuable primary sources on
occupation, famine and mortality available to Greek researchers.

Innovation, enterprise and policy

Unit members’ research is helping to inform government policy. Tindley's ICS, ‘Informing
landscape decision-making frameworks in Scotland’, details how her historical research has
influenced Scottish land reform and management via a pilot study which explored the feasibility of
putting together an administrative register of small landholdings and the subsequent report and
policy briefing she produced for the Scottish government. Berridge's ICS 'Shaping Western
responses to Sudan's civilian uprising (2018-2019)' demonstrates the impact that her research has
exerted on the UK government's policy towards Sudan. We are building further connections for the
next REF cycle, for example through the work of East, who is receiving support from the Policy
Academy (ILE 2.2.5) for her project on citizenship education.

Contribution to the discipline and research base

Newcastle is big enough to sustain all the disciplines needed to address major challenges, but
small enough to work cohesively across the University and with partners. Our Unit exploits these
institutional attributes to establish novel interdisciplinary collaborations, such as the medical,
maritime and environmental humanities networks, which aim to generate innovation within existing
subfields. The Labour and Society research strand and Faculty Research Group have also
capitalized on this attribute, reinvigorating the well-established labour history sub-field through
interdisciplinary collaborative workshops with Newcastle University’s Business School, Gender
Research Group, and Music Department. Our OHUC is developing innovative uses of oral history
to help secure sustainable development through Smith’s involvement in the Living Deltas hub, and
members are using oral history as both a method and a source in public history, evident in the
partnership with Newcastle West End Foodbank and Northern Cultural Projects for the foodbank
histories project. Smith’s 2017 four-volume edited collection, Oral History: Critical Concepts in
Historical Studies, reflects the contribution OHUC members are making, gathering over 100 cutting
edge and canonical contributions on oral history research to demonstrate the field’s breadth, and
potential.

Peer review contributions

Colleagues contribute to the discipline by serving on the boards of learned associations and
journals. Baker was editor of American Nineteenth-Century History 2010-2018. Clarke is on
Amsterdam University Press’s Late Antique and Early Medieval Iberia book series editorial board.
Farr heads Britain and the World's Board of Directors and is general editor of the organization’s
journal and book series. Grant chairs the British American Nineteenth Century Historians
Association, and serves on the Lincoln Prize Committee. She also sits on the editorial board of
Nations and Nationalism and is a former editor of Civil War History. Hammersley serves on the
editorial boards of History of European Ideas, Global Intellectual History and Storia e Politica. She
served on the Royal Historical Society’s Studies in History editorial board, 2007-2018. Hickman
and Sehrawat both serve on the Executive Committee for the Society for the Social History of
Medicine. Houston is an international consulting editor for the American National Council for Public
History, and its journal, Public Historian. Lawson serves on the editorial board of International
Review of Environmental History. Morton sits on History UK. Tindley is chair of the journal Northern
Scotland and serves on the editorial boards of Local Population Studies and Scottish Local History
Forum. She is a council member and office bearer in the Scottish History Society. Sehrawat,

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Siemens and Tindley are all current members of the AHRC Peer Review College, while Long has
served on Wellcome’s Research Resources funding committee since 2014. We have also made a
significant contribution to the field throughout the census period by reviewing article manuscripts
for over 80 different journals, and book proposals and manuscripts for more than 25 publishers.
Unit members have also reviewed funding proposals submitted to 13 funders.

Our determination to build on existing collaborations and to further invigorate our impact activities
and to embed engagement and impact more widely within the Unit, will allow us to develop and
extend the strong partnerships that we have already established. This will ensure that future
research is increasingly co-designed and co-produced with stakeholders and beneficiaries allowing
us to address more effectively issues of historical justice.




                                                                                            Page 18
