Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Durham University

 Unit of assessment: Physics

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context

 The Physics department is the largest of the eight departments and schools within the Faculty of
 Science at Durham and is a thriving centre for research and education. It is the fifth largest Physics
 department in the UK, with 85 Cat A staff, 95 PDRAs and 178 PhD students. We teach around
 575 undergraduates per year through a combination of single honours four-year MPhys and three-
 year BSc Physics degrees, as well as 286 interdisciplinary students taking some Physics modules
 under our Natural Sciences programme. The department closely aligns the teaching and learning
 experience for its students with the research-intensive values and practices of the university.
 Research-led teaching is embedded at all levels from first year laboratory reports to the final year
 MSci flagship individual research project, worth half of the marks for that year. Our department is
 ranked 4th in the 2020 Complete University Guide subject league tables.

 Highlights of the REF period include:
    ● Research grant funding of GBP87M, and GBP37M of in-kind funding;
    ● Carlos Frenk appointed as Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the
        2017 Queen’s Birthday Honours for services to cosmology and public understanding of
        science;
    ● Outreach events directly involving over ~15,000 school children and ~500 teachers in local
        region which has high social deprivation;
    ● Teaching materials ‘From Higgs to Hubble’ used by over 100,000 secondary school pupils;
    ● Opening a new GBP12M building designed by world-renowned architect Daniel Libeskind;
    ● Economic impact from successful spin-out companies and partnerships with major global
        companies such as Procter and Gamble;
    ● Societal impact from leveraging computer simulation expertise to model the pandemic.
        This code is used by NHS England Emergency Preparedness Resilience and Response
        Group.

 1.2 Research structures (see Figure 1)

 There are six intermeshed research groups spanning a wide range of areas: from blue skies
 research in astronomy and cosmology (Centre for Extragalactic Astronomy: CEA and Institute for
 Computational Cosmology, ICC), elementary particle physics (Institute for Particle Physics
 Phenomenology: IPPP) and ultracold atoms/molecules (Quantum properties of Light and Matter:
 QLM), to the more applied groups which focus on understanding and fabricating new materials
 (Centre for Materials Physics: CMP) and precision optical devices (Centre for Advanced
 Instrumentation: CfAI). Economic impact is currently concentrated in the more applied groups, as
 these have most potential for industrial collaboration and spin out companies, while the more
 fundamental groups have societal impact through public understanding of science.

 The university also has institute structures. These can be sharply focused to promote areas of
 excellence, such as the Institute for Particle Physics Phenomenology (IPPP, which includes all of
 the particle physicists), and the Institute for Computational Cosmology (ICC, incorporating the
 astronomers working on large scale computer simulations of the universe). Both of these Institutes
 are hosted entirely within physics and together make up the Ogden Centre for Fundamental
 Physics.


                                                                                                          1
The other eight university Research Institutes span departmental boundaries, enhancing
multidisciplinary collaboration. Physics is strongly represented in many of these, with significant
leadership positions, for example:

   ●   The Biophysical Sciences Institute (BSI: Director Girkin to 2019, which links to Biological
       Sciences, Chemistry, Engineering and Mathematical Sciences)
   ●   The Durham Energy Institute (DEI: co-director Halliday, linking especially to Engineering
       and Chemistry)
   ●   The Institute for Data Science (IDAS: Director Krauss, reaching across Mathematical
       Sciences and Computer Science).

These broader Institutes form the supporting context for the four multidisciplinary Centres for
Doctoral Training (CDTs) with Physics leadership (Soft Matter and Functional Interfaces - BSI,
Energy - DEI, Data Intensive Science – IDAS and a new Global Challenges Centre - DEI). Two
additional CDTs with substantial Physics involvement are hosted by the DEI, on Fusion energy
(with York, with CfAI and CMP) and on Renewable Energy North East (Newcastle and
Northumbria with CMP).




         Computer Science
         Maths


           IDAS                            CEA



           ICC

                       Impact
                        Hub 2
                                                                    CfAI

                                           QLM

           IPPP
                                                                               BSI   Biosciences
                                                       Impact                        Maths
                                                                                     Chemistry
                                                        Hub 1                        Engineering


                                           CMP



                                                        DEI
                                                      Engineering
                                                      Chemistry




Figure 1: How groups in Physics relate to each other, to the Institute structures, and main linkages
to other departments within Durham. Current impact is mainly concentrated in Hub 1. Additional
planned, future impact growth areas in Data Sciences are shown as Hub 2.




                                                                                                       2
CfAI Centre for Advanced              Design, development and fabrication of precision
Instrumentation                       optical instrumentation e.g. adaptive optics on large
                                      telescopes        (Harmoni on the Extremely Large
Bourgenot (F), Brown (L),
                                      Telescope) and massively multiplexed fibre fed
Chadwick, Girkin, S. Morris, T.
                                      spectrographs, either robotically placed to enable
Morris, O’Brien, Osborn (P),
                                      efficient spectral surveys of galaxies and quasars (as
Saunter, Sharples, Wilson
                                      used in the Dark Energy Spectroscopic Survey: DESI),
                                      or close packed into arrays to give true imaging-
                                      spectroscopy (integral field units) such as NIRSpec
                                      (James Webb Space Telescope) and KMOS
                                      (European Southern Observatory Very Large
                                      Telescope VLT). The same technology is applied to
                                      imaging spectroscopy of tokamak fusion plasmas.
CEA Centre for Extragalactic          Predominantly observational studies using large scale
Astronomy                             surveys (including 4MOST and DESI) to trace the
                                      cosmic web of galaxies across the Universe.
Alexander, Cooke (P), Done
                                      Multiwavelength observations of individual objects and
(DoR), Edge, Fumagalli, Jauzac
                                      populations using the largest available facilities
(P), Massey, Morabito, Norberg,
                                      (including KMOS on the VLT) to understand the
Roberts (DoE), Smail, Smith,
                                      astrophysics of galaxies and their central black holes.
Swinbank
                                      X-ray studies of accretion show the growth of quasars,
                                      while radio (LOFAR and SKA) and very high energy
                                      gamma rays (CTA) probe jets. Tracing the buildup of
                                      the elements using gas in the intergalactic medium.
ICC Institute for Computational       Uses supercomputer simulations to understand the
Cosmology                             origin of galaxies and larger scale structures and their
                                      evolution across cosmic time in a Universe dominated
Amorisco (F), Baugh, Bower, Cole,
                                      by dark matter and dark energy. These models are
Deason (P), Eke, Frenk, Jenkins,
                                      tested by large scale surveys, including CEA.
Lacey, Li, Theuns
                                      Calculating the imprint on large scale structure of new
                                      physics in the dark sector of the Universe.
IPPP Institute for Particle Physics   Addresses the fundamental nature of matter from two
Phenomenology                         major standpoints. Firstly, providing high precision
                                      calculations within the standard model to interpret
Abel, Alonso, Andersen, Badger
                                      results from the LHC at CERN and other experiments,
(P), Bauer, Cerdeno, Ellis, Glover
                                      and secondly investigating and modelling beyond the
(HoD), Huss, Khoze, Krauss,
                                      standard model effects at the LHC, in neutrino
Maitre, Pascoli, Pecjak, Schoenherr
                                      oscillation experiments, in quark flavour physics and
(P), Spannowsky
                                      the dark sector.
QLM: Quantum Light and Matter         Advance fundamental understanding of the quantum
                                      properties of atoms, molecules and solids and their
Adams, S Bromley (F), Carty,
                                      interactions with light, using ultracold Rydberg atoms
Cornish, Chancellor (F), Gardiner
                                      and molecules, Fermi degenerate gases, with quantum
(0.5FTE as Deputy Executive
                                      optics, technology, and computation.
Dean), Hughes, Jones, Kendon,
Potvliege, Weatherill
CMP: Centre for Materials Physics     Topics range from understanding the electronic
                                      structure of complex materials, with applications in
Adeyeye, (College Head), Atkinson
                                      organic light emitting diodes, photovoltaic solar cells
(DoF), Clark, E. Bromley, (DoEDI),
                                      and semiconductors, to magnetism and magnetic
Degiacomi (P), Dias, Fielding,
                                      devices at both the nano-scale and for
Gidopoulos, Halliday, Hampshire,
                                      superconductivity. The group now extends into soft
Hatton, He, Hindmarch, Hunt,
                                      matter, with experimental and theoretical research into
Kusumaatmaja, Lancaster, Mendis,
                                      materials such as polymers, gels, and colloids as well
Monkman, Staykova, Szablewski,
                                      as bio-molecules, their dynamics and self-assembly.
Terry, Tjhung (L), Voitchovsky
                                                                                                 3
Table 1: Staff and research topics for groups in Physics as shown in Fig 1. Staff in bold font are
section heads. Other abbreviations are F – Early Career Fellow (fixed term), P – proleptic
appointment, L – Lecturer (fixed term), HoD - Head of Department, DoR - Director of Research,
DoE - Director of Education, DoF - Director of Facilities, DoEDI - Director of EDI


1.3 Research Strategy

Our stated goals from REF2014 were to:
   ● Increase grant funding;
   ● Increase postgraduate research (PGR) numbers and training provision at doctoral level;
   ● Complete the building program for Ogden Centre West, including the refurbishment and
       reconfiguration of the vacated space to rationalise and consolidate all the groups after a
       period of sustained growth.

All of these objectives have been successfully met despite the harsh economic climate (see
below).

Our overarching research strategy during the period covered by REF2021 was to build critical
mass in areas of excellence, both by consolidating existing core activity and responding to new
opportunities. The centre and institute structures provide a coherent, focused and supportive
environment, which is also flexible enough to adapt to the evolving research landscape. Our
sustainability and vitality are demonstrated by the evolution of the groups during the REF period
described in Section 2, and are underpinned by a commitment from the university to fully replace
all vacated posts including retirements. We use open positions both to refresh existing research
strengths, and to flexibly realign our research to exploit new opportunities, especially those which
link between groups in a cross-cutting manner.

Going forward, we plan to build on this approach, and have identified several new areas in which
to re-align existing group structures. Many of the research strengths in the department depend on
high performance computing. This is required to produce, analyse and interpret the enormous
datasets from simulations of the Universe (ICC), as well as those produced by current and
upcoming new telescope surveys (CEA and CfAI). Similar computational challenges result from
interpreting data from particle collisions at CERN, e.g. identifying the one Higgs interaction from
the 1011 background events (IPPP), while in CMP the computational challenges are instead in
determining the multi-electron orbital structures underpinning the behaviour of complex materials.

These strands have already been drawn together in the new Institute for Data Sciences, building
on the success of the CDT in Data Intensive Science developed by Profs Krauss (IPPP) and
Baugh (ICC) to train excellent researchers in cutting edge science and techniques in artificial
intelligence and machine learning. This demonstrated the power in sharing research experience
and techniques between the research groups in physics as well as strengthening links to industry
via its placement scheme. Our aim is to use IDAS to strengthen our research, leveraging its
multidisciplinary links to Mathematical Sciences and Computer Science to position ourselves in
readiness to maximally exploit the science from the enormous datasets expected in the next REF
period. Facilities such as the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST), an optical telescope which
will map the sky every day to look for transients, and the Square Kilometre Array (SKA), the world's
largest radio telescope, will produce PetaBytes of data every day for their operational lifetimes.

Another area of regrouping identified in our strategy links together the IPPP research expertise on
exploration of physics beyond the standard model with QLM using laser cooled Rydberg atoms
as exquisitely sensitive probes of new physics. Light dark matter (where ‘light’ refers to mass,
‘dark’ to its lack of any electromagnetic interaction) can potentially give distortions to the Coulomb
potential or particle masses, leading to minute, time-dependent variations in spectral line energies.
IPPP have the field theory expertise to predict masses and couplings from the various models of
new physics (e.g. axions, hidden photons). QLM have the techniques and equipment to
manipulate and cool atoms, producing systems with a single electron placed in a very high
                                                                                                         4
principle quantum number shell. This gives a vastly inflated atomic size of order a micron, so the
electron is extremely loosely bound and, hence, very sensitive to external fields or interactions,
such as those expected from light dark matter. The precision of these experiments can be
increased further when combined with CfAI expertise in designing and fabricating quantum
sensors, and CMP theoretical understanding of electronic interactions in these sensors. The high
risk/high reward outcome of this program would be nothing less than the discovery of a dark matter
particle and the identification of the new physics behind the dark sector. However, the guaranteed
return is in the development of laser cooling and sensors, controlling light photon by photon, and
matter atom by atom, with the further aim of producing the world’s first Rydberg Hydrogen and
Helium atoms.

1.4 Impact Strategy

Our strategy to enhance the impact of our research is threefold.

i) Research driven impact, where a discovery gives clear potential for exploitation. This arises
most often in CMP, as their work on understanding the structure of new materials has more
immediate application in industry. Research & Innovation Services (RIS) supports academic staff
through all the stages of commercialisation, as illustrated by the case studies below.

The classic spin-out company model allows the impact to be directly controlled and exploited. Two
of our case studies illustrate this route at different stages of development. Kromek is a well-
established spin-out, based on the discovery of a novel way to grow large, defect free,
semiconductor crystals. The potential of these for detector technology was quickly recognised and
the decision taken to form the company. This soon outgrew university premises in Physics, and
moved to NETPark, the NE Technology park (see Section 4), becoming one of their anchor
tenants. It employs over 100 people in the UK and USA and had a turnover of GBP14.5M in 2018-
19. Kromek has impact in security, with its detectors in use in liquid screening in over 50 airports
in 11 countries as well as in health via medical imaging, where contracts presently stand at over
USD58M.

By contrast, Durham Magneto-optics is a much smaller scale spin out company. This grew out
of research on magnetic switches, where the information is carried in the polarity of magnetic
domain walls (spintronic devices) but nanoscale fluctuations in the size of the magnetic domains
make these difficult to control. Researchers in CMP developed a unique instrument to sensitively
resolve changes in magnetic structures in real time, and set up the company to make this
commercially available as a scientific instrument.

Peratech instead grew from a new pressure-sensitive material discovered by industry, giving a
potential new dimension of response for touch screens. CMP research revealed the physical origin
of the special properties of this material, and this understanding was key to its successful
commercialisation.

Licencing of IP (via RIS) gives another route to commercialisation, using an appropriate industrial
collaborator as demonstrated by Castep. This is a computer code developed from research in
CMP to predict the electronic, physical and chemical properties of materials from first principles in
quantum mechanics by calculating the many body interactions between multiple electrons, now
also including strongly correlated systems, not just density functional theory approaches. This has
been cited by more than 982 patents since 2016.

ii) Planned engagement with industry. There has been a shift in the funding landscape toward
larger, more complex grants, which involve multiple university and industrial partners. RIS
supports academics through the process of applying for these grants, with expertise on the
financial and legal aspects of contracting, as well as advice on building and managing the
consortium.
The Brucker case study illustrates this, where Durham led a Euro2.65M European Commission
Framework 7 ICT project with multiple partners in academia and industry to investigate Silicon
                                                                                                        5
wafer failures in semiconductor manufacturing. Research in CMP showed that X-ray imaging was
able to distinguish cracks which would fail during high temperature processing, and those which
were benign. Jordan Valley Semiconductors UK, an SME in the consortium, made the strategic
decision to develop this IP into a fully automated tool for in-line inspection and removal of suspect
wafers, and current sales are in excess of GBP1M.

Case study Fusion instead highlights how a single research activity can play a key role in a much
larger collaboration. The Euro20 Billion ITER project is building the first commercially viable
tokamak. This uses low temperature, superconducting materials to carry the large currents
required to confine the plasma, but these currents induce a magnetic field in the superconductor.
Above some critical current, this turns the superconductor back into a normally resistive wire. Prof
Hampshire (Durham Physics CMP and DEI) designed the first instrument to make high accuracy
measurements of this critical current, which led to Euro2M of contracts to characterise the wires
for the ITER magnet system. Those which do not meet the Durham tests are not used in the
tokamak, avoiding potentially catastrophic failure of the superconducting ring.

iii) Long term, formal partnerships with industry. This third approach builds and extends on the
planned engagements with industry described above. It was initiated from the success of a project
with Procter & Gamble (P&G, a US USD 80Billion turnover company), where they were trying to
develop low temperature, more efficient detergents to minimise energy costs and environmental
damage. P&G were using optical microscopy to image the effect of detergent on fatty stains.
However, fat itself acts as an optical element, so the images were distorted. Prof Girkin (BSI and
a member of CfAI in Physics) used techniques from Adaptive Optics, developed to remove
atmospheric distortion from large astronomical telescopes, into the process. This gave much
higher resolution images, revealing new aspects of how molecular bonds are broken and reformed
in the washing cycle which generated multiple spin off projects in Chemistry. In response, RIS set
up a Master Collaboration Agreement to make a single structure for Intellectual Property (IP) and
consultancy agreements covering all projects with P&G. This circumvents the hidden barriers in
starting up a single collaboration, where these issues have to be negotiated from scratch with
each individual academic and/or department. There is now a portfolio of over 100 funded projects
leveraging GBP24.5M (including GBP11.5M in Government and Research Council support)
across the university. P&G ranks Durham as a ‘best in class’ academic partner in recognition of
its innovative approach to university - business partnering where research needs and research
capabilities of both partners have been carefully mapped and core areas of mutual interest
identified (see case study: P&G-Durham Physics Partnership).

Going forward, we will build on each of these three approaches to impact. We now have additional
Master Collaboration Agreements building long term, formal partnerships with IBM, Akzo Nobel
(who bought ICI), the BG Group (formerly British Gas PLC) and others, and these form part of our
future strategy for developing new impact in Hub 1, focussed on the properties of materials.

We are also developing an additional impact direction (Hub 2 in Fig 1) based around the new
Institute for Data Sciences. This will build on the industry links developed for the Data Science
CDT (see Section 2), which required that the students did at least two placements in industry.
Our partners for this include SME companies in NETpark, as well as the global industries in Hub
1, and international banks such as Barclays and Atom. Example projects included working with a
local X-ray imaging company, IBEX at Netpark, on using machine learning to discriminate between
bone and soft tissue in the presence of noise. The resulting software is now incorporated into the
IBEX imaging system and the results presented at the influential SPIE Medical Imaging
conference, as well as showcased to MPs at Westminster. Another project for the United Nations
used artificial intelligence/neural networks to produce imaging software which could automatically
classify and count temporary structures from satellite images of refugee camps, giving a real time
estimate of occupancy to inform humanitarian relief work.

Larger scale impact is already starting to develop from this out of our mainstream research. For
example, ICC simulations of the Universe are computationally very expensive and there are too
many free parameters to fully explore the effect of each one. Instead, they have developed
                                                                                                        6
Gaussian emulator methods in collaboration with statisticians in Mathematical Sciences, using
sparse data to reliably predict how the results depended on the multiple input control parameters.
The same methods are now being applied in a collaboration with P&G to control the operation of
their drying towers to make washing powders more efficiently. This already gives results
comparable to those that had developed over five years of experimental trial and error. P&G are
rolling this out as a tool in all their drying plants (see case study: P&G-Durham Physics
Partnership). The same approach is now being trialled with the Department of Work and Pensions
for assessing the outcome of proposed public policy changes.

1.5 Interdisciplinary Research

There are multiple interdisciplinary aspects to our research. These are facilitated by the Institute
structures (see Fig 1), which explicitly link thematically across to other departments. For example,
the Durham Energy Institute (DEI) brings together staff in CMP working on understanding and
characterising the behaviour of photo-active materials, both for lighting and solar cells, with the
staff in Chemistry who make these highly specialised molecules, and staff in Engineering who
design the systems. Similarly, the Biophysical Sciences Institute (BSI) links work in soft matter
CMP on bio-inspired molecular design, such as a nano-scale motor that can ‘walk’ along DNA,
with the biologists who work on synthesis of these proteins.

The more specialist institutes still have strong interdisciplinarity e.g. the IPPP has close links with
the Theoretical Particle Physics group in Mathematical Sciences. Together they form the Centre
for Particle Theory with a joint seminar program and PGT MSc student training course (see
Section 2.2). Gregory (returned in UoA 10) is a joint appointment, while Abel (returned in this
UoA) is in Mathematical Sciences.

Another strong driver of interdisciplinarity within the Science Faculty comes from the UKRI Centre
for Doctoral Training (CDT) programs, described in more detail in Section 2.2. Broader cross-
faculty projects are facilitated through the Institute for Advanced Studies and the wider Durham
collegiate system, both of which foster contact between staff members across the university. For
example, Prof McLeish (FRS, CMP in Durham until 2017) was Co-I on both an AHRC major
project (led by History) on The Ordered Universe: Interdisciplinary Readings of Medieval Science,
GBP0.8M from 2016 to 2020, and on a Templeton foundation grant (led by Theology) on
Equipping Christian Leaders in an Age of Science of GBP0.7M (2015 to 2019). Staykova (CMP)
is PI on a Royal Society Apex GBP0.1M award ‘Material Imagination’ in collaboration with
Sociology, to establish the principles of a self-propagating bacterial factory as a new living material
and to shape the future of this material using participatory design methods.

Our strategy for future growth in interdisciplinarity is to use the new IDAS to add to these existing
links, strengthening collaboration with Mathematical Sciences and Computer Science in research
techniques for big data, machine learning and artificial intelligence.

1.6 Open Access and Ethical Research

Open access to data, software and publications is routine in Astronomy and Particle Physics.
Large scale sky surveys are made public in a series of data releases to maximise the science
return. For example, the Panoramic Survey Telescope and Rapid Response System
(PanSTARRS), designed to alert for collisions from Near Earth Objects, observed the entire
available sky several times per month. The immense task of uniformly calibrating and releasing
this dataset was led by Metcalfe (CEA, not returned in REF as his position is to support research
and teaching in the department) as chair of the Science Consortium Data Verification Group.
Similarly, the ICC have pioneered the release of data from their large scale computer simulations
of the growth of structure in the universe in a similar manner to real observations.

Open access to publications was pioneered by the Particle Physics and Astronomy communities,
with their preprint servers making research papers freely available worldwide, but it is now also

                                                                                                          7
becoming standard to publicly release software. This includes both individual codes and the larger
software tools such as Herwig and SHERPA, developed by IPPP for analysis of LHC data.

The new developments over the REF period have been the rolling out of open access/open data
across the wider Physics and university community. The university is fully committed to sharing
results of its research not only with academics but also industry, health services, government and
the general public. Durham research online contains full text versions of publications by Durham
staff, while the research data repository is used to store, curate and make available any research
data/software as part of the research data management plan which is now required by most grant
funders.

There is a departmental ethics committee, which assesses all relevant grant applications. These
include scrutiny of collaborations outside of the EEA, especially those with developing countries,
where inequalities in power and status of participating scientists could lead to bias in claiming
intellectual property e.g. the Global Challenges CDT based around the UN sustainable
development goals with Development Assistance Committee nations. The university also has a
specialist Research Policy team, responsible for the review, development and implementation of
all the processes which underpin Research and Innovation activities. This includes oversight of all
funded work with outside bodies, including consultancy, commercialisation and engagement
activities.


Section 2. People

2.1 Context

In REF2014 we submitted 74 Cat A staff out of a possible 82 whereas there are now 85 Cat A
staff, showing the sustainability and vitality of the department. There is a university commitment
to replace all vacant positions from either retirements or staff mobility. This has enabled the groups
to consolidate after the period of more rapid expansion in 2008 to 2014, resulting in an
approximately flat age profile from 35 upwards and a growing diversity at senior levels. We have
similar numbers of postdoctoral fellows as in REF2014 and a 10% uplift in PDRA support. We
have markedly increased our number of PhD students, from 154 in 2014 to 192 in 2019. This was
a key forward goal from REF2014 which has been achieved despite a hostile economic climate.
Much of this growth came from the externally funded CDTs, which leveraged substantial university
and industrial investment in terms of funding additional studentships. Both postdoc and PhD
cohorts are ~25% female.

2.2 Staff Development: Probation, Progression and Promotion

There are formal probation structures for all new academic staff, including a requirement to
complete the PostGraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PGCAP) which gives training and
support on teaching methods and course design in accordance with the UK Professional
Standards Framework supporting learning in Higher Education. Alongside this, we also assign a
specific teaching mentor as well as a general mentor who can advise on all aspects of the role.
The teaching load for a new lecturer is tapered at 1/3 and 2/3 for their first and second year,
demonstrating our commitment to helping staff establish their research group, and complete the
PGCAP whilst developing their new courses.

We have robust processes for promotion, with all academic and research track staff in post for
more than two years submitting their CV each year for consideration against written criteria for
each grade. Impact is explicitly included alongside research, teaching and citizenship roles. All
other research staff have an Annual Development Review to give an opportunity for input on their
career direction and goals as well as feedback and recognition for their achievements.

Staff are supported in terms of progressing their research though advice on applying for grants
via departmental mentoring, and the university RIS structure. This advertises all grant
                                                                                                         8
opportunities from external funding calls, as well as running drop-in sessions for each research
section to give more tailored advice. They also circulate information on internal funding, such as
the university seedcorn grants, which can be used for pilot studies to demonstrate feasibility before
writing a grant application, or for impact activities. EPSRC and STFC Impact Accelerator Account
funds are an additional source of support for developing impact from research. Recipients of these
funds include for example Girkin (CfAI), for development of a near IR dental imaging instrument,
Massey (CEA), modelling the growth of cancerous tumours using modern statistical techniques
and Kendon (QLM), working with D-wave, the first commercially available quantum computer.

2.3 Staff recruitment

All groups have recruited new staff during this REF period, in line with departmental strategy of
consolidating areas of existing excellence and repositioning groups to exploit future opportunities.
We have a general policy of recruiting earlier career staff, appointing those with emerging
leadership potential rather than hiring more established figures. We advertise internationally,
including targeted searches, to ensure the largest and most diverse pool of talent. This, combined
with our track record of appointing holders of long-term research fellowships to academic posts
as proleptic appointments, has ensured the sustainable age profile and growing diversity
discussed above.

New research areas identified as strategic future directions are specifically targeted for recruitment
e.g. CfAI recruited O’Brien from Oxford for his work on Microwave Kinetic Inductance Devices
(MKIDS). These quantum sensors are an emerging, disruptive detector technology that promises
to revolutionize many areas of UV, Optical and Infrared instruments by giving energy sensitive
imaging arrays, removing the need for the complex optics of a separate fibre fed spectrograph.
These highly sensitive devices align with our planned activity in ‘Quantum Sensors for
Fundamental Physics’, spanning across IPPP and QLM as well as CfAI and CMP, with Bauer
hired in this area in IPPP. Similarly, CEA identified radio astronomy with the SKA as a future
research priority, hiring Morabito for her experience in this field. The success and sustainability
of this approach going forward into the future is highlighted by the recent announcement of both
Bauer and Morabito as UKRI FLF (round 4).

University policy is currently focussed on hiring Cat A eligible, fixed-term lecturers to cover grant
and/or fellowship teaching buyouts rather than fixed term staff on teaching-only contracts. These
lecturers are independent researchers and contribute to the research environment as well as to
the teaching programme. This also makes the posts more attractive as they encompass the full
set of skills required for an academic post, giving a better defined pathway for future career
development.

This approach is exemplified by recent staff developments within the relatively new soft matter
group in CMP. This saw major expansion in the previous REF period, with five staff hires in
response to the high level university joint appointment of Mcleish FRS as Pro-Vice chancellor for
research and a Professor in Physics. Prof McLeish won the 2017 IoP Sam Edwards medal for his
sustained and outstanding contributions to the fields of molecular rheology, macromolecular
biophysics and self-assembly, before moving to York to take up a Chair in Natural Philosophy.
The university commitment to replacements meant that we advertised a lectureship in this area,
and the successful candidate, Diagiacomi, was appointed in 2019. He was part way through a
GBP0.8M EPSRC early career fellowship and his teaching buyout funded a three-year fixed-term
lectureship, with Tjhung appointed in 2020.

There is also the flexibility to respond to unplanned opportunities, as exemplified by the high level
university appointment of Adeyeye, from the National University of Singapore, whose research
field is nanomagnets in non-volatile memory technologies (an area of current CMP strengths, see
also Impact Case Study: DMO). He was recruited to a joint position as both a Professor in Physics
and as the Head of Trevelyan college, connecting us to the wider student experience as well as
strengthening a strategic, impact generating, research strand. His research activity is supported
via a Royal Society Wolfson Fellowship.
                                                                                                         9
Succession planning highlighted a few key positions where appointments at a very senior level
are required such as the Directorship of the IPPP and ICC. The university is fully supportive of
this, and we recruited Ellis (FRS) in 2015 for IPPP from his position as Head of the Theory
Department at Fermilab, USA. A similar search for a replacement for Frenk (FRS, OBE) led to
Cole (Shaw prize winner, 2014) being appointed as director of the ICC.

2.4 ECR support (Cat A and B/Z)

All new staff appointments come with a negotiated start up package. This is especially important
for early career experimentalists, where equipping a laboratory is required before their research
can flourish. We offer consultation to all incoming academic staff to make sure that they are
making an appropriate bid for support of their research, to overcome any biases which can arise
from background.

All research staff are also encouraged to take part in teaching in the department to build
experience and enhance their CV with transferable skills. This is limited to six hours per week in
term time, so that their research is not unduly impacted, and they are recompensed by travel funds
to attend conferences in their field. They are also encouraged to attend relevant skills training
courses run by the university. These include ones specifically focused on ECR such as
‘Networking and making the most of conferences’, ‘Hacking the academic job market’ and
‘Preparing for a non-academic career’ as well as more general courses on entrepreneurial
learning, innovation and enterprise. There are annual ‘Physics Awards for Excellence’ for fixed-
term staff in the Physics department, allowing them to highlight the quality of their research on
their CV.

Postdoctoral researchers hired on grants are also supported to develop their own independent
research career. This is a key recommendation in the Concordat to Support the Career
Development of Researchers. The department has implemented our Research Staff Consultative
Committee proposal to allow 20% of time for development of independent projects and skills, and
also provides a small funding stream of GBP 20k annually to support this e.g. for travel to build
new collaborations or to cover minor equipment requests.

2.5 Sabbatical leave and secondments

All staff are actively encouraged to apply for sabbatical leave. This can be taken in Durham, to
ensure it is equally accessible for staff with caring responsibilities, as well as the more traditional
sabbatical leave hosted elsewhere. There is flexibility in scheduling this, so that it can be either
taken as a single term e.g. Lancaster (CMP), who was invited to take up a visiting Professor
position for three months at Universita di Parma, to collaborate on a project to develop theoretical
and computational tools to model the interaction of muons with solids. Alternatively, it can be
accumulated over a longer time in order to request several consecutive terms (up to one academic
year) for longer projects e.g. Done (CEA) spent a year in Japan, working with the Japanese Space
Agency, where she was part of their science exploitation team for a new X-ray astronomy satellite.

Sabbatical leave can also be spent on impact activities, for example Saunter in CfAI, developed
a camera tracking system for pre-screening drugs on C. elegans nematode worms. Many of their
genes have human orthologs, so they can replace mice in the early stages of testing. However,
their use was limited as assessment was often invasive, disrupting the test conditions, with results
limited to alive/dead rather than continuous monitoring. Instead, a standard CCD camera attached
to a cheap Raspberry Pi computer enables real-time, continuous, non-invasive tracking of worm
activity. He set this up as a spin-out company, Magnitude Biosciences, which has subsequently
raised GBP375k in a stage 2 funding round.

The IPPP has a long history of strong links with CERN, hosting staff either on sabbatical leave or
secondment. For example, Richardson (IPPP) had a five-year secondment (so is not eligible for
inclusion in REF) as staff member in the theory division of CERN. He is a key developer of the
                                                                                                 10
Herwig Monte Carlo event generator software, which encapsulates the current theoretical
understanding of hadronic collisions and produces simulated events which can be compared with
data. This is a standard tool for analysis of high-energy collisions, both for testing the Standard
Model and in the search for physics Beyond the Standard Model.

2.6 Research students:

We have graduated 210 PhD students in the REF period. These form a vital part of our strategy
to increase the reach and significance of our research activity. Our objective is that the facilities,
financial support, training and mentorship for all our postgraduate students are amongst the best
in the UK.

PhD students are directly recruited into one of the research sections, supported primarily by
studentships from either UKRI or external funders. All potential supervisors have undergone
unconscious bias training, and we record and monitor gender balance between applications, offers
and acceptances.

2.6.1 Support from major funding bodies

The majority of PhD positions are funded from RCUK, with the EPSRC Doctoral Training Account
currently totalling GBP1.3M and STFC quota studentships currently totalling GBP 6.0M. There is
also additional support from various EU Training Networks. For example, there are four EU
Framework 7 Initial Training Networks which have run from IPPP in the REF period: HiggsTools,
(Glover, GBP0.6M) which investigated electro-weak symmetry breaking, MCnet (Richardson,
GBP0.4M) which focuses on MonteCarlo techniques to understand collider experiment data from
the LHC, Invisibles (Pascoli, GBP0.3M) on neutrino and dark matter phenomenology, and
LHCphenonet (Maitre, GBP0.2M) on advanced particle phenomenology.

The department also receives students from multiple Doctoral Training programs. The largest of
these are detailed below.

Soft Matter and Functional Interfaces (SoFI 2014 to 2022, GBP4.8M and now SoFI2 2019 to
2028, GBP5.6M): The core aim is to deliver a comprehensive, team-based approach to solving
complex industrial challenges with topics as varied as smart surfaces, recyclable plastics and new
medicines as well as learning about all aspects of soft matter (CMP soft, joint with Chemistry).
This is structured so that the first six months is cohort training, and the PhD includes the
opportunity for a six month external placement with either another university group (Leeds and
Edinburgh) or industrial partner (25 ranging in size from GSK and Nestle to local SME). The
training also includes a mini-MBA coordinated by Durham Business School, with modules in
project management, leadership and best practice in collaborative innovation. This has hosted
79 students since 2014, with 13 in Physics (predominantly in the CMP soft matter group)

Energy: PI Halliday (CMP and co-Director of DEI). It provides a wide ranging, stimulating and
effective training program in all aspects of energy with particular emphasis on developing
multidisciplinary perspectives and approaches to energy problems, from engineering to social
aspects. A series of internal and external invited lectures from leading energy researchers allow
the students to gain an insight into real energy challenges. An annual group project allows
students, working in small groups, to carry out a project addressing current energy issues. Regular
field trips and site visits allow students to see energy technologies in operation and how new
approaches might be developed and implemented. This has hosted 31 students in Physics since
2014.

Data Intensive Science: This is a collaboration between the Astronomers and IPPP to combine
their skills and expertise in handling the computational challenges of large datasets, with GBP 1M
funding from STFC. Krauss (IPPP) and Baugh (ICC) are co-PIs. There is initial intensive training
for nine months on generic technical skills and methods (statistics, numerical algorithms, high-
performance computing, machine learning) and in their chosen subject specialisation (astronomy
                                                                                                 11
or particle physics). There is also training in transferable skills, together with a mini-MBA and
workshops on communicating science. Impact is embedded in the program, as it requires that
students do two eight-week team-based projects, either in-house in our research groups or with
external partners. This industrial placement element of the CDT has been so successful that we
have rolled out this opportunity to all PhD students in Astronomy. All 22 students on this CDT
since its start in 2017 are in Physics.

Global Challenges: This is the newest CDT, supported by GBP3M from a successful bid to the
Global Challenges Research Fund by Halliday (CMP and co-Director of the Energy Institute) in
2019. Research focuses on multidisciplinary projects aligned with one (or more) of the UN
Sustainable Development Goals. It will host 26 international students from 17 DAC nations,
working across 15 departments across all Faculties in Durham (Sciences, Social Sciences, and
Arts and Humanities). Students receive cohort-based training in a range of areas including
development-related research methodologies, and spend four to six months in the country that is
the focus of their research, working with a partner overseas university and/or other groups such
as non-governmental organisations. Once they have completed their PhD, their knowledge and
research can be communicated and implemented back to the student’s country of origin where
they will be continuing their work.

We also have students in Physics funded by the Fusion CDT (led by York, GBP3.7M, 2014 to
2022) and the ReNU CDT (led by Northumbria, GBP5.5M, 2019 to 2027).

2.6.2 Research student monitoring, support and training

Progress is tracked by both student and primary supervisor via quarterly reviews. This short
questionnaire on the database gives a fixed timescale on which to assess achievements against
goals for the period. Typically, this is only a brief record of ongoing discussions between student
and supervisor, but it does also provide an opportunity for either party to voice concerns.
Responses are monitored by the Director of Postgraduate Studies, so they can intervene on any
issues raised.

There is an additional larger scale Annual Progress Review for all PhD students, again monitored
by the Director of Postgraduate Studies. First year students write a 5000 word report, structured
in a similar fashion to a thesis introduction, but with content appropriate to this more preliminary
stage. The supervisory team nominates two Review Team members/examiners who interview the
student, and make a recommendation on progression based on their assessment of the student’s
ability to complete a PhD in a timely fashion. Subsequent reviews take place annually, with a
completion review in the final year where the students submit a plan indicating how they propose
to finish their thesis by the end of the period of supervised study

The department of Physics recognises and celebrates excellence through the award of
postgraduate prizes for outstanding achievement, both for first year and final year students.

Pastoral meetings are available to all students as an opportunity to informally discuss any
problems that they are encountering that impact their research. Students can arrange these with
any member of staff from the Postgraduate Studies Committee not connected to the students’
academic research, in order to have an independent source of advice and support.

All students attend dedicated advanced lecture courses on the specific background science and
techniques relevant to their field. For IPPP this comprises two terms of Masters level taught
courses in order to fully cover the theoretical foundations of particle theory, string theory and
cosmology. Other sections do a shorter combination of lectures and skills sessions. These can be
tailored for each individual area, or shared where the groups require common skills such as in
Optical Design (using Zemax) in both QLM and CfAI, or in the integration and computer control of
experiments (using Raspberry Pi’s) in both CfAI and CMP. Several of these courses are supported
by textbooks written by Durham staff during the REF period:
     ● Adams and Hughes: Optics from Fourier to Fresnel (2018);
                                                                                                12
   ●   Kusumaatmaja: The lattice Boltzmann method, principles and practice (2017);
   ●   Girkin: A practical guide to optical microscopy (2019);
   ●   Spannowsky: Looking inside jets (2019),
   ●   Krauss: The black book of Quantum Chromodynamics (2018);
   ●   Mendis: Electron beam-specimen Interactions and simulations methods in microscopy
       (2018).

There is training available on more generic skills development, based on the Research Councils’
Joint Skills Statement. All students complete a training needs analysis every year to identify
broader university courses which are relevant to their interests. All postgraduate students are also
offered opportunities to develop their teaching portfolio at an appropriate level, such as
demonstrating in undergraduate laboratories, example classes and workshops. Students are
supported by compulsory training sessions and paid at an hourly rate for their work. Their
contribution is limited to six hours per week in term time to ensure this does not negatively impact
on their research time, whilst allowing them to accumulate evidence of teaching experience for
their CV.

2.7 Equality and Diversity

The department is committed to upholding the principles of EDI. This is managed through the EDI
committee, chaired by DoEDI (Bromley, CMP) comprising HoD, staff from across all
demographics, PGR and UG students. The DoEDI is a core member of all senior committees,
including Operations Group, the top level management team of the department, along with HoD,
DoR, DoE, DoF, and the departmental manager responsible for professional services. This means
EDI principles are embedded across the department, with the DoEDI monitoring outcomes (e.g.
of applications for university sabbatical and equipment funding requests, and ranking of fellowship
applicants) in terms of gender balance and other protected characteristics. This has resulted in
Durham being one of only 18 Physics departments in the UK to hold Juno Champion status, and
the department also holds a Silver Athena Swan award. A key strategic goal is to gain Athena
Swan Gold status in the near future. Bromley has recently been appointed as Faculty of Science
Athena Swan lead by the university in recognition of the quality and impact of her leadership of
EDI in Physics.

All staff involved in selecting and hiring graduate students and postdocs are required to have
undergone the ‘Unconscious bias’ university training course. This enables staff to recognise their
own assumptions, and to actively deal with them. Staff on appointment panels for academic
positions are further required to attend university training on recruitment and selection where there
is emphasis on written criteria and standardised questions for each applicant.

Succession planning for the highest level departmental academic roles (HoD, DoR, DoE, DoF,
DoEDI) is explicitly advertised across all staff. The system encourages the widest participation by
circulating written descriptions of the roles, along with a questionnaire asking which position(s)
staff might want to consider applying for in the short, medium and longer term. This has enabled
a more transparent process, where all staff can identify what training and experience they might
require to achieve their career goals.

EDI issues in recognising and rewarding staff are similarly monitored. The process is that all
academic, teaching track staff and research track staff in post for more than two years are required
to submit a CV annually to the departmental Progression and Promotion Committee. These are
considered against published criteria for promotion and/or merit awards. The Director of EDI and
a representative from the university HR department sit on this committee and monitor its
processes and discussions to ensure that fixed-term staff are considered alongside permanent
staff and that part time staff are not disadvantaged.

The department supports flexible working applications, allowing staff to temporarily or permanently
change their contracted hours in response to circumstances, such as change in caring
responsibilities. There is support for a reduced teaching load for people returning from parental
                                                                                                  13
leave, or a period of ill health, where the department works closely with the university Occupational
Health service to support staff on phased return where we make reasonable adjustments for
disability. We advertise this by case studies on the ‘Diversity’ section of our website, to illustrate
the range of adjustments which can be made to maximise staff engagement and productivity.

There is a full workload model for all teaching and administration roles within the department,
costed in hours with rates which are openly advertised. The resulting spreadsheet of tasks is seen
by all staff, with load pro-rata’d to FTE. This transparent process means that part time staff can
ensure that their load is appropriately reduced, and that all staff, including BAME and other
protected characteristics, can directly track and compare their contribution. Each member of
academic staff has a rolling personal account, topped up with GBP1000 per year as part of
research incentivisation. This can be used more flexibly than many research grant funds to cover
a wider variety of additional costs involved with conference attendance, such as child care.

All departmental meetings and research seminars are held during core hours to ensure maximum
accessibility for staff. University-wide processes around timetabling invite all staff to submit known
schedule constraints in advance so that lectures do not clash with school pickup/drop off or other
fixed time caring responsibilities. Additionally, there is a dedicated room in Physics which is private
and lockable to support EDI activities such as breastfeeding.

The department is proactive in supporting wellbeing. There are also multiple posters advertising
the ‘Departmental Listeners’ network, signposting confidential support for issues around health
and wellbeing, including mental health and stress as well as bullying and harassment. The named
Listeners can directly refer to university Occupational Health Service, bypassing the line manager
in cases where staff feel uncomfortable in discussing sensitive issues with them. Copies of the
IoP ‘Resilience toolkit: A Physicists guide to building and maintaining wellbeing’ are available on
a dedicated noticeboard in the common coffee area, and posters outlining our code of conduct
‘Respect at Work’ are prominently displayed throughout the department.

The department followed the recommended university code of practice for selecting staff for
submission. Of our 85 Cat A staff, 2 staff are on part time (0.6FTE) contracts so this
gives 84.2 FTE, requiring 211 outputs. Of these, 29 are from female and 18 from BAME staff, in
line with (and slightly above) their representation (12 female, and 6 BAME). We also included 12
outputs from early career Cat B staff to illustrate the quality of independent researchers who have
held fellowships here during the REF period.


Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research funding

Our strategy for generating research funding is to use RIS resources to advertise all grant
opportunities to all staff. These include both UKRI/EU funding sources together with wider Grand
Research Challenges Fund/industry/regional development opportunities. RIS holds drop-in
sessions for each group to facilitate informal discussions on relevant grant opportunities. All staff
are mentored through the application process, with the requirement that the case is read by a
senior internal assessor before submission to ensure that they are well structured and focused on
the grant criteria. This has resulted in the award of over GBP87M to the department in research
grant income since the last REF, with large grants from major funders detailed below.

STFC Consolidated grants: The department holds two of these, one in Astronomy
(ICC/CEA/CfAI) and one in particle physics (IPPP). These are a major source of funding for the
research in these groups, with support totalling GBP6.1M (Astronomy) and GBP7.4M (IPPP) over
the REF period. Each consolidated grant sets out multiple individual research cases contributed
by all staff in these sections, forming a broad programme of related work across the group. This
sets much of the research agenda for the three-year period of the grant application cycle.

                                                                                                     14
STFC PPRP grants: CfAI have a substantial track record in Astronomical instrumentation. Over
the past three decades, they have participated in the design and/or construction of common-user
instrumentation for many of the world’s major astronomical facilities (e.g. VLT, SALT, DESI, ELT,
CTA). Currently the group holds contracts to develop instrumentation for the European Extremely
Large Telescope (E-ELT), with 15 times more collecting area than any current telescope. First
light instruments include Harmoni, an Integral Field Unit providing high resolution spectra for every
image pixel simultaneously, while subsequent instrumentation will include a high spectral
resolution and multi-object spectrographs. Durham was awarded a total of GBP3.3M to design
and build optical components for all these instruments, and an additional GBP3.8M grant has just
been announced (PI: S. Morris). These contracts include a guarantee of time for first light science
data, with consequent high impact publications. The quality of these novel instruments also
directly influences research in CEA and ICC: e.g. CfAI built part of the 5000 fibre multi-object
spectrograph for DESI, a US-Europe-China collaboration led by the US Department of Energy
(grants totalling GBP1M in the REF period). This will study the cosmological expansion rate and
the growth of structure via a wide-angle spectroscopic galaxy and quasar redshift survey, with
additional science, including studying galaxy formation and evolution, galaxy cluster surveys, the
structure of the Milky-Way galaxy and Galactic archaeology. These data directly support multiple
research strands in CEA.

Major Industry Grants: CfAI made a strategic decision to expand into satellite instrumentation
when they were chosen to provide the precision optics for a spectrograph which will fly on the
NASA James Webb Space Telescope, the successor to the iconic Hubble Space Telescope.
There are limited opportunities in astronomy space-based missions, but there have been small
contracts to design novel instruments for ESAs EXOMars mission and the ESA-Roskosmos Luna-
2 moon lander (Bourgenot). There are many more Earth observation and remote sensing
satellites, with a total of GBP4.2M from Airbus for METimage, a polar orbiting weather satellite
and GBP2.2M for the ESA Sentinel system (PI: Sharples).

EPSRC program grants

Skyrmions: from magnetic excitations to functioning magnetic devices: Hatton (PI) and Lancaster
(both CMP). Skyrmions are vortex-like excitations in magnetic fields which hold promise for
advancing our basic understanding of matter, and also for technological deployment as highly
efficient memory elements. The research combines expertise across universities, national facilities
and industry to answer basic questions about the status of magnetic Skyrmions and to develop
technological applications. GBP5.1M (GBP1.7M to Durham)

QSUM: Quantum science with ultracold molecules: Cornish (QLM). Entanglement is at the heart
of quantum mechanics. Once two particles have interacted they cannot be treated as independent
entities no matter how far apart their separation. These interactions are enhanced for particles
which have a dipole field, making it easier to build a quantum computer from molecules rather
than atoms. However, while the techniques to manipulate cold atoms are well developed,
techniques to manipulate molecules are still in their infancy. This project will build up expertise,
from control of isolated molecules and their coupling to single photons; to small arrays of
interacting molecules, controlling interactions and entanglement in simple geometries; and then
to two- and three-dimensional lattices to understand the complex behaviour of strongly interacting
many-particle systems. GBP6.7M (GBP2.8M to Durham).

EPSRC platform grants

Atom based Quantum Photonics: Hughes (QLM), with Jones, Gardiner and Weatherill (QLM)
as co-Is. This brings together a range of activities in the QLM group to make and manipulate
photons rather than atoms. GBP1.2M.

EPSRC responsive mode: There are multiple grants held across QLM, CMP and CMP (soft)
funding our research. Most of these are smaller scale than the programme/platform schemes,
                                                                                         15
though they can reach ~GBP1M such as the Optical clock arrays for Quantum Metrology: Jones
and Adams (QLM).

3.2 Research fellowships

The department uses the same mentoring process for personal fellowship applications as used
for grants, giving input from a senior staff member. Additionally, for those schemes which also
involve a presentation and/or interview for the final round, the department sets up a panel of senior
staff (generally including HoD and DoR) to hold a practice session and give feedback.

ERC grants held during the REF period:

 Advanced               Smail, CEA GBP1.73M (2013 to 2018), Frenk ICC GBP2.5M (2018 to
                        2023)
                        Glover IPPP GBP1.5M (2014 to 2018), Frenk ICC GBP1.7M (2011 to
                        2017)
 Consolidator           Pascoli IPPP GBP1.2M (2014 to 2019), Badger IPPP GBP1.4 (2018
                        to 2023)
                        Fielding CMP GBP1.5M (2012 to 2017)
 Starter                Li ICC GBP1.0M (2017 to 2022), Fumagalli CEA GBP1.1M (2017 to
                        2022)

Staff in each of the groups have also won multiple, personal long-term fellowships, both from
UKRI, and the Royal Society

For example, Deason was appointed as a proleptic lecturer to ICC in 2016 on a Royal Society
URF with an enhancement award, bringing a new focus on large-scale simulations of the formation
history of our Milky Way galaxy. These models can now be tested with data from large surveys,
including ESA’s Euro750M GAIA satellite which enables the most precise measurements of the
dynamics and structure of the 100 billion stars in our Galaxy. Their kinematics retain traces of past
events such as a major accretion event of a satellite galaxy of the Milky Way around the epoch of
the formation of the galactic disc around 10Gyr ago, as well as pointing to a future collision with
the Large Magellanic cloud in ~2Gy time. She was awarded the Philip Leverhulme Prize in 2018
for her research in this area.

Badger in IPPP was appointed as a proleptic lecturer in 2016 with a GBP0.6M STFC ERF for
research in standard model physics at the precision frontier. His calculations of the multi-loop
scattering amplitudes are needed to compare with current and future experiments at the Large
Hadron Collider, and attracted further support both from STFC ERF with an enhancement grant
for GBP0.4M and a Euro1.8M ERC consolidator grant. Most recently, Schoenherr was appointed
in 2019 with research which is similarly aligned with this core IPPP activity on a Royal Society
URF and an enhancement award.

CEA appointed Cooke from a Royal Society URF in 2016 to study elemental abundances in the
most pristine material in the Universe to constrain Big Bang Nucleosynthesis and to directly
observe the composition of gas out of which the first stars and galaxies form. One of his
enhancement awards was for a deep learning workstation to train a convolution neural network to
automatically fit the properties of intervening gas systems in the intergalactic medium along
sightlines to distant quasars, connecting him to the IDAS. CEA also appointed Jauzac as a
proleptic lecturer in 2019, after she won one of the first tranche of UKRI FLF. She is PI of one of
the largest allocations of time on the Hubble Space Telescope for a program to study clusters of
galaxies, mapping their dark matter distribution to unprecedented detail by using gravitational
lensing distortions of background galaxy images. Osborn (CfAI) won one of the second tranche
of UKRI FLF positions, with a research plan modelling the atmospheric distortion of large
                                                                                                   16
telescopes and applying this to increase transmission rates in satellite communications,
connecting to an impact area.

In the soft matter group, both Voitchovsky and Diagiacomi hold EPSRC Early Career
Fellowships (GBP1.1M to track single ions which transport and store energy in both living
organisms and in batteries and GBP0.8M to develop computational methods for modelling
biomolecular systems at atom scale resolution).

Fellowships are also used to open up new areas of research in the department. Kendon was
appointed in 2014, with her GBP1.3M EPSRC Established Career Fellowship, one of the first to
be awarded from the Quantum Technology funding stream. Her work in quantum computing
offered a new activity for the QLM group into a field with undoubted future potential, both for pure
research and for impact. She is developing quantum algorithms as an interdisciplinary area, with
reach into mathematical physics, computer science, and quantum many body physics. This has
already attracted an EPSRC innovation fellow (Chancellor) to the group, and is an area identified
for future growth, especially under the new IDAS multidisciplinary structure.

Impact is also recognised, with Atkinson holding a Royal Society Industry Fellowship. Baugh is
an STFC Innovation Fellow, with a project to translate expertise on data sciences in Astronomy
into industry, while ECR Bourgenot holds an EPSRC Innovation Fellowship to develop spectral-
imaging technology for remote sensing on drones to monitor agricultural yields.

3.3 Organisational support for research and impact

The ICC, together with all of the astronomers in CEA and CfAI, moved into the Ogden Centre for
Fundamental Physics West in 2017. This GBP12M dedicated building was designed by world-
renowned architect Daniel Libeskind and funded by Durham university, together with a GBP3.35M
donation from the Ogden Trust and GBP1.5M from the Wolfson Foundation. The new building is
adjacent to the main Rochester building and the original Ogden Centre, so maintains Physics as
a cohesive unit. The additional space has benefited the entire department by allowing all sections
to reconfigure and regroup, rationalising their structure and use of space. This was supported by
a major programme of refurbishment including new dedicated research laboratory space for CMP
and QLM.

CfAI has a GBP6M dedicated instrumentation laboratory at NETPark with large-scale clean room
and diamond machining capability to fabricate high precision optics. The university contributes
GBP300k per year towards the cost of this, and it forms the home for the recently funded University
Enterprise Zone (see Section 4.2).

3.4 Infrastructure supporting research and impact

The ICC hosts parts of STFCs Distributed Research utilizing Advanced Computing (DiRAC). This
is an integrated supercomputing facility for theoretical modelling and High Performance
Computing (HPC) based research in astronomy and cosmology. It is housed in the Lydia Heck
data centre (named after the long term ICC computer manager), supported with university
investment of GBP3.5M. The upgrade to DiRAC-2.5x was funded by STFC for GBP2.7M (Frenk,
ICC). Time on this is allocated via proposal rounds in open, nationwide competition, but 80% is
won by Durham.

The ICC also owns an additional large supercomputer, COSMA-VIRGO, which is not part of
DiRAC, to directly support its own research program. This has 4800 cores with 38TB of RAM,
3.2PB of storage and a 6PB tape archiving system. It provides 42M core-hours per year. In 2016
it was upgraded with GBP200k of local funds for storage and tape archive. For most applications,
its performance per core is within 20% of the newest DiRAC machine. COSMA-VIRGO running
costs (GBP80k per annum) are covered by Durham. Together, the COSMA-VIRGO and DiRAC
machines are key to the highest impact publications of the ICC, such as the EAGLE hydrodynamic
simulation of galaxy formation. This was the most highly cited paper in Astronomy in 2015.
                                                                                               17
IPPP runs a High Throughput Computing centre. The 5000 physical core cluster has been funded
by an equal mix of university and STFC funding, totalling GBP0.7M. This is part of the GridPP
collaboration, bringing together particle physicists and computer scientists in the UK and at CERN,
and the IPPP service runs jobs from ATLAS, CMS, LHCb when not fully utilized by IPPP for
precision calculations. In return, IPPP users can access GridPP resources elsewhere in the UK.

The university also operates its own HPC service, a Linux distributed memory cluster, Hamilton.
Use of this is free of charge for Durham users with grants funded under UKRI. This is a major
resource for the theoretical CMP group for their work on understanding the structure of complex
materials from fundamental quantum mechanics of the electronic configuration (see Case study:
Castep). Durham have recently won a GBP3.1M EPSRC grant as part of the Northern Intensive
Computing Environment to establish a new national Tier-2 HPC service ("NICE19") to provide a
route to Exascale computing that serves experimental users who generate large data sets
requiring analysis, and for modellers who use machine learning.

The Science Faculty operates an electron microscopy suite with five state-of-the-art scanning
electron microscopes, transmission electron microscopes and focused ion-beam microscopes
that are accessible to both staff and students to use for materials characterisation, as well as
providing a commercial service to industry users. The CfAI diamond machining equipment is
similarly commercially available to provide specialist expertise and equipment for manufacture of
ultra-precision optical components for industry.


Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research collaborations, locally, nationally and internationally

Locally, we have strong links to Newcastle in Quantum processes. The Joint Quantum Centre
links research in QLM with theoretical Chemistry in Durham and staff in the School of
Mathematics, Statistics and Physics at Newcastle university sharing a common interest in the
study of the quantum properties of atoms, molecules and solids, and their interactions with light.
The strength of these collaborations is indicated by the grant income to this group detailed in
Section 3.3. The DEI also acts as a regional link to Newcastle, Northumbria and York universities,
together addressing common topics in energy generation, storage and technology, with the joint
CDT programs ReNU and Fusion.

On a national scale, the IPPP is the UK centre for particle phenomenology, and supports much of
the theoretical and experimental activities in this field by running workshops, conferences and
networks. An international expert panel report from the 2017 STFC review of particle physics
theory states that “The creation of the IPPP in Durham was very successful in focusing the UK
activity on particle physics phenomenology in a single institution, catalysing remarkable progress
in the field.”

4.2 Collaborations for impact and wider contributions to the economy

A key university-wide facility for capturing and exploiting impact is NETPark (North East
Technology science park), located in Sedgefield, County Durham. This was started as an initiative
between Durham university, Durham County Council and the Teeside-based Centre for Process
Innovation (CPI), which specialises in printable electronics. Its focus is on developing technology
in the physical sciences, supporting this by access to early stage venture capital and taking it to
market readiness. Physics plays a major leadership role in NETPark, with CfAI and Kromek (a
spin-out company from Physics, see case study: Kromek) as anchor tenants, along with CPI.
There is a three-way MoU between Business Durham (who manage NETPark on behalf of
Durham County Council), CPI, and Durham university, signed in 2015, committing the partners to
working together to promote research, business and career opportunities in the North East. CPI
have set up a National Centre for Healthcare Photonics and are collaborating with Durham
                                                                                                  18
    university on a European Regional Development-funded project (Girkin, CfAI is academic lead)
    to support SME companies developing technologies for medical applications. This has attracted
    investment of GBP20M for a new building, and GBP1.3M in funding for projects.

    NETPark is unique in the UK in hosting two Catapult centres. These are designed to transform
    the UK’s capability for innovation in specific areas and help drive future economic growth by
    bridging the gap between business and academia. The presence of CfAI expertise in Space
    Instrumentation was key to the North East Satellite Applications Catapult Centre of Excellence
    selecting the site. This is likely to be an area prioritised by post-BREXIT government investment
    in the NE as part of its levelling up agenda, as announced by then science minister Chris Skidmore
    at the opening of the Durham University Teaching and Learning Centre in January 20201.

    In October the university, in collaboration with CfAI (Girkin), was awarded GBP1.5M to develop
    the CfAI facility at NETPark into a new University Enterprise Zone. This will house up to 17 SMEs
    and Micro-SMEs in a collaborative facility where they can utilise the expertise within the Physics
    department and beyond to help develop their technology and products.

    4.3 Public engagement

    The Physics department has a long history of engaging with the public, with Dr P. Edwards as
    our full time Outreach Officer (the first in the UK to be funded by a Research Council). The
    outreach program has directly engaged with ~15,000 school children across the age range, and
    over 500 of their current and future teachers during the assessment period. Teaching materials
    for this ‘From Higgs to Hubble’ program are used by around 100,000 secondary pupils per year.
    This work in strengthening science teaching and engaging children with education lies mainly
    outside of the REF definition of Impact but the significance of the program is enhanced by being
    in the North East, an area of high social deprivation. Dr Edwards was nominated as a TED
    Educator, and his YouTube teaching resource developed in 2014 on ‘What light can teach us
    about the Universe’ has been viewed by over 216,000 people, generating over 11,000 questions.

    Durham Lumiere offers even wider engagement opportunities. This is the UK’s largest light
    festival, where the entire city is transformed into an art installation, running for four consecutive
    nights every two years. In 2015 the ICC collaborated with lighting artists to provide the centrepiece
    of this festival, ‘The World Machine’, a celebration of cosmology projected onto Durham Cathedral,
    seen by an estimated 200,000 people. A new version of this, ‘Cosmic Architecture’, projected
    instead onto the Libeskind-designed Physics building in 2017 and 2019 (Fig 2).




    Fig 2: The World machine (2015) & Cosmic Architecture (2017, 2019)

    Other general outreach activities include ‘Celebrate science’, a three-day Science Festival that
    takes place during the local schools' October half-term holiday. It includes a wide range of science-


1
  https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/levelling-up-research-and-innovation-right-across-the-united-
kingdom
                                                                                                         19
    themed events and activities focused around a marquee on Palace Green, attracting around 7,000
    visitors each year.

    The annual Royal Society Summer Exhibition instead gives a more direct connection between the
    public and our research, with exhibits from the ICC ‘Galaxy Makers’ (2016) and IPPP ‘Modelling
    the Invisible’ (2017), and ‘Ghosts in the Universe‘ (2018), each seen by around 15,000 visitors

    4.4 Wider Indicators of esteem

    Our staff are recognized nationally and internationally. We had four FRS in the department over
    the REF2021 period (Ellis, Frenk, Glover, with McLeish who left for York in 2017), as well as
    two Emeritus FRS (Martin, Wolfendale). Multiple staff have won awards for their research in this
    period: Adams (IoP: Thomson medal), Chadwick (IoP: Bragg medal), Cornish (IoP: Thomson
    medal), Deason (Philip Leverhulme Prize), Done (RAS: Darwin Lectureship), Ellis (Humboldt
    Foundation: Humboldt Award, IoP; Dirac medal), Frenk (RAS: Gold medal, IoP/German Physical
    Society: Max Born prize), Glover (IoP: Lord Rayleigh medal), Li (RAS: Fowler Award), McLeish
    (IoP: Sam Edwards medal), Spannowsky (Humboldt Foundation: Bessel Award), Tanner (IoP:
    Gabor medal, retired 2016). Royal Society Wolfson merit awards are held by Adeyeye, Gregory
    (joint appointment with Mathematical Sciences, returned with UoA10), Khoze, Krauss, Pascoli,
    and Smail.

    A highlight from the REF2021 period includes Cole (ICC) winning the USD1M Shaw prize (2014)
    for his work on the 2dF Galaxy Redshift Survey, which conducted a study of 250,000 galaxies.
    This gave the first detection of baryon acoustic oscillations, the sound waves originating a few
    seconds after the Big Bang, which can be used to measure distances in the universe and the rate
    at which it is expanding.

    Our students have also been recognised with major awards. Dr Dan Whiting (QLM): IOP Doctoral
    prize in Quantum Electronics and Photonics for ‘Nonlinear Optics in a Thermal Rb Vapour at High
    Magnetic Fields’. Dr Matthew Kirk (IPPP): Springer thesis prize for ‘Charming new physics in
    beautiful processes’. Dr Sownak Bose (ICC): RAS Michael Penston Prize for the best thesis in
    Astronomy and Astrophysics ‘Beyond ΛCDM’.

    4.5 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives

    The global pandemic requires a global response, and its challenges go far beyond a medical
    understanding of the virus. It was clear from an early stage that governments needed new tools
    which could more accurately model how infection spreads. Individual based models give the best
    resolution, but there are computational challenges in handling large populations, and the huge
    input datasets on how people live, work, travel and socialise. Krauss (IPPP and director of IDAS)
    set up a network of volunteer coders from the Data Intensive Science CDT PhD students as part
    of the Rapid Assistance in Modelling the Pandemic (RAMP) initiative, coordinated by the Royal
    Society (initially 04-07/2020). Additional expertise was locally available, from advanced statistics
    in machine learning (Bower, ICC, and staff from Mathematical Sciences) to accessing the input
    data from the Office of National Statistics census data for England which is curated by Geography.
    This covers the whole country down to units of around 250 people with information on the
    distribution of age, sex, ethnicity, household type (single, couple, children and age distributions),
    employment, commute (private or public transport and distribution of distance), and statistics on
    their free-time activity. They continued to work on the code after July 2020, producing the most
    accurate, fine grained model of social and mixing networks in England, capable of calculating how
    COVID-19 infection rates respond to changes in government policy at a regional and even local
    level2. Dr Kevin Fong, National Clinical Advisor in Emergency Preparedness Resilience and
    Response for the Covid-19 Incident, wrote ‘There is currently no other model in hand that is able
    to usefully explore inter-regional dependencies of the pandemic or the asymmetries produced by
    socioeconomic differences in the general population. Your work so far has provided unique and

2
https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.12.15.20248246v2.full.pdf submitted 16/12/2020
                                                                                                       20
    valuable insight and has helped us to close the gap between the modelling needs of the strategic
    planners and those of our frontline operational teams.’

    The modular structure of the code means it can be easily ported to model other populations, even
    those with very different demographics. It is completely open source (GPL3 license) so it can be
    freely downloaded and adapted. The team have already applied it to Cox’s Bazar3, a United
    Nations refugee camp in Bangladesh which is the most densely populated place on Earth. This
    code gives a dramatic illustration of our strategy for the future, where excellence in pure research
    has transformative impact in the real world.




3
  https://www.unglobalpulse.org/2020/10/modelling-the-spread-of-covid-19-and-the-impact-of-public-health-
interventions-in-coxs-bazar-and-other-refugee-camps/
                                                                                                        21
