Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 22: Anthropology and Development Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure

 The present submission encompasses the Anthropology section in the School of Anthropology
 and Conservation (SAC), reflecting the research excellence of all of the unit’s staff members and
 the inclusive spirit of the School. In 2015, the School was reinvigorated and unified through a
 single mission, ‘Understanding a Changing World’, pursued from social, ecological, geographical,
 and evolutionary vantage points. Our research strategy enables staff to pursue world-class,
 outward-looking research. Individual curiosity, expertise, and networking are supported by an
 environment that fosters knowledge and understanding with impact. Through this strategy, staff
 are supported in developing their own and their School’s standing and visibility, within academia
 and beyond.

 Founded on disciplinary excellence from across the social and natural sciences, Anthropology at
 Kent encompasses two research groups: Social Anthropology (11.1 FTE) and Biological
 Anthropology (10 FTE). This structure balances excellence within specialist research paradigms,
 innovative collaboration across them, and external academic and professional interfaces. Since
 2014, our School-wide strategy and vibrant research environment have led to significant
 developments for anthropological research. The unit has greatly intensified research productivity.
 Although the number of awards has remained constant, the award value over the REF2021 period
 has increased sevenfold (nearly £5.4 million, up from £862k in the previous REF period), indicating
 a greater intellectual maturity, which has translated into more complex, high-reward projects.

 Social Anthropology. In REF2014, this group identified research priorities that included social
 crisis and post-conflict, personhood and mobility, and worlds in transformation. These foci have
 been the subject of an unprecedented number of monographs in the present cycle: Biner’s States
 of Dispossession (UPenn); Pina-Cabral’s World (Chicago UP / HAU); Theodossopoulos’s
 Exoticisation Undressed (Manchester UP); Bovensiepen’s The Land of Gold (Cornell UP);
 Waldstein’s Living Well in Los Duplex (Carolina AP); Sanchez’s Criminal Capital (Routledge);
 Cant’s The Value of Aesthetics (Texas UP); and Ellen’s Kinship, Population and Social
 Reproduction in the ‘New Indonesia’ (Routledge) and The Nuaulu World of Plants (Blackwell).

 Dynamic new projects responded to diverse public priorities and funding agendas, exemplified by:
 Bovensiepen’s ESRC Future Leaders project ‘Anticipating Prosperity’; Theodossopoulos’ ESRC-
 funded ‘Household Survival in Crisis’; and Marie-Curie fellowships for Cant (‘Restoration and
 Faith’) and Mezzenzana (‘Understanding Children’s Empathy’). Other research, especially through
 British Academy funding, reflected topical issues of wider concern, such as Waldstein on
 deportability in the UK, Biner on politics of writing in Turkey, Peluso on financial equity trade in the
 USA, and Ellen exploring cultural resilience in Indonesia. Prominent publications featured in
 flagship journals (Current Anthropology and Cultural Anthropology: Hodges, Peluso, Pina-Cabral,
 Theodossopoulos, Mair) and leading international forums (American Ethnologist, JRAI, CSSH),
 including special issues and edited books, highlight research leadership. Poltorak’s documentaries
 (Five Ways In and The Healer and the Psychiatrist) established new audiences for our research.
 The unit’s Think Tank has provided a forum in which staff can expose emerging work to critical
 scrutiny and constructive internal feedback.

 Biological Anthropology. Publishing just over 200 papers (in Science, Nature, and other high-
 quality journals), staff in this group have focused on the evolution and behaviour of humans and
 other primates, human ecology, medieval health, and human skeletal biology. Pioneering human
 evolutionary studies were spearheaded by two prestigious ERC grants (Kivell, Skinner)
 addressing the human hand, patterning in primate tooth development, new human fossil species,
 and origins of modern humans. A British Academy Fellow (Key), appointed as a Lecturer in 2019,

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leads studies of prehistoric archaeology, an emerging research area for the group. Non-human
 primate behavioural studies focus on communication, sociality, and behavioural ecology (Wheeler,
 Newton-Fisher), combining field studies and laboratory approaches (e.g. Current Biology, Animal
 Behaviour). Studies into public health policy around young mothers (Johns) identified important
 consequences for post-natal depression (e.g. Evolution, Medicine and Public Health). Mahoney
 strengthens our long-term expertise in human skeletal biology, reconstructing cell mechanisms
 underlying the morphology of teeth and long bone development during recent human evolution
 (e.g. Calcified Tissue International, American Journal of Physical Anthropology), work that is
 further developed through his Leverhulme project on biorhythms of childhood growth. Mahoney’s
 work synergises Bocaege’s (British Academy Fellow, 2018-20) and Le Luyer’s (Marie Curie
 Fellow, 2018-20) research on human dental reduction. Our most recent appointment, Finaughty,
 is developing a new research area for the School in forensic taphonomy (e.g. International Journal
 of Forensics).

 1.2 Review of research objectives during the assessment period

 The implementation of our Research Strategy has proven highly successful. For REF2014, SAC
 presented a research focus based on two overarching objectives:

    1. To engage in world-leading interdisciplinary research, including interactions between the
       unit’s two groups, while consolidating our core areas of uniqueness and strength, including
       particular regional specialisms;
    2. To support leading-edge research that establishes research agendas, and sets and/or
       responds to emerging trends and theoretical orientations.

 We have successfully met these complementary aims: the first through strategic recruitment and
 the creation of new, outward-facing research centres; and the second through an open series of
 collaborative research events alongside targeted support for our researchers. In more detail, our
 focus has been:

    1. Strategic recruitment of world-class staff. Biological Anthropology has been the object of
       substantial investment since 2013, making Kent the largest Biological Anthropology unit in
       the UK. Fahy (2015), Finaughty (2019), and Key (2019) brought much-needed expertise
       on isotope analysis, forensic bioarchaeology, and archaeological science. Skinner and
       Wheeler (2014) strengthened our research in human evolution and behavioural ecology of
       non-human primates. Mair’s (2016) work on ethics, a new area for the School, advanced
       our work in moral philosophy. Biner (2018) fulfilled a longstanding interest in deepening
       engagement with issues of conflict and displacement. Together, they expanded our
       regional expertise to China and Turkey.

    2. New research centres. In 2015, we established two new research centres: the Skeletal
       Biology Research Centre (SBRC), and the Centre for Ethnographic Research (CER).
       These complement the Centre for Biocultural Diversity (CBCD; 2007), which undertakes
       research, education, and community outreach linking cultural and biological diversity. Our
       three research centres forge relationships with other disciplines and societal stakeholders
       more widely. This is evidenced through CER’s cultivation of dialogue (via 15 events to
       date) on ethnographic practices across the social sciences, arts, marketing, political
       activism, health, and medical science. SBRC is the only UK-based centre focusing on
       biological hard tissues analysis. It deploys annual programmes of public engagement,
       including Soapbox Science promoting women in science, and with specialist regional
       research users; e.g. Kent Archaeological Projects, Swale and Thames Archaeological
       Survey Company.

    3. Research seminars and other events. These events bring together students, postdoctoral
       researchers, academic staff, visitors, and affiliates – internal and external – fostering an
       environment of engagement and scrutiny of emerging research. Our commitment to debate
       and critical exchange (our Social Anthropology seminar series is among the longest-

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        running in the UK) has led to >200 seminar events since 2014. These series are
        instrumental in maintaining our dynamic and collaborative research environment,
        facilitating productive cross-disciplinary interaction. Our high-profile annual Stirling Lecture
        has welcomed the likes of Joel Robbins (Cambridge), Sarah Green (Finland), Lee Berger
        (South Africa), Alf Hornberg (Sweden), Tanya Luhrmann (USA), and Holly Dunsworth
        (USA). Our Distinguished Ethnobotanist Lecture is co-sponsored by the Royal Botanic
        Gardens at Kew. These occasions celebrate our research culture and traditions, and have
        strong public appeal, typically attracting hundreds of people. Remarkable for a small unit,
        staff also organised 16 international conferences and 12 workshops; e.g. the ‘Anthropology
        of Hands’ conference that brought together biological and social anthropology (and
        resulted in a collaboration between psychologists and biological anthropologists at the Live
        Science ‘Me, Human’ project, Science Museum); the ‘Written in Bones’ conference,
        consolidating forensic anthropology; the Kent/LSE symposium ‘Ethnographic Approaches
        to Wilful Blindness’, which drafted new research agendas; Peluso and Sanchez’s trend-
        setting workshop ‘Rethinking Skill: New Ethnographic Perspectives on Expertise’, which
        shifted the focus of anthropological skills literature from tactile to cerebral aspects.

    4. Support for our researchers. An enhanced Director of Research role and newly created
       Research Development Officer (RDO) post worked together to develop an annual
       programme of Shared Practice in Research. Our Research Support Framework includes
       rigorous planning and vetting of proposals, an annual research challenges survey,
       workshopping for solutions, a mentoring scheme for peer-to-peer research development,
       and large proportional allocation of overheads to principal investigators. This practical
       advice, encouragement, and incentivisation has led to an unprecedented increase in the
       value of funding applications and awards (see Section 3): 90% of staff applied for external
       funding over the period, and 71% received funding versus 65% previously. There has been
       an even balance of grants awarded across themes, by size and funder, and we have a
       strong (emerging) track record of attracting postdoctoral fellows.

 Additional evidence that we achieved our research objectives includes: engagement with global
 research priorities and setting cutting-edge research agendas in evolutionary anthropology with
 our first two ERC grants (Kivell, Skinner); responding to contemporary trends with ESRC-funded
 research on austerity (Theodossopoulos, Pina-Cabral); frontier research on empathy in
 anthropology and psychology (Mezzenzana); and consolidation of long-term strengths in dental
 histology (Leverhulme: Mahoney).

 1.3 Research objectives over the next five years

 We aim to develop nascent research and promote existing strengths through tailored in-house
 support for projects, expansion of our research centres, and generous support to events.

 Biological Anthropology will prioritise:

    1. Developing its international profile and increasing the membership of the Skeletal Biology
       Research Centre (including through the arrival of the Marie Curie Fellows, Nava, O’Hara,
       and Smith);
    2. Building on interdisciplinary research projects within the School and internationally (Johns’
       2020 internally funded GCRF project on abortion care in South Africa promises to expand
       our network);
    3. Expanding primate field research in Africa and Southeast Asia;
    4. Sustaining world-class fieldwork into human origins in South Africa, eastern Africa, and
       Indonesia (partially via forthcoming ERC-funded excavations);
    5. Enhancing research infrastructure through new equipment (e.g. increased microscopic
       capacity at our Osteology lab will cater for new postdoctoral fellows, and a recent Wolfson
       Foundation grant is creating a new imaging centre for the University);



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    6. New collaborative opportunities in emerging areas of palaeolithic archaeology and forensic
       anthropology (in particular with Classical and Archaeological Studies, Physics,
       Psychology, Sport Sciences, and the new Kent and Medway Medical School).

 The principal objectives of Social Anthropology are to:

    1. Strengthen its profile in (a) identity and conflict, (b) environmental anthropology, and (c)
       precarity and care (such as through two new ESRC postdoctoral fellowships, one on
       medical care and austerity in Greece, and the other on environmental anthropology in Latin
       America);
    2. Submit strategic collaborative research bids (UKRI/ESRC, GCRF), seizing opportunities to
       engage with emerging intellectual agendas;
    3. Explore synergies and promote interdisciplinarity with the School’s new Geography and
       Environmental Social Science Research Theme, an enterprise particularly suited to
       Waldstein, Peluso, Puri, and Mezzenzana.

 University-level developments will also bring exciting opportunities for multi- and interdisciplinary
 research in the newly combined Division of Human and Social Sciences, incorporating the Schools
 of Psychology, Politics and International Relations, and Economics; and also through the recently
 launched Signature Research Themes (including Future Human, and Migration and Movement)
 and the new Kent and Medway Medical School.

 1.4 Strategic aims for impact

 Our research is increasingly transformational, and is having considerable social, cultural, and
 economic value. It fundamentally influences approaches to the maintenance and enhancement of
 living diversity and its varied geographical expressions. Our global reach incorporates sensitivity
 to locality, place, and context. Specifically, our research has established frameworks informing
 responses to globally relevant problems – for example, indigenous tourism, national heritage, and
 mental health; directly intervened in policy and practice processes; and influenced the terms of
 public debate.

 We have varied constituencies of non-academic users, including, but not limited to, international
 organisations, NGOs, community groups, and the private sector. Our research impacts on these
 audiences via the provision of expert knowledge delivered through contracted consultancy, invited
 briefings, and training. For instance, Theodossopoulos’ research supported NGO claims on
 indigenous ancestral land; uptake of Johns’ research on postnatal depression by the Royal
 College of Midwives; Skinner and Kivell’s online education ‘The Human Fossil Record’; and
 Newton-Fisher’s app ‘Animal Behaviour Pro’.

 We fundamentally embed users throughout the research process. This includes: co-production of
 aims and methodologies with potential research users early in development; disseminating
 findings to users as research unfolds; translating outputs into formats for users of research beyond
 academia; and extending research into the public domain, such as contracted research on skeletal
 analyses for the Trust for Thanet Archaeology. Moreover, relationships developed during fieldwork
 secure long-term research impact. Indeed, our understanding of cultural diversity from sustained
 work with research participants is much sought-after. Some of the projects based on fieldwork
 have shaped public and popular debate, and interact with wider issues of citizenship and
 community development; e.g. through education, outreach, and training. The School has also
 capitalised on strengths in visual anthropology to underpin public engagement.

 To increase research uptake, we encourage public engagement, media broadcasts, and outreach
 and widening participation, and have appointed an academic Outreach Coordinator (2015).
 Evidence includes participation in the ESRC Festival of Social Science (Poltorak, Mair, Puri), the
 British Academy Summer Showcase (Key), Soapbox Science (Kivell, Bocaege, Le Luyer), public
 workshops on burials and forensics (Fahy), Natural History Museum events (Skinner), London
 Anthropology Day, numerous documentary film festivals, and Kent and Medway STEM. SAC’s

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 media impact value was estimated at >£3 million in 2015 alone, via all major online newspapers,
 radio broadcasters, as well as The Conversation (Peluso, Waldstein, Skinner) and Open
 Democracy (Pina-Cabral).

 Facilitation of impact. Developing an impact strategy entitled ‘Transformative Research’ (2017),
 we have deepened our understanding of impact and research users among academic staff. This
 has resulted in our first-ever impact case studies in social and biological anthropology. The School
 has supported: approval of study leave focused on impact activities; allocation of substantial
 competitive funding by the University and the School (>£100k); reallocation of administrative
 duties for researchers developing impact case studies; hiring of impact assistants; collaborations
 with illustrators and animation companies; thematic internally and externally led workshops;
 increased awareness to embed research users throughout the research process; review of impact
 activities at annual research audits; and sustained fieldwork as a key mechanism to enable impact.

 Future vitality and sustainability of our impact. This will be supported by: providing annual training
 on impact, tailored by disciplinary area; appealing to discipline-specific research-user reviewers
 for grant applications; assessing impact potential when hiring new staff; encouraging participation
 of non-academic stakeholders in symposia and workshops; broadening the remit of our Outreach
 Coordinator’s role; increasing publication with sectors outside academia; promoting innovative
 translational work, such as comic strips/animation (Theodossopoulos, Kivell, Skinner); providing
 training on drafting policy briefs; and establishing Knowledge Exchange Partnerships (KTPs).

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 We seek to attract the very best researchers, strengthen established specialisms, stimulate new
 research fields, create innovative collaboration across paradigms, and pursue transformative
 research.

 Over the REF period, our Category A staff base has grown from 15.7 FTE (2013) to 21.1 FTE.
 This has been achieved both through internal investment and external research funding. Staff
 comprise three Lecturers, seven Senior Lecturers, four Readers, and four Professors, as well as
 four fixed-term Fellows. Ten additional fixed-term PDRAs complete the group, although they are
 not returned in our REF2021 submission, since they are not yet ‘independent’. Apart from these
 postdoctoral researchers and fellows, only three fixed-term contracts have been issued during the
 REF period (ERC-funded Key, Burger, and Sanchez); all other staff are on ongoing contracts.
 During the REF period, two social anthropologists and four biological anthropologists have joined
 the team, bringing new strengths.

    •   Biological Anthropology: Following the departure of Lycett and von Cramon-Taubadel
        (2014), staffing was reinvigorated through the arrival of Skinner, Wheeler, and Fahy,
        strengthening our provision in palaeoanthropology and primatology, and introducing
        isotope research. Burger joined us for three years. Finaughty replaced Fahy in 2019,
        introducing taphonomic research to the group. Six out of ten biological anthropologists
        returned here joined the School during this REF cycle.

    •   Social Anthropology: Mair and Biner joined in 2016 and 2018, bringing strengths in ethics
        and religion (Mair), and violence and displacement (Biner). Sanchez joined for two years,
        and three other staff either retired or took up posts elsewhere. Three out of 12 social
        anthropologists returned here joined the School during this REF cycle.

 Research-only posts. Major research grants created additional early career researcher (ECR)
 posts, bringing our number of postdoctoral researchers to an all-time high. In Biological
 Anthropology, externally funded postdoctoral fellows (Bardo, Bocaege, Cazenave Key, Le Luyer,
 Martorell) considerably enhanced our research environment, reinforcing archaeological provision
 in particular. In Social Anthropology, two Marie Curie Fellowships (Cant, Mezzenzana) introduced

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cultural heritage and material anthropology, also strengthening our research in environmental
 anthropology, with a regional focus on Latin America, a known region of expertise for SAC. Other
 PDRAs, although not ‘independent’ researchers, were funded by the ERC (Dunmore, Lu, Samuel),
 Leverhulme Trust (McFarlane, Morris), ESRC (Grainger), British Academy (Francis), GCRF
 (Bamdad), and internally (Bardo, Bonnington, Garcia Bonet, Sinclair).

 Career development. Ensuring the career development of our staff is a priority. Appraisal,
 mentoring, probation, study leave, and promotions are managed in line with the Kent equal
 opportunities policy and Academic Career Map, recognising and rewarding talent at all levels. The
 School has disseminated and discussed at Research Committee the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers.

    •   Appraisals to discuss career trajectory are conducted annually, as are research audits
        (under our School’s Research Support Framework) conducted by the Director of Research
        to discuss research plans and support needs. We emphasise research effort, rather than
        success, maintaining a positive culture.
    •   We are committed to supporting fieldwork, actively applying the University’s study leave
        policy to all staff. Timings are flexible, enabling funded and unfunded leave to be combined
        into longer periods. Study leave plans are scrutinised by the Research Committee to
        ensure that they align with our Research Strategy.
    •   Recognition for research and impact is primarily achieved through promotion. Although the
        unit does not nominate or make decisions, it has a panel that encourages staff – particularly
        female staff – to apply, and provides constructive feedback on applications. Since 2014,
        three staff have been promoted to Professor, four to Reader, and five to Senior Lecturer;
        i.e. 12 individual promotions for 19 permanent staff members. Recognition is also achieved
        through applications to University Research Prizes, three of which were successful in this
        REF cycle.
    •   The University offers extensive training through its Learning and Development programme,
        Unit for the Enhancement of Learning and Teaching (accredited academic development
        programmes), Graduate and Researcher College (Researcher Development Programme),
        and Research and Innovation Services (Grants Factory, ECR Network). In line with the
        Concordat, our unit also offers tailored training (six events per annum, on average) in its
        annual Shared Practice in Research programme, including media training, excellence in
        scholarship sessions, open access, and GDPR. Staff members can apply to a Learning
        and Development budget.
    •   To further support research, unsuccessful funding applications are systematically reviewed
        to assess their suitability for other funders. New or less-experienced staff, and those few
        whose grant proposals have been regularly unsuccessful, are supported in preparing grant
        applications through mentoring and shared best practice. A healthy proportion of staff won
        their first significant award during this REF period. External feedback on the quality of our
        publications is sought annually and provided to staff, enabling them to gauge research
        quality from an independent perspective.

 ECR support. Probationers are assigned a senior mentor to support integration and development.
 The School’s Workload Allocation Model (WAM) protects new appointees’ research time, reducing
 their teaching and administration load by 50% in the first year and 25% in the second. All staff are
 encouraged to take on administrative roles as part of progression towards promotion. To gain
 experience, ECRs sit on the School Promotion Panel and are invited to join PhD supervisory
 teams. New staff members are encouraged to be supervisors in scholarship applications,
 establishing their own research team. They also take full advantage of Kent’s professional skills
 development training. Our bi-annual research fund calls prioritise ECRs and, since 2018, SBRC
 awards two small grants to ECRs. Some sessions of our Shared Practice in Research programme
 are specifically for ECRs, including a six-hour grant-writing workshop with discipline-specific
 advice. Initiatives from PDRAs, such as the organisation of seminar series or conferences, have
 been especially welcome and supported. From 2016, PDRA supervisors have been allocated
 WAM credits to ensure dedicated supervision.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Research students

 We have a thriving and growing research student community, representing 16% of the School’s
 overall student population. We maintained the number of top-quality PGRs throughout the period,
 with on average 13 PhD students starting each year, and 12 MRes over the period. The resilience
 in our recruitment of PGRs is owing to our research reputation, increasing success in securing
 external and internal scholarships (46 scholarships since 2014), and increased demand from our
 own graduates to undertake MA/MSc by Research. Thirteen were funded by UKRI through the
 South-East Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS) Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), and the
 other 33 were either internally funded by the Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarships scheme and SAC’s
 Graduate Teaching Studentships, or externally by charities (e.g. the International Society of
 Ethnobiology) or via research grants (e.g. ERC).

 The high quality of the PGR training and supervision offered by the unit is achieved through the
 following means:

    •   UKRI doctoral training standards and provision. This is applied to all our PGRs, irrespective
        of funding source. The unit participates in the ESRC-funded SeNSS DTP. All PGR students
        benefit from involvement in this DTP and the training opportunities provided by partner
        institutions.
    •   Graduate and Researcher College (GRC) policy and training. In particular, the Researcher
        Development Programme is offered to all PGRs and PDRAs.
    •   Unit-specific provision. Synergies between the School’s four research themes (which
        include Conservation Science, as well as Geography and Environmental Social Science)
        create a stimulating interdisciplinary context for our PGRs. Team supervision is mandatory
        (minimum two supervisors). Formally recorded meetings take place between student and
        supervisors monthly, together with an induction review (6 weeks), probation review (10
        months), second-year review, and submission review. Supervisory panels monitor training
        (e.g. personal development plans), engagement with the Researcher Development
        Framework (supported by the GRC), and review progress. All PGRs have access to desk
        space with networked computers. They must present and share their research with peers
        through dedicated seminars, and attend three doctoral training courses, including
        professional development skills. They also benefit from access to PGT modules that
        encourage them to engage with theory and multidisciplinary research methodologies.

 Support for our PGRs through a distinctive and appealing academic environment, in line with
 national and UKRI expectations, includes:

    •   Specialist training. Beyond DTP events, the unit offers specialist training and
        masterclasses in, for example, ‘Ethnography and Social Crisis’, ‘Fieldwork in Challenging
        Circumstances’, ‘Visual Methodologies’, ‘Ethnography and Practice-Led Artistic Research’,
        ‘Writing a Successful CV’, and ‘Tips for a successful academic job interview’. Specialist
        ethnobotany training is run through CBCD and Kew Gardens, and benefited during the
        period from partnership with the Marie Curie ITN MedPlant and the Global Environments
        Network.
    •   Research events. These include three postgraduate community seminar series, four
        seminar series organised by each research theme, and the activities of the five research
        centres affiliated to the School. For Stirling, Ethnobotany, Durrell Institute of Conservation
        and Ecology, and Kent Interdisciplinary Centre for Spatial Studies annual lectures, there is
        a linked PGR workshop with the keynote speaker.
    •   Support for events. In the REF period, we hosted several conferences that were led or co-
        organised by PGRs; for example, the 2014 Postgraduate Research Festival and the 2017
        Symposium ‘Plant Worlds’.
    •   Reading groups. These include those on Palaeoanthropology and the Anthropocene.
    •   Anthropology Society. This interdisciplinary society organises trips to research institutes
        and archaeological field sites.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Support for publication. Over 50% of our PhD students publish their work during or
        immediately after completion, including in high-quality journals.
    •   Grants. PGRs are encouraged to apply for competitive research funds.
    •   Support for job applications. The vast majority of our PGRs obtained positions within
        academia worldwide (including at the Max Planck Institute for Social Anthropology,
        Austrian Academy of Sciences, University of Liverpool, ANU, University of Buffalo, Indiana,
        Passau, Victoria University of Wellington).
    •   Bursaries. Students without funding receive a £500 bursary from the School towards
        research costs.
    •   Reduced teaching loads. Our GTAs have a reduced teaching load and are supported by a
        GTA Coordinator.
    •   Walk-in pastoral hours. These are run by dedicated officers who disseminate multiple
        wellbeing initiatives.
    •   Facilities. There are newly-refurbished spaces for social interaction.

 An overwhelming majority of our research students complete their studies within the degree
 registration period. PGRs often study with practitioners (e.g. Kew, government agencies),
 acquiring specialist skills that enhance employability: 98% of our PG students are employed or
 studying within six months. We have achieved top-ten positions for student experience and
 employability (DLHE, 2016), and are renowned for our thriving PGT and PGR communities (100%
 satisfaction in PTES, 2016).

 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 We achieve staff satisfaction by creating an open, inclusive, fair, and democratic workplace. Our
 transparent Work Allocation Model protects research time uniformly, and includes credits for
 leadership roles and PGR and postdoctoral supervision. We encourage colleagues to conduct
 research in areas that enthuse them; conversely, identifying early on where colleagues might be
 struggling, and proactively giving them support. This applies equally to PGR welfare.

 In 2020, following three years of preparation – including focus groups, an extensive survey on
 work culture, and action plan implementation by a task force – SAC received its first Athena SWAN
 Bronze Award. The unit is taking active steps towards implementing its action plan. It is developing
 a Code of Conduct for off-campus research activities (and associated training), now adopted
 across the University; holding meetings and events within primary school opening hours; and
 offering unconscious bias workshops for all staff (2017, 2019) and compulsory additional online
 training on EDI. All staff on recruitment panels undertake recruitment and selection training,
 including awareness of equality issues.

 Women comprise 43% of all staff submitted by the unit (in comparison with 24% in REF2014), and
 25% of the Professors in the unit. We have been working actively, through mentorship, awareness
 of, and support for, promotion criteria, and positive action statements in job advertisements, to
 increase the proportion of female academic staff, especially at senior grades. There has been a
 good gender balance in research-only contracts over the period, and the School’s PGR community
 is weighted towards females (67%). The unit appointed its first female Head of School in 2019,
 and multiple female staff have undertaken the LFHE Aurora Leadership programme and the
 Women’s Leadership Programme over recent years. The School has also encouraged female staff
 to pursue leadership roles (for example, the first female Director of Research in 2016).

 We adjusted to multiple special circumstances relative to the size of our group: three ECRs, and
 seven maternity periods. These were carefully managed to provide as much support as possible
 with regard to research aspirations for the relevant individuals. In particular, female staff coming
 back from maternity before 2019 were given a lighter teaching load (20% less), subsequently
 upgraded to a term of study leave following their return. Staff with other special circumstances
 benefited from discretionary leave and flexible arrangements, i.e. phased return to work (one staff
 member), part-time work (one staff member). Part-time and fixed-term staff benefit from the same
 career development opportunities: training, study leave, and research funding (both external and

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internal). Maternity, paternity, adoption, and sickness leaves count as qualifying service when
 calculating study leave entitlement. Those with caring responsibilities or health issues are enabled
 to work remotely where necessary.

 We recruit widely and supportively. New staff during the REF period represent a range of national
 origins, including Belgium, Italy, South Africa, Spain, Taiwan, Turkey, and Venezuela. We aim to
 promote greater diversity of race, ethnicity, and religion across our staff base. All ages and career
 stages have access to the same opportunities and support. We follow University policies towards
 colleagues with disabilities (constituting 15% of staff across the School over the period), going
 further in the area of mental health by offering mental health support and emotional wellbeing
 sessions specifically for PhDs and PDRAs; and sessions on behaviour in off-campus academic-
 related activities. In 2019, training in what constitutes a healthy laboratory environment became
 mandatory for supervisors based in laboratories. The Head of School has received mental health
 training by the charity Mind. All adjustments associated with lockdown due to Covid-19 have taken
 matters of equality and diversity into consideration.

 Our REF preparations have been open and inclusive – a standing agenda item on Research and
 other Committees – observing the University’s Code of Practice at all times. We sought views from
 all staff members on their own outputs; all external feedback has been shared with them, with
 regular opportunities to discuss.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding and strategies for research income

 Since 2015, we have successfully pursued two strategic aims:

    1. Targeting larger grant schemes

 Major grants developed into substantial international consortia (see Section 4). Highlights in
 Biological Anthropology include: Kivell’s ERC Starting grant, Skinner’s ERC Consolidator grant,
 and Mahoney’s Leverhulme Trust grant. These three grants alone brought in six PDRAs, four
 PGRs, and four research assistants. These funding successes, and the thriving environment they
 have created in Biological Anthropology, contributed to a Wolfson Foundation award (the
 University’s first) in June 2020. It has enabled the purchase of a cutting-edge micro-CT scanner,
 to be housed in a new Imaging Centre. In Social Anthropology, highlights include Bovensiepen’s
 ESRC Future Research Leaders grant (with a PDRA), and Theodossopoulos and Pina-Cabral’s
 ESRC Standard grant (which trained two PhD students).

    2. Encouraging ECRs to apply for postdoctoral fellowships with us

 Our second strategic aim translated into an influx of dynamic ECRs, a distinctive feature of this
 REF cycle for the unit: two British Academy postdoctoral fellows (Bocaege, Key; success rate
 under 5%), five Marie Curie (Cant, Mezzenzana in Social Anthropology; Martorell, Le Luyer, Nava
 in Biological Anthropology), and three Fyssen Foundation (Bardo, Cazenave, Le Luyer).

 The research award value received is nearly £5.4 million, compared to £862k for the previous REF
 period. The number of awards remained similar, indicating that our strategy of targeting higher-
 value schemes was successful. Staff have conceived significantly more ambitious research
 programmes, establishing new teams around them. Half the grants awarded (13 out of 25) were
 worth >£150k. In this REF cycle, we also applied to a greater range of funders, including
 professional associations (e.g. International Primatological Society, American Association of
 Physical Anthropologists, Sociological Review), and key funders in health (Wellcome Trust,
 BBSRC, Wellbeing of Women), environment (UN Environment Program), and development (DfID,
 British Council).



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Multiple researchers contributed to securing funding for their research that could not be returned
 to HESA, either because the funder awards only individuals (and not institutions) or because of
 their status as Co-I. These included the Alliance Sorbonne Université with French PI Pouydebat
 (Kivell), a public engagement grant from the Waterloo Foundation with Birkbeck PI Forrester
 (Kivell), Wenner-Gren grants for workshops in South Africa and Brazil (Skinner, Pina-Cabral);
 National Geography grant (Mezzenzana); and Czech Science Foundation grant to PI Sosna
 (Henig).

 Research funding has been strongly linked to high-quality research output and impact during the
 REF period. The large grants cited above led to ground-breaking papers in top interdisciplinary
 and subject-specific journals, such as Nature and the Journal of Human Evolution. Some led to
 impact: Kivell and Skinner’s work on South African fossils translated into an educational package
 for local children to learn about their national heritage. Other, smaller grants also led to impact
 without necessarily yielding an impact case study: e.g. the second British Academy Writing
 Workshop grant on the ethics and politics of research in precarious times (£18k to Biner), which
 has had considerable social benefits: since January 2016, thousands of Turkish academics have
 been investigated, dismissed, expulsed, and prosecuted for having signed a peace petition calling
 for an end to military operations in the Kurdish region. The process has had a devastating impact
 on ECRs who lost institutional security and intellectual support following the dismissal of their
 supervisors and colleagues. Biner’s workshop helped tackle structural inequalities resulting from
 this process, providing those affected with access to publishing, funding, and networks. The work
 inspired a Turkish solidarity association based in Istanbul, composed of academics promoting
 peace and democracy, Birarada, to launch an English Academic Writing seminar for postgraduate
 and postdoctoral researchers. Further examples are a Leverhulme Emeritus Fellowship allowing
 Prof. Ellen to produce a monograph capturing a lifetime’s work; and British Academy grants to
 Peluso and Waldstein to build topical programmes on equity trade ‘communities of practice’ in
 multinational financial services corporations, and deportability among Jamaicans in the UK.

 3.2 Organisational, operational, and scholarly infrastructure and facilities

 The unit proactively and periodically reviews its organisational infrastructure for nurturing research
 activity. Each Research Theme has an Academic Head who fosters the research culture by
 providing intellectual leadership and mentorship to staff, encouraging them to pursue their
 interests, secure competitive funding, and cultivate meaningful research impact. Our Research
 Committee and Director of Research (DoR) coordinate research and impact strategies and
 monitor implementation, vetting grant applications, annual appraisal documentation, and study
 leave applications. In 2015, SAC created a new Research Development Officer (RDO) post to
 support funding applications and help strengthen the quality of our outputs and impact. The RDO
 reviews unsuccessful applications, assessing suitability for other funders. The DoR and RDO work
 closely with other research-focused post-holders to share best practice. All research is subject to
 School Ethics Committee approval and GDPR regulation; ethical compliance is scrutinised by our
 Research Ethics Advisory Group (composed of eight members of staff, chaired by the DoR). A
 Health and Safety Officer provides advice and oversees risk assessments. The unit also benefits
 from a dedicated Technical Support Officer, two Finance Officers, and a Postgraduate Student
 Support Coordinator. To promote international links to postgraduate students and collaborators,
 the School has an Internationalisation Officer.

 Every year, we have reinvested on average 25% of research overheads into the projects that
 generated them, to enhance the quality of their outputs or provide additional assistance. We
 reinvested 10% of overheads into our research centres, our seminar series, major research
 events, research away days, and seed funding for research. We created a new impact fund, with
 impact-related activities facilitated through various new measures such as teaching buy-out and
 hiring impact assistants. Staff benefit from an annual conference allowance. From 2016, holders
 of grants above £75k without buy-out are given 10% of their WAM credits for research, protecting
 research time. Twelve staff competitively won >£50k from University seed funds, including the
 University GCRF block grant and research partnership with Ghent. University impact funds worth
 >£100k have been allocated to our staff.

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Space and facilities. In 2014, we created a new PhD Write-Up Room and refurbished our
 Swingland Room. Then, in 2017, the University made a substantial investment of over £1 million
 to create new and improve space and facilities: a Social Anthropology PGR space, additional
 meeting rooms, a dedicated student support meeting room, generous communal spaces, and a
 mixed postdoctoral research space promoting collaboration. Display cabinets of ethnographic and
 paleoanthropological artefacts have been added. The space has been carefully designed to
 reinforce and celebrate the identity of the School’s academic community. We have a proactive
 approach to identifying special needs and making practical adjustments for colleagues with
 specific circumstances and disabilities (e.g. software, furniture, facilities).

 Research labs and collections. Refurbishment also included the creation of two new laboratories
 (2014):

    1. Kivell’s Animal Postcranial Evolution (APE) laboratory, which explores how bone shape
       and structure reflect function and behaviour, holding biomechanical pressure equipment
       (£63k) and facilities for dissection work on primates;
    2. Skinner’s Virtual Palaeoanthropology Laboratory and ERC team room, analysing high-
       resolution microCT data or 3D digital surface models with five high-end computers,
       specialised software for microCT analysis, and 3D surface scanners (medtool, Stradview
       and wxRegSurf).

 These two new laboratories host the largest database of high-resolution microCT scans of fossils
 in the world, some newly discovered. In addition, the Human Osteology laboratory was provided
 in 2017 with a new high-resolution microscope for histology (£31k), as well as bone-sampling and
 dental-casting equipment for work on our collection of 800 skeletons from medieval Canterbury
 and newly acquired (2016) permanent clinical dental extractions. The laboratory was enhanced
 via a permanent stable isotope collagen preparation section and isotope analysis equipment. In
 2017, University investment (£24k) increased our collection of fossil casts to ~200. Experimental
 research on prehistoric stone tools involves collaboration with the School of Sports and Exercise
 Sciences in their Biomechanics laboratory. The School of Physical Sciences shares with SAC their
 experimental forensic field area on campus. In 2016, the Visual Anthropology laboratory was given
 dedicated space and refurbished with 17 Mac workstations and professional editing software;
 notably, our stock of filming and audio-recording equipment tripled (£20k). The School curates
 diverse ethnographic collections, notably Nuaulu artefacts from Indonesia. We also benefit from
 an Ethnobiology laboratory, which holds a catalogued general ethnobiology collection and curates
 a small spirit collection and herbarium voucher specimens.

 Collaborative use of research infrastructure. Our staff have regularly collaborated across, and
 thereby benefited from, a considerable range of facilities worldwide; for example: NERC Isotope
 Geosciences Facility in Nottingham, Synchrotron; Palaeogenetics, isotopic and microtomography
 laboratories, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology; supercomputer cluster,
 Technical University of Vienna; Microtomography Laboratory at the Evolutionary Studies Institute
 in Johannesburg; MRI platform, University of Montpellier 2; PLACAMAT platform, University of
 Bordeaux.

 Field sites include archaeological and primate locations at Fournol and Le Piage, France; Thomas
 Quarry I, Morocco; Fordwich, UK; Planckendael Zoo (Belgium); Iguazú National Park, Argentina;
 Budongo Conservation Field Station, Uganda; La Vallée des Singes, France.

 Museum collections have offered excellent collaborative opportunities as research infrastructure:
 e.g. Natural History Museums, Berlin and London; Science Museum, London; Ditsong National
 Museum of Natural History, Pretoria; Senckenberg Institute, Frankfurt; National Museum of Kenya,
 Nairobi; Ethiopian National Museum, Addis Ababa; Tanzanian National Museum, Dar es Salaam;
 National Centre for Archaeology (Arkenas), Indonesia; Swansea Laboratory of Animal Movement.




                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Archival work was conducted at the Arquivo Histórico Ultramarino, A Sociedade
 de Geografia de Lisboa, Arquivo Histórico Diplomático; Musée de l’Homme, Paris; and Musée
 National d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations

 Our staff make significant contributions to their disciplines through widespread collaboration.
 Meanwhile, our structure encourages small, innovative, responsive projects, leading to major
 flagship programmes and engagement with local, national, and international researchers and
 users. Alongside the core paradigms of our two major disciplines, outward-looking research links
 across them: for example, a social anthropologist contributing to biological research on partible
 paternity (Peluso); a biological anthropologist (Kivell) and primate conservation expert (Humle)
 collaborating on research about manual skills in mountain gorillas; a conservation biologist
 contributing expertise on biorhythms in non-primates to an anthropology project on biorhythms of
 human skeletal growth (Griffiths, Mahoney); a primatologist (Newton-Fisher) collaborating with
 Biosciences colleagues on DNA evidence of disassortative mating. Strong evidence exists of
 collaboration with: archaeologists (Fahy, Key, Kivell, Mahoney, Skinner), geneticists (Newton-
 Fisher), engineers (Key, Kivell, Skinner, Wheeler), ethicists (Mair), religious studies scholars
 (Mair), ethnobotanists (Waldstein), historians (Henig), political scientists (Theodossopoulos),
 psychiatrists (Poltorak), public health specialists (Johns, Poltorak), development studies scholars,
 endocrinologists (Wheeler), business scholars (Peluso), forensic experts (Finaughty), and sport
 scientists (Key, Kivell). Staff also collaborate with a large range of UK HEIs, including Cambridge,
 Durham, Imperial College, Oxford, UCL, and York.

 We collaborate with research institutes globally. In 2014-18, 58% of our papers were co-authored
 with international collaborators from universities in 35 countries: USA (George Washington
 University, Arizona State, Ohio State, California at Davis, Duke, New York, Dartmouth College);
 Australia (ANU, Griffith, Monash, Melbourne, Queensland); Germany (University of Göttingen and
 Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology); throughout Europe (Vienna Technology,
 Bergen, CNRS, Antwerp, CSIC Lisbon, University of Zurich, Complutense, Insituto de Salud
 Carlos III, KU Leuven, Alcala, Oslo, Parma, Pisa, Utrecht, Museum National d’Histoire Naturelle);
 and elsewhere (Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, Lakehead, British Columbia, Auckland).

 These collaborations have led to major publications (e.g. Henig’s Economies of Favour after
 Socialism (OUP), Kivell and Skinner’s paper in Science on Australopithecus africanus), invited
 lectures and seminars across the globe, and successful grant applications:

    •   Kivell’s ERC (£1.15 million) draws in MPI-EVA, Antwerp, Leuven, CNRS, UCL, Cambridge,
        Duke, TU Vienna, Chatham and James Madison. It has already led to additional
        collaborations, in particular with the Tanzanian National Museum.
    •   Skinner’s ERC (£1.8 million) consolidates long-term collaborators from MPI-EVA,
        Lakehead, Witwatersrand, and the TU Vienna; and will finance new archaeological work,
        supporting local archaeologists, at sites in Indonesia, South Africa, and Kenya.
    •   Bovensiepen’s ESRC Leadership award ‘Anticipating Prosperity: A Study of Community
        Expectations and the Petroleum Industry in Timor-Leste’ (£231k), and funded
        collaborations with the Instituto de Ciências Sociais da Universidade de Lisboa and
        Australian National University.
    •   Theodossopoulos and Pina-Cabral’s ESRC project ‘Household Survival in Crisis: Austerity
        and Relatedness in Greece and Portugal’ (£280k) draws in the University Institute of Lisbon
        and University of the Aegean, alongside NGOs providing humanitarian help in both
        countries.
    •   Mahoney’s research team, postdoctoral researchers Le Luyer, Bocaege, and MacFarlane
        (funded by Leverhulme, British Academy, European Commission), are undertaking
        histological work requiring collaborations with Ohio State, Bordeaux, Otago, Tel Aviv,
        Auckland, and Montpellier.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Two Marie Curie fellows (Cant £156k, Mezzenzana £175k) work extensively in Mexico and
        Ecuador, strengthening the unit’s Latin American specialism.

 Visiting fellows have also contributed to enriching our research culture, coming from: the
 Université de Bordeaux, CNRS, Mardin Artuklu University (Turkey), Suor Orsola Benincasa
 University, Madrid Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales, University of Leuven, Academia Sinica,
 University of Mainz, University of Lodz, and others. The unit has initiated new collaborations with
 Ghent University, internally funding three workshops (Pina-Cabral, Johns, Bocaege). A number of
 PhD students from the universities of Sheffield, Bristol, Ohio State, and others have visited us in
 order to train in histology and other lab-based methods. Since 2014, our seminar series have
 attracted well over 100 speakers from across the world.

 4.2 Interactions with research users and wider contributions to society

 We target interaction with communities and other stakeholders. People with whom staff carry out
 research are central in shaping and informing that research, through involvement in research
 design, feedback, benefit-sharing practices, and uptake. Examples of engagement include:

    •   Tanzanian museum and schoolchildren (Kivell, Skinner);
    •   Local archaeological trusts (Mahoney);
    •   Embera communities in Panama (Theodossopoulos);
    •   Precarious Jamaican community in London (Waldstein);
    •   Greek and Portuguese victims of the austerity crisis (Theodossopoulos, Pina-Cabral);
    •   The global ayahuasca community and other stakeholders in Peru (Peluso);
    •   Tongan and New Zealand mental health practitioners (Poltorak);
    •   Large Buddhist organisations (Mair).

 Our work’s wider contribution is partly evidenced via its dissemination in the popular media (see
 Section 1.4 above).

 4.3 Contributions to the discipline

 We highlight here a small sample of notable contributions:

 New theoretical foundations. From the 1960s to the 2000s, anthropology was shaken by sceptical
 critiques (post-structuralism, post-modernism, post-humanism, and post-colonialism). In
 response, many anthropologists retreated towards cultural relativism. Conversely, while taking on
 board the creative analytical insights raised by these critiques, Pina-Cabral has focused on
 building a ‘realist pathway’ that reconnects sociocultural anthropology to the broader project of
 science (see, in particular, World: An Anthropological Examination, Chicago UP). His long-term
 fieldwork on kinship, domesticity, and naming in Portugal, southern China, and North-East Brazil
 (e.g. JRAI 25 2) enabled him to apply philosophical contributions of ‘radical embodied cognition’
 to an ‘anthropology of the person’ (e.g. Anthropological Theory 18:4). Thus, he adopts an
 ecumenical approach to scientific practice that anchors both anthropology and ethnography in an
 ethics of personhood (e.g. Anthropological Quarterly 86:1).

 New fossil discoveries. Our work on human evolution includes descriptions of recently discovered
 fossil hominin species, Australopithecus sediba and Homo naledi, and novel analysis of existing
 species (Neandertals and the earliest modern Homo sapiens). The research centres on
 evolutionary information derived from fossil teeth (Skinner) and evolution of locomotion (e.g.
 bipedalism, climbing) and tool-related behaviours derived from the skeleton (Skinner, Kivell). The
 research is based on state-of-the-art analyses of the internal structure of primate bones through
 high-resolution microCT scanning. Skinner and Kivell have amassed the largest comparative
 microCT data set of hominin fossils in the world, which they are steadily making open access
 through negotiations with museum curators. This research is couched in a necessarily broader
 comparative context that includes analyses of tooth and bone structure in living apes (e.g.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 chimpanzees, gorillas, and orangutans) and humans, alongside behavioural and biomechanical
 studies of how apes move, and biomechanical studies of human tool use and tool-making. This
 research is changing our understanding of human evolutionary history, in particular highlighting
 human-like manipulative abilities in much earlier fossil humans than previously thought, tree-
 climbing (arboreal) abilities in human fossils much later than previously thought, and diversity in
 how our ancestors walked on two feet. Further contributions include Kivell’s as Director of
 Research on the Australopithecus sediba and Homo naledi hand fossils (with Duke and
 Witwatersrand); Researcher on Neandertal hand remains from El Sidrón Cave, Spain (with Museo
 Nacional de Ciencias Naturales); Researcher on primate hand and limb biomechanics (with Duke
 and James Madison). Skinner was Co-Director analysing Homo naledi dental material; and Koobi
 Research Project with Professor Meave Leakey, Kenya.

 Since 2014, staff have organised 16 national or international conferences and symposiums, and
 12 workshops. For example, the 2016 BABAO conference; the Wenner-Gren-funded conference
 ‘Ten Years of Crisis: The Ethnography of Austerity’ (Pina-Cabral, Theodossopoulos); and the
 British Academy-funded conference ‘Writing Society’ (Biner). Current staff, with former staff and
 PhD students, played a major contributing role to the seven-volume International Encyclopedia of
 Anthropology (Wiley Blackwell, 2018). Kivell co-edited Springer’s textbook on the Evolution of the
 Primate Hand; past and current staff also contributed to Springer’s Bone Health. Disciplinary
 contributions can also be seen in special issues and edited books, reflecting an engagement with
 topical subjects: Bovensiepen on wilful blindness (Critique of Anthropology, in collaboration with
 LSE), and Puri on human adaptation to biodiversity change (Ambio). Contributions to anthropology
 have also occurred through the events of our research centres. CER, for example, has generated
 new knowledge about ethnographic practice: (a) engaging in theoretical debate about the ethics
 and politics of ethnography; (b) encouraging methodological innovation; and (c) refining
 established ethnographic practices, debating ethics, limitations, and recurring challenges. CER
 invites renewed attention to ethnographic practice. For example, it collaborated with the ESRC
 DTP SeNSS and the Sociological Review to deliver two conferences (‘Researching Austerity:
 Concepts, Methods, and Debates’ and ‘New Ethnographic Contexts: Creativity and Performance’)
 and practical training to PhD students. In 2017, it invited editors of four academic journals (JRAI,
 Sociological Review, Social Analysis, Qualitative Research) to outline their views on publishing
 ethnography.

 4.4. Indicators of wider influence

 Our international contribution is evidenced by active roles in journals and other scholarly forums:

    •   Kivell is a member of the Editorial Board of the American Journal of Physical Anthropology;
        Skinner is Associate Editor of the Journal of Human Evolution; Newton-Fisher, Consulting
        Editor for Animal Behaviour; Johns, Associate Editor of Evolutionary Psychology. In 2018,
        Kivell was Direct Submission Editor for PNAS. Johns is on the Editorial Board of the SAGE
        Handbook of Evolutionary Psychology.
    •   Bovensiepen is Editor of Social Analysis; Henig was Editor-in-Chief of History and
        Anthropology; Bovensiepen an Editorial Board member of the Cambridge Journal of
        Anthropology; and Pina-Cabral a member of the Publications Committee of the Royal
        Anthropological Institute. Ellen is General Editor of the Berghahn series ‘Environmental
        Anthropology and Ethnobiology’; Puri and Theodossopoulos are on the Editorial
        Committee.

 Our scholarly esteem and commitment are also reflected in our extensive journal-reviewing
 activity. These include: Nature, Science, PNAS, Nature Scientific Reports, Journal of Human
 Evolution, American Ethnologist, Critique of Anthropology, Journal of Latin American and
 Caribbean Anthropology, JRAI, and Cultural Anthropology. Similarly, staff acted as panel
 members or advisors, refereeing research proposals, notably for: ERC, UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowship, British Academy Knowledge Frontiers 2020, Social Sciences and Humanities
 Research Council of Canada, H2020 Societal Challenges, MRC, EPSRC, Independent Social
 Research Foundation, Leaky Foundation, National Science Foundation, National Geographic,

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leverhulme Trust, ESRC, Wenner-Gren Foundation, Swiss National Science Foundation,
 Czech Science Foundation, Musée du quai Branly, International Primatological Society, Sigma
 Delta Epsilon/Graduate Women in Science Award, University of Leuven, National Research
 Foundation (South Africa), BBSRC, Deutsche Forschungsgemeinshaft. Theodossopoulos acted
 for for years as Chair of the Anthropology Pathway for the ESRC SeNSS DTP, having written the
 pathway proposal and secured an average of 4-5 PhD scholarships per annum. Mahoney sat
 from 2016-18 on the Professional Development Committee (Cobb Professional Development
 Grants) of the American Association of Physical Anthropology.

 Alongside active participation in various national and international professional bodies (e.g. AAA,
 EASA, British Academy, BABAO, AAPA, BAHID, EHBEA, EFP, EuroSEAS, TLSA-UK, ASEASUK,
 Tipiti), staff held visiting fellowships/professorships at institutions across the world. These include:
 Henig’s Ernst Mach fellowship at the University of Graz, Austria; Theodossopoulos’ visiting
 fellowship at the Smithsonian in Panama; Kivell and Skinner’s research positions at the MPI for
 Evolutionary Anthropology, and research affiliation at the Institute of Social Sciences in Lisbon
 (Bovensiepen); visiting professorship at the École Normale Supérieure, Paris (Pina-Cabral),
 visiting professorship at Nanhua University, Taiwan (Mair). Johns and Kivell are Fellows of the
 Higher Education Academy.

 Prizes and distinctions have also been awarded during the period: PNAS Cozzarelli Prize for most
 outstanding scientific quality and originality in 2019 to Bocaege for her paper on the
 Bioarchaeology of Neolithic Çatalhöyük; SARMA’s Young Researcher Prize in Prehistoric
 Archaeology and Palaeoanthropology 2018 (Le Luyer); AJPA’s Nadel Essay Prize 2014 for
 ‘Paying for the Dead: On the Politics of Death in Independent Timor-Leste’ (Bovensiepen); 2017
 George C. William Prize for the most significant article published in Evolution, Medicine and Public
 Health, ‘Postnatal depression and reproductive success in modern, low-fertility contexts’ (Johns);
 and Distinguished Economic Botanist Award 2017, Society for Economic Botany (Ellen).
 Poltorak’s documentary The Healer and the Psychiatrist won the Best Feature Film at the Society
 for Visual Anthropology Film and Media Festival (a section of the AAA), Best Cinematography
 (Collected Voices Film Festival), and the Royal Anthropological Institute’s Richard Werbner Prize
 for Visual Ethnography. It was also selected for the London International Documentary Festival
 2019, the largest and oldest documentary festival in London. Findings on Moroccan and
 Indonesian fossil humans, to which Skinner contributed the analysis of teeth, were ranked the
 second most important scientific discovery of 2017 by Discover magazine; findings on the Homo
 naledi (Kivell, Skinner significant contributions) were included at number 57. Internal University
 prizes received include the University Consolidator Research Award (Kivell); and University
 Starting Research Awards (Key, Skinner). The work of students and alumni was also distinguished
 through, for example: Wellcome Medal of the Royal Anthropological Institute to Elizabeth Hallam
 in 2018; and the Humanitarian Gold Award in Jakarta (2015) for Eda Elif Tibet’s documentary
 Refugee Here I Am.

 Staff also refereed senior academic promotions, acted as external examiners of postgraduate
 programmes, co-supervised and examined PhDs and Habilitations in departments in the UK (UCL,
 LSE, Oxford, Sheffield, Durham, SOAS, Brunel, Southampton, Cambridge, Aberdeen,
 Goldsmiths) and abroad, thus contributing to the sustainability of the discipline by training in
 anthropology across the world (Collège de France, University of Lisbon, ENS, Lyons and Paris,
 ISCTE/IUL, Copenhagen, Barcelona, Macau, EHESS Toulouse, MPI-EVA, George Washington
 University, Université Paris Descartes, CNRS-National Museum of Natural History, University of
 Toulouse, University, ANU). Staff administrative, advisory, and executive contributions to
 professional associations, learned societies, and boards of research users include: British
 Academy (Ellen), ASA (Honorary Secretary, Mair), RAI (Theodossopoulos, Puri, Poltorak, Mair,
 Pina-Cabral, fellows), RAI Medical Anthropology Committee (Poltorak), RAI Environment
 Committee (Puri), EASA EnvironAnt Network (Puri), Society for the Anthropology of Lowland
 South America (Peluso, elected Board member), Chacruna (Board member, Peluso), Academy of
 Sciences of Lisbon (Pina-Cabral, fellow), World Council of Anthropological Associations (Pina-
 Cabral), Powell-Cotton Museum (Trustee, Skinner), Software Sustainability Institute (Fischer),
 American Association of Physical Anthropology (Mahoney), Elected Member Scientific Council,

                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ICS, University of Lisbon (Pina-Cabral), Member of the Organizing Committee of EASA
 Conference celebrating the association’s 30th anniversary in July 2020 (Pina-Cabral), Elected
 Council Member at Large 2019-22 at the Society for Economic Botany (Waldstein). Kivell sits on
 the Steering Committee of the Biological Anthropology Women’s Mentoring Network. Biner co-
 founded the research network ‘Political Violence in Turkey’, in collaboration with the universities
 of Cambridge, Glasgow, and Sabanci.

 Our researchers are also regularly invited to deliver talks at universities such as Cambridge,
 Durham, Liverpool, LSE, Sussex, and abroad (e.g. Heidelberg, Leiden), and also at other types of
 organisations such as the Honourable Society of Lincoln’s Inn and the Mole Valley Geological
 Society. Pina-Cabral and Kivell delivered a number of inaugural lectures or public talks: to the
 Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian, Paris, in 2015; the 2017 SIEF Congress at the University of
 Göttingen, Germany; the Ecole Normale Supérieure, Paris, in 2016; Leonardo da Vinci Memorial
 Colloquium, 2019, Amboise, France; ICVM Prague, 2019; AAPA, 2014 and 2016; Oxford
 University Museum of Natural History, 2015). Keynotes include: the Hilgendorf Lecture, University
 of Tübingen; Royal Institution; William King Annual Lecture, Irish National Geological Research
 Meeting.

 These are just some of the ways in which the unit’s staff have contributed to the vitality and
 sustainability of their disciplines in the UK and beyond, rendering tangible our intellectual
 contributions at the highest level both nationally and internationally.




                                                                                            Page 16
