Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of East Anglia

 Unit of Assessment: UoA3: Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

 1.1. CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE OF THE UNIT
 This submission reports on research and impact activities by 51 staff (47.4 FTE) from the Schools
 of Health Sciences (HSC, 27 staff), Pharmacy (PHA, 22 staff) and Medicine (MED, 2 staff). The
 Schools contributing to this Unit of Assessment are in the Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences
 (FMH: HSC and MED) and the Faculty of Science (SCI: PHA). We are part of the Norwich
 Research Park (NRP); a partnership between UEA, the Norfolk and Norwich University
 Hospital (NNUH) and independent research institutes – the John Innes Centre (JIC), the
 Quadram Institute Bioscience (QIB), the Earlham Institute (EI) (all supported in part by the
 BBSRC). These partners form an extended campus containing one of Europe's largest
 concentrations of life science researchers and the Unit plays an integral role in its activities in
 developing core science and applied health research.

 Our research spans From Bench to Bedside to Healthy Communities in terms of influence and
 reach. The activities in PHA focus on the fundamental science of developing new medicines
 (molecules, materials, formulations), understanding the mechanisms of drug action, developing
 underpinning scientific methods, and medicines management. HSC and MED focus on
 understanding the determinants of health and well-being, developing and evaluating interventions
 to optimise health and well-being and improving and sustaining models for the delivery of care.
 Together our research addresses global health challenges along the pre-clinical, applied clinical
 and implementation continuum, with areas of strong collaboration between PHA, HSC and MED.

 The unit structures its research into six overarching themes across the Pharmacy and Allied
 Health Professions spectrum:
        -   Frontier Bioscience for Health;
        -   Next Generation Therapeutics;
        -   Age Related Diseases;
        -   Healthy Ageing and Health Behaviours;
        -   Multimorbidities and Rehabilitation;
        -   Delivery and Sustainability of Care.




                               Scheme 1. Structure of UoA3 at UEA


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research community strategy pursues excellence based on synergies between chemical,
 biological, medical and applied health research, with a focus on particular areas of strength and
 collaboration across the Unit and beyond.

 The unit has grown substantially in size, income, international reach and collaboration with non-
 academic stakeholders since REF2014 when two submissions were made to UoA3. We have
 increased our research power over this period through investment in new staff and increased
 income-generating success. During REF2021 period we have been awarded £45.5M research
 funding (up from £20.1M, combining the UoA3a and UoA3b submissions for REF2014). Our
 current UoA3 submission is based on the return of 47.4FTE instead of 28.2FTE in REF2014.
 Research discoveries across different themes have been published in leading interdisciplinary
 journals (Angewandte Chemie, BMJ, JACS, Nature Chemistry, Nature Communications, PNAS,
 The Lancet) and subject-specific journals (Advanced Materials, Journal of Immunology, Molecular
 Pharmaceutics, Nucleic Acids Research, The Lancet Psychiatry, The Lancet Respiratory
 Medicine).

 1.2. RESEARCH STRATEGY, WITH REVIEW OF PAST AND FUTURE OBJECTIVES
 1.2.1. Overview and strategy
 Our strategic aim is to deliver innovative research that contributes to real world challenges across
 a wide range of areas in science and health, which has translational capacity for improved human
 health and welfare. Our research has developed considerably over the assessment period, in line
 with the plans from REF2014 and aided by a University-wide strategic root-and-branch review of
 our research and impact strategy led by the Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation in
 2015.

 Our research and impact strategy are to:
 •   Pursue world-leading excellence in research and impact across the Six Themes.
 •   Build upon areas of strength, while remaining flexible to rapidly respond to regional, national
     and international research priorities.
 •   Strengthen local collaborations and capitalise on our position working across the NRP and
     UEA Health and Social Care Partnership.
 •   Deliver a strategy that recruits outstanding staff and fosters ambition amongst new and
     existing staff groups.
 •   Foster the next generation of researchers as contributors to a vibrant academic community.
 •   Deliver improvements in health and care systems that benefit patients and their carers.

 We have a culture of solution-orientated research, creating forums for interdisciplinary
 discussions, forging external partnerships, and providing leadership. Since REF2014 we
 established multi-organisational research networks to enhance collaboration and develop
 translational impact:

 • UEA Health and Social Care Partners (UEAHSCP) established in 2019, is a formal
                                 partnership of 12 health and social care organisations
                                 with 45,000 staff across East Anglia. UEAHSCP
                                 facilitates early-stage research, innovation and
                                 collaboration to improve health and social care in the
                                 region, by focussing on healthy ageing, young people’s
                                 mental health and living with chronic conditions.




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                          • The Norwich Institute of
                                          Healthy Ageing (NIHA) provides
                                          research links across the NRP,
                                          including Schools in this UoA, the
                                          Norwich Medical School, the
                                          Norwich Business School and
                                          groups from the QIB and JIC.
                                          Partners include NNUH, Public
                                          Health Norfolk, Local Government and community
                                          groups (including UEAHSCP). It targets the complex
                                          social, economic, geographical, and environmental
                                          determinants of health behaviour with the ultimate goal
                                          to increase healthy life expectancy and reduce health
                                          inequities.


                  •   The Norwich Cancer Research Network (NCRN) includes 140
                  researchers from all NRP organisations and encompasses research from
                  identification of novel therapeutic targets and molecules through to clinical trials
                  and on to public health policy for the prevention and treatment of cancer.


  •   The NIHR Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) East of England (EoE) is a five-year
      consortium between Cambridgeshire and Peterborough NHS Foundation Trusts, and the
      Universities of Cambridge, East Anglia, Hertfordshire and Essex along with other regional
      Trusts, Local Authorities, Regional Sustainability and Transformation Partnerships, patient-
      led organisations, charities, and industry partners across the region (Section 3.2.2).



 Research strengths and successes by themes:

       Frontier Bioscience for Health
       The unit’s research is underpinned by our novel methodologies to probe structure and
       mechanisms spanning length-scales from molecules and materials to cells and tissues.
       These extend beyond the remits of biological- and health-focussed research and include:
       - Thermal and Imaging methods (Fabian, Qi, Round);
       - NMR tools for soft matter and protein-ligand interactions (Beekman, Fabian,
          Khimyak, Wallace);
       - Computational and modelling methods (Fabian, Hamilton, Khimyak);
       - Nutrition models (O’Connell, Sobolewski);
       - Primary (Morris, Sobolewski, Stokes, Warren) and ex-vivo 3D (J Sanderson) cell
          models.

       BOX 1. Highlights: Frontier Bioscience for Health
         •   Wallace developed a novel NMR-based method to determine pKa (Anal. Chem.
             2018);
         •   Round used innovative single molecule imaging methods to study alginate
             gelation (Carbohydrate Polymers 2016);
         •   Khimyak and Fabian used NMR crystallography to understand structure of
             porous solids (Chem. Mater. 2020) and order-disorder transitions in
             pharmaceuticals (Angew. Chem. 2016, Mol. Pharm. 2016).




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Next Generation Therapeutics
       In this interdisciplinary theme we design and develop new molecules, materials (Fabian,
       Khimyak, Round), formulation approaches and healthcare technologies (Qi, Saeed,
       J Sanderson) for treatment of complex diseases. Other areas of expertise include:
       - Anticancer, Antimalarial and Antimicrobial Agents (Morris, Ganesan, Hamilton,
           Searcey, O’Connell);
       - Protein-protein and -nucleic acid interactions (Beekman, Searcey);
       - Biologically active natural products (Gibbons, O’Connell, Sobolewski, Stokes);
       - Epigenetics (Ganesan);
       - Advances in 3D-printing (Qi, Saeed).

        BOX 2. Highlights: Next Generation Therapeutics
            •   Beekman and Searcey discovered a highly efficient approach to develop
                inhibitors of the p53/hDMX or hDM2 interactions (Chem. Sci. 2019);
            •   We developed novel nano-formulations (Morris, Nanoscale 2018; Qi, Biomaterials
                2019) and graphitic carbon-nitride nanomaterials (Khimyak, Angew. Chem. 2014);
            •   Matthews et al. demonstrated that novel calix[4]arene-based glycoclusters
                functionalised with galactosides or fucosides protected against Pseudomonas
                aeruginosa infection in vivo (J. Med. Chem. 2014);
            •   O’Connell et al. introduced a novel plant transient transfection technology for rapid
                preparative access to plant-derived molecules (Metabolic Engineering 2017).



      Age-Related Diseases
      Our activity spans from the identification and validation of new targets, drug discovery and
      nutrition to new formulations and improvements in patient welfare, with expertise in:
       - Cancer (Ganesan, Morris, O’Connell, Qi, Searcey);
       - Inflammation (O’Connell, J Sanderson, Sobolewski);
       - Eye-Degenerative Conditions (Bhattacharya, Qi, Saeed, J Sanderson);
       - Cardiovascular Conditions (Warren);
       - Patient Adherence (Bhattacharya, Scott, Twigg, Wright).

       BOX 3. Highlights: Age-Related Diseases
        •       Warren demonstrated therapeutic potential of stem cell migration for development
                of new drugs for vascular diseases (Aging Cell 2016, Cell Death and Differentiation
                2015);
        •       Ganesan showed that NAADP signalling plays a major role in reperfusion-induced
                cell death and represents a potent pathway for protection against reperfusion injury
                (Cardiovascular Research 2015);
        •       Sobolewski showed that monocytes modulate crypt stem cell number and promote
                crypt cell proliferation to maintain gut homeostasis (J. Immunol. 2017).


       Healthy Ageing and Health Behaviours
       This theme demonstrates the overlap in research of PHA and HSC and focuses on
       developing, evaluating and implementing behaviour change interventions to improve
       population health and health service delivery. This includes:
       - Diet and Physical Activity (Atkin, Deane, Hardeman, Hanson, Sach);
       - Smoking and Alcohol (Naughton, Khadjesari);
       - Medication Usage (Bhattacharya, Wright, Twigg).



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



       BOX 4. Highlights: Healthy Ageing and Health Behaviours
        • Hardeman developed a method to specify behaviour change interventions in
           terms of component behaviour change techniques (HTA 2015);
        • Sach showed daily emollient use during the first year of life does not prevent
           eczema in high-risk children and reported an increased risk of skin infections
           (Lancet 2020);
        • Naughton developed toolboxes to analyse behaviour change in N-of-1 RCT and
           used it in smoking/tobacco use (MiQuit) (Addiction 2017);
        • Twigg identified patterns of medications use in pregnancy from a multinational
           perspective (BMJ Open 2014).



       Multi-morbidities and Rehabilitation
       This theme draws together pre-clinical and applied research to understand the complex
       health and care needs of populations across the life span and find effective treatments,
       including:
       - People with dementia and their carers (Arthur, Cross, Kishita, Mioshi, Poland,
           Richardson);
       - People in residential, palliative and end of life care (Buck, Bunn, Farquhar, Killett,
           Peryer, Poland);
       - Acquired brain injury (Mares, Northcott, Pomeroy, Sach);
       - Musculoskeletal disorders (Chester, Jerosch-Herold, Smith).


       BOX 5. Highlights: Multi-morbidities and Rehabilitation
         •   Arthur published the first multi-area direct evidence of a 20% drop in incidence of
             dementia, mostly observed in men (Nat. Commun. 2016);
         •   Richardson and Arthur demonstrated a strong association between some
             classes of anticholinergic drugs and future dementia incidence (BMJ 2018);
         •   Peryer evaluated the clinical efficacy of occupational health intervention for care
             home residents with stroke-related disabilities (BMJ 2015).



       Delivery and Sustainability of Care
       This theme investigates how health and social care can be better organised and delivered
       (Buck, Killett, Murdoch) to facilitate positive experiences for both service-users and staff,
       including:
       - The informal (carer and volunteer) workforce (Bunning, Farquhar, Kamble, Kishita,
           Poland);
       - Promotion of staff wellbeing (Bunn, Khadjesari, K Sanderson);
       - Innovations in who delivers care (Bhattacharya, Hardeman, Scott, Wright).

       BOX 6. Highlights: Delivery and Sustainability of Care
         •   Bhattacharya and Scott developed a hospital Deprescribing Implementation
             Framework (hDIF) (Age and Ageing 2019);
         •   Bunn demonstrated that routine clinical signs and symptoms of dehydration are
             ineffective in older people living in care homes (Amer. J. Clin. Nutr. 2016);
         •   Murdoch identified problems affecting care quality in nurses’ use of computer
             decision support software for telephone triage (Social Science & Medicine 2015).


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.2. Implementation of Unit’s research plans from REF2014
 The UoA3 submission is based on the cross-faculty activities of PHA and HSC/MED. HSC was
 established in 2014, in line with strategic objectives highlighted in the UoA3b submission from
 UEA. Table 1 describes progress made in achieving the strategic objectives from our UoA3(a/b)
 REF2014 submissions:
                              Table 1: REF 2014 strategic objectives
               REF2014 objective                                    Fulfilment
     1. "Pharmacy strategy over the next five   Based on the external and UEA funding we have
     years will be to support and nurture       invested £5.3M into our underpinning research
     internationally leading research in the    infrastructure (Section 3.2).
     focused areas”. (PHA)
     2. "To continue to develop links with     Considerable increase in research funding from
     local (UEA, NRP) and more distant (UK     international bodies during REF2021 to £3.1M
     and International) collaborators." (PHA)  from £1.3M.
     3. "increase research programme grant     Research awards across the whole UoA3
     income and expenditure” (HSC)             increased from £20.1M to £45.5M (Section 3).
     4. "Expand further our NHS research       Successful activity in the CLARHC East of
     partnerships." (HSC)                      England led to the recently awarded ARC EoE
                                               (Section     3.2.2).    UEAHSCP          has  been
                                               instrumental in expanding our regional NHS
                                               research partnerships.
     5. " Increase substantially the number of The number of completed doctorates increased
     successfully completed doctorates." from 66 to 113 across the whole UoA3.
     (HSC/PHA)
     6. “New Building for Pharmacy…” (PHA) UEA invested £2.8M into the substantial upgrade
                                               of research facilities directly benefiting PHA staff
                                               (Section 3.2). A new SCI Laboratories Building
                                               with dedicated space for PHA opened in 2019.
     7. “Develop … international centre of The vision for our brain research became more
     excellence in Acquired Brain Injury” interdisciplinary. We secured large infrastructure
     (HSC)                                     grants to support discovery and clinical
                                               application leading to UEA Wellcome-Wolfson
                                               Brain Imaging Centre (£3.4M, Section 3.2.1).
     8. “Lead patient and public involvement The new ARC EoE has a focus theme on PPI and
     in research activity” (HSC)               inclusive research.
     9. “Expand our research career pathway The new CLACEast (Section 2.2.3) and ARC
     activity…” (HSC)                          have significantly expanded the research career
                                               pathways for Nursing, Midwifery and Allied
                                               Health Professionals in the region.


 1.2.3. Research objectives for next 5 years

 Building on the Unit’s interdisciplinary activities, we have a strong framework for progress in the
 next REF period. We aim to develop further synergies between fundamental science and applied
 health research and address global challenges through activities that align with NRP and
 UKRI/NIHR strategies. We are well placed to continue to attract funding from alternative sources
 including charities, industry and international organisations.

 Central to the Unit’s sustainability is forging new collaborations within NRP and developing our
 pivotal position within UEAHSCP (also Sections 3.2.2 and 4.1). We will continue to make full use
 of the complementary expertise, facilities and critical mass these provide to succeed in attracting
 large-scale partnerships (e.g. DTPs, infrastructure) to take integrated approaches to challenges
 across the bench-to-bedside-to-healthy communities continuum.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Over the next five years we aim to:

     •  Expand our research footprint via our newly established research centres including the
        NIHA, Institute for Volunteering Research (Section 4.3), Norwich Epidemiology
        Centre (Section 4.1) and NCRN;
     • Grow our activity in addressing pressing global health challenges, including:
       - fundamental causes of disease (inflammation, cancer, cardiovascular and
           gastrointestinal diseases);
       - development and evaluation of interventions to improve health;
       - developing new tools to combat antimicrobial resistance;
       - promoting healthy wellbeing initiatives for sustainable health;
     •   Continue to tackle new emerging health and social care priorities, for example, addressing
         healthcare needs for long-COVID and evaluate service innovations as a result of COVID;
     •   Consolidate our expertise in advanced computational methods, including machine-
         learning tools, to facilitate the design of new drugs and materials, to predict their properties
         and mechanisms of action;
     •   Innovate in developing experimental methodologies based on our strengths (NMR
         spectroscopy, MRI, thermal and imaging methods) and recent institutional investment in
         advanced research facilities;
     •   Integrate tools such as in silico screening, phenotypic assays, artificial intelligence and
         ‘omics approaches to facilitate the discovery of biologically active molecules with new
         modalities of action including antibody-drug conjugates, allosteric modulators, protein-
         protein interaction disruptors, multitargeting drugs, protease targeting chimeras and
         synergistic combination therapy;
     •   Grow our ICS portfolio through increased breadth and depth of end-user engagement;
     •   Build upon our current success in Athena SWAN [Bronze (PHA), Bronze (HSC), Silver
         (MED)] and continue to strive for best practice in Equality, Diversity and Inclusion;
     •   Facilitate leadership in bidding for large research consortia and interdisciplinary grants.



 1.3 IMPACT: STRATEGIC GOALS, MECHANISMS AND ACHIEVEMENTS

 The REF2021 period saw a complete culture change to ensure that impact generation became
 recognised as an integral component of our core activities. We introduced a variety of mechanisms
 to foster an environment that supports the development of relationships with non-academic end-
 users, including:
    •    Identification and development of new Impact Case Studies (ICS) facilitated by impact
         leads in PHA (Morris) and HSC (K Sanderson).
    •    We are supported by six specialist relationship managers within UEA’s Research and
         Innovation team to facilitate translational research.
    •    Staff are encouraged to pursue translational funding; with multiple staff members having
         won Industrial Partnerships, Innovation Grants [>10 staff including Hamilton (ICS2), Qi
         (ICS3), Wright (ICS4)], or consultancies (Section 3.1.2).
    •    Facilitating developing impact via i-CASE studentships and industry-funded PhD awards,
         we have partnered grants with 12 different businesses including AstraZeneca, Novartis,
         Ecospray [Hamilton (ICS2)], Unilever and Janssen.
    •    Staff are actively encouraged to pursue impact funding from various Innovation
         Development Funds. UoA3 staff won £861K of UEA/NRP funds to develop our impact
         portfolio (Section 3.1.2).




                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         Box 7. UoA3 Impact Case Studies
          ICS1: Bunning designed a community-based inclusive development project
                empowering caregivers of children with developmental disabilities in rural
                Kenya;
          ICS2: Hamilton established the mode of action of garlic-derived polysulfide
                compounds underpinning international regulatory approval of polysulfide-
                containing biopesticides;
          ICS3: Qi determined the underpinning mechanism of formulation stability for the anti-
                HIV drug etravirine;
          ICS4: Wright determined the high risk of medication error in patients with enteral
                tubes, leading to industrial collaboration and licencing of new liquid drug
                formulations.

     •    Our strategy has been to encourage researchers working in clinical practice and policy to
          contribute expertise to translational activities by accepting invitations, e.g. Smith (NICE
          committees), Killett (CQC standards for care homes) and English (WHO and industry
          standards for the diagnosis and monitoring of diabetes via HbA1c measurement).
     •    Internal training sessions open to all researchers (including PGRs) to build impact capacity,
          including: stakeholder identification and involvement strategies; impact pathway
          development; identification of external partners to co-produce and fund research; and
          impact evidencing.
     •    An annual review of each registered ICS at both the Faculty and Pro-Vice Chancellor level.
          As a result, the unit's number of ICSs grew from six in 2014 to >25 in 2020.
     •    Support and recognition of impact success through workload adjustments, promotion, buy-
          out of teaching responsibilities and/or leave periods for impact activities. Bunning,
          Hamilton, Saeed and Qi were granted study leave for impact activities.
     •    Encouragement to enter UEA's annual Innovation and Impact Awards contest. Bunning,
          Saeed and Qi were recipients of UEA Impact and Innovation Awards.

 1.4. UNIT'S APPROACH TO INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH

 The unit’s strategy embraces interdisciplinary research best suited to deal with complex research
 questions across our bench-to-bedside-to-healthy communities environment. Our interdisciplinary
 research themes foster synergies between our subject specific areas in fundamental science
 (pharmaceutical materials; molecular and cellular pharmacology; medicinal chemistry and
 chemical biology) and applied health research (behavioural science, biomechanics, complex
 intervention development, digital health, implementation science, linguistics, clinical
 neurophysiology, trial methodology).

 We have extensive links across the NRP and with other Schools in UEA [Chemistry, Biology,
 Engineering, Computing Sciences (i.e. for smartphone app development (Mares, Health
 Foundation, £55K), Law (ASSENT Bunning, £378K, Nuffield) and Norwich Business School
 (K Sanderson, ESRC, £659K)]. Examples of interdisciplinary and collaborative research are listed
 in Section 4.

 Specific mechanisms facilitating interdisciplinary research include:
 •   The establishment of the UEAHSCP, NIHA and NCRN linking us across NRP and with
     regional NHS, public health bodies and local government.
 •   We share laboratory space and facilities with other Schools (Chemistry, Biological Sciences
     and Engineering) and across the NRP. Our teams also work in the Biomedical Research
     Centre, which promotes open-plan collaborative workspace for fundamental biomedical
     research and, via links with QIB and NNUH, clinical translation into patients.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                       •       The opening of QIB in 2018 provided the unit with another research
                       partner focussing on nutrition and health with active collaborations
                       illustrated by several research outputs (Nature Commun. 2017, 2018,
                       PNAS 2018, 2019, Nature Food 2020). Current collaboration in applied
                       health research is focussed on the efficacy and safety of faecal microbiome
                       transplantation [Atkin and Carding (QIB), RESTORE-ME (Invest in ME,
                       £610K, total)];
                       •       The competitions for BBSRC-funded bioDTP and SCI Studentships
    encourage supervisory teams from more than one organisation on the NRP or from different
    Schools respectively, thereby actively promoting interdisciplinary PhD projects (examples
    include collaborations between UEA, QIB and JIC). These are strengthened by recent
    successful applications to the Wellcome Trust [EDESIA, Plant Food and Health programme
    (QIB, BIO, MED and PHA)] and MRC Doctoral Antimicrobial Research Training Studentships
    (DART) (NRP institutes, MED and PHA).

 1.5. PROGRESS TOWARDS AN OPEN RESEARCH ENVIRONMENT

 The unit pursues open research and reproducibility through both University-level processes and
 unit-level activities e.g. presentations at annual research strategy days and regular staff meetings.
 All accepted manuscripts are uploaded to the PURE research information system and become
 externally accessible in compliance with REF requirements. A new University-level initiative
 extends open access to underpinning datasets using PURE, facilitating reproducibility. The
 University also administers UKRI/NIHR and charity funds for open access publication in
 accordance with funders' requirements.

 1.6. RESEARCH INTEGRITY AND ETHICS

 The unit strives for exemplary standards of research integrity through a combination of University-
 level processes and the unit's own activities. UEA maintains a Research Integrity Office and is a
 signatory of the revised 2019 Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the
 Concordat on Openness in Animal Research. The University recently revised its Research Ethics
 Policy and all staff adhere to its requirements. At unit level, we instil automatic compliance with
 the highest research integrity and ethical standards via several mechanisms:
 • A proactive Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Board, which reviews all animal research
     applications for the University.
 • A strong emphasis on the paramount importance of research integrity and ethics in all PGR
     student inductions.
 • Research involving the use of human tissues is overseen by the FMH Human Tissue
     Committee with relevant ethics consideration (O’Connell);
 • Research ethics requirements are a vital part of patient-facing research in UoA3 [FMH ethics
     committee: Buck (Chair), Twigg (Former Deputy Chair), Scott (Member)]. For research
     involving human participants, the University combines our existing high standards with those
     additionally required by the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care Research. The
     University has Joint Office arrangements with NNUH to manage our research governance
     responsibilities for this group of studies. The University is also a supporting organisation of the
     AllTrials Campaign.
 In addition to promoting best practice in research ethics, we are leading research on how to make
 research participation more equitable, through a project to develop an ethically sound, legally
 robust strategy for including adults in research who have impairment of capacity and/or
 communication (Bunning, Nuffield Foundation).




                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. PEOPLE

 2.1. STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT

 The Unit's overall strategy for People is to facilitate career development of existing research staff
 at every level and recruit outstanding new staff in open, fair competition and support their career
 development. This includes mentoring internal and external candidates as they apply for
 fellowships to be hosted by the Unit. We aim to provide excellent career development for our PGR
 students and to ensure a research environment with the highest standards of equality, diversity
 and inclusion. This vision is shared across the three Schools in the Unit.

 2.1.1. Staffing and Recruitment Policy

 Effectiveness and fairness in recruitment are ensured by mandatory training of all staff in
 Recruitment and Selection Processes, Diversity in the Workplace and Unconscious Bias,
 refreshed every two years.

 In the REF2021 period, 22 new faculty research appointments (12F/10M) were made to
 strengthen all Six Themes across the Pharmacy and Allied Health Professions spectrum and
 develop new areas of excellence.




                             Scheme 2. Staffing strategy across UoA3
 New Senior Posts include Chairs in:
       - Applied Health Research (K Sanderson);
       - Dementia (Mioshi);
       - Natural Products (Gibbons).

 Appointments on Senior Lecturer/Associate Professor (AP) level were made to develop:
        - Behavioural Science (Hardeman now Professor, Naughton);
        - Health Promotion (Khadjesari);
        - Palliative Care (Farquhar now Professor);
        - Speech and Language Therapy (Northcott);
        - Physiotherapy (Smith).


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and at Lecturer level to study:
        - Protein-protein Interactions (Beekman);
        - Behavioural Medicine (Scott);
        - Gut Immunology (Sobolewski);
        - Purinergic Pharmacology (Stokes now AP);
        - Primary Care Pharmacy (Twigg now AP);
        - Cardiovascular Mechanobiology (Warren);
        - Dementia (Kishita now AP);
        - Palliative Pare (Peryer);
        - Behavioural Epidemiology (Atkin now AP);
        - Nursing and Clinical Sciences (English now AP, Hanson, Buck).

 Wallace joined PHA in 2017 as a Research Fellow of the Royal Commission of the 1851 Exhibition
 and won a prestigious UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship in 2020 to develop novel NMR chemical
 shift imaging methods to facilitate accelerated drug discovery.

 These appointments enhanced our research capability contributing to a high-quality diverse
 research environment. Researchers who left the Unit since 2014 left academia or retired (7),
 repatriated (2) or joined other UK HEI (6) and QIB (1). Very few staff will reach traditional
 retirement age before 2027/2028. Whilst the number choosing to retire cannot be predicted, our
 plan, based on the continued success of UoA3, will be to replace these posts as they arise.

 2.1.2. Staff Development and Support

 To implement our staff development strategy, we use a suite of mechanisms at University (see
 REF5a), Faculty and School levels:
    •   Annual appraisal for staff in all categories involved in research:
         - For academic staff, including research fellows, an annual appraisal is combined
           with the Research Activity Planning (RAP) meeting (covering research and impact)
           led by the Head of School and Director of Research. The approach is supportive:
           achievements and readiness for career advancement are celebrated, and
           opportunities for support, training and career advancement are identified. Past record
           (data on outputs, grants, PhD supervision, impact and innovation) and future plans
           are discussed and agreed for the coming year, encouraging individuals to set realistic
           targets considering workload commitments. RAP meetings inform an Annual
           Research Review overseen by the Associate Deans for Research and the PVC-
           Research;
        - For contract research staff, annual appraisal is typically by the project’s PI, but this
           can be changed on request. Appraisals celebrate achievements and include career
           development and training needs analysis. For staff on short-term contracts there is a
           focus on optimising career development for further employment. RAs are
           encouraged to advance to fellowships or faculty positions (within the Schools and
           elsewhere), exemplified by Beekman, Chester, Peryer, Scott, Twigg and Wallace.

    •   Training and continuing professional development needs are provided by the Centre for
        Staff and Educational Development, which offers >200 courses. Since 2014 this includes
        an individual development funding scheme for off-site specialised training
        requirements.
    •   The Unit fully supports UEA’s Code of Practice for the Management of Research Staff,
        including management guidelines for PIs, which was revised to comply with the new
        Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. UEA now offers financial
        relocation assistance to new contract research staff. It has also introduced a merit-based
        promotions process for contract research staff that accords with the revised Concordat,



                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        such that UEA will fund any funding shortfall for merit-based promotions and salary
        progression awards.
     • Promotions Committees consider cases for confirmation of appointment and promotion
       of academic and contract research staff by implementing UEA’s processes according to
       standards of academic excellence in PHA, HSC and MED. Supportive feedback on all
       applications, with guidance for career advancement, is provided by the Head of School.
       We reward all staff for outstanding performance and collegiate activities. Timely promotion
       applications are encouraged by a prompt to discuss promotion in the Appraiser Checklist
       that all staff receive. The effectiveness of our approaches is evidenced by the success of
       17 (12F/5M) (of 29) applications for promotion and all 14 (7F/7M) applications for
       confirmation of appointment. Seven senior internal promotions were made to Chair (6) and
       Reader (1), all female staff.

     • All staff may apply for a semester of study leave to enhance research productivity, every
       six semesters (out of five study leaves, three were awarded for development of ICS).

     • During 2020, in response to governmental restrictions arising from COVID-19, UEA was
       quick to enable staff to take home any office equipment. The UEA updates staff regularly
       on how to access financial support and to maximise safe working practices. All labs
       underwent stringent risk assessment and staff workload realigned to ensure that
       government guidance was adhered to. UEA was one of the first few Universities to safely
       resume laboratory research in May 2020.

     • The University launched a new 24/7 Employee Assistance Programme, providing a
       confidential service to staff (their spouse/partner and dependants) to help with personal
       and professional issues that could be affecting home or work life, health, finances, family
       issues, child or care support. Naughton co-founded the UEA-wide Wellbeing Interest
       Network which facilitates uptake of our own wellbeing expertise by the broader UEA
       community, fosters collaborations and informs the University’s Mental Health Strategic
       Vision.

 2.1.3. Support for Individuals at the Beginning of their Research Career

 Those at the beginning of their research careers are integral to the strategy and success of the
 Unit (ten UoA3 staff are ECR). On starting at UEA, our staff are supported through multiple
 common mechanisms:
    • New faculty appointments receive a formal induction led by the Head of School. They
         are assigned a mentor, who guides them through UEA processes, including probation.
         New staff benefit from the MA in Higher Education Practice.
    •   Newly-appointed contract research staff receive a formal School induction led by their
        project PI. A follow-up meeting at 3-6 months ensures ‘all is well’. Mentorship by the PI
        continues throughout the individual's employment, reinforced by the annual appraisal. All
        contract research staff may request mentorship by a person other than their line manager.
        Mentorship and training include advice on preparing manuscripts, grant writing, project
        management and career advancement, student supervisory responsibilities including co-
        supervision of PhD students.
    •   Indicative research job descriptions ensure that RA posts are costed at the correct level
        and that appointments are made on a salary grade commensurate with knowledge and
        expertise.
    •   Contract Research Staff Coordinators act as points of contact and extra mentors for
        research staff and report to their School’s Executives.
    •   The Unit supports contract research staff in presenting their work during the PHA Annual
        Research Day and HSC Festival attracting staff across SCI and FMH, the University-

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        wide Annual Researcher Summit, and many opportunities to give research talks within
        the Unit, across the NRP and at national and international events.
    •   The Unit also runs an Early Career Researchers Club and Buddy Scheme.
    •   Staff are encouraged to apply for externally funded fellowships. Applicants work with
        assigned mentors and are guided through the process from grant outline to preparation for
        the final interview. In addition to success of Wallace (Section 2.1.1), Backhouse became
        Alzheimer's Society Research Fellow in July 2018. We also hosted one Marie-Curie Fellow
        (Casal until 2020), Delso was awarded a Marie Curie Fellowship in 2020.
 These activities complement the support provided to all staff.
    •   In addition, in PHA new faculty appointments receive support through a research start-up
        fund; priority in Faculty-led PhD studentships competitions and access to DTP
        competitions; and a lighter teaching load in the first two years of appointment (i.e. 1/3 and
        2/3 of full load respectively). This helped our staff to establish their research, demonstrated
        by their successful New Investigator Awards from EPSRC (Saeed) and BBSRC (Stokes,
        Warren).

 2.2. RESEARCH STUDENTS

 Postgraduate research (PGR) students underpin the research in the Unit and make significant
 contributions to the Unit’s sustainability and vibrancy. The Unit is well represented in doctoral
 training programs (BBSRC bioDTP, MRC DART i-case DTP), MSc programs (NIHR MSc Clinical
 Research, HEE CLACEast), networks (NIHR Applied Research Collaboration, formerly
 Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research & Care). We also recruit students via
 annual internal competitions (SCI Studentships including those in support of ECR and EPSRC
 DTA), industrial funding and charities (BHF, Big C). We have successfully adhered to a strategy
 aimed to increase recruitment, providing 50% matching funding for externally funded students
 (examples include studentships co-funded by Centre for Pharmacy Postgraduate Education,
 Boots, Rosemont, Public Health England, Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard and NNUH).

 During the REF2021 period 113 PGR students defended their doctorates across UoA3, up from
 66 across UoA3(a/b) in REF2014. The size of UoA3 PhD cohort during the REF2021 is 277
 students.

 2.2.1. Recruitment policy
 The recruitment of PGR students adheres to UEA's policies on recruitment and Equality and
 Diversity (E&D) including its Codes of Practice with respect to Protected Characteristics. We aim
 to recruit excellent students from as wide and diverse a pool of candidates as possible.
 Recruitment is via open calls followed by a formal selection process involving, as well as the
 proposed supervisory team, independent interview panels, Head of School, PGR Director and the
 PGR Service. The recruitment of PGR students is merit-based with full awareness of the
 requirement to guarantee equality of opportunity to all. Evidencing the outcomes of this approach,
 within the Unit there is a good gender balance among PGR students [50%F in PHA (sector
 average (58%F) and 77%F in HSC (sector average 62%F)].

 2.2.2. Professional Doctorate in Health and Social Care (ProfDHASC)
 Building on the career frameworks and applied focus of research training provision in collaboration
 with local NHS partners, HSC introduced (in 2019) a Professional Doctorate option for local
 capacity building in clinical academic careers, with input and supervision provided by HSC/PHA
 staff across the Unit (currently 13 students are following this pathway).




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.3. Clinical Academic Careers
 UoA3 staff led a £1.6M NIHR Masters Clinical Research programme (2015-2019) (Arthur, Mares)
 to build research capacity in nursing, midwifery, allied health professions and Pharmacy with 53
 completing, including nine that have secured HEE pre-doctoral bridging awards and four that have
 secured NIHR doctoral fellowships.
 In 2018, the Clinical Academic Careers East Hub (CLACEast.net, Jerosch-Herold) was
 developed to host funded internships (HEE £219K p.a.) as part of the NIHR Integrated Clinical
 Academic (ICA) Pathway. It supported 37 clinical academics in the East of England through Pre-
 Masters, Pre-Doctoral and Post-Doctoral Bridging awards. Its strategic focus is to continue to build
 research capacity and capability among the healthcare workforce in collaboration with regional
 NHS partners, NIHR ARC and academic institutions. These initiatives have resulted in greatly
 increased application and success rates for prestigious NIHR ICA doctoral awards (four awarded
 to the UEA).


 2.2.4. Support for PGR students
 Development of PGR students in UoA3 is overseen by the SCI or FMH Graduate Schools and the
 UEA Doctoral College. In addition to frequent informal meetings, mandatory formal progress
 meetings occur every 4 months and include an Initial Meeting and a Probationary Meeting within
 12 months of starting. The Probationary Meeting has an independent chair and permits formal
 progression to the PhD programme.
 To support them, PGR students have access to a multi-member supervisory team and to the
 relevant School PGR Director (Ganesan (PHA) and English (HSC)). Where the primary
 supervisor is an ECR, the secondary supervisor must be experienced. All PGR supervisors are
 required to undertake training in Best Practice in Research Supervision every three years. This
 course focuses on the staff-student relationship and student wellbeing. PGR students have access
 to the Senior Adviser and Disability Officer, the 'embedded' wellbeing team, which offers drop-in
 advice and support, and the University's Student Support Services.
 PGR students are encouraged to present research findings as part of the Research Seminar
 series, at PHA annual research day and FMH PGR annual conference, where students
 participate in a research poster competition and final year students participate in a 3-minute thesis
 competition. All are encouraged to give oral presentations in the main programme (Best Talk &
 Poster supported by a Prize). Faculty and School level funding is available via application to
 enable students to attend external courses and national/international conferences (£5K p.a.).
 More than 30 students benefitted from this, as well as external conference funds.


 2.2.5. Skills and Career Development for PGR Students
 The UEA Code of Practice for Research Degrees commits to providing transferable skills and
 employability training, following Roberts “SET for Success” report. All PGR students follow a
 Training Pathway. This is linked to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and provides
 a minimum of 10 days full-time training per year, including mandatory training, and offers proposals
 for broader professional and personal development. These are tailored to individual needs via a
 Training Needs Analysis completed by each student at the start and updated annually as a
 Personal and Professional Development Plan. Training is delivered by a variety of qualified staff,
 including dedicated Training Coordinators and external providers. It ranges from advanced
 quantitative and/or technical skills to broader professional skills, responding to the needs of our
 cross-faculty cohort. It is evidence-based, responsive to students' needs (e.g. via feedback
 surveys) and inclusive. Specific support for impact and employability is also provided.

 Originating from a PGR student survey called the Honesty Project in 2015, UEA Student Services
 developed a mental health strategy, the COURAGE wellbeing project, which received £300K
 in external funding matched by UEA. This project, led by UEA, piloted new approaches to
 prevention, intervention and cultural change around mental health and wellbeing among PGRs.

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



     BOX 8. PGR successes
    •   Since 2014 >22 our graduates secured academic posts (in UK and internationally),
        >20 are in senior research posts in industry and >20 are pursuing research careers as
        PDRA;

    •   UoA3 PhD researchers’ team won the national BiotechYes2017 competition;

    •   Bibic (PHA, supervised by Stokes) was named an American Chemical Society CAS
        Future Leader;

    •   Porter (HSC) led the student support package for the Catalyst-funded Courage Project
        to support PGR mental health and is now an SRA working on workforce wellbeing;

    •   Zile (HSC, supervised by Porter) works nationally with the SMaRteN network and co-
        authored a 2020 report on the Vitae/SMaRteN national survey of PGR and ECR
        wellbeing;

    •   Bibic, Hlaskova (PHA, supervised by Qi), Lariviere (HSC, supervised by Poland) won
        UEA engagement awards (in 2018, 2020 and 2017 respectively).



 2.3. EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY (E&D)

 The Unit’s Schools currently hold Athena SWAN Bronze (PHA), Bronze (HSC) and Silver (MED)
 awards. Promoting E&D among all staff is a UEA priority. Practices and processes are
 designed to counteract obstacles that may prevent under-represented staff from achieving their
 full potential. E&D training is mandatory for all staff. Care is taken to ensure all committees –
 including Research, Promotion, Ethics and recruitment panels – and key School roles are
 monitored to ensure gender diversity and our recruitment material for all staff demonstrates
 awareness of E&D issues. These activities are overseen by E&D Committees composed of
 representatives at all levels, including Heads of School and Directors of Research. The E&D chairs
 work with the Athena SWAN E&D Project Coordinators in SCI and FMH to ensure sharing of best
 practice.

 UoA3 comprises 59% female staff. The proportion of female staff across Allied Health Professions
 (79%) and Pharmacy (32%) is broadly representative of their respective sectors. Women are well
 represented across all grades.

 E&D considerations form an important part of workload models in place in the Unit. These models
 allocate time for research which is transparent to all and accounts for part-time working. Since
 2019, PHA uses the Faculty of Science Model, which replaced the School-based model. Taking
 a strategic approach, the model allocates at least 30% of staff time to core research activities as
 well as nurturing funding success by ensuring all awarded Investigator time is included as
 workload. HSC uses the FMH Academic Activity Model in which all research active staff are given
 a minimum of 50% of their time for research.

 UEA is very attentive to gender issues when considering staff rewards or the submission of cases
 for increments, regrading or promotion. All staff, including line managers, are required to be aware
 of the legal obligations concerning maternity/paternity and adoption leave. All staff are regularly
 signposted to relevant information provided by the Human Resource’s Department, including
 policies on family-friendly and flexible-working guidelines. Staff returning from maternity/adoption
 leave have a reduced teaching and administration load. Three research staff benefited from the


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Return to Work/Family Support Fund designed to assist with their circumstances (i.e. help with
 care costs while attending conferences).

                        All staff have access to ResNet, a UEA-supported network promoting
                        equality and fairness across the NRP. Qi and J Sanderson were
                        supported to attend Aurora, a women-only leadership development
                        programme run by the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education.

                       UEA has led on Universities UK racial harassment guidance, following up
                       with a BAME Differential Attainment event in June 2019. A working group
 was established that has since run several projects; a second BAME event took place in June
 2020. Three BAME ambassadors are in place across UoA3, with a further two posts due to come
 across FMH.


 2.3.1. E&D in the Construction of the Unit's Submission

 The Unit's REF2021 submission has been constructed in compliance with E&D requirements as
 set out in UEA's REF2021 Code of Practice. REF unit decision-makers received Unconscious Bias
 training. Outputs for submission were solicited via open calls and/or discussion with staff. Output
 quality was assessed at least twice per output in a series of assessments involving internal and/or
 external assessors and a cross-unit, gender-balanced selection panel. All assessors received
 instructions according to REF2021 criteria. The external assessment panel was balanced (4F/4M).
 Anonymous assessment scores were fed back to staff, giving them opportunity for reflection and
 discussion. Final output selection was overseen by the cross-faculty panel (4F/6M). Four ICS and
 all outputs submitted by the Unit are attributed evenly between male and female staff.




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

 3.1. RESEARCH FUNDING

 During REF2021 the Unit secured £45.5M of research funding across 473 projects, a significant
 increase compared to £20.1M (212 projects) during REF2014. We increased income from all
 major funding streams: NIHR (£20.4M from £11.5M), UKRI (£8.7M from £2.4M), UK charities
 (£8.0M from £2.3M), UK industry (£1.6M in from £400K), UK Government (£3.4M from £1.9M) and
 from international bodies (£3.1M from £1.3M).

 3.1.1. Major Research Awards

 Our diverse grant portfolio facilitates all research themes supporting fundamental science (UKRI:
 EPSRC, BBSRC), EU funding, industry and research charities: (Diabetes UK, British Heart
 Foundation, Big C) and for applied health research (NIHR, UKRI (MRC, ESRC), research charities:
 Cancer Research UK, Alzheimer Research UK, Stroke Association; NHS trusts). This includes
 NIHR senior fellowships for Jerosch-Herold and Sach.

    BOX 9. Income Highlights across our Research Themes

         Frontier Bioscience for Health
     •   Khimyak (EPSRC/Innovate UK GelEnz consortium (Bristol, Bath, JIC, UEA); £2.6M
         total, UEA £610K) and Wallace (1851 Commission Fellowship, £176K) developed an
         NMR-based tool kit for soft-matter and biomaterials (ACS Appl. Mater. Interface 2018;
         ChemComm 2020).

         Next Generation Therapeutics
     •   From the DNA-TRAP project (CEC FP7, €2.4M total, UEA €640K, UEA & Florence
         and four industrial partners), Morris developed DNA-based nanoparticles for antibiotic-
         resistant bacteria and studied their disposition in the body (Sci. Rep. 2017; Nanoscale
         2018).

         Age Related Diseases
     •   Work by Searcey and O’Connell on targeted ultrapotent cytotoxics (J. Org. Chem.
         2015) with potential for targeted cancer therapy is being further developed as part of
         an EPSRC grant (£450K).

         Healthy Ageing and Health Behaviours
     •   Wright led the CHIPPS consortium (with Arthur, Poland and Scott) to study
         medicines management in care homes in Norfolk, Yorkshire, the Grampians and
         Northern Ireland (NIHR £1.98M, with NHS Norfolk and Waveney CCG).

        Multi-morbidities & Rehabilitation
      • Sach led health economics assessment on FinCH trial (NIHR, £2M, UEA £1M) that
        evaluated the Guide to Action Care Home fall prevention programme. She showed that
        rehabilitation intervention did not increase outdoor mobility following stroke (HTA 2014).

         Delivery and Sustainability of Care
     •   Farquhar leads SNAP (thesnap.org.uk), a collaborative project (with Cambridge,
         £261K) that developed person-centred healthcare interventions to help patients identify
         and address their support needs (Palliative Medicine 2019).




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3.1.2. Funding for Impact

 We pursued several avenues to support our current and future impact activities (see also section
 4.2):

 •   Multiple staff won industrial awards. Notable partnerships include collaboration with Janssen
     on injectable product development (Qi, £300K, partly supporting an ICS3); projects with
     Rosemont (Bhattacharya, Wright, £23K, partly supporting ICS4), Searcey’s work with
     Novartis (35K) led to a global patent (WO2016193709A1) that also underpins EPSRC funding
     (£450K). Hamilton’s work on garlic-derived polysulfides supported by BBSRC and Ecospray
     (£197K) facilitated ICS2.
 •   The unit's consultancy income has grown to £1.32M (84 projects) over REF2021 from £248K
     (9 projects, REF2014). This includes major partnerships with Calpain Therapeutics
     (J Sanderson, £159K), Rosemont Pharmaceuticals (Wright, £43K (supporting ICS4)),
     VisusNano (Saeed, £250K), Norwich Consolidated Charities (Mioshi, Kishita, £43K), Roche
     Diagnostics & WHO (English, £32K), and Pharmaceutical Services Negotiating Committee
     (Wright & Twigg, £69K).
 •   Our Annual Impact Review, with Impact Team support and PVC-Research oversight, provides
     a gateway to access institutional impact funding. We received £195K from the Innovation Proof
     of Concept Fund (14 projects, including Hamilton (ICS2)), £272K from the Innovation
     Development Fund (including Pomeroy, Qi, Saeed), £73.5K from the ESRC Impact
     Acceleration Account fund (including Bunning (ICS1)), £117K from NRP translational fund
     (including Qi, Searcey) and £77K from HEIF Impact Fund (including commissioning health
     economic analysis for ICS3 and ICS4); total £861K.
 •   Support from industry, business and NGOs through their contributions PhD studentships
     (including CASE awards) was >£125K over the assessment period.

 3.1.3. Mechanisms for Generating Research Funding

 Our strategy is to generate a sustainable income stream for research and impact activities by
 mentoring and supporting staff to bid for funding and enabling an interdisciplinary approach
 to income generation.

     -   We help our staff identify funding opportunities across UKRI, NIHR and beyond and
         promote collaborations (NRP seed-link calls, DTP studentships).
     -   All our grant proposals >£50k are subject to rigorous and supportive peer-review and sift
         panels for BBSRC, MRC and NIHR applications that draw upon pan-NRP researcher
         expertise.
     -   We collaborate on annual research strategy days and writing workshops to develop
         strategic goals, highlight existing research opportunities and develop multi-institutional bids
         and new grant proposals (e.g. EPSRC theme day in 2018). These are organised
         thematically reflecting strategic research priorities across our six research themes.
     -   UEA support all projects via the Research and Innovation Services, from inception of the
         awards to their support, translation and impact.
     -   We access the East of England Research Design Service, located on the UEA campus,
         which provides free advice and support for the development of applied health and social
         care research proposals.




                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2. INFRASTRUCTURE SUPPORTING RESEARCH AND IMPACT

 The unit’s research and impact activities in all themes are undertaken within modern facilities
 enabling new science and creating theme synergies.

 3.2.1. Infrastructure for Fundamental Science and Pre-Clinical Research

 Our laboratory-based research is underpinned by core and specialist facilities, indicative of a
 highly research-intensive unit. Space used by the Unit in SCI has been maintained to a high
 standard (£2.8M was invested during REF2021 to create new labs, upgrade and maintain
 essential infrastructure).

 We received significant investment (>£2.5M in REF2021) into our Faculty of Science Instrument
 Platforms via applications to Research Councils, UKRI capital equipment funding and co-
 investment from UEA. Six Platforms are of particular significance to UoA3: X-Ray, NMR, Mass
 Spectrometry, Elemental Analysis, Bio-Imaging and Structural Imaging. Each has an academic
 lead and dedicated technical staff, providing a direct link for researchers and a lead for instrument
 development and upgrade. All instruments are available to researchers of the Unit and are utilised
 for translational research.

  •    UEA high-performance computing cluster is regularly used by the Unit’s researchers.
       Highlights include studies on DNA folding into i-motifs (Fabian, Nucleic Acids Res. 2018)
       and phase transitions of pharmaceuticals (Khimyak, Mol. Pharm. 2016). It has received
       £520K p.a. continuous investment since 2014 and provides 8312 CPU cores and 10 GPU
       nodes. Funds for its upgrade with a GPU farm have been secured (UKRI, 2020, £300K) to
       develop and apply machine learning protocols.
  •    The NMR platform (led by Khimyak, also part of ConnectNMR UK network) comprises a
       suite of 6 spectrometers, including a solid-state 400MHz instrument upgraded with fast
       magic angle spinning probe (EPSRC, 2016, £75K), as well as 800 and 500MHz
       spectrometers. We secured funds for solid-state NMR capability at 800MHz (UKRI, 2020,
       £107K), and multinuclear capability for the 500MHz instrument (UKRI, 2020, £82K). The
       platform enables cutting edge science of soft materials and carbohydrate hydrogels (Section
       3.1.1), carbohydrate-protein interactions (Angulo JACS 2015), protein-protein interactions
       and NMR methods development (Box 1 and Angulo, Angew. Chem. 2017).
  •    The X-Ray Diffraction platform benefited from an EPSRC strategic equipment grant (2018,
       £616K, Fabian, Khimyak) and follow-on acquisition of a powder X-diffractometer (UKRI,
       2019, £140K). This enhanced our capability for research on pharmaceuticals using NMR
       crystallography (Box 1).
  •    The Bio-Imaging Platform benefitted from new confocal and widefield microscopes
       (UKRI/UEA, £500K in 2019). This facilitates research using image analysis to determine cell
       morphology (Sobolewski, Warren) and transforms studies of cell migration and traction
       force (Morris, Warren).
  •    The Mass Spectrometry platform was enhanced with an Inductively-Coupled Plasma
       Mass Spectrometer (BBSRC, £349K, 2017) and a high resolution hybrid MS/MS instrument
       (BBSRC/UEA, £690K, 2020). Funds for a new MALDI-TOF instrument (EPSRC, £328K,
       2020) have been secured, enhancing our research in medicinal chemistry and molecular
       pharmacology.
  •    The Structural Imaging platform was boosted through a new Scanning Electron
       Microscope (£700K, UKRI, 2019), and upgraded Transmission Electron Microscope
       (UEA, 2015); these facilitated development of nanomaterials and formulations (Qi
       Biomaterials 2019).




                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Alongside our platforms, specific facilities benefit clusters of researchers.
  • Medicinal chemists benefit from GC-MS (EPSRC/UEA, £50K, 2019); preparative-HPLC
      (UKRI, £80K, 2020); We secured funding for Raman Microscope (EPSRC, 2020, £250K) for
      pharmaceutical materials and a Flow Cytometer for research in pharmacology and
      chemical biology (UKRI, 2020, £30K).
  •        NRP Biorepository [£2.1M (BBSRC), part of a new £16.9M Bob Champion Research and
           Education Building] facilitates isolation and culture of primary tissues and cells. These
           include cells from vascular smooth muscle and endothelia (Warren), immune cells
           (Sobolewski,       Stokes),     lung     epithelia   (Morris,    Sobolewski),      primary
           melanocyte/melanoma (Morris) and retinas (J Sanderson, Stem Cells 2018). We have
           leading expertise in 3D ex-vivo models.
  •        Funds were secured for the UEA Wellcome-Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre (UoA4),
           including a new research-dedicated 3T Magnetic Resonance Imaging Scanner (£3.4M,
           UEA, Wellcome Trust, Wolfson Foundation; Pomeroy). This expands unit capability to study
           human cognitive function in early life, adulthood, and in ageing and opens synergies with
           the NMR cluster.
  •        The Movement and Exercise Laboratory has three cohesive areas for neurophysiology,
           biomechanics and exercise physiology, and facilitates research on functional and emotional
           outcomes after transient ischaemic attack (Mares J. Stroke 2019) and stroke recovery
           (Pomeroy Neurorehabil. Neural Repair 2016).

 We are supported by skilful technicians (11.6 FTE) who provide a wide variety of specialist
 services. SCI have a ‘well-found laboratory’ fund, spending £200-£300K p.a. on maintaining or
 replacing workhorse equipment. UEA’s Institutional strategy for replacement of ageing equipment
 includes the PVC-Research Capital Fund, with a budget of £500K p.a. for co-funding with external
 bids.

 3.2.2. Infrastructure for Applied Health Research

   •    UEAHSCP (Sections 1.2.1 and 4.1) was established to strengthen collaborations with 12
        NHS Trusts (including NNUH), CCGs, and local government to achieve research income
        growth through tackling shared priorities. Within two years, UEAHSCP invested £200K and
        attracted over £5M in research funding including NIHR grants CHARMER (£2.4M co-led by
        Bhattacharya and Wright) and CARECOACH (£1.92M co-led by Fox (UoA4) and Cross).
       • The Norwich Clinical Trials Unit (NCTU) provides training and methodological
                                  advancement in trial design, conduct and analysis. Since 2013
                                  NCTU has grown from five to over 30 staff, with the total value of
                                  the NIHR grants to NCTU has increased to >£2.5M (2019/20, the
                                  5th largest income for a clinical trials unit within the NIHR system).
                                  NCTU facilitated NIHR-funded projects in the Unit: Perfected
          (Cross), CHIPPS (Poland and Wright), HipHelper (Smith), IMPacts and PALMS
          projects/NIHR fellowship (Jerosch-Herold), QUITSense (Naughton).
       •    The NIHR ARC EoE (£2.1M to UEA) facilitates applied research addressing specific health
                                                                     or social care needs in our
                                                                     region. This benefited career
                                                                     development of junior research
                                                                     staff across the region including
            three co-funded PhD scholarships (2 in UoA3) and facilitated a GCRF funded workshop
            for 27 early career dementia researchers in Brazil. HSC has very strong links with
            NIHR/HEE capacity building strategic activity (Mioshi, Jerosch-Herold) which translates
            in interlinked opportunities to enhance the research development of students and staff.
            ARC is supporting RF/SRAs developing their own research programmes: Birt, Beresford
            and Grotz (Poland), Peryer (Farquhar), and Porter (K Sanderson).


                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   We promote high quality patient, public and stakeholder involvement in our research activity
                                           through our partnership with the local Patient and
                                           Public Involvement in Research (PPIRes) hosted by
                                           Norfolk & Waveney CCG. Several UoA3 staff lead in
                                           national efforts to set standards for inclusive
                                           involvement in research (Poland, ARC).

 3.2.3. Collaborative Use of Research Infrastructure

 Unit researchers are both providers and users of facilities across HEIs. We host research visits
 from our partners (IMODE (section 4.1.1), GelEnz), and provide expertise for industrial
 collaborations (DNA-TRAP, Morris; Qi/Janssen (ICS4)). UoA3 researchers benefit from external
 facilities; examples include work on the National High-Field Solid-State NMR facility (Warwick)
 (Fabian and Khimyak Angew. Chem. 2016), using national crystallography and Mass Spec
 facilities, and Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre (Fabian Cryst. Growth Des. 2016).

 3.3. E&D CONSIDERATIONS IN SUPPORTING FUNDING BIDS AND INFRASTRUCTURE ACCESS

 Access to internal research and impact funding, infrastructure and equipment is open to all staff
 and is based on need and merit. Researchers without grant funding can apply for subsidised
 access to the Instrument Platforms to generate ‘pilot’ data. In line with our overall approach to
 E&D, we are mindful of avoiding unconscious bias in all decision-making for resource allocation.
 Our targeted assistance to early career researchers encompasses the whole Unit and covers grant
 preparation and facilities access.




                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND SOCIETY

 4.1. RESEARCH COLLABORATION

 Enabling and expanding research collaboration is central to UoA3 research strategy. Collaboration
 occurs at all levels, within and across the Six Themes, with partners on the NRP or local health
 trusts and externally. The effectiveness of our approach is evidenced by the unit having co-
 authored 43% of the outputs submitted to REF2021 with international (29 countries) and 65%
 outputs with UK (>38 institutions) researchers, 20% outputs have NHS co-authors.

 We established multi-organisational research networks (see Section 1.2) to facilitate collaboration:

 •   UEAHSCP has 13 multi-institution research groups, 6 led by UoA3 staff: palliative care group
     (Peryer), medicines optimisation group (Wright), hospital associated deconditioning group
     (Hanson), workforce sustainability group (K Sanderson), frailty (Cross) and the centre for
     behavioural and implementation science (Hardeman).

 •   NIHA promotes collaborative approach to develop and implement effective strategies to
     promote sustained population behaviour change, to improve physical and mental wellbeing
     (Hardeman (Executive Group member), along with 14 UoA3 staff).

 •   NCRN is an inclusive community of over 140 cancer scientists, clinicians and public health
     researchers to develop multidisciplinary collaborations to combat different cancers and share
     state-of-the-art resources. O’Connell sits on the executive; 12 UoA3 staff are NCRN
     members.

 We plan to open the Norwich Epidemiology Centre, a new collaboration between HSC, MED
 and Computing, to support epidemiological research across the NRP, particularly for studies using
 large scale datasets.


 4.1.1. Enabling fundamental science and pre-clinical research

 Notable successful NRP collaborations include the work of O’Connell and Osborne (JIC) on
 triterpene biosynthesis and activity (Box 2), collaboration of the NMR cluster with Juge, F Warren
 and Wilde at QIB (Sections 1.4, 3.2.1). In collaboration with NNUH, EI and QIB, Morris
 investigated mitochondrial transfer to stem cells in response to infection (PNAS 2019). O’Connell
 and Searcey have a long-standing collaboration with Bochmann (UoA8) to study anticancer gold
 (III) complexes (e.g. Inorg. Chem. 2017). Internationally, Matthews and Vidal (Lyon) developed
 antibacterial glycol-clusters (Chem. Eur. J. 2016, 2018). EU-funded IMODE network (UEA, UCL,
 Greenwich, Lille, Gent) facilitated Qi and Fabian’s work on innovative pharmaceutical
 technologies leading to >5 outputs. Our training and teaching programmes with Taiwan
 (O’Connell, Searcey, BBSRC) and Vietnam (Matthews, British Council) enhanced our
 international research profile.

 4.1.2. Collaborations in applied health research

 A highly collaborative research culture in UoA3 is further evidenced by our participation in NIHR
 projects and clinical trials (>90 NIHR projects, with >40 grants over £150K funding to UoA3).
 UoA3 staff are involved in NIHR ARC EoE (Section 3) and UEAHSCP. UoA3 research themes
 align well with the ARC’s research priorities and are led by our staff, i.e. palliative and end of life
 care (Farquhar), mental health over the life course (K Sanderson) and inclusive involvement of
 research for practice-led health and social care (Poland). Mioshi is ARC EoE deputy director.




                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to those listed in Sections 1 and 3, notable partnerships from health research grants
 include:

   •   Cross, Poland and Smith are part of PERFECTED program (NHIR, PfGAR grant, £2M
       total) aimed to improve hospital care for people with dementia admitted with a fractured hip.
   •   Kishita leads the iACT4CARERS study (NIHR £233K total, with UCL and Uppsala) aimed
       at supporting carers of people with dementia, who are at high risk of depression and anxiety.
   •   Bhattacharya, Hardeman and Naughton investigated low-cost interventions to support
       medication adherence of people prescribed anti-hypertensive treatment in primary care
       (PAM) (NIHR, £2.1M total).
   •   Jerosch-Herold led development of a new patient-reported outcome measure (I-HaND; J.
       Hand Surgery 2018) used as primary outcome in Digital Nerve Repair trial (NIHR £1.2M total
       led by Oxford).
   •   As an OMERACT fellow, Smith led a UK/Australia/Canada collaboration in the development
       of a core outcome set for hip and knee osteoarthritis, agreed for use in clinical trials (Ann.
       Rheum. Dis. 2016).


 4.2. IMPACT: RELATIONSHIPS AND CONTRIBUTIONS

 Our four submitted ICS (Box 7) are representative of our diverse portfolio of >25 active ICS that
 exemplify our contribution to the economy and society. We are engaging non-academic end-users
 to develop our research impact pipeline:

   •   Smith identified that people do not increase levels of physical activity following hip or knee
       replacement and provided recommendations on strategies to improve this (now
       implemented in regional NHS trusts).
   •   Sach led the CLOTHES trial, showing that prescription of silk garments was not cost-
       effective (implemented by the majority of NHS CCG).
   •   Pomeroy and Mares lead the development of neuroscience-based physiotherapy and
       service improvements using innovative Apps to translate research findings into clinical
       practice.
   •   In the NIHR-funded ResPECT study, Killett investigated the causes and impact of abuse
       and neglect in care homes, informing the CQC on care home inspection processes.
   •   Wright & Twigg worked with the Community Pharmacy Futures group (including Boots UK,
       Lloyds and Well) to develop services in diabetes, COPD and multiple medications.
   •   Wright contributed to The King’s Fund “Murray Review” by evaluating the cost-effectiveness
       of community pharmacy interventions. As a result, a minor ailments service is now
       recommended for local/national commissioning.

 Our industrial links underpin future impact activities. Examples (in addition to those in Section
 3.1.2) include:

   •   Collaborations with leading international manufacturers of contact lenses using 3D printing
       (Qi and J Sanderson, £230K industrial funding) and ocular implants (Saeed, EPSRC
       award);
   •   O’Connell’s BBSRC-funded work with food and drinks companies (Unilever and Pepsi Co.)
       to examine if the beneficial cardiovascular health effects of flavonoids result from synergy
       at cellular levels;
   •   Qi, J Sanderson and Bhattacharya collaborate with the NNUH on development of drug-
       eluting contact lenses (NIHR, underpinned by BMC Ophthalmology 2014 and Stem Cells
       2017).




                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The success of our industrial interactions is evidenced by the scale and breadth of grant funding
 success and output co-authorship. >40 peer-reviewed outputs were co-authored with
 industrial/other non-academic partners.

 4.3. ENGAGEMENT WITH DIVERSE COMMUNITIES

 Through events and social media, we communicate our research and impact achievements to the
 widest possible audience, including school children, local societies and the national/international
 public.
   •   As part of NIHR ARC EoE theme “The Inclusive Involvement in Research for Practice Led
       Health and Social Care” (led by Poland), we aim to find the best ways of achieving this.
       This programme addresses how to be inclusive in research by seeking to understand,
       embed and evidence inclusive working with and engagement of public and patient groups
       in health and social care (Poland, Killett, Bunn).
   •   Our growth plans in this area have recently seen the Institute for Volunteering Research
       re-located to UEA, the only such HEI-based institute worldwide, solely dedicated to
       interdisciplinary volunteering research and scholarship, evidencing the health, economic
       social and cultural contribution of volunteering to sustaining societies.
   •   Jerosch-Herold received a UEA Engagement Award 2020 as cofounder of CLACEast.
       This is an information hub and support network for aspiring NHS clinical academic health
       professionals.
   •   Qi leads the Child Malnutrition sub-project within the UKRI Global Research Translation
       Award (£296K, of total £1.4M). This project includes partners in Thailand, Malaysia, Jordan
       and Brazil (including local industries) developing low-cost affordable supplements to tackle
       child malnutrition.
   •   Bunning led a long-standing project on “Community-based inclusive development:
       empowering caregivers of children with disabilities in rural Kenya” (ICS1).
   •   We are active participants of the Norwich Science Festival, Pint of Science Festival and
       Norfolk Show. Eight UoA3 staff have had dedicated stands at these annual events.
   •   Qi’s pharmaceutical 3D printing research featured in the Cambridge and Norwich
       Technology Corridor 2020 “Disruptor” Series.


 4.4. RESPONDING TO COVID-19 PANDEMIC


 The COVID-19 pandemic provided an unexpected stress-test for our infrastructure ensuring it
 remained not only functional, but also afforded us an opportunity to help NHS and communities.
 We used our research capability to produce PPE (Qi) and to design a new device enabling
 healthcare staff avoid contaminated surfaces (Saeed, BBSRC, NRP). We have developed
 national guidance for care home staff (Killett), producing resources for clinicians on topics that
 should be considered when caring for very ill patients during COVID-19 (Farquhar), and tracking
 changes in lifestyle habits in the community including keyworkers (Naughton).

 4.5. PROFESSIONAL CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE DISCIPLINES, ESTEEM AND RECOGNITION

 UoA3 staff make multiple professional contributions to the sustainability of their research
 disciplines. These include membership of, and leadership roles in, professional societies and
 editorial boards, grant funding panels, manuscript peer review, conference organisation [>10,
 including Recent Appointees in Polymer Science meeting (UEA 2017, Saeed); 25th GP2A
 Medicinal Chemistry Conference (Liverpool 2017, Matthews); “Amorphous” meetings of the
 Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences (Qi (2017), Khimyak (2019)), European Crystallographic


                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Association Conferences (Fabian)], and keynote talks (>10) and the training of PGR students and
 postdoctoral researchers. Bhattacharya was a winner of Pharmacy Research UK award in 2016.


 Notable service on grant committees (>25) include:
 •   Grant awarding committees: BBSRC (Ganesan, O’Connell), EPSRC (Searcey), EU
     Commission (Khimyak, Matthews and Searcey);
 •   Arthur, Cross, Jerosch-Herold, Mioshi, Pomeroy, Sach, Wright and others were members
     of numerous NIHR panels.
 •   Bhattacharya: Member of the Pharmacy Research UK panel.
 •   Farquhar: Chair of Health Research Charities Ireland/Health Research Board (HRCI/HRB)
     Joint Funding Scheme 2020.

 UoA3 staff take active roles in UK and international learned societies (>10) governing the full
 spectrum of disciplines. Notable examples include:
 •   Hardeman: President-Elect of European Health Psychology Society (since 2020);
 •   Khimyak (until 2017) and Wallace (since 2017): Members of Royal Society of Chemistry
     NMR Discussion Group, coordinating its annual ECR meetings;
 •   O’Connell: Independent Advisory Panel member of Breast Cancer UK (since 2017);
 •   Ganesan led the EU-funded COST action on Epigenetics;
 •   Naughton: Vice Chair of Cancer Research UK’s Expert Review Panel for Prevention (PRC)
     and member of the Population Research Committee.
 An important feature of UoA3 is translating our expertise into NHS trusts and health care.
 Examples (>15) include:
 •   Arthur: Member of Older People’s Mental Health Expert Advisory Group in the Department
     of Health;
 •   Wright: Member of NHS England Community Pharmacy Clinical Reference Group;
 •   Smith: Member of Implementation Guideline Committee for NICE guidelines;
 •   Gibbons: Co-opted Member of the UK Government Home Office’s Advisory Council on the
     Misuse of Drugs Consumer CBD Products Working Group.
 UoA3 staff hold editorial posts in >25 international journals. Some examples of senior posts
 (Editor in Chief (EC) or Associate Editors) include: British Journal Sports Medicine (Atkin),
 Diabetic Medicine (English), Phytochemistry Letters (Gibbons, EC), British Journal of Health
 Psychology (Hardeman), Hand Therapy (Jerosch-Herold, EC), Addiction (Naughton), Quality in
 Ageing and Older Adults (Poland, EC), Neurorehabilitation & Neural Repair (Pomeroy),
 Physiotherapy (Pomeroy) and Geriatrics (Smith).




                                                                                        Page 25
