Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Loughborough University

 Unit of Assessment: B8

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 The period since 2014 has been transformative for Chemistry at Loughborough. Firstly, we have
 recruited 17 new academic staff into priority areas of research, expanding the Unit by 20% to
 31FTE for this return. Secondly, the entire Department of Chemistry moved to new facilities, as
 part of a £59M investment in STEM on our “West Park”; every single laboratory has been
 designed and purpose-built from scratch. In combination, we have totally re-energised Chemistry
 research and impact.

 1.1 Research Structure
 This Unit comprises 31 staff including all staff (26FTE) from the Department of Chemistry, with
 additional chemistry researchers from the Departments of Materials and Mathematics and the
 School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences (SSEHS).

 Chemistry is a Department within the School of Science (SSci), which also includes computer
 science, maths, maths education and physics. Materials is a Department within the School of
 Aeronautical, Automotive and Materials Engineering (SAACME).

 SSci, SAACME and SSEHS are 3 of the University’s 9 autonomous Schools. Each is led by a
 Dean and their Senior Management Team (SMT), whose membership includes Associates
 Deans for Research (ADR) and Enterprise (ADE) and leads of constituent Departments. For
 example, in SSci, the Head of Chemistry has vital responsibilities on SMT in representing the
 interests of Chemistry and facilitating opportunities for cross-disciplinary research within the
 School. In parallel, the Department Research Coordinator sits on the School Research
 Committee led by the Associate Dean (Research). The current Head of Chemistry (S. Christie)
 has previously held the posts of both Associate Dean (Enterprise) and Associate Dean
 (Research) for SSci, demonstrating how the Unit offers significant leadership at institutional
 level.

 1.1.1 Research Groups
 Unit staff work across the traditional organic, inorganic, physical and analytical chemistry areas,
 which have been bolstered by expertise in biological/supramolecular, polymer and computational
 chemistry through strategic recruitment. Current research groups are:
 • Energy: New chemistry for energy-generation, harvesting, demand reduction and storage.
 • Health: Development of therapeutically useful compounds, imaging and synthetic methods.
 • Security: New methods and technologies to confront criminality
 • Sustainability: Novel techniques and technologies for sustainable chemistry and net zero
     targets.

 Colleagues from SAACME and SSEHS work in Sustainability (polymer technology and solid-
 state computation) and Health (bioanalysis).

 1.1.2 Interdisciplinary Research
 All 3 Schools are interdisciplinary in their structures. SSci has a very clear strategy of building on
 its core research strengths by supporting Research Centres with a defined focus on
 interdisciplinary research. Unit staff contribute significantly to leadership roles for three (of six)
 SSci Research Centres:
 • Centre for Analytical Science (CAS, Thomas leads) led the €12M Toxi-Triage project
      which developed new approaches within rescue efforts for Chemical, Biological, Radiological
      and Nuclear (CBRN) incidents.
 • Centre for Sensing and Imaging (CSIS, Zanda/Butler lead) looks at all aspects of imaging

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     including biomedical, quantum and materials imaging for applications such as Alzheimer’s,
     Huntington’s and Parkinson’s disease, collaborating also with sports science and
     engineering.
 •   Interdisciplinary Centre from Laboratory to Fabrication (Roach leads) is organised into
     three main themes: biology-on-a-chip, chemical reactors and nano-materials/devices.

 In addition, Unit staff involved in solid state chemistry, catalysis and theoretical chemistry
 engage with the Centre for Science of Materials, led by Physics; for example, Dann’s work on
 a sustainable fuel supply through controlled synthesis of low-dimensional catalysts (SlowCat)
 was borne out of this Centre.

 Unit staff work regularly on diverse projects across Schools. For example, the Unit and the
 School of Arts perfected formulations for the use of platinum in photographic processes in one of
 our more unusual collaborations. More generally, the institutional ‘CALIBRE’ strategic research
 framework drives interdisciplinary activity across all Schools. The Unit engages with CALIBRE’s
 programmes, particularly in the Beacons for High Value Manufacturing (3D printing of chemical
 reactors), Sport and Exercise (volatile metabolomics), the Global Challenges for Energy
 (Hydrogen economy), and Health and Wellbeing (chemical and bio-surface engineering and its
 application to healthcare technologies). Under CALIBRE, workshops are held on topics of
 interest across disciplines such as Artificial Intelligence.

 1.2 Review of Objectives from REF2014
 In REF2014, we outlined our ambition to renew the Unit infrastructure and invest in new staff.
 We have now completed (2018) the move of the entire Department of Chemistry across campus
 to new facilities as part of a £59M redevelopment of the University’s West Park, which also saw
 major redevelopments for chemistry researchers in the Department of Materials. Unit staff led
 the design of new laboratories and purchase of new equipment, and researchers now occupy
 nine completely new, state-of-the-art laboratories spanning all the chemical science disciplines.
 For example, an objective from REF2014 was to extend our characterisation facilities that
 underpin synthesis-based research, delivered via an EPSRC underpinning equipment grant that
 provided a new NMR spectrometer and internal School funding that provided new LC and GC-
 MS equipment; £500k+ investment.

 Equally significant (see section 2.1), we delivered on REF2014 aims by recruiting 17 new
 academic staff in areas of strategic priority and created the interdisciplinary SSci research
 centres. This delivered significant achievements in our four research groups:
 • Energy: Goddard was part of consortium that modelled solid electrolytes to Li and Na ion
    batteries which has been translated to the industrial phase with Johnson Matthey
 • Health: CAS has delivered a broad research portfolio in volatile metabolite analysis which
    has been applied to a number of areas of health interest including the East Midlands
    Breathonomics Pathology Node, and the development of cutting-edge breath analysis
    instrumentation including non-invasive COVID-19 detection.
 • Security: Kelly has delivered an impact agenda based around his novel fingerprint research;
    which has been commercialised and is an Impact Case Study.
 • Sustainability: Buckley has received international acclaim for his work on the activation of
    atmospheric carbon dioxide for the development of circular routes to platform molecules.

 In REF2014, we also outlined our aim to be a research partner of choice for multi-disciplinary
 collaborations and Unit staff have been PI or CoI on major UKRI/EU grants totalling in excess of
 £35M. Many of the above achievements have been made possible by this funding, which has
 sustained and enriched our international networks. For example, the €12M H2020 Toxi-Triage
 project brought together 17 European partners to deliver a new global 'gold standard' for how
 emergency and health services, defence, and industry should tackle chemical, biological,
 radioactive, or nuclear (CBRN) incidents and produced recommendations for the European
 Commission on CBRN protocols.


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Moving the Department of Chemistry has not only delivered completely new lab space but also
 brought co-location with Departments of Materials and Chemical Engineering. This enhanced
 collaboration and led to award of the UKRI National Interdisciplinary Centre for Chemical
 Circular Economy, (NiC3E, Chemical Engineering leads, Buckley and Wijayantha as Co-Is,
 £4.4M). Our lab space now includes a clean room facility for the first time, which was essential
 for the EU NEU-ChiP award to Roach (€3.5M, €0.5M to LU). Upgrading our lab space has also
 sustained world-leading activity in the CAS, recently attracting Turner to a CAMS lectureship.
 CAMS is an industrially-led community dedicated to world class analytical measurement science
 (AMS).

 1.3 Enabling and Facilitating the Achievement of Impact
 For all research-active staff, engagement with enterprise (impact) is actively encouraged. We
 also recognise that the origins of the research delivering impact can vary greatly and our Case
 Studies below show how opportunities can arise equally well from serendipitous observations,
 direct approaches from business for applied research support or high-quality fundamental
 science research originated within the University.

 SSci operate a 5-part impact strategy: (a) IS1-Investing in Staff Training; (b) IS2-Establishing &
 Nurturing Partnerships; (c) IS3-Maximising Organisational Support; (d) IS4-Resourcing Impact
 Generation; and (e) IS5-Recognition & Reward of Impact.

 A comprehensive programme of Staff Training Workshops is held annually for SSci which Unit
 staff are encouraged to attend (IS1). The Research and Enterprise Office (REO) assisted us with
 specialist support in partnership development (contract research, consultancy, CPD,
 recruitment), contracts, intellectual property, commercialisation and marketing – REO staff
 regularly embed themselves in the Department to foster these activities (IS2). Chemistry also
 appointed an Impact Coordinator (Kelly) to coordinate activities and develop action plans for
 each Impact Case Study (ICS) based on IS3-IS5.

 Under IS4, Unit staff have access to the EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) and Higher
 Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) through the University’s Enterprise Projects Group (EPG).
 Unit staff have received 12 awards worth £0.5M and these have led to a number of research-to-
 impact jumps. For example, Managh received £100k IAA funding for her project on single cell
 metallomics developing patient specific drug dosage for platinum anticancer drugs; Butler and
 Willcock received £85k EPSRC IAA funding to develop hydrogel sensors for point of use
 diagnostics, which is currently being commercialised with High Force Research.

 Proximity of the Charnwood Campus for Life Sciences (in Loughborough) and, in particular, co-
 location with the University’s Science and Enterprise Park (LUSEP) allow staff easy access to
 local companies. Under IS2, a distinctive feature of our approach has been to host employees of
 industrial partners (Plastic Energy and Foster and Freeman) in Unit laboratories. Under IS5, the
 projects with both companies were shortlisted for University Enterprise Awards (Plastic Energy
 in 2015 and Foster and Freeman in 2019).

 Our work has significant societal value. For example, a revolutionary Laser Ablation Inductively
 Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry interface, which increases both imaging speed and
 sensitivity (Managh) and has implications for medical imaging and nuclear forensics, is now
 commercialised. The same is true of systems described in the Case Study that look at breath
 analysis (Reynolds, Thomas) and which are now part of clinical environments for rapid medical
 diagnosis. Platt, with Izon Science, has developed important new approaches to biological
 assays and sensors, while the development of an instrument that adds on to a normal mass
 spectrometer and allows the separation of isomers and conformers will significantly extend
 research capacity within life sciences and the pharmaceutical industry (Reynolds). This system
 is now commercially available.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.3.1 How the Selected Impact Case Studies Relate to our Approach to Achieving Impact
 In the Forensics ICS, Kelly identified a means to significantly increase fingerprint recovery rates
 from previously problematic crime scene exhibits. This was supported internally through
 Enterprise Projects Group (HEIF) and then, with REO support, taken to end-user partners
 (police and security services, then Foster and Freeman).

 The Plastic Energy ICS is an example of a more direct industry/academic engagement. Through
 REO, Plastic Energy discussed with the Unit the possibility of collaborating on reactor design
 and detection of volatile chemicals, to help them optimise their chemical process for the
 conversion of waste plastics to energy and chemical recycling. Initially this was a research
 collaboration, leading quickly to embedding Plastic Energy staff directly within our labs. The
 programme has grown from one postdoctoral researcher to 4 company staff now based in
 Chemistry’s labs.

 The Biomarkers ICS demonstrates our ability to develop high quality science, identify the right
 partners with REO support and co-develop enterprise activity. Advion was the perfect partner
 with which to develop the mass spectrometry interface because they are the global leader in the
 area. Reynolds received £104k EPG funding to develop this portable mass spectrometer which
 Advion has commercialised and sold around the world, delivering impact at NASA and
 elsewhere.

 1.4 Research and Impact Objectives and Plans for the Next Five Years
 The Unit vision for the next 5 years is focussed on taking full advantage of our new world-class
 research facilities. We will build a leadership position in the research areas noted here:
 • Energy: battery development and optimisation through computation and application, and
     hydrogen production, storage and utilisation technologies. (recent success: SusHy EPSRC
     CDT)
 • Health: volatiles including breath analysis and applications to personalised medicine; device
     development for chemical-biological interface studies (recent success: NEU-ChiP EU Award)
 • Security: translate our current forensic ability from laboratory to on-site crime scene and
     environmental incidents (recent success: KTP in in situ crime scene analysis)
 • Sustainability: plastic recycling, carbon dioxide utilisation and catalysis and application to
     the Circular Economy (recent success: NiC3E UKRI Centre)

 These Unit priority areas will gain from SSci expertise:
 • developing our underpinning strengths in computational chemistry including new
    collaborations with Maths
 • increasing emphasis on application of AI and automation including new collaborations with
    Computer Science on fundamental AI and other departments, including Chemical
    Engineering, on applications.
 • working with the SSci Research Centres and institution-wide programmes to exploit
    additional interdisciplinary opportunities.

 Concurrently, we have the following organisational aims:
 • Build upon the recent recruitment of excellent early career researchers by supporting their
    development towards international recognition in their areas of research and to capitalise on
    their early successes in UKRI funding e.g. successes in New Horizons (Wright) and New
    Investigator Awards (Butler and Wright).
 • Support and encourage staff to transcend from CoI to PI status more regularly to build their
    national and international profile and thus the Unit’s.
 • Increase international and industrial collaborations based around laboratory facilities by
    hosting international collaborators (e.g., Eiceman, New Mexico State) and industrial partners
    (e.g., Advion, Plastic Energy) and by greater engagement with CALIBRE’s Institute of
    Advanced Studies which brings world-leading researchers to Loughborough.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.5 Open Research Environment
 The University has been a pioneer of the ‘Open Agenda’, actively supporting Repositories for
 text-based outputs (since 2005) and data (since 2015), working beyond funder (including
 REF2021) open access requirements. Our landmark Open Research Position Statement
 committed to depositing the full-text of 100% of our primary research outputs in our now unified
 (2019) Research Repository (including on closed access where unavoidable) from 2020. We
 have met this target by depositing 100% of our 2020 journal outputs in the Repository.

 The last year has seen 46k downloads and 120k views of Unit research including experimental
 procedures, spectral data, crystal structure data, and 3D Computer Aided Design files. Unit staff
 increasingly use open access journals (e.g., RSC Chemical Science, Nature Communications)
 and have also started to engage with ChemRxiv for pre-prints (18 so far). For example, Buckley
 and co-workers deposited their work on carbon dioxide utilisation which was later published in J.
 Am. Chem. Soc. These commitments are seen by the Unit as critical to the democratisation of
 science research.

 1.6 A Culture of Research Integrity
 Loughborough is committed to maintaining the highest standards of research integrity. Our Code
 of Practice for Research is underpinned by the five principles of the UUK’s Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity. Policies and procedures on Research Misconduct and Whistle-Blowing
 Policy enable staff and students to report issues of research misconduct without fear of
 recrimination, and these are integral to our Ethical Policy Framework which steers the work of
 the University Ethics Committee (EC). EC considers all ethical matters arising in the conduct of
 the University’s business, with specific processes in place for areas of relevance to Chemistry
 such as the Toxi-Triage’s breath analysis experiments with human participants, and work falling
 under the Human Tissues Act. All new staff and students undergo training as part of their
 induction programme on ethics issues and all projects, from UG research to multi-million-pound
 research grants, are required to complete an ethical checklist before a project can be authorised.

 Section 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and Recruitment policy
 All academic staff contribute to teaching, research and enterprise activities. We expect and
 incentivise collegiality from the earliest career stages. Academic staff have open-ended
 contracts, while research staff (32 new starters since 2014) are on fixed-term contracts related to
 projects in line with sector norms. Part-time working is welcome.

 Since REF2014, the University approach to recruiting excellent staff at all career stages, from
 postdoctoral and early career researchers (ECRs) through mid-career and senior roles, has
 radically changed, driven by the University Strategy and beginning with the Excellence100
 campaign. Building on this, recruitment to established posts is now conducted through biannual
 recruitment rounds, managed centrally but with significant School input, rather than piecemeal
 replacement hires. With excellence as the primary criterion, these rounds deliver better
 international recruitment and improved diversity.

 The Unit regularly assesses its succession needs and uses new appointments strategically to
 ensure critical mass and leadership in the research groups. All appointments, including
 replacements, have to be justified by strategic planning.

 The particular and significant recruitment challenge during this REF period has been to manage
 significant turnover from retirements to develop strategic research areas, in line with the
 University strategy commitment to excellence and focus on strengths. Specifically, we have
 ensured that new appointments protect the Unit’s basic science, align with new laboratory
 provision and support the SSci Research Centres. We have made appointments at all levels (1
 Prof, 2 SL, 14 L). Of the 17 new appointments, four were female and one BAME.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Unit needed to embrace computational chemistry to complement SSci strengths in
 Mathematics, resulting in recruitment of ECRs Goddard, Plasser, Jolley, J.Christie (in Materials)
 and Toth (in Maths). Fernandez-Mato and Zanda were appointed under Excellence100, the
 latter to lead the Centre for Sensing and Imaging, joined by ECR Butler. Roach and Cousins
 were recruited as mid-career researchers in bio-organic chemistry to start the Centre for
 Laboratory to Fabrication. ECRs Managh and Turner strengthened the Centre for Analytical
 Science. Turner (Community for Analytical Measurement Science) and Jolley (EDF) were both
 externally-funded lectureships.

 Succession planning for research leadership positions is embedded in our structures.
 Department responsibilities such as Head, Research Coordinator and Impact Coordinator are
 vital roles in their own right but also developmental posts from which holders might progress to
 Associate / Dean roles. Heads of Departments and Centres usually have deputies for the same
 reason. The demographic profile of the Unit has changed significantly since 2014 and some are
 already beginning to take first research leadership positions. Butler is Deputy Lead of the Centre
 for Imaging Science, Roach is Co-I and Operational Lead for the EPSRC/MRC CDT in
 Regenerative Medicine.

 2.2 Staff Development Strategy
 Loughborough’s Organisational Development offers a wide spectrum of training opportunities
 and support for Unit staff at all career stages. Courses range from earliest stages (Welcome to
 Loughborough) through essential training (Information security training, Unconscious Bias) to
 training for staff becoming senior managers (Coaching conversations for managers, Recruitment
 and selection).

 All academics are expected to obtain Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy (HEA). For
 new lecturers, this is integral to their dedicated development programme. More experienced
 colleagues are supported through our `Recognition of Experienced Practitioners' scheme which
 requires preparation of a dossier of evidence to support their application.

 Unit staff can access travel budgets to allow conference attendance or to develop their research
 network. Each academic is entitled to £2000 within every two-year period with the priority given
 to staff without external funding to support dissemination of their research.

 Following the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 the University provides structured support to Unit postdoctoral researchers (currently 15) for
 career progression and development, including preparation of applications for funding. Our
 influential Research Staff Association (LURSA) runs a mentoring programme and introduced
 (2017) the Fellowship Inaugural Lectures to promote Research Fellows’ work. Postdoctoral
 researchers receive formal induction to their School and agree a training schedule with their line
 manager including leadership of the research laboratories. They are encouraged to undertake
 Continuing Professional Development activities, at the University or externally at, for example,
 RSC. These include communication skills, research grant application and, for those who wish to,
 development of their teaching skills through lectures, workshops and lab practice. They are also
 encouraged to present their work in Loughborough seminars and at national and international
 conferences. Mindful of the fixed-term nature of appointments, postdoctoral researchers have
 dedicated support in the Careers Network and priority on the university redeployment register in
 the month leading up to the end of their contract. Several former postdoctoral researchers are
 now working in the Unit or on LUSEP with collaborating companies, Foster and Freeman and
 Plastic Energy. Managh was a postdoctoral researcher in the Unit before securing her
 lectureship.

 Under the New Lecturers’ Programme (NLP), all new lecturers are guided by an experienced
 and trained academic colleague from the Unit who acts as Adviser. NLP (formerly academic
 probation) was substantially revised in 2017 and includes the full spectrum of research and
 impact activity (publication, funding applications, collaboration, public engagement, non-


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 academic partnerships). New lecturers have a reduced workload in teaching and administration
 (33, 50 and 67% of departmental norms in consecutive years), which enables the establishment
 of a full academic profile in research, teaching and impact at a manageable pace. In addition to
 an extensive training programme leading to FHEA, the New Lecturer meets four times annually
 with their Adviser though many more informal meetings are the norm. New Lecturers are
 allocated a University-funded PhD studentship within their first two years, for co-supervision with
 an experienced colleague. Supervision is a requirement to pass the programme, alongside a
 minimum expectation on research output production, and the submission of at least one
 substantial grant application. The Unit particularly supports EPSRC New Investigator proposals
 (or equivalent) providing extensive feedback (e.g., Butler’s successful NIA grant and Wellcome
 Trust Seed Award). During the assessment period, 8 Unit staff competed NLP and four have
 subsequently been promoted. 6 Unit staff are currently completing NLP.

 In addition to support through NLP, new staff are assigned their own research space in shared
 facilities and assigned a minor administration role, for example seminar organiser, to support
 their integration into the research environment and their departments.

 Beyond NLP, any member of Unit staff can ask a senior colleague to become their mentor. As
 careers develop, we expect broader leadership contributions from mid-career and senior staff.
 Since 2014, one colleague served on University Council and four on Senate. Biggs served as
 SSci Dean, S.Christie was Associate Dean (Enterprise) and then Associate Dean (Research)
 while Dann was Associate Dean (Teaching). Workload model allocations ensure appropriate
 research activity is maintained.

 Technical staff are critical to the functioning of the Unit. Chemistry has an Experimental Officer
 for NMR and ten technicians, three of whom are dedicated to research. Loughborough is proud
 to be a founding signatory of the Technician Commitment in 2017 and Chemistry has a track
 record of supporting technical talent: both Turner and Reynolds (now Senior Lecturer) were
 appointed to lectureships from Experimental Officer roles.

 All members of post-probationary staff in the Unit have an annual Performance and
 Development Review (PDR). This University scheme was totally updated in 2017. A supportive
 one-to-one discussion between the reviewee and a trained reviewer reflects on achievements
 over the past year and agrees objectives across the full range of activities including CALIBRE-
 aligned goals for research and impact activity. New PDR is a transparent way to recognise
 excellent performance with financial reward and allows much fairer identification of candidates
 for promotion. The new scheme has particularly benefitted our research staff for whom a
 rigorous developmental discussion was previously sporadic and consideration for reward a
 rarity.

 The University has also revised the criteria for academic promotion (Senior Lecturer and
 Reader / Professor), to ensure that the research components align with the University Strategy
 and CALIBRE. Evidence for cases can be based on research, teaching, enterprise (impact) or
 any combination to encourage balanced portfolios of work. We judge ‘Excellence and
 International Reputation’ and ‘Academic Leadership and Influence’ rather than traditional metrics
 based on quantity and not quality. This focus allows panels to take into account statements from
 promotion applicants describing how personal circumstances, such as caring responsibilities,
 may have affected their profile.

 Effective recruitment and staff development processes have underpinned 12 promotions during
 this REF period: S. Christie, Dann and Wijayantha to Professor, Buckley to Senior Lecturer then
 Reader, Kimber, Reynolds and Platt to Senior Lecturer; Goddard (neé Panchmatia), Butler,
 Willcock and J. Christie to Senior Lecturer (after appointment as Lecturers within this REF
 period). Wijayantha and Buckley were originally appointed as RCUK Fellows and have
 developed within the Unit to their current senior posts.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research and impact leave is available in the form of School and University Fellowships.
 School Fellowships, titled “Maria Agnesi Fellowships” in SSci, typically last 4-6 months. In 2016,
 the University introduced prestigious University Fellowships of up to 12 months duration with £5k
 funded support. Fellowships provide focused time outside regular workload to pursue an
 programme of academic work. Buckley used his Fellowship to take up a Visiting Professor
 appointment (2014-15) in the Sigman group at the University of Utah leading to publications in
 leading journals (e.g., J. Am. Chem. Soc.), new Co-I EPSRC awards in excess of £6M and
 industrial funding (e.g., >£250k as PI Lubrizol and EffecTech Ltd.). After periods in leadership
 roles, staff can apply for Fellowship to recover ground in research. Dann received a 6-month
 Maria Agnesi Fellowship in which she transitioned from a senior school role (AD-T) to leadership
 of the LU funded “SlowCat” mini-Centre for Doctoral Training and subsequent promotion to
 Professor S. Christie benefited similarly after his Associate Dean roles, gaining promotion to
 Professor in 2020.

 2.3 Research Students
 Research students are key to the research of the Unit. Over 100 PhD students have graduated
 in the REF period, over 50% more than in REF2014. Of these, 34% were female and 25%
 BAME.

 The Unit attracts funding to maintain its PGR population (c.65) via University scholarships,
 industry funding, UKRI funding including Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs), and high-quality
 self-funded students. The funding mix is approximately: 30% internal, 40% UKRI, 15% industry,
 15% self-funders.

 The Doctoral College allocates scholarships to Schools with the aim of maximising the intake of
 high calibre, capable and ambitious candidates. Unit members are encouraged to match internal
 funding with third-party funding. University scholarships can also be used to cover international
 tuition fees, with specific schemes currently in place for China, Kazakhstan and Turkey. There is
 also a special scholarship scheme for elite athletes to carry out a PhD in Loughborough and a
 Unit student (Webb) was one of the first recipients.

 Additional University scholarships are available in the form of mini Centres for Doctoral
 Training (cohorts of 5 students) under the competitive CALIBRE Adventure Programme, a
 programme disseminated as Good Practice via UKCGE. The Unit has fared well in this, winning
 five mini-CDTs during the REF period (3D printed chemical reactors, plasma interactions with
 organic liquids, brain-on-a-chip, forensic applications, and sustainable fuel supply), as well as
 partnering in a mini-CDT led by Maths (Designed self-assembly of nanoparticles within fluids
 and at interfaces). As intended, the mini-CDTs have been exploited to gain further external
 funding, including an EPSRC Platform Grant (S. Christie), an EPSRC Centre grant
 (Buckley/Wijayantha) and EPSRC New Investigator and BBSRC awards (Butler).

 During the REF period, the Unit participated in 6 EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training:
 Carbon Capture and Storage and Cleaner Fossil Energy (2013-17), Embedded Intelligence
 (2015-2019), Fuel Cells and Their Fuels (2015-2019), EPSRC/MRC CDT in Regenerative
 Medicine (2011-2021) and the newly funded “SusHy” EPSRC CDT in Sustainable Hydrogen
 (2019-2027, Wijayantha is Co-I Director) which will provide 17 PhD studentships to
 Loughborough. The Unit has also supported the NERC CENTA DTP (2014-2020, two
 studentships).

 Unit staff have also secured studentships from STFC and Diamond as well as from UK industry
 (e.g., Owlstone, Solvay, Diageo). Studentship funding is encouraged for collaborations with
 industry; the Unit will match industry funding with internal or UKRI funding, and we also hold
 fully-funded, industrially focussed studentships. We have good relationships with these partners
 with two from Lubrizol and three from EffecTech in the REF period.

 All potential supervisors have to undertake training on Bullying and Harassment, Recruitment


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and Selection, Respecting Diversity, and Mental Health Awareness. Supervisors are then
 required to develop PhD recruitment plans that include approaching underrepresented groups
 (special mailing lists, diversity-related web-resources, conferences). All funded and non-funded
 projects are posted on the School website and the highly visible FindAPhD website.
 Studentships are allocated and advertised early in the cycle to ensure high calibre candidates
 are attracted to fill the positions. We arrange remote or in-person interviews with shortlisted
 candidates to ensure high quality students are recruited. Decisions are taken by two members of
 staff.

 The Doctoral College runs an induction event for new starters, complemented by School
 specific inductions. All students have at least two supervisors with recommended split around
 70:30 to ensure productive involvement of the second supervisor. They meet at least monthly
 and usually more frequently, with minutes recorded in the University’s online Co-Tutor tool.
 During the first year of PhD studies, an initial 6-month review is followed by annual reviews,
 based on a report and viva with an independent examiner, at which student progression is
 decided.

 Within Schools, quality assurance of research degree programmes is provided by the ADR.
 Schools also have a Director of Doctoral Programmes, who monitors progression and
 arranges subject specific training. Further specialist support is available from the Mathematics
 Learning Support Centre, the English Language Support Unit, the Student Advice Centre, and
 the Student Wellbeing and Inclusivity Service. Schools have elected PGR student
 representatives from departments who are members of the Staff-Student Liaison Committee.
 This offers a direct dialogue by which issues can be acted upon efficiently.

 The Doctoral College offers over 200 skills development events annually, including the Annual
 Conference, Summer Showcase, Three Minute Thesis competition and the ‘Diversity in
 Research’ workshops at which several Chemistry PGRs have showcased their work. In their
 Schools, students attend seminars in their group, providing interaction with world-renowned
 researchers and industry leaders, and giving opportunities to present. Further discipline specific
 training covers safety matters, journal clubs, and presentations by Library and the Careers
 Network. Students are encouraged to publish and are also supported by grants to attend
 conferences (£2k across their PhD). All students have an opportunity (c.90% take-up) to gain
 teaching experience by assisting in labs and tutorials, after completing the University’s Teaching
 Skills course designed for PhD students. Participation in outreach activities with the public is
 also encouraged. One measure of the efficacy of this training comes in the success PhD
 students have enjoyed in gaining national awards during the last REF period. Examples include
 the RSC Inclusivity and Diversity fund £5k (Howard, 2020), the Haque and Bose Award
 (McMurchie 2019) and the British Mass Spectrometry Prize (Rankin-Turner 2018).

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 EDI matters are led by Schools and all make strong commitments. For example, Chemistry
 actively participates in a range of SSci-led EDI activities, including Women in Science lecture
 series, Pride in STEM research showcase (talks by LGBT+ scientists), Black Excellence in
 STEM events, panel discussions about experiences of Black students and staff in STEM, and
 the Diversity Allies Campaign (encouraging staff and students to be better allies to
 underrepresented groups). The university has staff groups e.g. BAME and LGBT+ groups and a
 women’s network (MAIA), which is also a member of the Women in HE network. Wijayantha has
 been active in developing the university’s Race Equality Charter and is also a member of the
 SSci EDI committee. Goddard is active within the MAIA and BAME networks and a mentor to
 postgraduates and ECRs through schemes in these networks. Goddard also secured an RSC
 Inclusion and Diversity award to gather data and enhance the experience of underrepresented
 student and staff within Chemistry.

 All colleagues complete a Respecting Diversity mandatory course and pass an online
 Unconscious Bias course. School SMTs receive bespoke Unconscious Bias training. SSci and


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 SAACME hold Bronze Athena SWAN Awards and SSEHS holds silver.

 Formal flexible working requests are submitted and approved by HR, supported by the School.
 Staff teaching may request up to one hour each day free from timetabled teaching to
 accommodate e.g. school runs. School meetings are restricted to core hours of 10am-4pm.
 Academic staff also have the ability to work flexibly or remotely on an informal basis so long as
 their responsibilities are fulfilled. For other circumstances, such as family caring duties, staff can
 request compassionate leave for immediate issues or longer term flexible working for ongoing
 responsibilities.

 Remote working is facilitated via the VPN (with secure multifactor authentication) that provides
 access to all University online resources, as well as choice of device (desktop/laptop). These
 policies and supporting infrastructure have eased the transition to effective home working during
 the COVID-19 pandemic from March 2020.

 Staff and research students with caring responsibilities are supported by a carer’s fund each
 year to support additional costs associated with conference attendance. An annual equality
 analysis of staff conference attendance is undertaken each year, and action plans drawn up if
 required. The Schools fund mid-career female staff to attend the Aurora Leadership Programme.

 In addition to University-level support, the Unit supports staff returning from parental,
 maternity, adoption, caring responsibility, sick or other long-term leave by giving them
 phased workload reintroduction extending over two years. Two Unit staff have used Shared
 Parental Leave, one took a year’s maternity leave, and several students have returned from
 caring responsibilities. Staff are further supported by Occupational Health to determine
 accommodations to allow them to continue in their role, including staff with disabilities.

 Wellbeing support: The Unit has Mental Health First Aiders with externally accredited training,
 who provide immediate support to staff and research students. The Wellbeing Advisor provides
 support to staff and research students. The University Counselling Service is available for
 emergency meetings and long-term treatment. The University also subscribes to the Employee
 Assistance Programme providing 24-hour telephone counselling and repeated sessions for
 staff with complex issues.

 2.5 EDI in submission construction
 Following the University's REF Code of Practice (CoP), the Unit created a REF Submission
 Team (25% female, 25% BAME) covering all research groups. The submission team completed
 EDI and unconscious bias training. All colleagues were asked to nominate and self-assess
 potential outputs for inclusion. In line with our Responsible Metrics Policy, these were peer
 assessed for originality, significance and rigour by a team of reviewers representing all research
 groups and covering different career stages, age, gender, race, and ethnicity. Output selection
 was based solely on excellence and did not set out to ensure even distribution across individuals
 or groups, as set out in the CoP. Throughout our REF preparations, equality impact
 assessments (EIAs) were carried out to assess both institutional processes and our draft return,
 including outputs selected, against protected characteristics, and to monitor whether further
 action was required. EIAs confirmed no issues required attention. 16% of outputs selected are
 attributed to staff identifying as female (16% of Unit staff identify as female).

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Funding and Strategy
 In this REF period, the primary strategic aims have been the design and commissioning of new
 research facilities, and recruitment of staff. On funding, the aim has been to maintain our grant
 income during a disruptive period of staff turnover and the moving phase (2017-2019), so that
 we can look to leverage this investment in both staff and facilities towards the end of this REF
 period, and over the next 5+ years. From 2018, we have seen this strategy come to fruition,


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 evidenced by leading 4 EPSRC and 1 BBSRC awards. These include several ECRs, confirming
 the success of our recruitment strategy.

 Strategic alignment between research priority areas, including the interdisciplinary research
 centres in SSci, and the new physical infrastructure has been fundamental in the transformation
 of Chemistry. Now the Unit is attracting funded research to take full advantage of the
 laboratory investment. For example, the clean room in Chemistry aligns with needs of the
 Centre for Laboratory to Fabrication, which recently attracted new EU grant to Roach (NEU-
 Chip). NEU-Chip aims to revolutionise computing power by augmenting brain cells with silicon
 chips. This Centre, the new bio-lab and clean room facility are the home of the Unit’s role in the
 EPSRC Platform Grant on Hybrid Manufacturing Process Research. Further evidence of the
 success associated with the SSci Research Centres comes from the Centre for Analytical
 Science whose laboratories delivered two major and prestigious grant awards: the East
 Midlands Breathomics Pathology Node (MRC, £2.4M total, £385k to Loughborough, 2015-19)
 for) and the Toxi-Triage project (Thomas leads, EUH2020, €12M, 2015-19). The Unit is now a
 world-leading centre for volatile compound analysis with bespoke lab facilities and equipment
 plus outstanding leadership in the field.

 Since REF2014, all grant applications are subject to formal internal peer review and,
 depending on size, will go to expert and non-experts for feedback including research support
 reviewers. ECRs have high priority for this support and this group has seen successful PI bids
 to UKRI: Jolley will investigate mechanisms of retention and transport of fission products in virgin
 and irradiated nuclear graphite (EPSRC, £320k, 2018-21) in collaboration with a team at
 Manchester; Butler is investigating luminescent host molecules for multisite recognition of
 polyphosphate anions (EPSRC, £250k, 2019-21), high-throughput luminescence assays
 (BBSRC, £150k, 2020-21) and for luminescent host molecules (BBSRC, £247k, awarded 2020,
 in collaboration with Liverpool University); Wright is investigating three dimensionally defined
 non-fullerene acceptors (EPSRC, £270k, awarded 2020) and from the New Horizons scheme to
 investigate three-dimensionally delocalised nano-graphenes (EPSRC, £200k, awarded 2020).

 Additional significant grants from our ECRs include Goddard (InnovateUK, 2 x £100k, 2016-19)
 in collaboration with Johnson Matthey to investigate energy storage in relation to solid state
 electrolyte materials and interfaces; Kondrat secured PhD funding from Diamond (£50k, 2018-
 22) to look at potassium XAFS of batteries and catalysts and ISIS (£60k, 2019-23) to investigate
 neutron spectroscopy of surface intermediates on nanoporous metal catalysts for hydrogen
 storage technologies; both Butler and Kondrat received Royal Society Research Grants (£15k,
 2016-17 and £20k, 2018-19) to purchase a fluorescence spectrometer and an autoclave reactor
 respectively. In addition, ECRs are assisted to develop collaborations across campus and
 beyond. For example, Butler has developed collaborations with colleagues in Materials and this
 led to joint PhD studentships and EPSRC Impact Acceleration funding (£100k); Kondrat has
 developed international collaboration with the Institute of Science and Technology for Ceramics
 (CNR, Italy) funded through the Royal Society International Exchanges programme to
 investigate layered perovskite photoelectron-catalysts for carbon dioxide reduction (£12k, 2018-
 20).

 CALIBRE encourages staff to collaborate across disciplines and the Unit has attracted
 funding through joint projects such as:
 • Kelly’s collaboration with the School of Design and Creative Arts which formulated new
    processes for the use of platinum in photography (Anglo-American Platinum, £250k, 2014-
    17).
 • Unit engagement in two Loughborough-led EPSRC CDTs (in Embedded Intelligence and
    Regenerative Medicine)
 • S. Christie worked with the School of Mechanical, Electrical and Manufacturing Engineering
    (EPSRC, £0.8M, 2014-16) on the Towards Bespoke Bio-Hybrid Prosthesis - Manufacturing
    bio-inductive interfaces in 3D grant under the High Value Manufacturing Beacon.
 • Kimber worked with Chemical Engineering (EPSRC, £0.5M, 2015-18) on Tackling

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     Antimicrobial Resistance: An Interdisciplinary Approach grant under the Health and
     Wellbeing Global Challenge.
 • Wijayantha is part of the Physics-led Neuromemristive Systems grant (EPSRC, £1M, 2020-
     23)
 Such relationships are productive and mutually beneficial and we will continue to collaborate in
 this way; for example, Buckley and Wijayantha are co-investigators on Loughborough’s UKRI
 Centre for Circular Chemical Economy (EPSRC, £4.4M, 2021-24).

 The Unit has engaged in Research Consortia with the intention to “link with the best” to
 enhance funding track record before, in the next cycle, taking the lead more often in larger grant
 applications. This has been facilitated by a budget available to fund travel so that Unit staff
 developing national and international collaborative proposals can attend initial meetings. SSci
 Research Centres were also provided with a budget to run workshops and attract potential
 partners into our networks. This has resulted in a 59% increase in UKRI funding in this REF
 period:
 • Wijayantha is part of the UCL led £1.8M JUICED Hub consortium with Southampton and
     Birmingham (2017-2021) and was part of the UCL led £2.2M Sustainable Manufacturing of
     Transparent Conducting Oxide Inks and Thin Films (2014-2019).
 • Goddard is part of the Sheffield University led £1.2M Design and high throughput microwave
     synthesis of Li-ion battery materials grant (2015-2021) including Glasgow, Oxford, UCL and
     the STFC.
 • Evans was part of the Leeds University led £5M Decommissioning, Immobilisation and
     Storage soluTIons for NuClear wasTe InVEntories (DISTINCTIVE, 2014-2019) including
     Strathclyde, Sheffield, Birmingham, Bangor, Lancaster, Bristol and Manchester.
 • Fletcher was part of the Loughborough Aeronautical and Automotive Engineering led £3.3M
     ELEVATE (ELEctrochemical Vehicle Advanced Technology, 2015-2019) including Oxford,
     Warwick, Southampton, Coventry, UCL and 6 industrial partners.

 Finally, a growing area (19% increase in this REF period) is funding from or with industry.
 Over £1.9M has been secured, including the EDF lectureship (a joint 5-year appointment,
 £0.5M, 2016-21) several InnovateUK awards (Goddard, Worrall, S. Christie, Kelly/Reynolds
 totalling £0.6M, with industries such as Glass Technology Services, Lubrizol Ltd, Johnson
 Matthey) and through industrial CASE type awards (£0.3M).

 3.2 Organisational and Infrastructure supporting Research and Impact
 Unit staff work through their School, specifically the ADR, to link with colleagues in the Research
 and Enterprise Office (REO). REO provides specialist support from costings all the way to
 Research Development Manager (RDM) support for facilitating large, multi-partner grant
 applications, EU grants and Fellowships for example, Butler received specialist mentoring for his
 ECR Wellcome Trust seedcorn funding application, and all EPSRC New Investigator Awards
 receive allocated time from the REO team.

 Fellowship applicants are mentored from early stages to ensure the Fellowship is correct route
 for the individual. Care is taken with Early Career Fellowships to ensure the correct level of
 professional development is included to complement the science in the application. University
 and School resources are also added to the Fellowship “package” in the form of equipment,
 space and studentships, to ensure the whole grant is at a level to be both competitive and able
 to deliver cutting edge science.

 The KTP Office within the REO provides full life cycle support for KTP projects from meeting with
 industrial partners with the KTP advisor and writing proposals to supporting delivery of the
 projects, including finance, data support and KTP associate training. All our InnovateUK, KTP
 and consultancy projects, where there are close collaborations with industrial partners, require
 contractual agreements, especially relating to intellectual property. Some of our projects have
 international partners, making the agreements more complicated. The University’s Contracts
 Team provides the required specialist legal service support, negotiating with our partners,

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 developing agreements and monitoring commercialisation opportunities.

 3.3 Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact
 The REF period has seen a paradigm shift in the facilities and operational infrastructure of the
 Department of Chemistry. In 2014, Chemistry was housed in a standalone 1960s building with
 out-dated laboratory space. Chemistry is now in expansive, modern facilities, that project our
 forward-looking attitude to research and impact. This evidences Loughborough’s substantial and
 sustained commitment to maintaining experimental facilities in support of world-class research
 activities.

 The redevelopment was part of a strategic investment in STEM infrastructure on our “West
 Park”, which, at £59M, was the biggest single estates investment in the University’s history.
 Chemistry benefited from relocation, refurbishment, and new build to deliver state-of-the-art
 laboratory facilities. This comprised a £17M development of “STEMLab”, housing teaching
 laboratory facilities, and the complete refurbishment of W Building to relocate Chemistry onto
 West Park. This placed Chemistry adjacent to Physics, Chemical Engineering and Materials,
 and the teaching facilities in STEMLab. This was a planned move to leverage research overlaps
 with complementary Departments, to facilitate new collaborations and working practices in the
 short to medium term. Undertaken in partnership with Chemistry staff themselves, the new
 laboratories cover every element of Chemistry with facility for synthetic chemistry, biological
 facilities, advanced analytical techniques, high pressure/temperature reactions, physical
 chemistry and characterisation. Researchers are located directly adjacent to their laboratory
 space. All Chemistry research was successfully moved over to this new facility between April
 and September 2018.

 To maximise operational effectiveness, laboratory spaces are now organised by function rather
 than research group. This has resulted in enhancements through critical co-locations:
 • a suite of advanced analytical laboratories with NMR instruments adjacent to x-ray
    diffraction;
 • advanced analytical equipment includes inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry, and
    an array of mass spectrometry, ion mobility and differential mobility spectrometry housed in
    bespoke labs with their own data repository.
 • large synthesis lab houses the synthetic methodologies, including their own analytical
    capabilities (thermo-gravimetric analysis, infra-red spectrometers, high performance liquid
    chromatography-mass spectrometry, gas chromatography-mass spectrometry).
 • a laser lab adjacent to the main physical chemistry space and a bespoke material
    preparation lab for high pressure/temperature work.

 In addition, new strategic investments have provided:
 • a bio-sciences laboratory to Category 2 standard;
 • a class 1000 clean room and lithography facility for work at the forefront of micro-
     manufacture; we produce devices with micro-scale features for organ-on-a-chip devices,
     chemical patterning of cells, preparation of magnetic and electronic structures and
     investigation of new layered materials.

 In the REF period, University investment has been complemented by external grants: EPSRC
 multi-user equipment grant for a new solids/liquids 500MHz NMR spectrometer (£2M total, 2017,
 £277k to Buckley), chemisorption analyser (£675k total, 2020, £60k to Kondrat) and Wolfson
 Foundation (£200k, Thomas) for new analytical science equipment. Over £500k internal funding
 has been invested to support underpinning equipment including a new 400MHz liquids NMR,
 two benchtop 45MHz NMRs (with flow capacity), two new reverse phase HPLCs, GCMS and
 LCMS for routine analysis and a semi-prep HPLC, two fluorescence spectrometers, a glove box
 and ICPMS.

 Space is open to all to encourage collaboration. For example, Physics make full use of the
 Material Preparation lab, collaboration is increasing with Chemical Engineering and Materials in

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 carbon capture and utilization, and in fluorescent probes for materials design.

 A formal framework for sharing research facilities across the department/university/region has
 been established. Loughborough is a pioneer of the equipment sharing agenda, developing the
 open-source equipment database system Kit-Catalogue™ (www.kit-catalogue.com) to facilitate
 efficient use of equipment internally and externally.

 The computational facilities available to researchers have also advanced considerably during the
 REF period. We have recruited five specialist computational chemists and have built a
 computational suite within the new Chemistry facilities. Within SSci, there is a higher
 specification computer facility (SCI_GRID), and, within the University, a high-performance
 computer (Lovelace) and an EPSRC funded Regional Tier 2 facility (HPC Midlands+), with
 Goddard on the Stakeholder Advisory Board for both.

 J.Christie and Goddard are members of the Materials Chemistry Consortium and the Materials
 Molecular Modelling hub, giving them access to ARCHER/ARCHER2 and Tier 2 machines; for
 example, THOMAS/YOUNG (hosted at UCL) allowing rapid computational analysis of battery
 optimisation. Wijayantha, Dann, Elsegood, Kondrat, Worrall have frequent access to Diamond,
 ISIS and the national crystallography, NMR and laser facilities through various competitive calls,
 for beam time at Diamond and access to the national NMR Centre based at Warwick.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Collaboration is key to many of our most successful projects and in-line with the REF2014
 strategy aim to be a research partner of choice for multi-disciplinary collaborations. The Unit
 supports the building of external links with travel budgets for academic staff, and through
 dedicated support staff in Schools and the REO. We encourage research collaborations through,
 for example, Midlands Innovation (including the Energy Research Accelerator) at a regional
 level, through UKRI initiatives at national level (EPSRC Grand Challenges and Early Career
 Fora), and internationally through travel awards. Where significant periods of time are required,
 Fellowships (study leave) are deployed; for example, Buckley used his Fellowship to take up a
 Visiting Professor appointment (2014-15) at the University of Utah.

 Successful collaborations with UK partners are associated with interdisciplinary work under the
 Unit’s research groups, for example:
 • Energy: Wijayantha’s work with UCL in EPSRC funded research into Transparent
    Conducting Oxide Inks and Thin Films and with their Joint University Industry Consortium for
    Energy (Materials) and Devices (JUICED Hub) is based on our distinctive contribution of
    expertise in fabrication of energy devices for next generation batteries. He is a board
    member of the JUICED Hub.
 • Sustainability: S. Christie’s collaboration with Leeds University, currently under EPSRC
    platform grant on Hybrid Manufacturing Processes, is based on our distinctive contribution of
    expertise in 3D printing of chemical and biological reactors, enabling real time analysis of
    chemical and biological processes, now being applied to industrial problems.
 • Health: Thomas’s EMBER project in collaboration with Leicester University (and hospitals) is
    based on our distinctive contribution of expertise in volatile compound and complex mixture
    analysis which makes breath sampling and disease detection possible. Its effectiveness is
    evident in very recent work on non-invasive COVID-19 diagnosis.
 • Health: Weaver’s work with De Montfort University has been supported by the British Society
    of Antimicrobial Chemotherapy and is based on our distinctive contribution in unusual
    polyfluorinated heterocycle formation for anti-parasitic properties.
 • Health: Loughborough’s EUH2020 PET3D project led by Zanda involved eight academic
    partners from across Europe including Amsterdam, Munster and Bergen. This project tackled
    the European shortage of specialist scientists in imaging.



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Participation in EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training in Energy and Sustainability has been an
 important driver for collaboration and has supported over 15 PhD students during the REF
 period:
 • Carbon Capture and Storage and Cleaner Fossil Energy CDT led by Nottingham, with
     Birmingham, Sheffield and the British Geological Society. Buckley and Wijayantha
     investigated carbon dioxide utilisation technologies.
 • Fuel Cells and Their Fuels CDT led by Birmingham, with Nottingham and Imperial College.
     Wijayantha investigated novel materials for hydrogen generation.
 • Sustainable Hydrogen CDT: Wijayantha is CoI in the consortium which includes Nottingham
     (lead), Birmingham and Ulster. Wijayantha, Buckley supervise students through this CDT
     with industrial co-funding regarding hydrogen storage, Wright is investigating novel materials
     for hydrogen applications and Kimber is developing new odour agents for use in hydrogen
     storage.

 As part of the University’s position in Midlands Innovation (the partnership of the Midlands eight
 research intensive universities), Unit staff are engaged in the Energy Research Accelerator.
 Wijayantha has been member of its Research Committee and has been a leader in the fields of
 energy storage and conservation, particularly for renewable energy sources.

 The Unit’s international academic collaborations have led to >250 journal papers with
 international co-authors during the REF period. For example, Buckley has co-authored papers
 with the Sigman group at University of Utah, one of the world’s leading groups in Physical
 Organic Chemistry; Thomas has collaborated with Eiceman at New Mexico State University, a
 world leader in ion mobility spectrometry, through the Toxi-Triage project, and Platt worked with
 UC Irvine on modelling and application of multifunctional aptamer-nanopore sensors.

 4.1.1 Interaction with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries or Audiences
 Collaboration with industry partners is pervasive in the Unit and embedded in strategy (IS2). We
 do this through our research groups and our interdisciplinary Centres. The two main
 mechanisms we use are joint working by allowing key partners full access to our lab facilities
 and sponsoring of PhD studentships.

 Examples of co-working in laboratories include:
 • Sustainability: Plastic Energy utilise our lab and analytical facilities to determine polymer
    pyrolysis and monomer regeneration protocols.
 • Security: Kelly’s work on fingerprint detection with Foster and Freeman also benefits through
    knowledge exchange and equipment sharing, as well as project supervision.
 • Centre for Analytical Science (CAS): Industry can be embedded in CAS for extended periods
    to facilitate knowledge transfer. Advion and Owlstone have developed bespoke mass
    spectrometry interfaces for breath analysis in this way.
 • Centre for Laboratory to Fabrication: an AstraZeneca chemist was hosted for 18 months to
    develop expertise in 3D printed photochemical reactors, applying this to industrial problems
    on returning to AstraZeneca.

 Over the REF period we have leveraged our contacts with UG placement companies to grow the
 relationships into PhD sponsored programmes. Examples include:
 • Industrially funded studentships from Solvay, InnoSpec, and HK Wentworth who were
     attracted to Unit expertise in phosphorus ligand design.
 • Lubrizol who approached Loughborough specifically to address efficient cleaning at lower
     temperatures due to Buckley’s expertise in oxidation chemistry. This relationship continues
     with further studentship funding for 2021-2024.
 • EffecTech who have co-funded studentships during the REF period accessing expertise in
     novel materials and carbon dioxide utilisation to aid succession planning within their
     business.



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Funding for PhD studentships with Owlstone and Diageo who secured access to expertise in
     volatiles analysis

 4.1.2 Engaging with Diverse Communities and Public
 Staff have engaged with popular science programmes such as Fake Britain on BBC, and with
 the Bank of England and Historic England on counterfeit merchandise. Around 50% of staff are
 active on social media to engage the wider community and general public. In addition, research
 students are very actively involved in online activities that deliberately portray their research in
 an accessible manner to wider and diverse audiences. Postgraduate researchers at
 Loughborough have been award winners at the RSC Twitter Poster competition on three
 occasions; twice in Section sub-panels (Materials and Analytical), and one overall winner with
 Special Commendation. The Unit strongly endorses and encourages this activity in order to
 promote the discipline widely, in a contemporary and accessible format.

 4.2 Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline
 Many Unit staff hold leadership roles within the chemistry community. ECRs are particularly
 encouraged to take leadership roles in important national bodies, both to sustain the discipline
 and also to increase their profile. Unit staff have been particularly active in the Royal Society of
 Chemistry (RSC):
 • Treasurer of the RSC / Society of Chemical Industry (SCI) joint colloids group and committee
     member of the RSC Biomaterials Chemistry group (Hatton, 2017-)
 • Chair and former Secretary of RSC Electrochemistry Group (Wijayantha, 2011-19)
 • Chair of RSC Photochemistry Group (Worrall, 2006-15)
 • Kimber: RSC Organic Division Council (2018-), Organising Committee and judge for RSC-
     SCI Retrosynthesis Competition (2019-), including setting the target molecule and Session
     Chair for the final.
 • Goddard: RSC Dalton Division Council (2017-), RSC Pan African Chemistry Network (2016-
     present), Elected member of RSC Science, Education and Industry Board (2015-18) and
     RSC Solid State Chemistry Group Committee (2014-17)
 • Council member of RSC biomaterials chemistry group (Roach, 2015-)

 Unit staff have also given service to significant organisations in Chemistry:
 • President of the European Photochemistry Association (Worrall, 2014-16)
 • Secretary of the International Association of Breath Research (Thomas, 2019-21)
 • President of the UK Society for Biomaterials (Roach, 2019-).
 • Executive Committee Member of British Society of Mass Spectrometry (Heaney, 2019-).
 • Chair of SCI Young Chemists Panel (Buckley, 2014-15) and Panel Members (Butler, Kimber
    2015-19)
 • International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) Sub-Committee on
    Photochemistry (Worrall, 2008-)
 • Member of CAMS Measurement Science Research Institute (Turner, 2020-).

 Unit staff have been responsive to national and international priorities. Buckley and
 Wijayantha (UKRI National Centre for Circular Chemical Economy) and Hatton (UKRI
 Sustainable Plastics, researching circular business models for food packaging) engaged with
 partners across the UK in response to the UK’s Clean Growth Strategy. CAS has been at the
 centre of collaboration with industry and clinical partners in the rapid detection of COVID-19 via
 breath analysis. CAS coordinated independent clinical research in UK, Sri Lanka, Germany and
 Canada which resulted in rapid tests for discriminating COVID-19 from other respiratory
 diseases. Thomas was also an evaluator for the ‘Sniffphone’ (Smartphone for disease detection
 from exhaled breath) and scientific advisor to the MRC Bravo project (defining the volatile
 organic signature of ventilator associated pneumonia).

 4.3 Indicators of Wider Influence
 We encourage staff to undertake roles that influence future research in their chemistry


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 disciplines.

 Engagement with funders
 The majority of Unit staff act as reviewers across all major chemical science funding bodies in
 the UK/EU e.g. UKRI, RSC, H2020 (including EU COST and Marie Skłodowska-Curie actions),
 Heart Research UK, British Heart Foundation and Medical Research Scotland.

 The Unit encourages engagement with EPSRC; 25% of Unit staff are members of the EPSRC
 Peer Review College, with an additional 15% actively reviewing proposals. Goddard was
 appointed to the EPSRC’s e-Infrastructure Strategic Advisory Team (2020) and Roach was
 instrumental in establishing the EPSRC Early Career Forum in Manufacturing Research (2016-
 present).

 Invited keynotes and lectures
 Unit staff delivered over 100 invited research lectures worldwide including such diverse keynotes
 and plenaries as: the International Congress on Heterocyclic Chemistry (Malkov, 2015); the 3rd
 & 4th EuCheMS Congress on Green and Sustainable Chemistry (Buckley, 2017/19); UK
 Automated Synthesis Forum (S. Christie, 2019); European Society of Vascular Surgery
 (Cousins, 2019); International Conference on Applied Chemistry (Goddard, 2020).

 As ECRs, Managh has delivered a keynote to North American Workshop on Laser Ablation
 (2019) and Kondrat was invited to the Faraday Discussion on Nanoparticle Systems for
 Catalysis (2016). Butler was invited to present at the International Conference on Bioinorganic
 Chemistry in 2019; this led directly to new collaborations with leading biological chemistry
 groups in Oxford, Berkeley and Brussels, and to two high profile publications.

 Staff also chaired numerous conference sessions, for example the Hydrogen Networks session
 at the Supergen Energy Networks conference (Wijayantha, 2020), World Biomaterials
 Conference (Roach, 2020), Breath Summit (Thomas, 2019), and Historic England: Theft of
 Heritage Metals (Kelly, 2016).

 Journal Editorship
 Unit staff regularly act as reviewers for all major international journals. Zanda is an Editorial
 Board Member for Thieme Chemistry Journals (2009-). Four staff act as Editor-in-Chief (growth
 from one in REF2014): Synform (Zanda, 2009-), International Journal of Ion Mobility
 Spectrometry (Thomas, 2009-19), Cogent Chemistry (Weaver, 2020-), Progress in Reaction
 Kinetics and Mechanism (Worrall, 2020-). Staff are also Associate Editors for Review Journal of
 Chemistry (Malkov, 2019-), RSC Advances (Buckley, 2015-17), Frontiers in Chemistry (Butler,
 2019-) as well as an editorial board member of Journal of Breath Research (Thomas, 2018-).
 We are pleased that our emerging leaders such as Buckley (Reader since 2020) and Butler (SL
 since 2020) are already influencing their research communities by being active in editorial roles.

 National and international committees
 Unit staff are increasingly active in influential committee roles. ECR Kondrat sits on the Catalysis
 Hub Steering Committee shaping the future landscape of catalysis technologies. Kelly was an
 influential witness providing written evidence to the House of Lord’s Science and Technology
 Select Committee’s report: “Forensic Science and the criminal justice system: a blueprint for
 change” (2019). Buckley sat on the Management Board of the “CO2Chem” Grand Challenge
 Network, an international network that works across disciplines and across academia, industry,
 and government. He shaped the Grand Challenge through the core activities of Connectivity
 (networking, conferences, research funding and development), Information (news, media,
 publishing) and Learning (summer schools and professional development). S. Christie sat on the
 EPSRC Grand Challenge Dial-a-Molecule Steering Group and led its Enabling Technologies
 Theme; he hosted its flagship annual Summer School for PGR and industrial chemists, at
 Loughborough since 2018.



                                                                                             Page 17
