Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Institution: King’s College London

    Unit of Assessment: 34 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information
    Management

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context
UOA34 comprises the Departments of Culture, Media and Creative Industries (CMCI) and Digital
Humanities (DH) in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities. The UOA includes 52.3FTE Category A staff
and 86 research students and works closely with the cross-Departmental King’s Digital Lab (KDL)
and Centre for Digital Culture (CDC). Our research and impact remit is framed by four strategic
objectives to:

•      Develop world-leading research on cultural/digital memory, cultural history and heritage.
•      Promote world-leading research on digital culture and creative work.
•      Expand analysis and understanding of the global and local dimensions of contemporary
       cultures in transition, including the Global South.
•      Support future-focused cultural and policy research for societal good.

These are underpinned by four research and impact priorities (Figure 1):

•      Inclusivity
•      Sustainability
•      Care
•      Reflexivity

This framing emphasises the importance of interrogating and understanding culture in all its diversity,
incorporating an inclusive approach to understanding cultures in transition. It relies on sustainable
relationships and practices, which can be adapted to future shifts in focus, across UOA34 and
beyond. Our objectives also encompass research and impact processes that prioritise care (in terms
of practices that nurture our research culture and serve society). Finally, our strategic objectives
provide a clear overview that allows critical reflexivity about our research and impact in order to
sustain future prospects.

To achieve these objectives, UOA34 brings together two distinctive yet complementary
interdisciplinary approaches: DH’s research is motivated by thinking critically with and about the
digital, while CMCI’s research is characterised by critical interrogation of culture, media and creative
industries. Both encourage work that operates recursively between theory and practice, giving
particular purchase to both our impact and research-led teaching.

1.2 Unit structure, strategic vision, achievements 2014–20
In 2014, UOA34 was structured around three research themes: cultures of production and the
creative economy; digital culture and everyday cultures; and memory and knowledge environments;
and by the priority of further integrating DH and CMCI work around these themes. In 2016, we
adapted this framework around four strategic objectives that align with our four priorities, as well as
with Faculty and College research strategies (Figure 1), thereby responding strategically to the
challenge of cultures in transition.

These objectives and priorities are fundamental to UOA34 coherence, integrating research around
interdisciplinary themes, but also acknowledging complementary Departmental strengths. Our
inclusivity, reflexivity and culture of care are enhanced and sustained through constant dialogue,
including participation in each other’s research committees, events, doctoral training, appointments
and the development since REF2014 of the CDC. This research culture fuels emergent and
innovative work, particularly from ECRs and PGRs, demonstrated in numerous joint events such as

Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Figure 1: UOA34 strategic objectives and priorities

 UOA34 strategic goals

    1: Develop world-      2: Promote world-       3:Expand analysis        4: Support future-
  leading research on      leading research        and understanding         focused cultural
      cultural/digital      on digital culture      of the global and           and policy
    memory, cultural       and creative work      local dimensions of          research for
  history and heritage                               contemporary             societal good
                                                        cultures in
                                                        transition

 UOA34 priorities

       INCLUSIVITY         SUSTAINABILITY                CARE                  REFLEXIVITY
        Promoting an      Fostering synergistic    Treating research           Enabling critical
   inclusive approach       relationships and       and impact as a             reflection and
     to understanding          practices for       structured practice       feedback across all
    diverse cultures in       research and         of care – nurturing      aspects of UOA34’s
       transition, that    impact, within and     our research culture      research and impact
  supports/inspires all      beyond UOA34         and serving society
         researchers


 Faculty research strategy

      Support              Support           Increase        Recruitment           Innovation
  promotion and         development          research       and support of
  development of          of a vital          funding         research
    high-quality        collaborative                         students
     individual              and
    scholarship       interdisciplinary
                          research
                        environment

 College research strategy

    Retaining,         Providing the      Broadening the       Increasing          Delivering
 developing and             best          research base       impact and           research-
 recruiting world-     environment             whilst          expanding           enhanced
   class talent       and systems to        increasing          research           education
                       deliver world-         quality        partnerships
                          leading
                         research


The Gig Economy: Deal or Ordeal (2017); The (Soft) Power of Museums (2018); Algorithms for Her:
Feminist Approaches to Digital Infrastructures, Cultures & Economies (2020); and joint projects,
including the AHRC-funded Creative AI: Machine Learning as a Medium in Artistic and Curatorial
Practice (Bunz, Hedges, Iervolino; 2020–21; £76,697) and the Innovate UK-funded Applying AI to
Storytelling – Bringing Computational Research into Creative Industries (Atkinson, Smithies; 2018–
19; £73,710).

Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Our achievements would not be possible without high-quality infrastructure. KDL, led by Smithies,
is vital in providing UOA34 with expertise in Research Software Engineering to increase digital
research capability, working with researchers and partners to produce digital tools (repositories,
archives, visualisations, maps and web applications) and immersive experiences. KDL evolved from
within DH, and was founded as a standalone laboratory in 2015, implementing infrastructure and
tools in support of advanced computational methods for arts and humanities and providing core
digital capability to DH and the wider Faculty/College. KDL takes a leading role in ensuring the
sustainability of UOA34 digital outputs and resources, also making a key contribution to the
Sustaining and Opening-up a World of Cultural Heritage impact case study (ICS).

Equally, the establishment of the CDC in 2014 as a strategic hub has been key in bringing together
interdisciplinary research. Led by Gerbaudo, the CDC draws its membership predominantly from
UOA34. Its focus on digital culture has generated inclusive research collaborations: for example, a
workshop programme, which particularly benefits PGRs and ECRs, who also participate in the CDC
Board. CDC has brought public visibility to our work on digital culture through debates (eg ‘The
People’s Memes’, The Guardian podcast of a 2017 event) and a diverse and 50% non-academic
public for its annual conferences. Conference themes have included: The Politics of Big Data (2014);
Cyber Party (2016); The Digital Everyday (2017); The Digital Economy (2018); Resisting Digital
Culture (2019); and the 2020 conference, Memes, the Cultural Logic of Late Capitalism, reorganised
online with 730 participants. Significant CDC publications include a 2016 Digital Culture and Society
special issue on ‘Politics of Big Data’, drawing on the 2014 conference, edited by Gerbaudo, Coté
and Pybus.

The success of this approach is indicated by three key metrics:

•   Staff increases from 33.05 in 2014 to 52.3 in 2020, with appointments reinforcing leadership
    and expertise across targeted growth areas (Section 2.1).
•   PGR expansion from 44 in 2014 to 86 by 2020, with completion rates increasing from 7.25 in
    REF2014 to 50.
•   Research income growth from £8,857,914 in REF2014 to £11,542,149

Our research achievements are guided by four strategic objectives:
1.2.1 Develop world-leading research on cultural/digital memory, cultural history and heritage
This has been achieved through large, funded DH projects around Holocaust archive infrastructure
(Anderson, Blanke, Bryant, Hedges, Speck); genocide archives in Rwanda (Anderson, Hedges);
and cultural preservation in Sudan (Deegan). Within DH, this theme has encompassed research
around new forms of curation and digital heritage (Earl, Smithies), involving machine learning,
cultural analytics and digital language/translation (Blanke, Bryant, Bunz, Hedges, Smithies,
Spence). Within CMCI, it has embraced work exploring the power of cultural history including
memory practices around gender (Chidgey, Reading); digital memory (Reading), identities and
nostalgia (Adams); music history (Cohen, Wilson); conflict and suffering (Nisbett, Rapson,
Reading); sub-cultures (Adams, Sweetman); and curatorial practices in western and non-western
contexts (Iervolino, Woodham). Overlapping interests have stimulated a joint CMCI–DH initiative
(Iervolino, Dunn) to establish a Faculty research centre on museums and galleries.
1.2.2 Promote world-leading research on digital culture and creative work
This objective consolidates previous research exploring the changing nature of creative and cultural
work and the role of data and digital infrastructures in these transformations. Within DH, it has
included innovative exploration and application of digital methods and methodologies (Bounegru,
Coté, Gray); analysis of cultures of open source production and innovation (Shaikh); and digital
impacts on human sciences (Geoghegan). Within CMCI, it is reflected in critical approaches to
creative, cultural and digital labour (Conor, Comunian, Gross, Leung, Scharff, Wilson); fan
cultures and audiences (Atkinson, Crisp, Janes, Lee); digital film and immersive technologies
(Atkinson, Crisp, Janes); the music and film businesses (Cohen, Wilson); and the impact of
lighting on urban experiences (Entwistle). Closely aligned DH research has addressed impacts of


Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
disruptive technology (Kavanagh); promotional cultures and algorithms (Bishop); digital audio
(Zaborowski); and games cultures (Zhu); also engaging with online politics and activism (Feldman,
Gerbaudo, Moreno Almeida); the impact of mobile digital cultures on identity and trust (Mathew,
Moreno Almeida); and the implications of digital exclusion (Oreglia). KDL has brought additional
insights with Research Software Engineering methods and infrastructure (Smithies).
1.2.3 Expand analysis and understanding of the global and local dimensions of contemporary
cultures in transition, including the Global South
This objective is exemplified in a large DH ERC grant on the impacts of Chinese digital infrastructures
along the New Silk Road in Central Asia, DIGISILK (Oreglia, 2020–25). This research engages with
the social, political and economic implications of cultures in transition, as does work on digital public
spheres of information exchange (Gerbaudo) and cultural production (Atkinson, Bishop); the
‘datafication’ of everyday life (Coté, Pybus); developments in machine-learning and artificial
intelligence (Atkinson, Bunz, Devlin); and changes in the practices of screen industries (Crisp,
McDonald, Steemers), galleries and museums (Iervolino, Woodham); and creative economies in
Africa (Comunian). This objective has encompassed issues of inclusivity, diversity, and equality
(Comunian, Conor, Gross, Oreglia, Wilson) and the impact of digital communications on conflict
dynamics and reconstruction (Chonka). It embraces and contributes to post- or de-colonialising
epistemologies that counter the dominance of Western-centric theorisation in our fields (Chonka,
Gibson, Lee, Leung, Moreno Almeida, Mathew, Oreglia, Spence, Zaborowski).
1.2.4 Support future-focused cultural and policy research for societal good
This objective addresses contemporary issues impacting society. For instance, the Horizon 2020-
funded DISCE project has re-thought creative economies by exploring who gets to do cultural policy
and whether/how such policy takes account of the ecological nature of culture, creativity and digital
work (Comunian, Conor, Gross Wilson). UOA34 expertise on cultural policy and the role of states,
included Lee’s work on Korean cultural policy, McDonald’s research on Hollywood and anti-piracy
initiatives, Steemers’ work on children’s media and Gerbaudo’s research on digital politics and new
forms of political practice. This research has addressed pressing social and global issues, such as
climate change (Bounegru) and empowering civil society through data infrastructures in relation to
online misinformation (Allington, Gray), data witnessing (Gray) and tax avoidance (Bounegru,
Gray). Other research has analysed policy around identification and surveillance (Ajana), digital
health (Ajana, Bunz), personal data privacy and the digital economy (Feldman, Pybus, Srnicek).
Work here has also interrogated the intersections of culture-making (Geoghegan), cultural
diplomacy (Nisbett) and public policy on design (Entwistle).

1.3 Objectives 2021–26
With our distinctive priorities and objectives as a supporting framework, our research can respond
to and expand on the global and local dimensions of cultures in transition. Currently, this includes
challenges posed by Brexit and COVID-19, which necessitate adaptations in how we do research,
how we fund it and how we support staff and students; but also how we address issues around
equality, inclusion, culture and the digital, both within UOA34 and externally. Over the next five years
we aim to:

   a) Support future-focused cultural and digital research for societal good by improving our culture
      of care with enhanced mentoring linked to annual staff Research Reviews and internal
      funding initiatives that incubate new ideas and collaborations, eg Decolonising the Digital
      Humanities Student Experience, a Faculty-funded seed initiative focused on Black
      representation in UOA34 and the field (Mathew, Chonka).
   b) Improve connections with cultural organisations in London and globally through more
      concrete collaborations, including institutions and universities in the Global South, eg the
      Sudanese Association for Archiving Knowledge (Deegan) and Makerere University’s School
      of Library and Information Science (Hedges).
   c) Develop innovative modes of communication, transference and engagement to enhance
      impact that bridges theory and practice, building on pivotal responses trialled during
      lockdown, eg the Gigabitesback online forum for staff–student conversations.


Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   d) Generate funding from more diverse sources, in particular international transdisciplinary
      collaborations, eg around environmental humanities, a collaboration between King’s and
      Arizona State University (Geoghegan), which is being kick-started through charitable
      foundation funding.
   e) Consolidate the vitality and diversity of our community through PGR and ECR recruitment,
      mentoring and training, including expansion of qualified PGR supervisors.
   f) Develop technical research infrastructure and capability, working closely with KDL in project
      scoping exercises to identify research themes and funding opportunities.

1.4 Facilitating and sustaining impact
Our approach to impact is founded on a commitment to inclusivity, sustainability, reflexivity and a
culture of care. This ensures that impact is not secondary, but integral to choices about projects,
processes, methodologies and skills development. This begins at the earliest stage with what
researchers pay attention to, emphasising the need to maximise and share opportunities inclusively
across UOA34.

Two Departmental Impact Leads working together report to Departmental Research Leads, the
Faculty Committee for Impact and Innovation (FIIC) and the Faculty Pro Vice Dean Impact and
Innovation. For much of this REF, the latter was Tanner, whose Balanced Value Impact Model
research from REF2014 has informed impact planning, enabling UOA34 to consider ‘cultural values’
(utility, prestige, education, community and bequest) and ‘impacts’ (social, audience, economic,
innovation and internal processes) in guiding impact strategy.

Inclusivity involves making and sustaining connections across all research areas and all parts of the
research process. This occurs internally by encouraging all staff, including ECRs, to engage with
impact through one-to-one mentoring with Impact Leads and regular training at College and Faculty
level, with impact now part of applications for career progression and research leave.

Inclusivity and care extends to ICS choices, which were selected after regular monitoring, seed-
funding and dialogue with the Faculty Impact team. Colleagues report on impact via annual Research
Reviews, which form the basis of individual conversations with Departmental Research and Impact
Leads. This allowed us to capture the full range of impact opportunities and reflect on how best to
support staff impact plans and aspirations. Selection drew on both internal (Unit, Faculty and
College) and external reviews at different stages, with research projects continually monitored for
relevance to current or potential case studies. Final case studies were chosen in 2020 by a combined
Unit–Faculty panel as demonstrating the greatest reach, significance and difference to people’s lives.

Throughout this REF cycle, UOA34 has earmarked funding to generate and document impact
(Section 2.3), including a joint DH–CMCI scheme to nurture interdisciplinary activities. Additional
resources are available through Faculty funding (Section 3.3) and the College-wide King’s Together
seed-funding scheme (Section 3.3). Impact is also promoted through the REACH initiative at the Arts
and Humanities Research Institute (AHRI – Section 3.2).

Externally we facilitate impact by encouraging researchers to foster wide-ranging collaborations for
knowledge exchange (Sections 4.1–4.3). These are exemplified within ICSs, which include
charities/voluntary organisations (eg Fun Palaces, Voluntary Arts), cultural institutions (eg New York
Metropolitan Museum of Art, Smithsonian, British Council), advocacy/campaign organisations (eg
64 Million Artists, Center for Countering Digital Hate), cultural NGOs (eg Sudanese Association for
the Archiving of Knowledge) and various festivals, production companies, network organisations and
practitioners.

Strong internal communication enables UOA34 to gain a detailed understanding of our research and
its potential, whilst ensuring efficient dissemination to stakeholders and creating spaces for dialogue
that facilitates impact. Working with Faculty and College External Relations (ER), the CMCI Press
and Publicity and DH External Relations (ER) Leads play vital roles in communicating research to
multiple audiences, supporting engagement with partners and identifying and strengthening

Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
relationships (Section 4.3). They oversee outward-facing fora that ensure research and impact news
is swiftly highlighted on social media (DH and CMCI Twitter accounts combined have over 15,000
followers), complemented by KDL followers (2,290) and three blogs: CMCI@King’s; KCL Digital
Humanities – Critical Inquiry with and about the Digital; and KDL Thoughts and Reflections from the
Lab. Engaging internal and external audiences, both departments hold regular seminars, symposia
and workshops. Since March 2020, these have migrated online. UOA34 also offers media training;
AHRI training sessions support writing for publications like The Conversation.

1.5 Approaches to an open research environment
Staff are encouraged to engage with open research through training and Impact and Research Lead
support. CMCI is a founding member of the Media Industries Editorial Collective of 10 international
universities, a peer-reviewed, open-access journal. Bunz co-founded Meson Press, an open access
publishing house for media theory. In 2015, Bunz and Gray contributed to establishing the Radical
Open Access collective, a community of scholar-led, not-for-profit presses and open access projects
with over 50 members. Steemers participates in the Euromedia Research Group, which benefits
from open access publishing with Swedish publisher, Nordicom. Hedges was King’s PI for
PARTHENOS, an EU Horizon2020 project for research infrastructures in humanities, cultural
heritage and social sciences, which identified common policies and guidelines for open access and
data at European level. The British Academy and the Director of Research, UK Research and
Innovation, invited Tanner to brief them on open access monographs because of his AHRC-funded
project, The Academic Book of the Future (2014–17); in 2020, Tanner’s open access licensing policy
recommendations were implemented by the National Lottery Heritage Fund. KDL is committed to
principles of FAIR data and open science and hosts 133 open access websites, which during this
REF period achieved 242,795,194 hits. Of those sites, 63 contain 1,586,076 openly available digital
assets. UOA34’s ICS Sustaining and Opening-up a World of Cultural Heritage addresses making
cultural heritage content freely and openly available.

1.6 Approaches to research integrity
Many UOA34 projects focus on sensitive and controversial issues (eg fake news, personal data) that
require careful ethical consideration. Working closely with the College’s Research Governance,
Integrity and Ethics Department (see REF5a) and in accordance with the 2019 Concordat to Support
Research Integrity, UOA34 researchers regularly participate in ethical clearance procedures of the
Arts and Humanities Research Ethics Panel. Adams became a panel member in 2013 and Acting
Panel Chair in 2018. Pybus joined the panel in 2017. In 2019, the Faculty appointed a Research
Integrity Champion to work with four Research Integrity Advisers to promote best practice and
training in the Faculty.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy
To address the shifts in research focus outlined above and new UG and PG teaching commitments,
UOA34 has undertaken substantial staff investment and advancement since 2014: including CMCI
appointments in media industries (Atkinson, Crisp, Leung, McDonald, Steemers), arts
management (Iervolino, Woodham) and cultural memory (Chidgey, Rapson); and DH
appointments in digital society and culture (Bounegrou, Bishop, Kavanagh, Shaikh, Srnicek,
Zhu), global digital cultures (Chonka, Mathew, Oreglia, Zaborowski) and the social and cultural
aspects of AI (Allington, Bunz, Devlin). This growth is reflected in a submission of 52.3FTE (33.05
in 2014).

Since 2014, when there were only 2.8FTE Professors, UOA34 has made 3 external (Earl,
McDonald, Steemers) and 5 internal (Atkinson, Blanke, Howells, Tanner, Wilson) professorial
appointments, with 5.2 male and 3 female Professors at census point. During this REF, 9 staff were
promoted to Reader (Ajana, Blanke, Comunian, Entwistle, Hedges, Lee, Scharff, Smithies,


Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Wilson) including 5 women; and 10 were promoted to Senior Lecturer (including 7 women), further
balancing staff profile.

Professorial appointments address our objective of sustainability by strengthening intellectual
leadership around global and local dimensions of cultures in transition (McDonald, Steemers),
cultural history and heritage (Earl, Howells, Tanner), and digital culture and creative work
(Atkinson, Blanke, Wilson). They contribute to more effective mentoring, especially of ECRs,
across a greater range of disciplines. UOA34’s vitality is further indicated by Faculty appointments
of Reading as AHRI Director in 2018, Tanner as Pro Vice Dean Impact and Innovation (2016–20),
Earl as Vice Dean External Relations (2018) and Smithies (2017) as Deputy College Director
eResearch, embedding UOA34 within Faculty and College decision-making. Succession planning
and inclusivity have been enhanced by involving Impact Leads as Deputy Research Leads, creating
opportunities for other staff, including ECRs, to step up into research relevant Departmental roles
around diversity and inclusion, communication, PGR support and impact (Chonka, Leung).

2.2 Staff development
2.2.1 Induction, probation and appraisal
New academic staff attend induction meetings with Departmental Research Leads to discuss their
research aspirations and support needs, and Faculty Research Inductions covering research
funding, integrity and open access.

Senior staff (Professor to Senior Lecturer) act as reviewers in the annual staff Professional
Development Review (PDR), which places strong emphasis on research goals and support to realise
these. PDR reviews feed into annual workload planning, which takes account of individual research
plans, grant buyout, sabbaticals, caring responsibilities, ill health and disability. All probationers in
their first three years undertake a mid-year review with their mentor, a senior staff member, to discuss
research objectives, workloads, training and transition from probation. Nobody failed probation
during this period.
2.2.2 Mentoring, support and training
All academic staff, including staff on teaching-focused Academic Education Pathway (AEP) and
fixed-term contracts, take part in an Annual Research Review with Departmental Research and
Impact Leads. Staff identify their research and impact achievements and priorities for the coming
year, with reviews proving invaluable for enhancing dialogue and the inclusivity and sustainability of
our research culture. Annual Departmental away-days provide an opportunity to celebrate and reflect
on research achievements. Departmental meetings are key for communicating research priorities,
providing an environment in which staff can feed back about research and impact.

All staff have access to advice from Research Leads as well as personal Departmental mentors. The
Faculty provides training on applying for funding, leading projects, research integrity, open access
and compulsory sessions on PhD supervision. Departmental support for flexible and remote working
because of caring responsibilities is crucial for achieving individual research objectives. In 2020, 9
UOA34 staff had flexible working arrangements.
2.2.3 Promotion
Promotion criteria for all academic grades are set out in the Faculty’s Academic Performance
Framework (APF) for: publication, public engagement, knowledge transfer, impact, external funding,
PGR supervision, contributions to Departmental research cultures and wider research community
(conferences, reviewing). APF expectations are adjusted at Departmental level to recognise part-
time working, parental leave, care responsibilities, disabilities, career breaks and illness. All
promotion stages, including probation and professorial/reader appointments, are informed by at least
two external reviewers of international standing.
2.2.4 Sabbatical leave
Leave for research or impact covers all permanent academic staff, including those on part-time and
AEP contracts, and is vital for a sustainable research culture that gives staff space to think and
complete books, funding applications and impact activities. 58 sabbaticals were awarded during this

Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
REF cycle across all grades. Six months’ leave is accrued every three years, aligning with completion
of three years’ probation. Grant-funded, parental, sickness and compassionate leave do not count
against leave entitlement. Academic staff returning from parental/carers’ leave can access the
College Parents’ and Carers’ Fund (CPCF), providing up to £10,000 to mitigate the impact of
extended leave on research, through teaching replacement for example. Two staff benefited from
CPCF.
2.2.5 Early career researchers (ECRs)
ECRs play a vital role in our research community as independent researchers or as postdoctoral
fellows on funded projects. We adhere to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers, providing advice on probation, publishing, conferences and promotion, supported at
College level by training from the Centre for Research Staff Development. Within departments, ECRs
and postdoctoral researchers have personal mentors to advise on careers, teaching and
Faculty/Departmental support.

All ECRs, including Teaching Fellows and staff on AEP contracts, are represented on the Arts and
Humanities Early Career Committee, where UOA34 has two representatives. As co-chair, CMCI
ECR Janes has organised induction and impact workshops, which – alongside ECR representation
at Faculty-level meetings, the circulation of mentoring guidelines and regular communications on
matters like career development – have been vital in improving ECR experiences.

Unless on probation, all FTE ECRs can apply for sabbatical leave on the same basis as other
colleagues. All FTE ECRs and AEP staff can apply for Departmental, Faculty, AHRI and College
seed funds (Section 2.3) to support research and impact, including the same annual personal
research allowance (£1,000 per annum) as other staff. An ECR representative sits on both DH and
CMCI Departmental Research Committees. We actively support postdoctoral applications, including
British Academy (Moreno Almeida, Janes), Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC)
(Tavmen) and Leverhulme Early Career (Fairey) fellowships.

2.3 Funding and resourcing research/impact
In addition to personal research allowances, CMCI and DH have opened up Departmental non-pay
research funding to competition, offering up to £1,000 per individual (more for collaborations) for
research and/or impact. Examples include dissemination/documentation for ICSs (Atkinson,
Wilson) and other research (Gray’s A Field Guide to Algorithms event); seed funding (Nisbett and
Rapson’s work on Troubles Tourism in Northern Ireland; Gerbaudo’s work on digital campaigning
in the USA); exploratory research ahead of grant submission (Woodham’s work on communities of
practice and museum reserve collections; Schuster’s collaboration with Syracuse University (NY)
on machine learning for parsing complex narratives); and a CMCI website prototype employing
PGRs.

Departmental research competitions are run three times annually by both departments. Between
2015/16 and 2019/20, UOA34 awarded £137,881 to 126 applications. Since 2017, DH has ring-
fenced some Departmental funding (£92,930) to support 8 seed collaborations with KDL including:
Data Portal Explorer (Gray, 2018–19); Twitter Analytics Platform (Hedges, Gerbaudo 2017–18);
DH Legacy Projects: Data Exposure and Integration (Spence, 2017–19); and Digital Cultures of
#covid19: Digital Methods for Investigating Online Engagement with Coronavirus (Gray, 2019–20).

The Faculty rewards external grant success with the equivalent of 10% of earned overheads up to
£5,000 annually as an additional investigator research allowance. Staff can also apply to a Faculty
competitive funding scheme (Section 3.3).

2.4 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
Equality of opportunity and recognition and promotion of diversity are integral to our academic
endeavours, treating all staff equally on the basis of merits, abilities and potential without
discrimination, unfavourable treatment on grounds of protected characteristics or any other irrelevant


Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
distinction. Diversity, equality and social justice also feature prominently in our shared research
agenda: around gender inequalities (Leung, Conor, Devlin, Reading, Scharff, Schuster);
migration and displacement (Ajana, Chonka, Reading, Steemers); widening access to cultural
heritage (Deegan, Hedges and Smithies); and events that engage with LGBTQ+ issues (Leung,
Chidgey, Iervolino) with the Faculty’s Queer@King’s Research Centre.

At census date, 53.6% of 56 UOA34 staff were female. 10.7% registered a disability. Five were ECRs
and 7 were on research-only contracts. 10.3% worked part-time. 26.8% were under 40. One major
future objective is to increase staff ethnic diversity and match our achievements on gender parity.
Since REF2014, when most senior staff were men, there has been major rebalancing of gender; we
worked with Faculty to conduct an audit, provide promotion workshops and regrade staff, and now
women and men are represented comparably at all grades. We have improved support for parents
and carers through the College Parents’ and Carers’ Fund (Section 2.2.4), undertaken research
around supporting students from China and also on decolonising the curriculum and research, most
recently as part of the Faculty’s 2020 Black Lives Matter Rapid Response Call (Section 2.4.1). New
research by Reading and the AHRI is addressing disabilities; and issues around neurodiversity and
cultural memory as part of Rapson’s Engaging Memory project. The AHRI has also created a
neurodiverse-friendly environment in the AHRI REACH Space, designed in consultation with
students and researchers. The Gender and Work in the Creative Industries Research Cluster,
established by Leung in 2019, is designed to enhance EDI by showcasing staff and student research
on gendered and other inequalities.
2.4.1 Support for equality, diversity and inclusion in research
Both departments have had EDI Leads since 2017 whose role is to promote better EDI
understanding. Each ran an EDI staff survey in 2018 to identify best practice and areas in need of
improvement, followed by workshops in 2019 addressing issues raised in the surveys, including
work-life balance, curriculum diversification, precarity and workplace equity. Action points have been
taken forward by EDI Leads in staff–student working groups tasked with making recommendations
for embedding EDI across all Departmental operations, including research. Actions have included
scheduling research seminars earlier to accommodate flexible working and purchasing specialist
equipment to support staff with disabilities (speech-to-text software). CMCI’s EDI Lead has taken
authorship of a Diversity and Inclusion Charter/Code of Conduct forward with a small working group.
In June 2020, each department ran an EDI Forum for staff and students in response to Black Lives
Matter. In July 2020, two UOA34 staff–student projects benefited from the Faculty’s Black Lives
Matter Rapid Response Call: Tackling the Systematic Invisibility of Asia in CMCI Education (Lee,
Terui) and Racism as a Virus (Leung with Film Studies).

DH and CMCI operate Departmental EDI funds for staff and student activities. In 2018–19, students
used these for a survey and interviews with MA students about their experiences and perspectives
on EDI issues, building on earlier work by Nisbett in 2014 and 2015 with students on how equality
and diversity is understood and experienced in departments where students come from various
countries and backgrounds.
2.4.2 Equality, diversity and inclusion and the REF
DH and CMCI ran REF calibration exercises in 2017/2018 at staff away-days, involving all staff
grading work by external researchers and familiarising themselves with REF criteria and EDI issues.
UOA34 formed Departmental REF Panels (15 in CMCI, 21 in DH) to grade outputs in line with Faculty
criteria. The panels demonstrated inclusivity, reflexivity and care by incorporating different types of
expertise and balance according to gender, ethnicity, age and levels of seniority. From 2017, each
output was reviewed anonymously by two panelists. No one reader reviewed the outputs of one
individual and grading was checked across both departments. A third internal or external reviewer
was used when grades diverged, with external reviewers checking grading consistency across
departments. Where additional individual support was identified, Research Leads discussed this with
individuals to work out a mentored research plan so that staff felt supported to meet their research
ambitions and REF criteria. Output selection occurs in accordance with the KCL REF Code of
Practice. Impact and Research Leads have undertaken college EDI training. Similarly, the process
of ICS selection allowed for emergent impact, supporting several potential case studies initially,


Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
followed by a transparent internal and external review process, which encouraged improvements
before final selection (Section 1.4).

Staff are encouraged to complete a confidential online form to disclose any circumstances that affect
their ability to conduct research. Several UOA34 disclosures were considered by the College
Applicable Circumstances Review Sub-Panel in relation to ECRs, family-related leave,
secondment/career breaks, disability, chronic condition, illness or injury.

2.5 Research students
2.5.1 PGR growth and studentships
Since 2013, our PhD cohort has grown from 44 to 86 at census point, supervised by 45 individual
supervisors from all grades, including 40 PhDs funded by the AHRC (13), ESRC (5), King’s
scholarships (6) and overseas institutions and governments (16). Fifty PGRs successfully completed
between 1 August 2013 and 2020. Across the whole REF period, PGRs have benefited from the
ESRC-funded London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (LISS) and the
AHRC-funded London Arts and Humanities Partnership (LAHP). DH, alongside Natural and
Mathematical Sciences, is a partner in UKRI’s Safe and Trusted AI (STAI) Centre for Doctoral
Training. There have also been successes with LAHP Collaborative Doctoral Awards: Bunz (2020)
with the Serpentine Gallery on Creative AI as a Medium in Artistic and Curatorial Practice; Hedges
(2014) with the Tate on Technical Narratives: Analysis, Description and Representation in the
Conservation of Software-based Art; Comunian (2019) with Creative United on Crafting
Professionals in UK Higher Education; and Nisbett (2018) with the Tate on Challenging Ways of
Working: The Impact of Co-creation Projects on Museum Practice.

Alongside 30 AHRC/ESRC scholarships across the REF period, UOA34 has benefited from College
and Departmental scholarships (10), including the King’s–China Scholarship Council PhD
Scholarship programme and 20 more from foundations (eg La Caixa Foundation; Fundação para a
Ciência e a Tecnologia; Sir Richard Trainor Scholarship; Craft Council; Punjab Educational
Endowment Fund); overseas institutions (National University of Singapore; Chulalongkorn
University, Thailand) and governments (Colombia, Japan and Taiwan).
2.5.2 Recruitment, support mechanisms and supervision
We interview doctoral applicants using mixed gender panels comprising at least two academic staff
who have completed EDI and unconscious bias training. Departmental PGR Leads ensure that
candidates (including first year PhD students) are supported with feedback from potential
supervisors before applications are submitted to LAHP and LISS. The most recent data shows 73%
of UOA34 PGRs are female; 25% register a disability; 81% are non-UK students from EU (36%) or
non-EU countries (45%).

Alongside monthly hour-long supervisory meetings, research students and supervisors report on
progress twice a year to Departmental PGR Leads, who chair respective Departmental Research
Students Committees (DRSC) with PGR representation. All supervisors undertake compulsory
supervisory training and refreshers at College level. PGRs have access to College-wide language
modules at the Modern Language Centre – 29 PGRs took language modules in this REF period. As
COVID-19 disrupts PhD fieldwork, supervisors have provided online support (video supervisions), in
addition to a College-wide 3-month extension for PhD submission. Alongside College facilities
(workstations, labs), UOA34 PGRs can access a dedicated workspace and Common Room and the
AHRI REACH space for reading groups and wellbeing in the Strand Campus.
2.5.3 Student-led research events and research networks
UOA34 facilitates regular student events, including 3–4 student-led CMCI seminars per semester
and a DH Reading Group with students from UCL and LSE. PGRs are encouraged to attend monthly
Departmental Research Seminars, featuring speakers such as Dominique Cardon (Sciences Po,
Paris), Tim Miller (Columbia), Stuart Cunningham (QUT) and Sonia Livingstone (LSE).




Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Both departments run annual student-organised PhD conferences: DH’s New Perspectives in the
Digital Humanities and CMCI’s CMCI Emerging Voices. We are working on how to stage online
events using the successful Centre for Digital Culture 2020 online conference as a template.

UOA34 is also home to doctoral reading groups facilitated by staff and students including the
Museum Studies Reading Group and King’s Asian CCI Research Society. PGR students set up the
Global Digital Cultures Reading Group in 2017, attracting participants from across London, and also
participate with Informatics in the Safe and Trusted Artificial Intelligence CDT reading group, focusing
on the philosophy and practice of machine learning. Since 2015, PGRs have run the Memory Studies
reading group. Using Faculty/Departmental funds, Memory Studies organised several events
including an LAHP-supported conference on Epistemologies of Memory (2019), benefiting from
Rapson and Reading’s leading roles in the international Mnemonics Network for Memory Studies,
a collaborative initiative for graduate education.
2.5.4 Skills development and career preparation
KCL’s Centre for Doctoral Studies provides a Doctoral Training Centre experience in respect of
funding, studentships, training and skills. UOA34 PGRs can apply for Faculty Small Research Grants
of up to £1,000 for fieldwork and other research or training activities in competitions run three times
a year. During this REF period, UOA34 PGRs received 77 awards worth £38,603. In 2020, a DH
student took up a research residency in Cairo with a local digital arts group; in 2019, a CMCI student
received funding for pilot research in China exploring how migrant workers communicate with
children back home. Alongside Departmental funding, students can also apply for AHRI funds for
training, events and research projects.

Second year PGRs are offered GTA (Graduate Teaching Assistant) training for UG seminar delivery,
with priority given to those with little or no previous teaching experience. Departmental Skills
Workshops allow GTAs to design and deliver sessions with mentoring from GTA Leads, who also
advise on HEA Fellowships. DH has an established UG degree providing varied PGR teaching
opportunities; CMCI launched its first UG degree in September 2020. The AHRI provides PGR
training and paid opportunities (20 per year) to support 13 research centres and wellbeing projects
including PGR administrators for the Centres for Digital Culture and Life Writing.

Since 2018, two PGRs have been employed to assist with the CMCI website, Culture, Media and
Creative Industries @ King’s, where they commission features, edit and publicise a monthly
newsletter. Paid PGR students frequently assist staff through King’s Talent Bank with conferences
(eg 2018 Media Industries Conference) and research tasks (eg Engaging Memory run by Rapson).
Students have also undertaken LAHP-supported placements at the V&A and the UK Migration
Museum.

Career destinations for PGRs are varied and include cultural organisations (eg Auschwitz-Birkenau
Educational Trust; National Taichung Theatre, Taiwan; London School of Mosaic; The National
Archives); postdoctoral positions (eg Brunel; Loughborough; KCL Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology
and Neuroscience; AHRI); lectureships (eg City; Chulalongkorn; Dundee; Fujen; KCL; Oxford
Brookes; Bournemouth; Leicester; London Metropolitan; Rotterdam; University of the Arts); and
digital conservation (Tate).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
3.1 Strategies for generating research income
UOA34 strategy for generating research income starts with Departmental Research Leads and the
Faculty Research Development Manager (RDM) encouraging staff to test ideas through internal
schemes (Departmental, Faculty, College) and collaborations before they tackle larger external
grants, for which staff receive feedback and peer review at Departmental level, and subsequently
from the Faculty Peer Review College. UOA34 continues to improve grant capture, building on
£8,857,914 of research income in REF2014, to secure £11,542,149 in REF2021. Fifty-four out of
160 grant applications with a UOA34 PI were successful in this REF cycle, including 11 pending in
2019/20. Of these, 28 came from Research Councils and 12 from EU schemes. One-to-one RDM

Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
consultations, tailored training for particular schemes, effective grant management systems
(Worktribe) and a bank of previous successful applications have all contributed to consistent levels
of funding applications. Beyond the research councils and funders like the British Academy and
Leverhulme Trust, we are increasingly diversifying our applications to foundations (AG Leventis,
Andrew Mellon, Getty, Volkswagen, Wellcome); government departments (Home Office, Department
for International Development, DEFRA), and overseas funders (Academy of Korean Studies,
National Gallery of Art USA, Norwegian Ministry of Culture).

UOA34 continues to develop its involvement in cultural heritage, through projects addressing the
use of new digital approaches, including Getty Foundation funding for Ancient Itineraries: The Digital
Lives of Art History (2018–19; £150,320) (Dunn, Earl, KDL); from the AHRC for the transatlantic
International Research Collaboration Network in Computational Archival Science (2019–20;
£14,881) (Hedges); and through archival projects with cultural heritage organisations in Africa,
including Sudan Memory: Conserving and Promoting Sudanese Cultural and Documentary Heritage
(2017–21; £772,736), funded by the British Council with additional funding from the International
Alliance for the Protection of Heritage in Conflict Areas (Deegan); (Digital) Archives, Memory and
Reconstruction in Rwanda (2016–17; £44,998) funded by the AHRC Global Challenges Research
Fund (Hedges) and MaDIH: Mapping Digital Cultural Heritage in Jordan (2019–21; £202,516)
funded by the AHRC and Newton Fund (Smithies, KDL).

World digital cultures now feature more strongly in UOA34’s portfolio, in projects such as the ERC-
funded Digital Infrastructures Along the New Silk Road: A Mixed-methods Exploration of China’s
Digital Investments in Its Borderland Regions (Oreglia, 2020-2025; £1,244,365); Gerbaudo’s The
Role of New Media and Social Media in a Neo-Liberal Authoritarian Regime: The Case Study of
Moroccan Urban Youth Culture (British Academy, 2017-20; £230,578); and the EU-funded ISOOKO,
addressing digital technologies for peace education in Rwanda (Hedges, 2018-21; £500,549).

UOA34 maintains a key role in major EU research infrastructure projects, including SoBigData:
European Integrated Infrastructure for Social Mining and Big Data Analytics (2015–19; £298,225)
(Blanke, Coté); CENDARI (2012–16; £867,879) (Anderson, Hedges); PARTHENOS (2015–19;
£286,812) (Hedges); EU digital preservation initiatives such as PRESTO4U: European Technology
for Digital Audiovisual Media Preservation (2013–14; £150,209) (Tanner); PERICLES (2013–17;
£1,351,459) (Hedges); DISCE (Developing Inclusive and Sustainable Creative Economies) (2019–
21; £582,175), a large-scale interdisciplinary project (Comunian, Wilson, Gross, Conor); and three
successive European Holocaust Research Infrastructure (EHRI) projects (Blanke, Speck) following
on from the original EHRI (2010–15; £666,002): namely EHRI-2 (2015–19; £732,917) to enhance
existing infrastructure and EHRI Preparatory Phase (2019–22; £380,812) to prepare the creation of
EHRI as an ERIC (European Research Infrastructure Consortium). In accordance with the UK–EU
agreement of December 2020, UOA34 will continue to apply for EU-funded Horizon Europe (HEU)
and ERC schemes as part of an ‘Associated Country’.

Other awards enhance expertise in cultural studies such as Cohen’s Leverhulme Fellowship
(£44,315) on the Historical Significance of African American Gospel Music 1945–1965; Scharff’s
Mid-Career BA Fellowship (2020) on Feminism is Trending: Digital Feminist Activism, Labour and
Subjectivity (£133,587), building on an earlier ESRC Future Leaders award looking at the working
lives of young women in the classical music profession (2013–16; £102,300); and Wilson’s BBC-
funded Get Creative project (£60,000). Lee ($40,000 and $21,450) secured funding twice from the
Academy of Korean Studies, resulting in a groundbreaking study of Cultural Policy in South Korea
(2019). A British Academy small grant allowed Rapson to investigate memory and racism in relation
to the heritage industry in the American South. Atkinson’s impactful work between 2015 and 2019
on Live Cinema and immersive experiences has benefited from several funders including the
AHRC/EPSRC Next Generation Experiences Scheme, Arts Council England, Creative Europe and
the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada. Janes secured an early career
BA Fellowship on Immersive Promotional Media (IPM) in the Contemporary Media Landscape
(£301,067).



Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Knowledge transfer from earlier research included two AHRC Follow-on Funding projects for Impact
and Engagement: Steemers’ 2017–18 project to facilitate Arab–European dialogue about European
children’s screen content featuring forced migration (£80,361); and Woodham’s PI role on
Integrating Forms of Care: Building Communities of Practice around Reserve Collections (£76,350).
McDonald was PI in 2016 on Big Guy Little Guy Partnerships in the Creative Industries (£20,000)
in partnership with Creative England and the AHRC Cultural Engagement Fund.

3.2 Organisational infrastructure
We have benefited from high quality KCL infrastructure investment at both Faculty and College level
that sustains connections with research users and drives interdisciplinarity.

This includes KDL, which received extensive infrastructural investment during this REF period, from
Faculty (£2,386,156) and the College (£237,000), providing both technological and human
infrastructure for collaborative digital projects across the Faculty, College and external institutions
(Section 1.2): external grants gained during the period totalled £17,762,579 (total value to all
partners), with £1,962,284 attributable to KDL. KDL hosts 25 UOA34 projects including MaDiH:
Mapping Digital Heritage in Jordan (2019–21; Smithies) and Applying AI to Storytelling (2018–19;
Atkinson, Smithies). KDL’s infrastructure expertise has benefited the EU-funded DARIAH ERIC
Sustainability Refined (DESIR) project (2017–19; Blanke, Smithies; £57,547), undertaken to
strengthen the sustainability of the DARIAH EU research infrastructure for the arts and humanities,
an infrastructure for which UOA34 was instrumental in laying the groundwork in REF2014.

UOA34 also benefits from AHRI initiatives, led by AHRI Director, Reading, that promote sustainable
and innovative interdisciplinary socially engaged research. These include the Emergent Research
Leadership call, launched in 2019. The AHRI’s first appointment as ERL Associate Director was
Rapson whose team project on Engaging Memory is designed to mobilise and explore memory
through the sub-themes of arts practice (McMillan), environmental change (Woodham),
neurodiversity (Reading) and queer museology (Chidgey, Iervolino).

In 2018–19, the AHRI invested £20,000 to create the REACH Space as an inclusive and creative
interdisciplinary research environment for socially engaged research. This was utilised by Chidgey
and Iervolino in 2019 for a Pop-Up Research Studio on Queer Museology, a project designed to
impact museum practice by bringing together theorists, professionals, queer scholars and LGBTQ+
activists and students. The AHRI has supported a wide range of other collaborations, including Zhu’s
symposium on Interdisciplinary Approaches to Digital Play, Moreno Almeida’s workshop on
(Beat)Making the North African Cool! as part of the 2019 Being Human Festival, and McKeown’s
project Quantum-Queerness: Three (Failed) Experiments with an Intimate Multiverse.

In 2019, the AHRI launched the Faculty’s first Institutional Collaborative Residency with the UK
Migration Museum providing student internships for research around placemaking and museums.
After COVID-19, the AHRI pivoted its work to support researchers with virtual, hybrid and hyperlocal
events and resources, including support for diversity and inclusion, managing finances, collaborative
research and digital research methods. This includes Public Engagement in the Digital Environment,
research that looks at the impact of using digital methods and technologies for humanities research
in the wake of COVID, and online training with researchers for the Faculty’s Black Lives Matter Rapid
Response Call (2020). This benefited two UOA34 staff–student projects (Section 2.4.1).

Our relationship with King’s Culture (KC) is important for developing an impactful bridge with cultural
and creative organisations and artists across London, the UK and internationally, providing advice,
brokerage and practical support. Examples include Nisbett’s research at the UN in Geneva, which
brought academic, diplomatic (Foreign and Commonwealth Office, Lithuanian Ministry of Foreign
Affairs) and cultural sectors together at events in Vilnius, London and Geneva for The Art of Soft
Power report in 2017. KC’s Collaborative Scheme for Early Career Researchers has benefited PGR
students – for example KC mentored PGR Sana Kim for the 2016 illustrative report on Cultural
Institutions and Policy Development in Kazakhstan, a collaboration with the Calvert 22
Foundation. KC has provided significant financial support to three innovation projects led by Wilson

Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
that connect King’s scholars with cultural and creative industries: £65,000 for Get Creative (with the
BBC); £26,232 for 33,000 Everyday Artists (2016); and £18,200 for 53 Million Artists – Everyday Art
(2015) together with Arts Council England. KC funding also supported significant art projects and
exhibitions including Ajana’s Euro-vision, or the Making of the Automated Gaze with artists Audrey
Samson and Francisco Gallardo (2018, £6,000); Coté’s ‘Persona Non Data’, partnering with the
Somerset House Trust and artists Salvatore Iaconesi and Oriana Persico (KCI Innovation Award,
2015–16, £21,000); and McMillan’s The Lost Girl, an immersive film-based installation in 2020
supported by KC’s Arcade space with funding from the Australia Council for the Arts, Arts Council
England and the AHRI.

3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure
In line with UOA34’s culture of care, our researchers are supported by dedicated research support
at Department, Faculty and College level (see REF5a). UOA34 research is guided by the DH and
CMCI Departmental Research Leads, who report to their respective Departmental Research
Committees. UOA34 is part of the Faculty’s Arts Cluster, which includes DH and CMCI alongside
Film and Music. The Arts Cluster Research and Business Support Manager assists in developing
Departmental research and funding strategies. A research administrator works on funding
distribution, REF preparations and PGR support. At Faculty level, the Research Development
Manager and Research Support Co-ordinator advise on and process grant applications; the Post-
Awards Bureau provides grant support. KDL offers pre-grant assistance to ensure sustainable
approaches to infrastructure and project maintenance.

The Faculty supports research and impact through an internal funding competition, which runs three
times a year, offering staff, including ECRs, teaching fellows and staff on fixed term contracts, up to
£4,000 per application on a range of schemes. Over this REF period, UOA34 has benefited from 65
Faculty Grants totalling £108,887 for Publication Subvention (3), Conference Support (23),
Innovation (5), International Collaboration (11), Seed Funding (5) and Small Grants (18), benefiting
45 UOA34 researchers, including ECRs. Faculty support also includes the Postdoctoral Research
Projects Fellowship scheme, which funds a postdoctoral researcher full-time over three months to
work with a PI on developing a major grant application. This has benefited 4 projects: Leung for the
Gig Economy and the City (2017); Steemers for Screen Encounters with Britain (2020); Stokes for
Digital Resources for Multigraphics (2017); and Hedges for Digital Technology for Peacebuilding in
Rwanda (2016).

Research project support also occurs through cross-Faculty funding schemes. Fourteen projects
utilised the KURF (King’s Undergraduate Partnership Fund), a scheme that gives undergraduates a
unique opportunity to learn as researchers, editorial assistants and event organisers. Examples
include funding for an editorial assistant on journal Convergence (Atkinson); research on the Gig
Economy and the City (Leung); Digital Silk Road (Oreglia); and scoping for the interdisciplinary
Queer Museology project (Chidgey, Iervolino).

Nineteen King’s Global Engagement Partnership awards, worth £54,784, have been used to further
research collaboration with international partners in 10 countries in line with King’s
Internationalisation Strategy. UOA34 researchers have used the scheme to support research
collaborations with Brazil (A Tale of Two Post-Colonial Cities, Adams; Besides the Screen, Crisp);
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore (Leung); QUT, Brisbane (McDonald, 2017);
University of Maryland (Hedges, 2016); Stanford University (Hedges, 2017); and Makerere
University, Uganda (Hedges, 2019). In 2018, Leung used the King’s–HKU Global Partnership Fund
(£17,720) in a joint project with KCL Management that looked at the financialisaton of public space
in the media of Hong Kong, China and Taiwan.

Others have benefited from the King’s Together initiative, a £1,000,000 per year College fund
designed to deliver cross-Faculty collaboration and external funding. Beneficiaries include Atkinson
and Coté for Cryptoculture 30: The Creative Partnership of Cybersecurity, Psychology and the Arts
(£19,973), led by Informatics (2019); Geoghegan, who secured seed funding in 2019 to develop
Imagining a Better World with New Technologies: Shaping Utopias and Dystopias in Translational

Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Medicine (£99,754) and Organising Participation with Air Pollution Data: Towards an Interdisciplinary
Approach (£19,916); Coté and Pybus for the launch of CERC (Computing Education Research
Centre), led by Informatics (2018, £20,000); Ajana in 2017 for NHS Going Digital, led by Nursing
and Midwifery (£29,722); and Reading, who secured £23,913 of seed funding in 2018 to develop a
project on (Re) Mixing (de) Humanisation: Virtual Reality Migration Stories for Hard to Reach
Audiences with Museums of Migration, working with the London Museum of Migration, the Migration
Museum in Adelaide, the New York Tenement Museum, King’s Departments of History and War
Studies and KDL. In 2019, Comunian received £19,366 for Africa Fashion Futures to work with
Nairobi and Southampton Universities to explore the cultural and economic dimensions of fashion in
Africa. Weathering Identity: Weather and Memory in England (2019) brings Rapson and Woodham
to work with Geography to explore the interrelationship between weather, memory and identity in the
context of climate change and Britain’s decision to leave the European Union (£19,970). The CMCI–
DH collaboration Experience Economy in the Time of Covid (2020), led by ECR Janes and involving
Earl, Atkinson and Devlin with colleagues from Keio University in Japan, seeks to research and
deliver alternative cultural experiences and pragmatic solutions to vulnerable audiences, through in-
the-wild and prototyping design experiments.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaboration, networks and partnerships
We have developed a rich set of collaborative networks and partnerships designed to promote and
showcase impactful research and ensure a strong national and international profile. These benefit
from participation in national (eg MeCCSA, BAFTSS) and international (eg Association of Critical
Heritage Studies; Association of Internet Researchers; European Association for Digital Humanities;
European Communication Research and Education Association; International Association for Media
and Communication Research (IAMCR); International Communications Association (ICA); Society
of Research Software Engineering) subject associations (Section 4.4). Our commitment to discipline
sustainability is also exemplified by the first international Media Industries Conference at King’s in
2018 in collaboration with 8 scholarly associations, including the ICA and IAMCR, one of many
conferences and events organised and hosted by UOA34.

Located in Central London, UOA34 is actively involved with the city’s cultural institutions, enriching
the research environment and creating a launchpad for further collaborations. Atkinson sits on the
Steering Committee of National Gallery X, a collaborative R&D programme between KCL and the
National Gallery, exploring new technology potentialities for galleries. Hedges worked with Tate
Collection Care Research on the documentation and preservation of software-based artworks, as
part of PERICLES, and sat on the Advisory Board of Transforming Tate Britain: Archives and
Access. Engagement with museums in London and overseas is exemplified by Iervolino’s ongoing
partnership with the British Council, the Museums in Arabia Network, Msheireb Museums (Qatar)
and the British Museum, including hosting the Museums in Arabia conference at King’s in 2019,
attracting 160 attendees. Kavanagh collaborates with Imperial College Business School around
management and organisational theory in the context of classical music performing organisations.

Internationally many of our funded collaborations derive from EU-funded grants (Section 3.1). We
are also actively forging links in the Global South: for example, the Rift Valley Institute in Kenya
(Chonka); Digital Shelter and Somali Public Agenda in Somalia (Chonka); the Sudanese
Association for Archiving Knowledge (Deegan); and the Desmond Tutu Archives (Tanner), as part
of broader capacity building in the region. Further international partnerships have been cemented
through Memoranda of Understanding with Queensland University of Technology (Australia); Aarhus
University (Denmark); Nanyang Technological University (Singapore); University of Maryland (USA);
and Charles University (Czech Republic). Focused on staff/student mobility and research
collaboration, these partnerships have led to visiting fellowships, workshops and joint funding bids.
Ramon Lobato (RMIT, Melbourne) and Annette Hill (University of Lund, Sweden) are among many
Visiting Scholars to UOA34.



Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Atkinson is Co-I on the feminist network, Refiguring Innovation in Games (2015–20), funded by the
Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council Canada, which investigates solutions to gender-
based inequality in the games sector. Building on earlier work as PI on an AHRC-funded network,
Crisp continues to co-ordinate the interdisciplinary Besides the Screen network with Brazilian
partners at the Federal University of Espirito Santo, hosting an annual conference at King’s in 2018
and co-editing its proceedings Practices of Projection (OUP, 2020). Gray and Bounegru are co-
founders of Public Data Lab, a network of six European universities addressing issues around data
society and digital technologies.

With a seed grant of £30,000 from the PluS Alliance, a collaboration between King’s, the UNSW in
Sydney and Arizona State University, Reading led the culture, media and creative strand of Mobility
and Belonging: GLAM (Galleries, Libraries, Archives and Museums) +University Collaborative
Ecologies in a World on the Move (2017–19), involving 26 collaborators across 3 institutions.
Between 2016 and 2019, she was an international PI on Data Centres and the Governance of Labour
and Territory, funded by the Australian Research Council, led by Western Sydney University.
Between 2017 and 2019, she was a partner in Digital Memories of the Shoah Network, funded by
the Netherlands Council for Scientific Research and led by Leiden University. Steemers belongs to
the Euromedia Research Group, comprising 25 scholars analysing European media policy and
publishing 4 edited volumes since 2014, including the open access book Digital Media Inequalities
(2019). Sweetman is part of Subcultures and Innovation, led by the Eastern Norway Research
Institute and funded by the Norwegian government, authoring the first project report Subcultures and
Innovation (2019).

4.2 Contributions to economy, culture and society
We are committed to supporting the active engagement of staff with research users and beneficiaries
to develop impact around pressing social, economic and political issues linked to our research on
cultures in transition. Alongside our ICSs, this impact closely aligns with our research objectives, but
also reflects our priority of caring about and for impact through an inclusive and sustainable
approach. Our impact contributions to society are encapsulated in impact around: digital
archives/memorialisation; implications of datafication and digital culture; and policy responses to
cultures in transition.

Informed by a decade of King’s research into digital archives and research infrastructures
(Blanke, Bryant, Hedges), the European Holocaust Research Infrastructure programme (EHRI –
Section 3.1) has enabled wider online access to previously dispersed Holocaust documentation. The
portal developed by UOA34 offers 290,000 descriptions of Holocaust-related items from over 2,000
archives in 53 countries, attracting 9,500 user sessions per month on average. The Rothschild
Foundation and Hanadiv Europe have acknowledged EHRI’s educational significance as a
counterweight to Holocaust denial. King’s contribution has also been essential in developing EHRI
as a permanent, pan-European organisation with European Commission funding.

EHRI led directly to King’s researchers’ (Anderson, Hedges) involvement in developing digital
archives relating to the Genocide in Rwanda, as described in the ICS Sustaining and Opening-up a
World of Cultural Heritage. In addition to its cultural importance, this work has broader impact, as
the Rwandan National Commission for the Fight against Genocide uses the archives in legal cases,
including identifying suspected perpetrators living abroad. The work has also led to ‘upskilling’ at
Rwandan SMEs and other organisations, building local digital archiving expertise.

Reading’s expertise in memory studies has resulted in impact on commemoration, memorialisation
and reconciliation processes. As advisor to London-based Fuel Theatre’s Phenomenal People, a
series of live performances about extraordinary women, she helped write and develop performances
around the UK, including her own short script contribution (To my Dearest Daughter), attracting
theatre audiences in London (2014, 2018), Colchester (2015) and Stockton-on-Tees (2014). Her
research on migration and belonging brought hard-to-reach communities and artists together in 2018
through virtual storytelling as part of Moving Hearts, an initiative with London’s Museum of Migration.
Reading’s work has facilitated 21 clay heart-making workshops with diverse communities, a public

Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
procession and a large interactive installation, which has since transferred to Adelaide’s Museum of
Migration.

Many UOA34 researchers investigate the implications of ‘datafication’. King’s research expertise
(Coté) on social and cultural analytics, as part of the Horizon 2020-funded SoBigData project, has
made ‘big social data’ tools available to a larger range of academic and non-academic researchers.
King’s has overseen 43 SoBigData training events since 2016, engaging almost 1,700 participants
– tackling the topic of online misinformation (also the subject of the Viral Misinformation ICS) and
bringing machine learning and data science researchers together with civil society activists and
journalists.

Gray has used open data research to empower citizen and civil society organisations to build their
own data infrastructures. For example, the Tax Justice Network acknowledges Gray’s research in
enabling them to move away from official tax data sources to their own data from unstructured
sources. Gray’s research has also introduced new policy-focused ways of thinking about ‘data
infrastructure literacy’ and ‘data worlds’, concepts used and cited by the Institute for Policy Research,
the Common Wealth think-tank, the Canadian International Development Research Centre, the
United Nations Pulse Lab, the Transparency and Accountability Initiative, Chatham House and many
others.

Srnicek’s work on ‘platform capitalism’ and the implications for developing countries of ‘Value
Creation and Capture’ is acknowledged in the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development’s (UNCTAD), Digital Economy Report 2019. It is widely cited (The Guardian, Wired,
The Independent, Open Democracy) and Srnicek was interviewed by Al Jazeera, Sky News, BBC,
Reuters, The Times, The New York Times and Vice. Ajana’s research has played a significant role
in raising public awareness about the socio-ethical dynamics of digital surveillance. Focusing on
‘self-tracking’ practices, her documentary, Quantified Life (2017), was shortlisted for the AHRC Film
in Research Award 2017. As an international authority on digital technology and mobility, Ajana was
invited to the UN in New York as an expert at the ID2020 Summit where she advised on ethical
impacts of biometric and blockchain identity systems. She was also an expert interviewee for Under
Watchful Eyes – Biometrics, EU IT-Systems and Fundamental Rights (2018), a European Union
report. Devlin’s work on ‘sex robots’, including a 2017 TEDx talk that generated over 208,600 views,
has had significant impact on the growing discipline of Social and Cultural AI, while also informing
media debates (The Guardian, Elle, Vogue, GQ, ABC Lateline, BBC). In early 2019, her research
on human-computer interactions, artificial intelligence and sex tech was the subject of an entire
episode of NPR radio’s US-wide show Hidden Brain.

Lee’s pioneering research on cultural policy in East Asia enhanced UNESCO’s understanding of
regional issues and the digital divide, freedom of expression, copyright and the discoverability of
minority content, influencing its decision in 2017 to update its 2005 Convention on the Protection
and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. This resulted in Lee being asked to co-author
UNESCO’s Asian & Pacific Regional Bureau’s report on The Challenges and Opportunities for the
Diversity of Cultural Expressions in the Digital Era in East Asia (2015).

Scharff’s 2015 ESRC-funded report and wider research on Equality and Diversity in the Classical
Music Profession, led to a seat on the Advisory Council of London Music Masters, a music education
charity, as well as an invitation in 2016 to provide feedback on the British Academy of Songwriters,
Composers and Authors’ report on Equality and Diversity in New Music Commissioning. Her work
has received widespread media exposure on BBC radio (Music Matters; Black, White and
Beethoven), reaching an audience of around 30 million. Woodham’s AHRC-funded research on
museum stored collections and enthusiast experts has influenced the (London) Science Museum’s
management of its collection enquiry service and its prioritisation of research around the needs and
contributions of ‘enthusiasts’.




Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.3 Engaging with diverse communities and publics
UOA34’s engagement with diverse communities and publics relies on a strong media presence,
collaborations with civil society and regular interventions on pressing contemporary issues.

King’s datafication research raised awareness among advocacy groups and the public. Responding
to concerns about data privacy, Pybus, Coté and Blanke developed participation formats that allow
mobile phone users to have a more meaningful relationship with the data their devices generate.
Working with tech advocacy groups such as Young Rewired State, R Ladies and the Open Rights
Group, King’s researchers ran ‘techno-cultural workshops’ and Hackathons’ to create digital tools
like MobileMinerapp that allow participants to visualise how phone apps transmit their personal data
to third parties. Pybus’ research was used by advocacy group, Tactical Tech, for public workshops
at the 2019 Open Rights Group Conference in London and the high-profile Glassroom San
Francisco, which attracted 20,000 visitors in 2019. Designed to resemble a conventional tech store,
the Glassroom pop-up exhibition enables participants to interrogate ‘what goes on behind the
screens and inside the black boxes of the devices we interact with everyday’. Similarly, at ORGCon,
the UK’s largest human and digital rights conference, King’s developed the Manifest tool, allowing
120 non-expert participants to explore how data is captured by phone apps.

Coté’s collaboration with artists on the 2016 installation ‘Persona Non Data’ for the Big Bang Data
exhibition at Somerset House engaged visitors with data produced by the exhibition’s CCTV about
their exhibition movements. Bishop co-developed a format for Algorithmic Autobiographies and
Fictions workshops at UK music festivals, conferences and the South African National Arts Festival,
enabling participants to use their own data profiles as a prompt for creative writing. Feldman’s work
on social media addiction and the Pains and Pleasures of Life with the Smartphone used
participatory art installations at Science Gallery London’s 2018 HOOKED exhibition to engage over
1,800 visitors.

Working with the Serpentine Gallery, Bunz leads the Creative AI Lab exploring machine learning as
a medium for artistic and curatorial production. For this she has hosted workshops attended by staff
from the V&A, Barbican, Design Museum, Photographer’s Gallery and Serpentine Gallery,
introducing participants to AI and providing information on how it affects curatorial processes. She
has engaged audiences with her AI research at the Design Museum London (2019), Congreso
Futuro, Santiago, Chile (2019) and Architecture Biennale, Venice (2018).

Around performance, Ajana uses distinctive film-based research to communicate with diverse
audiences. Her documentary Fem’s Way (2019) discusses the politics of feminist pornography and
foregrounds performers’ personal accounts, interwoven with critical commentaries. The film was
screened in 2019 at the Miscelanea art gallery in Barcelona and the Fuck the Digital exhibition,
London. Engagement with diverse communities is also evident in the work of Atkinson, whose
2019–20 collaboration with the Omnibus Theatre, Clapham, supported by Arts Council England and
Stonewall, resulted in a new stage adaptation of Virginia Woolf’s Orlando by an all-trans cast of
actors using digital and immersive storytelling technologies. Chidgey and Iervolino’s research
informed the 2019 interdisciplinary Queer Museology project, which considers what an exploratory
arts-based queer museum might look like. This involved collaboration with LGBTQ+ activists, the
Queer@Kings research centre, museum professionals from the Tate, V&A, Queer Britain and the
Pitt Rivers Museum and LGBTIQ+ artists who were invited to a workshop and art residency at King’s
to create art for display in the AHRI’s REACH space. Cohen’s research on Duke Ellington has been
widely promoted in the US on National Public Radio (2018), in three sold out live events in 2018 at
the Lincoln Center, New York, and in a keynote at the Annual Duke Ellington International
Conference in Birmingham (2018).

Steemers’ wider work on children’s screen content and public service broadcasting resulted in
invitations to give evidence to the House of Lords Select Committee on Communications (2019) and
the House of Commons Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee (2020), meetings with the
Secretary of State for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (2016) and with Ofcom and BBC personnel,
as well as interviews for Radio 4’s Woman’s Hour (2017), The Independent (2020) and Wired (2020).
Chonka has presented to the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office on digital

Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
cultures and conflict in the Horn of Africa; having run and taught intensive orientation courses on the
implications of media development for diplomatic, humanitarian and security staff working in the
region.

4.4 Esteem indicators
4.4.1 Journal editorship
Staff edit several high impact journals including: Convergence (Atkinson); Media, Culture and
Society (Reading), Cultural Trends (Lee); and the European Journal of Women’s Studies (Scharff).
We are founding members of the open access Media Industries Journal. Several colleagues are
editors of well-established book series (McDonald, International Screen Industries for the BFI;
Wilson, Routledge Studies in Critical Realism; Steemers, Palgrave Global Media Policy and
Business Series; Ajana, Quantified Societies and Selves for Bristol University Press). Through
editorial contributions, we have shaped emergent research areas, particularly through themed issues
tackling new and marginalised research themes, including Atkinson’s co-editorship of Convergence
special issues on Digital Archives (2015) and New Critical Perspectives (2019); Rapson’s co-
editorship of a Textual Practice (2017) special issue on Planetary Memory in Contemporary
American Fiction; and Speck’s editorship of a QUEST: Issues in Contemporary Jewish History
special issue on Holocaust Archives and Research in the Digital Age (2018). Staff of all grades
advise as members of 37 journal editorial boards, including those mentioned above.
4.4.2 Peer review and doctoral examinations
Staff review for 8 UK grant-awarding bodies (including AHRC, ESRC, British Academy, Leverhulme)
and 30 overseas bodies (including National Research Council Canada, Open Society Foundation,
Rockefeller Foundation). We act as peer reviewers for numerous journals, increasing from 38 to over
140 since REF2014, and review for many publishers including Bloomsbury, Macmillan, Routledge,
Palgrave and Sage, and university presses (Duke, Edinburgh, Manchester, MIT, Oxford). Staff sit
on book series advisory boards including the Routledge World Cinema Series (Crisp), Springer’s
Media Industries (McDonald) and Bloomsbury’s East Asian Screen Cartographies (Leung). Since
2014, staff have examined over 67 doctorates in the UK and 15 overseas in Australia, Canada,
Denmark, France, Hong Kong, Ireland, Israel, New Zealand and South Africa.
4.4.3 Fellowships, prizes and keynotes
Reading holds a Plus Alliance Fellowship (2019–22) from the Global Knowledge Network between
KCL, UNSW, Australia and Arizona State University. Ajana held a Marie Curie Fellowship (2015–
17). Geoghegan spent 2016–17 at Yale on a Mellon Foundation Fellowship. In 2018, Oreglia held
an AHRC Engaging with Government Fellowship. Atkinson has twice been runner-up for the British
Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies (BAFTSS) Best Book competition. Since 2014,
our staff have given over 220 keynote and invited lectures globally.
4.4.4 Research council and national and international committee membership
Staff have served on the Media Communications & Cultural Studies Association (MeCCSA)
Executive (Steemers, 2012–19; Leung, 2019–); MeCCSA Policy Group (Steemers, Chair, 2016–
18); International Sociological Association Research Committee on Social Classes and Social
Movements (Gerbaudo, Secretary/Treasurer, 2014–18); and International Committee for Museums
and Collections of Ethnography (Iervolino, 2019–22). Tanner (2019) was a panellist for Germany’s
Universities of Excellence Strategy. Atkinson and Steemers are past AHRC Peer Review College
members; Adams, Coté, Hedges and Smithies are current members. Devlin sits on the EPSRC
Peer Review College. Atkinson is a member and McDonald a past member of the AHRC Strategic
Reviewers College.




Page 19
