Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Roehampton
 Unit of Assessment: 31 - Theology and Religious Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Roehampton Theology and Religious Studies (RTRS) unit conducts publicly engaged
 research at the intersections of faith, religious practice, and race. It has a distinctive spread of
 scholars across the Christian tradition, with a commitment to the centrality of religious practice and
 a clear philosophical underpinning, and its unique culture builds on the religious foundations of
 three of the four of University of Roehampton’s colleges (Digby Stuart [Roman Catholic, Society
 of the Sacred Heart]; Whitelands [Anglican, Church of England]; Southlands [Methodists,
 Southlands Methodist Trust]). The unit radically evolved in 2017, following the closure of Heythrop
 College, a 400-year-old Jesuit college and constituent of the University of London, and the
 incorporation of six staff into RTRS. The Jesuit foundation of Heythrop College resonated closely
 with the University’s traditions and values, which resulted in an authentic coming together of
 research interests and outlooks, and a refocusing of the unit’s priorities. RTRS now comprises 13
 colleagues (10.6 FTE) in the School of Humanities. Research and knowledge exchange is
 concentrated across three key areas: Philosophy of religion and systematic theology (Ellis,
 Cottingham, Ward, MacDonald); Catholic studies, and faith & gender (Barnes, Poulsom,
 Watkins and Beattie until 2020, Calderini); and Practical theology (Burgess, Cocksworth,
 Moxon, Rogers, Watkins).

 The key aims of RTRS at the time of REF2014 were to support major individual work, to maximise
 opportunities for creative and topical research synergies within the cluster and with external
 partners in both academic and religious communities, and to integrate research students into our
 research environment. Since 2014, we have sustained investment and enhanced research
 sabbatical schemes to enable long-term, and long-form, research projects to come to fruition. This
 has resulted in the publication of over ninety outputs. We have invested in new, sustained research
 collaborations that promote interfaith dialogue and community action; and the number of PGR
 students has grown to 45 overall (including 28 DTh and 17 PhD students). The major success of
 our research strategies, and their recognition, is evidenced by the increase of over 240% in our
 external funding when compared with REF2014 (earning £489,936 in total). RTRS’s research
 ambitions have been significantly extended since 2014, following the integration of colleagues
 from Heythrop College. Since 2017, managed under the direction of the Subject Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Lead (Ellis), the unit aims have been expanded to: develop a cohesive and
 inclusive research culture; be recognised as an international leader in Catholic studies and the
 philosophy of religion; and catalyse new interdisciplinary research connections, applying theology
 and religious studies to the most urgent challenges facing society, locally and globally. These
 ambitions have been realised across our three core research themes:

 Philosophy of religion and systematic theology
 Research in this area is led by Ellis alongside Cottingham, Ward, and MacDonald, and much of
 it operates at the intersection of philosophy and theology. They have been assisted by a
 postdoctoral researcher (Jenny Leigh) whose position was funded by the Templeton Religion Trust
 for the ‘The Quest for God: Towards a Philosophical Theology of Desire’ project. Four major grants
 have been awarded since 2014 (from the John Templeton Foundation/University of Notre Dame;
 John Templeton/Fordham University; Templeton Religion Trust), and the corresponding research
 projects have yielded two significant publications: an edited collection of essays titled New
 Models of Religious Understanding which showcases our new vision for philosophy of religion
 (edited by Ellis, Oxford University Press 2017), and a special edition of the journal Religious
 Studies (‘Religious Experience and Desire, edited by Ellis and Carlisle, 2019). Further significant
 outputs from staff in the Philosophy of Religion include Ellis’ God, Value, and Nature (Oxford
 University Press, 2014), Cottingham’s Philosophy of Religion: Towards a Humane
 Approach (Cambridge University Press, 2014), and Ward’s The Christian Idea of God
 (Cambridge University Press, 2017). Ellis is seeking to develop the pilot project, ‘The Quest for
 God’, in collaboration with KCL and University of Virginia, into a larger initiative in which the
 relevant philosophical and theological work will be brought into dialogue with psychology and


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 neuroscience. This research has been heralded as an important and welcome new direction for
 philosophy of religion and theology (https://www.the-tls.co.uk/articles/return-of-religion).

 Catholic studies and faith & gender
 Research in this area has been closely aligned with Digby Stuart College and the Society of the
 Sacred Heart. Our focus on Catholic studies has been practically oriented and publicly engaged.
 It has been key to the development of collaborative research and networks. Beattie (retired 2020)
 has led important work in this context, particularly the ‘Catholic Women Speak’ network, which
 seeks to bring Roman Catholic women globally into dialogue with the Catholic Church and wider
 society. Key publications include Catholic Women Speak: Bringing our Gifts to the Table
 (Paulist Press, 2015), and Visions and Vocations (Paulist Press, 2019). The study of gender in
 other faith contexts and its relation to theological practice has added a significant complementary
 dimension since 2014. Watkins’ work with the International Permanent Seminar in Catholic
 Practical Theology (the ‘Santiago Group’) provides an international dimension to this research
 community and is attracting a growing number of research students (seven currently registered).
 The work of this group has been enhanced through the appointment of Poulsom, who also brings
 expertise in environmental theology and practical theology. This theme also provides a critical
 forum for the research and interfaith dialogue prompted by new colleague Barnes, together with
 Calderini’s work on Islam and gender, as exemplified in Women as Imams: Classical Islamic
 Sources and Modern Debates on Leading Prayer (Bloomsbury, 2020).

 Practical theology
 RTRS has invested in practice-engaged theology as a key area of growth since 2014. Watkins
 (appointed 2014) has helped shape the discipline of practical theology, and the notion of
 theological action research is elucidated and defended in her monograph Disclosing Church:
 An Ecclesiology Learned from Conversations in Practice (2020). This methodology is being
 utilised by doctoral programmes internationally and is extended through the work of the Theology
 Action Research Network (TARN). Established by Watkins, TARN has attracted external funding
 for four projects to date, and growing numbers of research students, enriching our PhD (Elford,
 McArdle, Humphries, Dunlop, Thurgood) and DTh (Hardy, Gangemi) communities. Rogers’ and
 Burgess’ research on Black Majority Churches, and Burgess’ internationally recognised
 scholarship in African Pentecostalism, have been integral to RTRS’s longstanding relationships
 with the Black and Classical Pentecostal churches in London and, increasingly, nationally.
 Pentecostal Christianity is arguably the largest growing religious group in the UK and across the
 global South in particular, making this a recognisable area of development in scholarly research
 and societal engagement. Practical theology has been enriched further by key ECR appointments,
 including Cocksworth in 2018 (Lecturer) and a postdoctoral researcher (Rachel Rose-Burrell),
 and by the expansion of our professional doctorate, DTh programme, which has attracted 28
 research students since 2014.

 Interdisciplinary research
 RTRS encourages and enables interdisciplinary research, both within the University and beyond.
 Through two funded research projects from 2014-2017, Rogers has investigated the critical issues
 arising at the intersection of diaspora faith groups, places of worship, and urban planning policy
 and practice. The Faith and Place Network, where Rogers was Principal Investigator, enabled
 collaboration between academics from a range of disciplines, including practical theology,
 religious studies, human and cultural geography, planning, sociology and architecture, alongside
 planning professionals, civil society organisations, local and national government, and faith group
 representatives. The conversations within this network led to the publication and dissemination of
 national policy briefings, which then informed subsequent publications on diaspora religious
 demography and theologies of place. Ellis, Cottingham, and Ward work at the intersection of
 philosophy and theology and have collaborated with colleagues in philosophy and theology from
 the UK (KCL), US (Virginia, Creighton), and Italy (Roma Tre, Bruno Kessler Institute, Trento).
 Ellis’ recent work on the philosophy and theology of desire has involved collaboration with
 philosophers (Tal Brewer, UVA); theologians (Sarah Coakley, Cambridge, Clare Carlisle, KCL,
 Chuck Mathewes, UVA, Paul Fiddes, Oxford); psychologists (Steven Groarke, Roehampton,
 Richard Gipps, Oxford); and neuroscientists (Raymond Tallis, Buckingham). Ellis is developing a

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 new research project with Tallis entitled ‘Love, Desire, and Transcendence’. Ellis and Watkins
 are also collaborating on a future interdisciplinary project – ‘Experiments in Love’ – which promises
 to bring together philosophy, theology, and the experimental sciences. Future avenues for
 interdisciplinary research include a collaborative project on the environment, which is being
 developed by Poulsom, Cocksworth and Honorary Research Fellow, Nick Mayhew-Smith, in
 collaboration with the Southlands Methodist Trust and Southlands College, Digby Stuart College,
 and other external partners.

 Approach to Impact
 Since 2014 RTRS has been focused on developing a public profile and enhancing the impact of
 its core research themes. We have developed our impact through key initiatives and projects –
 which have been designed in dialogue with the main users and intended beneficiaries of our
 research and facilitated with dedicated resourcing from major funders and institutional resources.
 Impact has been supported by additional workload allowances (of up to 10%), investment in
 professional practice staff (for example, Muir), recognition through promotion, and dedicated
 pump-priming funds within the institution.

 Our research is public-facing, and our large number of partner organisations and institutions
 ranges from the local (Pentecostal and Charismatic churches, the Susanna Wesley Foundation)
 to the national (The Pentecostal Credit Union) and international (The Transatlantic Roundtable).
 Our collaborative approach is exemplified in Poulsom’s work for Operation Noah, a Christian
 charity working with the Church to inspire action on the climate crisis in which theoretical work on
 the theology of creation is applied to various forms of practical action, in collaboration with
 environmental NGOs and other interest groups. A further key initiative in enhancing impact is
 Catherine of Siena College, which was established by Beattie to offer short courses on gender,
 justice, religion, and theology in order to support those working for gender justice around the world
 and particularly ODA-recipient nations. In 2015, it was integrated into the University of
 Roehampton as an independent charitable trust. Investment in postdoctoral research associates
 (James Butler, Rachel Rose-Burrell, Luca Badini) provide integrated and research-focused
 support to enhance impact across our core research themes, whilst simultaneously creating
 crucial bridging career opportunities for ECRs. Dedicated resources have also supported the
 research impact of PGR students, for example Mayhew-Smith, who now leads the ‘New Creation
 Project’, funded by the Susannah Wesley Foundation and the Southlands Methodist Trust, to help
 communities and the environment flourish through inspiring creative and productive relationships
 between people and place.

 The Impact Case Studies illustrate our approach to maximising the benefit to society from our
 research. For example, our emphasis on collaboration is exemplified by Watkins’ Theological
 Action Research, where her work has expanded and enriched the activities of the Catholic
 Education Service and Marriage Care, enhanced pedagogical practice at Queen’s Foundation,
 Birmingham, and established an internationally-recognised methodology which is now core to the
 teaching and learning of practical theology in the UK and Europe. Watkins’ Theological Action
 Research was supported with institutional impact funds in 2014-16 and was subsequently
 developed into the TARN. Similarly, Rogers’ work has had a significant impact upon the role of
 religious minorities, and especially Black Majority Churches, in public planning. It inspired cultural
 organisations and creative practice, informed changes in policy and shaped the practice of
 government and planning professionals as well as the resources and projects of religious
 organisations. Rogers’ dissemination of key research findings and policy briefings was supported
 by dedicated impact seed funding from central resources and ring-fenced workload allocation.

 Research integrity and open access
 Research ethics and integrity is led by a dedicated representative in RTRS, who mentors
 applicants, provides evaluations of ethics applications, and advises on ethical practices and
 integrity. Our governance in these areas is informed by the University of Roehampton Ethics
 Guidelines and the Code of Good Research Practice, and Research Integrity in accordance
 with the revised Concordat to Support Research Integrity (Universities UK, 2019). Our approach
 is distinguished by its commitment to moving beyond procedural ethics to the instilling of

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a culture of ethics and integrity. Ethics review is carried out at the departmental level by
 the Research Ethics Committee representative, in conjunction with a pool of authorised
 departmental reviewers. This review process takes the form of a dialogue between the applicant
 and the reviewer, facilitating a view of ethics as a critical, reflexive faculty. All staff and PGRs have
 access to training in research ethics and Good Research Practice and PGR student research is
 subject to the same rigorous scrutiny as that of staff, with training provided for students and
 supervisors through Graduate School. Common themes regarding the ethical and professional
 conduct and standards of RTRSs’ research are reviewed annually. RTRS is also progressing
 towards an open research environment, and open access compliance throughout the period is
 76%, with 100% compliance in 2019/2020. We have also supported the wide dissemination of
 research through social and broadcast media channels, and project websites, most notably
 through the Catholic Women Speak network and website.

 Strategic priorities
 Looking forward, RTRS will maintain a distinctive spread of scholars across Christian traditions,
 whilst advancing research into global religions that complements our vision of a publicly engaged
 research culture, operating at the intersections of faith, religious practice, and race. Within this
 context, RTRS will focus on expanding research and impact in interdisciplinary contexts in order
 to address the most urgent questions regarding the role of faith in society locally, nationally and
 internationally. Central to our plans are the continued investments in publicly-engaged and cutting-
 edge research at the interface of religion, philosophy and practice. We intend to extend the
 international reach of our research by working with international partners. Building on the success
 of the ‘Quest for God’ project, RTRS will aim to develop an innovative programme of funded
 research further exploring, in both theoretical and practical terms, the relationship between the
 cognitive and conative aspects of the human quest for God. Our expanded research focus beyond
 Christianity will be core to our efforts to further the international reach of our research through
 collaboration partners, networks and cultural organisations across North America, Europe and the
 Far East. Building on the success of recent initiatives, we will also extend our research
 engagement with local communities, faith groups and partners, to support inter-faith dialogue and
 to ensure the faith needs of marginalised communities inform church and local government policy.
 Finally, we will expand our capacity to develop diverse research talent, including supervising
 research students, building upon the success of the Professional Doctorate programme (DTh).
 Although our future research, impact and knowledge exchange strategy was designed and
 launched prior to the effects of the global pandemic, we remain committed to its delivery and will
 take advantage of the opportunities afforded by new working practices, such as virtual seminars,
 to extend our intellectual reach.

 2. People

 Since 2014, our staffing strategy has focused on investing in the recruitment and retention of
 outstanding staff, supporting them to produce world-leading research and impact and to secure
 external funding, and building on RTRS's strengths in targeted research themes to ensure the
 ongoing generation of our research. Underpinning our staffing strategy has been a commitment
 to protect investment in excellent research for individuals over sustained periods. All staff returned
 to this unit are on permanent contracts, and all are allocated research allowances of between 30%
 and 40% of their total workload time, with additional allowances of 10% utilised on an individual
 basis for strategic investments in impact or major bidding activity. In addition to these workload
 allocations, research staff are entitled to one semester of research leave every six semesters on
 a rota basis to support colleagues to complete major outputs and to develop new projects. 13
 periods of research leave have been invested in staff since 2013/14. Research time is also
 protected through timetabling where possible, for example concentrating teaching in one
 semester, and ensuring dedicated research days. Recognition of research and its strategic
 importance is supported through the distribution of staff development funding. Fixed-term staff and
 part-time research staff are eligible for the same allowances and support as full-time research
 colleagues. Dedicated funds are deployed strategically to support research costs, including
 research trips, conferences, permissions for publications, along with impact development activity.


                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These funds are responsive and allocated to staff proposals according to ambition and deliverable
 objectives.

 The strategy of RTRS has been to invest significantly in new staff at the senior level, and then to
 sequentially build ECR talent across our core research themes. Since 2014, the number of
 research active staff has increased from 7 FTE to 10.6 FTE. Appointments have been made with
 a view to strengthening our research base and developing our longstanding tradition of public
 engagement in our practical theological, ecclesiological and ecumenical commitments. The
 appointment of colleagues from Heythrop College has been a key strategic move in this context,
 consolidating expertise in philosophy of religion and theology (Ellis, Cottingham, Ward), interfaith
 dialogue (Barnes) and Catholic Studies (Poulsom). The appointments of Watkins and
 Cocksworth (ECR) strengthened research in the area of practical theology. A further four post-
 doctoral research positions, including Luca Badini (funded for three-years by the Wijngaards
 Institute to work on gender and social engagement in the Catholic Church) are supporting the
 expansion of our ECR community. Rigorous recruitment processes are in place to ensure that
 prospective colleagues align with, and enrich our research priorities, and also have a
 demonstrable track record of producing excellent research, appropriate to career stage. Research
 activity, including outputs, knowledge exchange, grant capture and impact are given weighting
 appropriate to RTRS’s ambitions. New colleagues will typically have published at least one long-
 form output of the highest quality, and they will have a clear plan for their research development
 aligned with RTRS priorities, including the generation of external income, collaboration with other
 institutions, and public engagement.

 All new staff are supported through their probationary period with clear objectives in relation to
 research, and additional workload allocations to support their integration in the unit. Meetings with
 research mentors and line managers support probation and annual appraisals, which offer
 structured opportunities to discuss career development and resources to support it. RTRS
 recognises that staff development needs vary according to research interests, the balance of
 research and knowledge exchange, and the career stage of each individual. Staff are supported
 to achieve their research ambitions through an extensive mentoring scheme. All staff work with a
 research mentor, who meets with them regularly to discuss, encourage, and advise on research
 plans, collaboration, impact, and bidding. All mentors are Professors or Readers and receive on-
 going training in which good practice is shared and facilitated. Mentors are matched with mentees
 according to research specialism and career priorities (for example, the development of bidding).
 Mentors might advise on the preparation of work for publication, and on-going strategy, including
 the professional and personal development of researchers, and – as appropriate – promotion. Our
 reward for research performance is primarily delivered through promotion, which is benchmarked
 against clear expectations for academic roles. All staff are supported to apply for promotion and
 receive extensive coaching to assist their applications from their mentors and staff within RTRS,
 and across the University where appropriate. Since 2014, two colleagues have been promoted
 (Moxon to Principal Lecturer, Watkins to Reader) in recognition of their exceptional contributions
 to the research base and their leadership work in RTRS. An annual staff appraisal and
 development scheme ensures that staff are given an opportunity to reflect upon the past year,
 detail any significant learning and development, including its impact upon individual, departmental
 or university objectives, and to look ahead to future objectives.

 Further mechanisms to support staff development and progress include workshops on topics such
 as good research practice and research integrity, colleagues’ experiences with bidding, career
 development for early career researchers, and the nature of practice-based research. RTRS has
 also contributed to interdisciplinary sandpit events, most recently on social justice and activism,
 as well as RTRS research seminars. The seminar runs every term, either in conjunction with an
 ongoing project or as a stand-alone theme. The most recent theme was New Directions in the
 Philosophy of Religion where authors of monographs on this topic were invited to discuss their
 ideas. Cocksworth also runs regular seminars on ‘Theology, Religion and Practice’ which play a
 critical role in the development of a research community for staff and research students working
 in the area of practical theology. It is especially important for DTh students and is integrated into
 core teaching timetables, forming an opportunity for cross-year group interdisciplinary discussion

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and for students to present aspects of their research. The Digby Stuart Research Seminar also
 takes a student-oriented approach – this time for the MA Theology – and it runs weekly sessions
 on a variety of theological themes led by staff members and external researchers. Recent themes
 include Gender Identity, Christian Faith in dialogue, and questions of mysticism. The audiences
 for these seminar streams extend beyond the University, and the recent turn to online platforms
 has brought an international dimension to proceedings.

 We also have the capacity to support the exchange of staff between academia and appropriate
 professional contexts through the flexible use of sabbatical time, the ability to reduce FTE of
 individual posts, and the use of honorary fellowships. We also have mechanisms to support those
 entering higher education, through the provision of a year-long Professional Development
 Allowances, which can provide dedicated workload allocation of up to 30% to support the transition
 to a research career. Our seminar series and Graduate School training programmes also include
 practical or professional speakers to encourage mutually supportive networking. Research Impact
 Officers also support these relationships once established and prioritised by Subject Research
 and KE Lead (Ellis).

 RTRS places particular emphasis on career development support for ECRs and mid-career staff.
 New ECR staff are supported with an accelerated sabbatical and increased workload capacity to
 help establish their research careers in a new institutional context. They draw on the guidance of
 their mentors, who have generous workload allowances to coach new researchers. ECRs also
 benefit from exceptional peer-networks and support. The Early Career Academic Network was
 launched by Cocksworth in RTRS and is now supported as a cross-University initiative. ECRs
 are also proactively added to PGR supervisory teams. This serves to enrich the relevant PGR
 research programmes and provides opportunities for professional development as well as a
 pathway towards becoming the principal supervisor for research students in the future. RTRS
 supports colleagues who aspire to a research career with opportunities to develop their profile; for
 example, an enhanced professional development workload allowance has been put in place for
 O’Brien-Kopp (2020-) to support the transition to a research career at the University. Postdoctoral
 researchers are given similar opportunities to develop their careers and have access to the same
 range of research support as faculty, including mentoring and research funds. Attracting
 postdoctoral researchers is a key priority for RTRS, and we actively nurture research bids that
 involve such positions.

 Postgraduate researchers
 The PGR community has been central to the development of our research culture since 2014.
 PGR recruitment is facilitated through open competition for all funded opportunities, and PGRs
 are able to approach the Graduate School to identify appropriate supervisory teams. All PGR
 applications are supported by the Research Degrees Convenor (Cocksworth) and the Deputy
 Head of School (Research and Knowledge Exchange). PGRs are only recruited where projects
 align to staff expertise and research strategy. We have sought to build PGR capacity by recruiting
 high-calibre students through a range of funding sources and supporting them to successful
 completion. We have also assisted them beyond graduation by offering career development as
 postdoctoral scholars and lecturers. The growing research profile of RTRS has led to an increase
 in PGR students since REF2014. We have had 8 PhD completions in this period, a 14% increase
 when compared to REF2014. However, we have also significantly expanded our doctoral
 community. We currently have 17 PhD students enrolled, and the introduction of the Professional
 Doctorate in Practical Theology (DTh) in 2015 has been a great success in supporting the
 expansion of this community, with 28 current students. We also participate in the AHRC DTP,
 TECHNE, and have one successful completion in RTRS from this scheme (Mayhew-Smith).
 TECHNE embeds a cohort approach to research training, creating networking opportunities for an
 interdisciplinary community of doctoral scholars across the consortium's member institutions.

 All PhD students, and DTh students at thesis writing stage, are allocated a supervisory team,
 usually consisting of two, and occasionally three, research active members of staff. These teams
 often straddle disciplines within RTRS and occasionally other departments, reflecting the
 interdisciplinary nature of much of the work undertaken by our PGRs. Full-time students meet with

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervisors at least 6 times a year; part-time students at least four times a year, at least one
 meeting being with the whole supervisory team. A record of each supervision is made by students
 and supervisors together and this scrutinised at the School-level Research Student Review Board,
 and also at University-level. There is an Annual Progress Review, as well as milestones for
 progression. These processes, together with flexible arrangements for interruption, parental leave
 and other equality related circumstances, ensure that there is adequate support throughout the
 doctoral journey. Since March 2020, we have added further levels of support to all PGRs to help
 them through the pandemic. This has included funded extensions, extra academic and pastoral
 support when required, and the revision of research topics where necessary.

 We support PGRs at the level of both research and teaching development. They are given various
 career-development opportunities including teaching experience and research assistance work.
 They are routinely encouraged to attend and offer short papers at conferences, and a minimum of
 £600 is available to each PGR student for such activity and other research needs. Our PGRs
 benefit from being members of a cross-University community, through the training and events
 offered by the Graduate School. In particular, RTRS research events are complemented by the
 Graduate School’s provision of the Research Students’ Development Programme (RSDP), while
 Arts and Humanities training is provided by the School of Humanities, with subject-specific
 provision offered by RTRS. We also recognise the diverse career paths pursued by our PGR
 students, and are committed to identifying mentoring and training opportunities that support their
 aspirations.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The overall health and wellbeing of all staff and students is a priority for RTRS. Staff wellbeing is
 delivered through our college system. All staff are affiliated to one of our four colleges, who provide
 research events, community building opportunities, and dedicated Wellbeing Officers for staff. All
 staff and PGRs have been offered mental health first aid training in 2020, whilst dedicated
 research staff and PGR wellbeing sessions have been delivered on mental health. In addition, the
 Subject Research and KE Lead and Research Degrees Convenor work with the Head of School
 and Deputy Head of School (Research and Knowledge Exchange) to identify and address the
 needs of colleagues and PGRs to ensure they are supported by University services (HR, Graduate
 School, Staff and Student Wellbeing). They also provide bespoke support, for example, the
 allocation of duties, timing of work, relieving pressures of internal deadlines and ensuring that
 workspaces are appropriate.

 RTRS's commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion is guided by the University’s Equality and
 Diversity Strategy and the policies in which these objectives are embedded. Researchers’
 particular circumstances are addressed within RTRS. We ensure that University-level policies are
 applied effectively and in ways that support research productivity. For example, University policy
 provides a semester research leave either immediately before or following a significant period of
 parental leave. Seminars are scheduled to support participation of carers and parents, and
 workloads and the distribution of teaching are managed to suit individual staff and their personal
 circumstances. There is support in place for those with long-term illness, and where this involves
 a phased return to work a significantly reduced workload is agreed. Arrangements for flexible and
 remote learning can be put in place if personal circumstance demands. Part-time and fixed-term
 staff are supported in the same way as full-time staff in terms of career progression. Research
 and knowledge exchange expectations, in terms of volume, are weighted according to FTE.

 Our selection of outputs process was accompanied by a robust equality and diversity analysis to
 ensure decisions had no adverse effect on staff with protected characteristics. Of our 27 submitted
 research outputs, 11% were produced by staff who declared a disability while 71% are by male
 colleagues. Our submission is evenly distributed across age groups, with the majority of outputs
 belonging to the 50-59 (26%), 60-69 (22%), 70-79 (22%) and 80-89 (15%) groupings. We have
 strived for a balanced, inclusive submission comprising the work of researchers at all career levels:
 48% of our submitted outputs are attributed to Professors, 22% to Readers and 22% to Senior
 Lecturers. Our research community’s inclusivity is reflected in the diversity of our academic staff
 and PGR base. 23% of our research staff identify as female, 8% identify as disabled and 9% as

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 LGBTQ+. Of our PGR students, 67% identify as female, 14% identify as disabled, 18% as BAME,
 6% as LGBTQ+ (with 14% withholding this information). We recognise that PGR recruitment is an
 important component of ensuring the inclusive nature of our disciplines, and growing numbers of
 our students are from BAME and other non-traditional academic backgrounds. There has been a
 concomitant expansion of research themes in the areas of race, gender, and interfaith dialogue.
 We also recognise the systemic inequalities represented in our own staff base and will address
 this through positive action initiatives in our future staffing strategy.

 RTRS has made a distinctive contribution to the promotion of several features of this institutional
 strategy given our investments in race, faith, and gender. Examples include: work on Black
 Majority Churches as demonstrated by Burgess’ research on African Pentecostalism; promotion
 of the role and voice of women in the Roman Catholic Church through the advocacy work of
 Catholic Women Speak; the promotion of interfaith relations and dialogue through Barnes’ work
 with communities of faith in the London area, and his establishing of a theological framework for
 such work (Interreligious Learning: Dialogue, Spirituality and the Christian Imagination
 [2014] and Waiting on Grace: A Theology of Dialogue [2020]). Investment in the Catherine
 of Siena College has enabled a research informed approach to promoting CPD opportunities
 across the global south. We are also committed to supporting inclusive practices that address
 profound and systemic inequalities in relation to the diversity of academic staff in the discipline.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Since 2014, RTRS has intentionally built capacities for research and research leadership. This
 has led to an increase in our external funding of 210% (earning £489,671 in total). Successful
 grant capture has been generated from DIUS research councils and the British Academy
 (£26,781), EU Government bodies (£60,304), non-EU based charities (£97,462), UK based
 charities (£88,472), and UK Industry and Commerce and Public Corporations (£5,169). The
 diversity of funders is matched by the range of exciting research projects they have funded.
 Porticus has supported Beattie’s work (£75,315) and Watkin’s development Catholic Practice-
 Engaged Theology (£19,648). Watkins was also awarded £31,881 from the Charles Plater Trust
 for ‘Catholic Marriage Care Ltd’, £20,270 from the Susannah Wesley Foundation for ‘Social
 Action’, and £23,801 from the Southlands Methodist trust for ‘An Outline for a Theological Action
 Research Project’. These sources of funding have been integral in enabling the iterative and
 mutually reinforcing development of Watkin’s research and impact. The Southlands Methodist
 Trust supported the ‘Signs of Wonder’ project led by Rogers and Burgess (£3,414), and Burgess’
 project on teaching and learning in practical theological education (£8,266). Burgess was also
 funded by the Susanna Wesley Foundation (£8,116) for a project on ‘The Pedagogical Challenges
 of Teaching Ministerial Theology’. Our strength in philosophy of religion led to a significant grant
 for Ellis from the Templeton Religion Trust (£139,472) for a collaborative project with KCL and the
 University of Virginia on ‘The Quest for God: Towards a Philosophical Theology of Desire’.
 External funding has increased our capacities for research, with the appointment of part-time
 administrators including a 0.6 FTE Research Administrator in relation to the Plater Trust funding
 (2016-2017), a 0.8 FTE Research Assistant in relation to Watkins’ TAR projects (2018-2020), and
 a 0.2 FTE Research Administrator for Ellis’ ‘Quest for God’ project (2019-2020).

 We have leveraged major support from external sources to the benefit of the University’s research
 community more broadly. In collaboration with the Society of the Sacred Heart (one of the
 University’s founding Providing Bodies), five international PGR scholarships have been offered to
 increase research capacities in ODA recipient nations, and benefit individual scholars. The
 Southlands Methodist Trust, based at Southlands College, supports educational activities,
 including research, chaplaincy and charitable work undertaken in and through Southlands College,
 that reflects its Methodist foundation and ethos. One of its key aims is to support the development
 of scholarship, research and innovation by providing funding for projects. Since 2013, it has
 provided £150,298 to fund five projects by researchers within the unit (£2,424 to Calderini for one
 project, £2,504 to Rogers for one project and £145,370 to Watkins for three projects).



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These awards reflect the robustness of our research management, mentoring, and support
 systems. Our approach to bidding, and our success in this area, reflects our broader operational
 and scholarly infrastructure for research and impact. All bids are supported through a rigorous
 process of internal peer-review, with additional review from an internal cross-institutional peer
 review college for all early career and substantial grant applications. Our success in the field of
 grant capture is a testament to the ambition and quality of staff at various stages of their career
 development, the levels of support provided by the University, and the emphasis we place on
 research excellence, impact, and public engagement.

 The significant and sustained improvement in RTRS’s research income has been led by the
 Subject Research and KE Lead (Ellis). The Subject Research and KE Lead oversees all research
 activity in RTRS, across staff and PGRs, and sets the strategic direction for the unit and its
 contribution to the delivery of the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy. Ellis
 is supported by the Research Degrees Convenor, who enriches and empowers the research
 student community, and by senior colleagues who convene seminar series, drive participation in
 external research networks, and provide intellectual leadership across RTRS. The Subject
 Research and KE Lead is part of the institutional infrastructure. At the School level, research is
 coordinated by the Research Committee whose Chair, the Deputy Head of School (Research and
 Knowledge Exchange), also sits on the University Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Committee. The role of the School Research Committee is to provide strategic oversight of the full
 range of School research activity, including the work of individual research staff and students; the
 programme of research seminars, conferences and other events; invitations to, and support for,
 visiting scholars and research students; and the development of strategic initiatives (e.g., open
 access) and funding bids.

 The University operates centralised models of research and impact support which have
 represented a major investment since 2014, with new dedicated posts to support developmental
 activity. RTRS is also supported by a dedicated Research Impact Officer, who assists with the
 development of pathways to impact for individual research projects as well as the evaluation and
 evidencing of any impact that is delivered through successful grants. External collaborations are
 facilitated by support from the Research Development Officer, the Communications team, and
 Legal Services and Contracts. Our research infrastructure includes the University's new
 conference facilities and Royal Institute of British Architects award-winning Library, which enable
 RTRS staff and PGRs to conduct their own research and to collaborate within and beyond the
 unit. RTRS research events including symposia and conferences are supported by the University’s
 Estates, conferencing, IT and Catering departments. Recent successful conferences organised
 by RTRS at Roehampton include ‘Growth and Decline in the Anglican Communion, 1980 to the
 Present’ (2017) and ‘Diaspora Churches and Public Engagement’ (2020). All staff and postdocs
 have dedicated offices and IT infrastructure. PGR students share an accessible, secure space,
 with additional dedicated PGR study spaces in the Library. The Library, opened in 2018, provides
 access to a wide range of printed sources, e-books and online databases, journals and special
 collections. Three of the University’s four historic colleges are built on religious foundations, and
 there are three corresponding archives housed at the University which are of research interest to
 RTRS scholars, as well as historians and education specialists. The archives are supported with
 dedicated archivists and are part of the University’s investment in their historical significance.
 Specific archives and special collections of interest to RTRS include the Bishop’s Conference
 Collection (a record of an approach to catechesis and religious education over three decades in
 the Catholic community in the UK), the Digby Stuart Archive on Catholic Education, the Queen’s
 Foundation Authority and Governance Archive 1998-2002 (records of a project commissioned by
 the Queen’s Foundation investigating the nature, exercise and experience of authority in the
 Catholic church in Britain), and the Jewish Resource Centre (a collection of theological, historical
 and pedagogical texts).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contribution to society


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2014, we have extended our outward-facing focus, promoting research collaborations with
 academic colleagues in other institutions, whilst consolidating our communities of engagement
 locally, nationally, and internationally. Our engagement strategies are focused primarily on three
 constituencies: faith groups, NGOs and local government. In building these relationships, we have
 sought to make an active contribution to the advancement of a just society.

 Central to our work with faith groups is the relationship between RTRS and the University’s
 Providing Bodies. The work of RTRS and its focus on Catholic Studies, for example, is enhanced
 through our relationships with the Society of the Sacred Heart. The Society’s ongoing investments
 in our research and its outcomes, including provision of PGR studentships, ensure that it remains
 topical. Similarly, our relationship with Southlands Methodist Trust (SMT), as the providing body
 for Southlands College, contributes exceptional investment in our research cultures, and essential
 resources to fund embryonic research projects (Watkins and Rogers). A further example of our
 extensive engagement with faith groups is to be found in Watkins’ invitation from the Vatican’s
 Pontifical Council for Promoting Christian Unity to serve on the Methodist Roman Catholic
 International Dialogue Committee and the Joint Group for the Week of Prayer for Christian Unity.
 Watkins is also as a trustee of the relationship charity Marriage Care. Such social and ecclesial
 involvement forms mutually informative channels of communication between the RTRS's
 academic research and its potential and actual beneficiaries in the wider world. We also maintain
 a close relationship with the Wijngaards Institute, one of the leading independent think tanks
 promoting gender equality, evidence-based sexual ethics, democratic governance and
 accountability in the Roman Catholic Church. This institute has supported the work of Catherine
 of Sienna College.

 Our reach extends beyond faith groups, and we participate in and enrich diverse networks of
 NGOs in particular. Poulsom is a trustee of the environment charity Project Noah, and a board
 member of Operation Noah, where he combines the theoretical focus of his research on the
 theology of creation, with various forms of practical action in justice, peace, and the integrity of
 creation, particularly with young adults. Through Operation Noah, Poulsom also supports Teach
 the Future – a student-led campaign calling for the education system to prepare young people to
 tackle the climate crisis which organises regular events. There is also a programme aimed at
 diocesan staff and volunteers whose role has an environmental aspect, and a new carbon footprint
 tool has been developed to enable Churches to measure their footprint from different activities –
 energy, travel, food, waste, water and other expenditure. Beattie has also been a member of
 CAFOD’s Theological Reference Group and has acted as a theological advisor. Rogers has
 formally partnered with Theos Think Tank, Equality and Human Rights Commission through his
 Faith and Place network.

 RTRS has invested significantly in local government networks, supporting the role of faith in
 society. We have focused the development of these networks in Greater London, but our reach
 extends nationally. Rogers and Burgess have developed extensive networks with London
 boroughs, many of which have been formalised through collaboration, partnership and impact
 through the Faith and Place Network, including Hackney, Southwark, Haringey and Wandsworth.
 David Muir (Head of Whitelands College) provides a crucial link between research and practice,
 collaborating with researchers in RTRS and connecting them with his extensive practitioner and
 policy networks. Muir is a member of the External Council of the Downing Street Black Leaders’
 Group and the Mayor of London Leaders’ Group. These memberships have had an impact upon
 his collaborative work with RTRS. Muir has also engaged ecumenical structures, acting as Co-
 Secretary of Churches Together in Britain and Ireland’s Anglican-Pentecostal Theological Study
 group.

 RTRS’s commitment to engaging and benefitting a diverse range of research users through these
 discrete, but overlapping, pathways is complemented by a sustained programme of public
 engagement, primarily focused on broadcasts, podcasts, and interviews. Calderini contributed to
 the BBC World Service Heart and Soul programme ‘Women making space in the mosque’
 presented by Samira Ahmad. She also took part in the BBC Radio 3 Islamic Golden Age Series.
 Cottingham was interviewed recently for his reflections on religion for 3.16, and for Aeon in

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conjunction with the launch of his 2020 book on the soul. He has also taken part in numerous
 broadcasts, for example, a series of interviews on topics in the philosophy of religion on the
 website ‘Why are we Here?’. Ward has participated in numerous podcasts and interviews, notable
 examples being a debate with Dennett on Premium Radio on the topics of God, soul, and freewill,
 and various public lectures on atheism and theism. Beattie has been a regular contributor to BBC
 Radio 4’s Thought for the Day. Ellis’ most recent interview was for Trip Fuller’s Homebrewed
 Christianity podcast where she discussed the nature of expansive naturalism and the question of
 desire, and several of her public lectures are available to download on YouTube. Her two most
 recent research projects have included a significant public engagement element, including school
 workshops at Ripon Grammar School (2020) and Magdalen College School, Oxford (2018). She
 has also worked with the Progressive Christian Network and is part of a group run by Clare Carlisle
 at KCL which involves communicating new directions in theology and philosophy of religion to
 teachers in the sector.

 Contribution to the research base
 RTRS plays an integral role in the leadership of research through engagement in national and
 international research and professional bodies. Watkins (2013-2017) and Rogers (2017-2019)
 have both served as Chairs of the British and Irish Association for Practical Theology (BIAPT).
 Cocksworth is executive committee member for the Society for the Study of Theology (SST)
 (2013-present) and has been treasurer since 2016. He is also Assistant Editor of the Anglican
 Theological Review and Associate of the Aberdeen Centre for Protestant Theology (University of
 Aberdeen). Rogers has been a member of the UK Committee as a representative of BIAPT (2017-
 2019). In the field of Philosophy of Religion, Ellis is a trustee of the Royal Institute of Philosophy,
 and she serves on the executive committee of the British Society for the Philosophy of Religion.
 She is also on the advisory board of the Major Research Network in theology and science at the
 University of Edinburgh (funded by the John Templeton Foundation).

 The quality of research in RTRS has been acknowledged through awards and fellowships. Ward
 is a Fellow of the British Academy, and Honorary Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. He has
 received honorary doctorates from Amsterdam and Glasgow, and, most recently, from the Virginia
 Theological Seminary. Cottingham is Honorary Fellow of St John’s College, Oxford. Ellis and
 Ward have been elected to the International Society for Science and Religion. Barnes received
 the Archbishop of Canterbury’s Hubert Walter Award for Interreligious Cooperation (2019).
 Rogers’ work on the Faith and Place Network was nominated for an award of the Royal Town
 Planning Institute’s Excellence in Research programme (2018).

 RTRS researchers also contribute extensively to editorial boards and editorships. Ellis serves on
 the editorial board of the philosophy of religion journal Religious Studies and she co-edited a
 special edition of the journal on ‘Religious Experience and Desire’ (2019). Ward is on the editorial
 board of Modern Believing, as well as being emeritus editor for Religious Studies. Beattie sits on
 the editorial board of the Journal of Religion and Gender and The Journal of Theology and
 Sexuality. Rogers and Watkins are on the editorial board of Practical Theology; Burgess was
 Assistant-Editor for Pentecostal Studies 2009-18; Moxon is on the editorial board of the Journal
 of the European Pentecostal Theology Association. All editorial board members participate in
 peer-review for relevant journals, and such work is also carried out by other staff members for
 other journals (e.g., Ecclesial Practices [Rogers; Watkins], Political Theology [Rogers]). Book
 reports for academic presses are also undertaken regularly by RTRS members, including Oxford
 University Press, Cambridge University Press, Routledge, Rowman and Littlefield, and
 Bloomsbury, and SCM and T&T Clarke.

 Our colleagues contribute to research assessment both nationally and internationally. Beattie has
 reviewed promotion applications to research posts at other UK universities, and Ellis has
 consulted with St Mary’s University, London Metropolitan University, Creighton University, USA,
 and Australian Catholic University. Ellis was external panel member for the approval of the MA/PG
 Dip/PG Cert in Contemporary Ethics, Spirituality, Contemporary Faith and Belief, and Pastoral
 Care and Chaplaincy for the Cambridge Theological Federation (2018). She is also an assessor
 for the Templeton Religion Trust. Colleagues also conduct doctoral examinations both in the UK

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and beyond. These have included viva examinations of students in Uppsala (Beattie), Australia
 (Beattie), South Africa (Beattie); Leuven (Ellis), Amsterdam (Ellis) as well as at prestigious UK
 faculties such as Durham (Watkins), Oxford (Cottingham, Ellis), Chester (Watkins; Burgess)
 and KCL (Watkins, Cottingham, Ellis).

 All RTRS staff regularly present their research at national and international venues. Ward was a
 visiting Professor at four US universities between 2016 and 2018, and Cottingham was keynote
 in Finland (2015), Poland (2017), and Texas (2018), as well as at numerous UK gatherings. Ellis
 has given keynotes and panel presentations in Chicago (2016), San Antonio (2017), Rome (2018),
 Innsbruck (2017), Budapest (2018), Bologna (2019), San Diego, (2019), and Leuven (2020). She
 has also given many talks and workshops in the UK, including a keynote at the Scottish Church
 Theology Society in 2020 and addressing the Interfaculty Centre for Catholic Thought in Leuven
 (2020). Beattie gave keynotes in Nairobi (2015), Sarajevo (2018), and Stockholm (2014).
 Calderini has brought her scholarship on Islam to various events, including an address at an
 international conference on ‘Wisdom, Faith and Dialogue’ in Naples (2018) and the 2018
 Edinburgh international conference on Muslim women’s religious leadership and authority.
 Watkins was invited to speak at the 2017 and 2019 American Academy of Religion conference,
 and at the Universidad di Javeriana, Bogota (2018). Her other keynotes include conferences in
 Amsterdam (Protestant Theological University, VU, 2017), Bucharest (Ecclesiology and
 Ethnography Conference, 2015) Uppsala (2015), and Rome (International Academy for Marital
 Spirituality, 2015). Poulsom has presented work on Schillebeeckx and environmental theology at
 conferences in Nijmegen (2014), Swanwick (2016), and Krakow (2018). Burgess delivered
 keynotes on Anglicism in Nigeria in London (2018, 2017) and Nigeria (2016). Cocksworth has
 given keynotes at Princeton Theological Seminary (2018), the Diocese of Birmingham (2020), and
 Abtei Münsterschwartzach, Germany (2019).




                                                                                          Page 12
