Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 27: English Language and Literature
 Section 1 (S1). Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 One of ten Schools based in the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences, English,
 Communication and Philosophy (ENCAP) is a multi-discipline unit invested in creative thinking,
 critical rigour and trans-disciplinarity. Our work within and across four disciplines – English
 Literature, Creative Writing, Language and Communication, and Philosophy – builds on an
 ethos of collaboration. ENCAP’s holistic culture is reflected in our strategic enhancement of two
 subject areas that were previously in evolution (Creative Writing) or entered separately
 (Philosophy). Since 2014, when we submitted selectively to UOA29 and fully to UOA32, we have
 made inclusivity and sustainability key priorities of our research strategy. The organic cross-
 pollination of disciplinary models and identities has driven growth (from 24 Language and
 Literature and 10 Philosophy FTE in 2014, to 64.6 FTE at present). This in turn has catalysed
 collaborative projects, underpinning key successes such as more than doubling our grant income
 (114% increase).
 Figure 1: ENCAP disciplines and subject specialisms




 1.1 Unit overview
 The most distinctive feature to have come to fruition in this cycle is the creative-critical impetus
 that energises our research. By incorporating creative approaches into scholarly inquiry, or
 drawing critical-conceptual insight from creative experimentation, our work is responsive to and
 invigorated by multiple disciplinary methodologies. This enables staff to team up around trans-
 disciplinary clusters in mutually enriching ways, as reflected in the overarching research
 themes, interdisciplinary projects and impact case studies that have developed from such
 clusters.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 2: Research themes, key REF2021 research projects and ‘impact case studies’ [ICS]




 The cross-fertilisation between interdisciplinary research themes, innovative project development
 and impact generation is illustrated in the clusters around Visual Cultures (spearheaded by
 Image Works, a new research centre set up by Beeston) and Digital Cultures (underpinned by
 CEIR, our Centre for Editorial and Intertextual Research, and our leading role in the University-
 wide Cardiff Digital Cultures Network established by Mandal). The interconnectedness of these
 clusters catalysed our output production and impact work on ‘Historic illustrations’ (ICS2), while
 also facilitating Object Women, a digital art-curatorial project (led by Beeston in collaboration with
 New York’s George Eastman Museum) that blends critical and creative forms of reflection on
 photographic narratives of gender and the archive. Released over three months through daily
 Instagram posts and available online indefinitely, the project paired images from across the history
 of photography with critical-creative micro-essays. In combining the analytic rigour of scholarly
 work on feminist art history with the lyric reflexivity of memoir and other forms of creative non-
 fiction, Object Women exemplifies ENCAP’s integration of critical-conceptual innovation and
 creative practice.
 Similarly, our cluster on Ethics & Language (supported by CLCR, the Centre for Language and
 Communication Research) bolstered collaborative interchange between linguists working on
 post-truth in political discourse and philosophers researching practical interventions to reduce
 aggression in public debate. This provided a platform for Changing Attitudes in Public
 Discourse, a cross-institutional partnership between philosophers and psychologists that
 developed and tested new theories of humility in political interaction (Section 3.1, hereafter S3.1).
 The interpenetration that shapes our research is also reflected in ongoing impact work on the use
 of visual metaphors in health discourse, which draws on creative methodologies, and builds on
 collaboration with the School of Psychology. Such cross-cutting models of exchange are
 representative of ENCAP’s dynamic culture.
 ENCAP additionally supports specialist research groupings with seminar series: Creative
 Writing; CRECS (Romanticism and 18th-century Studies); MEMORI (Medieval and Early Modern);
 Medieval Society and Culture (in collaboration with the School of History); Modern and
 Contemporary, Culture and Theory; Philosophy (in collaboration with the Royal Institute of
 Philosophy).


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Strategic aims: Achievements and ambitions
 Our research structures and support mechanisms (Section 2.3, hereafter S2.3) are attuned to our
 aim to deliver international leadership on trans-disciplinary research that combines the
 critical with the creative, producing work that is intellectually rich; innovative in approach,
 methods and forms; and impactful in relation to the research base and our beneficiaries.
 In REF2014 we identified the following objectives:
 a. preserving and developing the quality and vitality of our research environment by nurturing a
    community of researchers engaged in international-quality activities as the seedbed for the
    sustained production of excellent and world-leading outputs and impacts;
 b. cultivating our ability to relate our research to ‘real-world’ questions, and to the concerns of
    contemporary academic, student and wider audiences and users in the UK and beyond;
 c. refreshing the foci of research in the light of new opportunities, as well as evolving intellectual
    and cultural agendas, internationally and in relation to our location in Wales;
 d. sustaining and growing the capacity afforded by the array of disciplines in the Unit to produce
    critical, cultural and linguistic theory-building, literary-historical scholarship and creative
    interdisciplinary investigation across a range of topics and periods.
 ENCAP achieved these objectives by:
 a. improving the support structures for doctoral students, postdoctoral researchers and staff at
    all career stages (see S2.3-4);
 b. leveraging funding (institutional and external) to enable staff to deliver enhanced programmes
    of research and impact, working with an expanding number of strategic partners and
    stakeholders (S3);
 c. creating opportunities for staff to develop new research agendas in partnership with colleagues
    within and outside the Unit, in the UK and internationally (Section 4, hereafter S4);
 d. enhancing leadership roles within the humanities nationally and internationally around areas
    of specific research and impact strength, such as digital and visual cultures, medical/science
    humanities, and the capacity of the humanities to tackle post-truth society and geo-political
    crises (S3-4).
 In delivering on our objectives, we pursued a robust appointments policy, which (set against
 retirements and departures) resulted in an increase of eleven staff in Literature, nine in Language,
 four in Creative Writing and one in Philosophy. We are now consolidated as a large and vibrant
 School at the forefront of both discipline-specific and overarching interdisciplinary inquiry,
 working to a connected sense of a shared intellectual identity that interrogates our disciplinary
 fields and is informed by a deep commitment to and belief in the public value of the
 humanities.
 Building on the achievements of the past cycle while navigating the current global crisis, ENCAP’s
 ambitions for the future in research and impact encompass:
 a. further advancing Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) principles in all aspects of the
    School’s working practices, with particular attention to:
        •   continuing to invigorate our ethical humanities research culture through projects on
            gender and sexuality, and disability and ill health;
        •   enhancing a distinctive sense of an ENCAP postdoctoral research identity to enable
            individual career-(re)building while enriching our research capacity, for example
            through fostering our humanities-led approach to research teams;
 b. sustaining support mechanisms for boosting leadership on ambitious and innovative projects
    that challenge and regenerate our subject areas and strengthen their capacity to engage with
    stakeholders and deliver impact in new ways, with specific emphasis on emergent and
    developing case studies (S1.3);


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c. enhancing our creative-critical, collaborative and cross-fertilising research culture in visual and
    digital cultures and medical humanities;
 d. deploying our cross-disciplinary research to intensify our work on the value of the humanities
    in the public and political sphere with new projects (such as Refugee Wales, S4.2).
 1.3 Research with impact
 Enabling engagement with diverse publics, leading to impact that reflects our core values and
 enriches our local, national and global communities, while at the same time enhancing our
 research, is organically embedded in School practices. From PGR training sessions to staff
 Impact lunches, researchers at all stages are encouraged to reflect on the impact of their research.
 Impact is profiled throughout the research lifespan through central coordination and leadership.
 The Directors of Research (DoR), Research Funding (DoRF) and Impact (DoI), as well as line
 managers and mentors, act as formal and informal advisors (S2.2). Impact work was supported
 by our Impact and Research Innovation Fund (£20K p.a.) and the allocation of designated
 time, with impact case study leads awarded 140 hours.
 Work on developing case studies was sustained with both School and institutional seed-corn
 and/or follow-on funding, such as Cardiff Speaks, Being Human, the Festival of Social Sciences,
 a core institutional Impact Fund and the University’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (S3.1).
 Our impact case studies are representative of ENCAP’s engagement with users, stakeholders,
 collaborators and publics, reflecting a diversity of impact types. In their focus on creativity, gender
 and soldiering (ICS1); contemporary remediations of the historical archive (ICS2); policy related
 to the literature and language of Wales (ICS3, ICS5); and medical humanities knowledge
 production and practice (dementia and language, ICS4), the case studies provide exemplars of
 how we deliver on our agenda of cross-disciplinary and creative-critical research sustained by
 research clusters (Gender and Sexuality; Welsh Cultures; Visual Cultures; Science and Digital
 Humanities).
 The support mechanisms we implemented have also purposefully fed into our development of
 emergent impact work with a trajectory towards the next REF. This includes ‘Using Visual
 Metaphor’ (S4.2), ‘Representations of the Autistic Experience’ (S4.2) and ‘Women in Trousers’
 (S3.3).
 1.4 Open research and research ethics
 Reflecting institutional best practice (REF5a_2.1.2), 100% of our staff have signed up to ORCID.
 Three OA journals founded and edited by Badmington, Willis and Mandal (Barthes Studies,
 Journal of Literature and Science, Romantic Textualities) offer Diamond OA. As chair (Walford
 Davies), deputy chair (Llewellyn) and board member (Mandal), ENCAP staff have had significant
 involvement in the development and current leadership team within Cardiff University Press,
 a Diamond OA publisher of journals and monographs.
 Our commitment to sustainability is demonstrated by CorCenCC (Corpws Cenedlaethol
 Cymraeg Cyfoes: The National Corpus of Contemporary Welsh), the first large-scale, general,
 open-source corpus of Welsh language, comprising 11 million words of spoken, written and
 electronic language (S3.1).
 We have long practised the principles of the San Francisco Declaration on Responsible
 Assessment (DORA), and encouraged the adoption of these principles in institutional procedures.
 Llewellyn was a founder member of a working group charged with implementing the Cardiff-wide
 adoption of DORA and the responsible use of metrics.
 ENCAP’s chair of the School Ethics Committee acts as a liaison for the central governance team.
 Regular circulars update staff on ethics guidelines, ensuring attention to ethics and integrity in
 engagement with human participants at the level of research development and delivery and in the
 context of impact programmes and related activities. ENCAP staff (Edgar, retired; Knight) have
 served on the institutional Open Research Integrity and Ethics Committee and are thus closely
 involved with policy-making.



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2 (S2). People
 Our staff and (postdoctoral researchers are key to our success as an outward-looking,
 internationally leading School. We are committed to a supportive working environment, sustained
 by the principles of connectivity, equality, diversity and inclusivity. Invested in these values, our
 recruitment strategy and our policies on staff, PGR and postdoctoral development have been
 instrumental in ENCAP’s significant growth (31 T&R appointments). Our broader research culture
 is enriched by Emeriti (12), honorary staff (8) and international Visiting Scholars (152 since 2014;
 S4.1).
 Our expansion resulted from strategic decisions to achieve:
    •   an inclusive environment in which there is recognition and support for the diverse ways
        in which individuals contribute to our research culture through different means and at
        different stages of their research and impact trajectory;
    •   increased investment in posts by the College and University in response to our REF2014
        performance;
    •   improved support for the development of existing and newly appointed researchers to
        enable an inclusive submission representing our full research base.
 2.1 An inclusive environment
 Our commitment to inclusivity is illustrated by the near-equitable gender representation of staff
 (from 12F:24M in 2014 to 35F:31M in 2021), the international composition of our staff (fourfold
 increase in EU and international appointments, from 6 in REF2014 to 25 in REF2021), and the
 support structures we have developed for postdoctoral and early career researchers.
 Gender representation: Our 51%:49% gender split at the level of appointments (16F:15M) is
 well-balanced. Female staff represent 44% of Lecturers (Grades 6/7: 8F:10M) but 64% of senior
 staff below the rank of Professor (Grade 8, SL/Reader: 18F:10M). 40% of our Professors are
 female (8F:12M). The prominence of female Senior Lectureship (9F:5M) and Readership
 promotions (8F:4M) reflects well on support mechanisms we implemented in recognition of the
 professorial gender gap, such as directing specific effort at supporting female staff in career
 planning by encouraging attendance of promotion workshops (15F:7M) and enabling participation
 in University-wide and external support and leadership schemes (S2.2).
 Underrepresented groups: Our recruitment and promotions processes encourage applications
 from staff with protected characteristics in advertisements and calls for applications. Our presence
 on the University’s EDI committee enables contribution to institutional EDI policy decisions
 (REF5a_3.1). We recognise the need to recruit more BAME staff, especially at ECR level; our two
 BAME colleagues (1F:1M, promoted in the cycle) are both at chair level, constituting 10% of our
 professoriate. Disability and gender reassignment are also represented at senior career stage.
 Postdoctoral and ECR support:
 We secured three ESRC fellows (including O’Hagan, Reynolds) and eight PDRAs (with AHRC,
 Connecticut Humanities Institute and Wellcome Trust funding) in the cycle. Postdoctoral scholars
 are supported beyond standard arrangements (office space, mentoring, research budget) through
 outputs draft review and bespoke funding advice. In tune with the Concordat to Support the
 Development of Researchers (see Cardiff’s HR Excellence in Research, REF5a_3.3), our
 postdoctoral support strategy has paid close attention to addressing precarity through School
 policies and collaborative projects such as Dunne’s BA Rising Stars Engagement Award on the
 academic precariat. Dunne established an ECR network on sharing ‘Survival Strategies in the
 Humanities’ with mentoring and peer support and was subsequently invited to act as a Panel
 Judge for the Next Generation Plenary panel of the Shakespeare Association of America (2019),
 and to represent ECRs on the Steering Committee for the second ‘English: Shared Futures’
 conference (postponed to 2021).
 Internally, we are keen to maximise the opportunities offered by multidisciplinary and multi-
 institutional projects to enhance humanities-led versions of the ‘team research’ model by
 developing new cohorts of researchers with experience in collaborative and interdisciplinary

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working. Refugee Wales, which will deliver in the next cycle, involves two PDRAs in
 interdisciplinary team working with partner organisations like the National Museum of Wales
 (S4.2).
 Our policy of encouraging incoming ECRs to plan new initiatives, and of directing inward
 investment to their implementation, enabled achievement of external awards (Dunne and Potts
 both receiving BARSEA awards in 2018), and also led to the launch of our interdisciplinary
 research centre Impact Works (S1.1). ECRs thus play a key role in contributing to the shaping of
 ENCAP’s strategy.
 2.2 Investment in staff
 Appointments: To ensure the sustainability of our research base, 74% of new T&R appointments
 (23:31) were made at Grades 6/7. T&R staff are generally appointed to permanent contracts. Four
 fixed-term T&R appointments represent institutional follow-on funding for an ESRC fellow
 (Reynolds) and three Disglair Lectureships (Cotton, Gilchrist, Roberts; REF5a_2.1.5). We only
 employ fixed-term T&S colleagues to cover research grant buyout where this is required by the
 grant or to cover absence for parental leave where a permanent post is not possible. Five originally
 fixed-term T&S appointments were made permanent at the start of the Covid-19 crisis. Two
 already permanent T&S staff (one appointed pre-2014) were moved to T&R contracts.
 Staff appointments significantly outnumbered (nine) departures via retirement or career moves.
 Former staff included in our submission made a significant contribution to ENCAP’s research
 culture during the period, as key members of research groups (Milesi, Critical and Cultural Theory;
 Coulombeau, CRECS; Robertson, Philosophy) and as senior strategic office holders (Kayman:
 former ENCAP Head of School (HoS) and, until retirement in mid-2019, College Dean of
 Postgraduate Studies, as well as Cardiff lead for the South West and Wales AHRC DTP).
 Training and development: The School contributes to the research training element of the
 University’s induction programme for academic staff (REF5a_3.2.4). ENCAP-specific training and
 support includes both formal (DoR, DoRF, DoI, ECR mentors, line managers) and informal
 research mentoring. The latter is organised through a pool of mentors drawn from senior
 colleagues offering advice on Research & REF (including impact and grant writing), Teaching &
 Learning, Work/Life Balance, Personal/Professional Development, and Citizenship. Staff are
 encouraged to identify and engage with research, impact and research funding mentors outside
 the formal Performance Development Review (PDR) process. Additionally, ENCAP’s DoRF offers
 College-wide training for the AHRC Leadership Fellows scheme, AHRC Research Grants and the
 ESRC New Investigators programme.
 Progression and leadership development: We seek to develop leaders at all levels and
 encourage participation in developmental programmes, such as the Women in Universities
 mentoring scheme, which saw the contribution of six ENCAP mentees and six mentors across
 different career stages. Fourteen staff (academic and professional services) and one Visiting
 Scholar participated in Cardiff’s six leadership programmes, including the Professorial
 Leadership Programme (led by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor with members of the Executive
 Board), which supported the assumption of substantial leadership roles at School, College and
 University levels, including in Internationalisation and institutional REF delivery (REF5a_3.2.4).
 Two further staff were sponsored for external leadership training. ENCAP staff benefitted from,
 and contributed in the capacity of invited ‘role models’ to, the Aurora Women’s Leadership
 programme, run by the Leadership Foundation. One of our key research support colleagues was
 subsequently promoted to a leadership role in the institutional REF team. Of particular significance
 is the steer we provide on the Welsh Crucible Programme for Future Research Leaders, run
 from the University, with ENCAP HoS Willis as Academic Lead offering strategic direction, working
 with HEFCW and six Welsh universities to nurture research diversity and scale up research
 leadership activity across Wales. El Refaie collaborated on an interdisciplinary project that was
 winner of the Welsh Crucible 2011-2015 cohorts and shortlisted in the Innovation category of the
 Wales Social Research Awards. She was subsequently promoted to a Readership and is now
 developing material from the project for a prospective impact case study (‘Using Visual
 Metaphor’).


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Promotions resulted in 14 Senior Lectureships (9F:5M), 12 Readerships (8F:4M) and eight
 personal chairs (2F:6M). Five staff (4F:1M) appointed to ECR posts and/or Lectureships were
 promoted to SL in the same cycle (Beeston, Buerki, Darcy, Pons-Sanz, Potts). The careers of
 female staff received particular enhancement: Smith, originally on a T&S contract, was moved to
 T&R in 2016 and promoted to SL in 2019 at the end of a year’s combined School and University
 research leave. Beeston, appointed to Grade 7 on PhD completion, was promoted to SL in her
 second year while also being awarded a combined School/University-funded year-long sabbatical.
 Durham was promoted from Lecturer to SL to Reader, and Morra (alongside two male colleagues)
 progressed from SL to Reader to personal chair.
 2.3 Support for researchers
 Well-being: Alongside contributing to institutional well-being and work-life balance workstreams,
 ENCAP established a Well-being committee to develop Covid-19 support structures, such as more
 flexible working hours for staff with caring responsibilities, regular online get-togethers to maintain
 a sense of community and share experiences, and a programme of online research-in-progress
 sessions for staff and PGRs. We also added three months to PGR candidature.
 Recognition of staff performance: We regularly showcase publications, funding projects and
 public acknowledgement of outstanding work. Institutionally, of the 21 ENCAP academic and
 professional services staff nominated for Excellence Awards, five were shortlisted as finalists
 under the ‘Rising Star’ and ‘Excellence in Research’ categories, and three staff received awards.
 Research allowance: ENCAP reinvested over £105k p.a. (almost a quarter of its total non-staff
 budget) in research and impact development. Staff (T&R and T&S) had an annual allowance of
 £1,250 (up from £1000 in REF2014), with the opportunity additionally to apply to the School’s
 (competitive) Research Innovation Fund (e.g. funding of £2000 supported the development of the
 ScienceHumanities initiative, enabling it to draw down further external funding and develop
 international partnerships).
 Research time: Research and impact activities were supported with a research time allowance
 of 600 hours (out of 1500 FTE), equivalent to two days per week. T&S staff have 10% allocated
 to Scholarship. In order to maximise research time, staff have considerable latitude in organising
 teaching timetables.
 Research leave: ENCAP offers a rotating package of 1 semester’s leave in 6, followed by 1
 semester in 7 (i.e. 2 semesters’ leave in every 13). Rather than being competitive and selective,
 our scheme operates on a rota basis: we are committed to the principle that a 100% submission
 of research-independent staff requires equitable levels of research leave support for 100% of
 that staff. Leave arrangements are subject to the approval of a detailed project outline with
 strategic and deliverable outcomes. T&S staff can also apply to the scheme; three such leaves
 were granted to develop or enhance engagement and impact activities, including work on autism
 (a prospective case study). ENCAP research leave enabled the completion of REF2021 outputs:
    •   Adorno’s Poetics of Form (SUNY, 2019)
    •   All Bullshit and Lies? Insincerity, Irresponsibility and the Judgement of Untruthfulness
        (OUP, 2020)
    •   The Desert in Modern Literature and Philosophy (EUP, 2020)
    •   Hummingbird (Parthian, 2017)
    •   Hypermodernity and Visuality (Rowman & Littlefield, 2019)
    •   Insistence (Bloodaxe, 2018)
    •   Neo-/Victorian Biographilia and James Miranda Barry (Palgrave, 2018/2019)
    •   Romancing Treason: The Literature of the Wars of the Roses (OUP, 2015)
    •   Visual Metaphor and Embodiment in Graphic Illness Narratives (OUP, 2019)
 School leave was enhanced by a complementary University leave scheme which funded a
 significant number of additional sabbaticals (URLS, S3.2, REF5a_2.1.5).

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our model allows for a deferral of leave in exchange for teaching remission or other forms
 of flexible workload balance. For example, a colleague on teaching remission for case study
 work was granted further relief for deferring leave and was thus able to spend the full academic
 year on research and impact generation. The following year she was awarded an additional
 University-funded sabbatical. Resulting in two years of combined impact and research leave, the
 deferral scheme enabled completion of our ‘Historic illustrations’ case study and substantive work
 towards a new book project.
 While Covid-19 brought challenges (as addressed in the institutional Covid-19 annexe), leave
 agreed for the 2020-21 session (including University Research Leave) proceeded as planned, and
 our School sabbatical scheme continues unchanged in the new cycle.
 2.4 Research students
 ENCAP offers five PhD programmes (Creative and Critical Writing; Critical and Cultural Theory;
 English Literature; Language and Communication; Philosophy). Since 2014 we have increased
 PGR completion (up from 83.5) and recruitment. The cycle saw the completion of 124 PGR
 projects (plus four co-supervised AHRC/DTP-funded completions), with 120 ongoing PhD
 supervisions (31 July 2020).
 Commitment to early researcher support: As junior researchers with the ambition and potential
 to transform international scholarship, and as the future work force that will reinvigorate our
 disciplines – within the academy, the cultural industries, education or the museum sector – our
 doctoral students make a vital contribution to our research culture and are key to our commitment
 to researcher support at all stages of development.
 We recognise the importance of enabling and facilitating the journey into research from its
 earliest starting point. This is exemplified by our contribution to CUROP (Cardiff University
 Research Opportunities Programme, REF5a_3.5), which offers advanced undergraduate students
 a paid opportunity to spend up to eight weeks working with staff on research and impact projects.
 The scheme invested £51,274 into ENCAP students, who contributed to project development
 while gaining key research skills and first experience of ‘team research’ processes. Of the 42
 students, half either applied for or are undertaking further study (8), or achieved postgraduate,
 including MPhil and PhD, degrees (12). An illustration of how early-career development is
 embedded in major collaborative research is the Changing Attitudes in Public Discourse
 project, in the course of which three Language students employed over two academic sessions
 were trained in multi-modal discourse analysis. The bespoke research experience acquired
 enhances students’ career prospects both within and beyond academia: a Literature project that
 involved archival research on Cardiff’s Victorian arcades, resulting in the student designing an
 exhibition and running guided tours for the 2016 British Association for Victorian Studies
 conference hosted by ENCAP (S4.4), subsequently led to an appointment with the BBC. That the
 exposure to the skills, experience and expertise arising from collaborative working with
 researchers also prepares students for engaging with diverse publics is illustrated by Moore’s
 CUROP project on ‘Pattern and the Romantic Imagination: The creative interchange between
 poetry and needlework, 1780-1840’, which supported work with the British Quilt Study Group
 (BQSG), the Quilters’ Guild of the British Isles and the American Museum in Britain, and led to an
 essay and development work towards an exhibition of needlecraft in the Wordsworth circle.
 Doctoral awards: Our students benefit from ENCAP’s participation in the South West and Wales
 AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership and the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Centre. Over
 the current REF cycle, ENCAP has been the lead (11) or co-supervisor (13) School for 24 AHRC
 and 16 ESRC studentships. This includes collaborative doctoral awards like the interdisciplinary
 AHRC studentship (2017-21) in partnership with the National Maritime Museum, Greenwich on
 ‘Sailor Art: Maritime making in the long nineteenth century’. Another collaborative PhD partnership,
 with Queen Alexandra’s Royal Army Nursing Corps Association (QARANC), is linked to one of our
 impact case studies (ICS1, ‘Changing perceptions of creativity, gender and soldiering’). As part of
 the AHRC and ESRC studentship and training investments, our students draw on the courses,
 programmes and resources (libraries, archives, cross-programme networks) within more than a
 dozen individual universities.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Diversity: With an almost equitable (52% female to 48% male) gender split in our REF2021 PGR
 cohort, ENCAP bucks the trend in English studies. As with staff recruitment, we encourage
 applications from underrepresented groups and have a strong international representation (31%),
 with students from 15 countries.
 Recruitment and supervision processes: Applicants are interviewed by the prospective
 supervisor/s and the Director of PGR Studies. AHRC-funded students select co-supervisors from
 two partner institutions within the DTP; monitoring guidelines follow the system in place in the
 institution of primary registration. ENCAP-based students choose or are assigned a primary and
 are allocated a secondary supervisor. Supervision arrangements follow the institutional model (at
 least nine recorded supervision meetings and annual monitoring at two points in the academic
 year). We reflect on feedback arising from annual review of PGR performance as well as through
 the Doctoral Academy blog PRES, where ENCAP’s satisfaction score has averaged 82%.
 Funding support: PGRs are encouraged to engage in professional development activities like
 conference participation and paper delivery, and had access to an individual research budget
 of £1250 over their candidature. For additional support, students could apply for further
 (competitive) funds to the School’s Research Innovation Fund (S2.3). Including annual
 conferences to support skills development in presentation techniques and academic networking,
 ENCAP invested c.£22K p.a. in general PGR support and contributed c £170K p.a. towards
 UKRI-funded scholarships.
 Training: Alongside the generic development opportunities provided by Cardiff’s Doctoral
 Academy (REF5a_3.4), bespoke ENCAP-based training includes researcher support modules
 and sessions on REF, the development of a publications and engagement profile, and
 postdoctoral funding opportunities. We encourage and offer financial support for student-led
 training initiatives such as the ‘Thesis Workshop’, work-in-progress seminars and the annual
 conference, ENCAPsulate, which enables students to present thesis draft material to their peers.
 First-year PGRs in particular gain significantly in confidence, and the conference often acts as a
 catalyst in encouraging them to work on their first publication. More experienced, final-stage PGRs
 may use the event as a means to outline and test their ideas for book publication. A particularly
 notable example is de Bruin-Molé, who shortly after completion secured a contract with
 Bloomsbury with a monograph on Gothic remix culture (‘Frankenfiction’) which sold out prior to
 publication; she moved into a permanent lectureship on the back of this success.
 Professional career development: ENCAP’s PGR support extends beyond research
 development to career enhancement training. In order to enable our students to gain accredited
 professional experience in the academic context, we further enhanced the ‘Learning to Teach in
 Higher Education’ programme, which our students take alongside first-year seminar teaching.
 This two-year Master’s-level module, designed to support second and third-year PGRs with
 developing their small-group teaching skills, is mandatory for all postgraduate tutors in the School.
 Completion of the module leads to HEA Associate Fellow status. Our module is one of the
 longest-established HEA-accredited teacher training programmes available in the UK for PhD
 students. ENCAP’s flagship initiative, adopted as ‘best practice’ for all Schools in the
 College, is now in process of being rolled out across the whole University as part of a new
 formal suite of continuing professional development opportunities.
 Integration into the School’s research culture: Our students are fully embedded in our research
 centres and groups, and contribute to the running of research seminar series. In addition to
 organising over 25 PGR symposia in the cycle, they were key members of Cardiff organising
 teams and thus instrumental in ensuring the success of large-scale international
 conferences. We have also been keen to support PGRs in outward-facing student-led
 initiatives such as the online Creative Writing magazine The Cardiff Review and the multi/cross-
 disciplinary research group Assuming Gender, supported with an annual budget of £750.
 Activities include a research seminar series, film discussion sessions, an Annual Lecture, regular
 symposia, and an online journal (part of Cardiff’s OA journal list).
 The external recognition of our doctoral students attests to the robustness of our support
 structures. Of our 15 PGRs invited to BBCR3/AHRC New Generation Thinkers workshops (2018-
 20), one (Whitehead) was selected to contribute to R3 programming on Dickens. Student awards

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 include the 2019 Breaking Boundaries People’s Choice Award for a Saudi Arabian Higher
 Education Ministry-funded PhD project on ‘The Poetic and Pictorial East in Nineteenth Century
 Europe’. Our PGRs have also been supported in the production of high-quality outputs that
 were shortlisted for or awarded prizes. Examples from Creative Writing include being
 shortlisted for the 2014 Costa Short Story award; gaining the Best Film Award at the 2016 ‘It’s My
 Shout’ programme funded by BBC Wales, S4C and the Arts Council of Wales; attaining second
 prize in the 2016 New Welsh Writing Awards; securing a ‘highly commended’ award in the 2017
 Bridport Prize for poetry; being runner up in the 2017 Neil Gunn Writing Competition; novella
 shortlist for the 2017 Ameri-Cymru Prize; receiving two 2018 Writers Bursaries for creative talent
 in Wales; and achieving ‘best dystopian novella’ in the New Welsh Writing Awards 2019.
 The academic or academic-related destination of many our PhD students is further testament
 to the success of our support culture. Our students have moved from part-time or full-time teaching
 positions in ENCAP and other academic Schools within Cardiff University to funded (including BA)
 postdoctoral research in Birmingham and Exeter; taken up academic-related posts in universities
 (South Wales; Minnesota), Research Councils (AHRC and ESRC) and Welsh Government; and
 have obtained teaching and lecturing positions nationally (Edinburgh, Glasgow and Southampton)
 and internationally (Canada, Germany, Hong Kong, Netherlands, India, Iraq, Japan, Singapore,
 South Korea, Thailand).
 Our commitment to PGR development and support is reflected in two consecutive
 appointments as College Dean of Postgraduate Studies being held by ENCAP staff (Kayman,
 Gossedge). Externally, we have been engaged in the delivery of training and profile
 development opportunities for the wider national and international PGR community. We
 delivered annual doctoral masterclasses (University of Málaga), and took part in ‘speed mentoring’
 sessions (‘English Shared Futures’ conference 2017) and in PGR seminars and discussions on
 academic editing (University of Ghent). Further training involved workshops in linguistics
 (Sheffield), on the postdoctoral jobs market (British Association for Victorian Studies), as well as
 contributions to sessions of the ESRC Festival of Social Science (Bath). With the School of
 Advanced Study (London) and the University of Durham, ENCAP staff delivered the AHRC-funded
 PGR/ECR skills development programme WISE: What Is Scholarly Editing?. International training
 contributions were made on critical thinking (Auckland) and to the University of Warsaw’s first
 PGR-focused symposia series, ‘Rising Stars’.
 2.5 Equality and diversity
 We recognise that a staff and student body that is diverse in ethnicity, nationality, bodily
 experience, gender and sexual orientation, social class, religious affiliation, age, family
 organisation and general life experience is instrumental in helping us sustain a dynamic,
 intellectually stimulating working environment. Our best work as researchers, academic teachers,
 supervisors and administrators is undertaken in conditions that foster the principles of equality and
 diversity and ensure a healthy work-life balance (e.g. emails being restricted to 8am-6pm, and
 research seminars scheduled at different times, including lunchtime, to accommodate a variety of
 staff and student needs). These principles are also the prerequisites for facilitating and maintaining
 our cross-disciplinary, collaborative research practices and the School’s operational models.
 Following REF2014, our policies and processes were reviewed to embed attention to EDI in all
 structures. This is when our EDI Committee was set up; the EDI chair sits on the Research
 Committee, and EDI is a standing item for all School committee agendas. The post of Director
 of Internationalisation was created with the specific remit to increase diversity. A recently
 appointed colleague with previous Athena SWAN panel service and experience of working with
 the Equality Challenge Unit (now AdvanceHE) advises on EDI policies, and another member of
 staff sits on the University EDI committee representing disability. ENCAP’s Athena SWAN
 application for Bronze accreditation, intended for submission in Spring 2020, had to be postponed
 until 2021/22 due to Covid-19.
 Promotion and recruitment materials, for students and staff, include explicit reference to EDI
 matters to extend a welcome to as diverse a pool of applicants as possible, and explicitly
 encourage members of underrepresented groups to make ENCAP their intellectual home. Our
 research has long been engaged with EDI-related concerns (see ICS4-5) and seeks to make

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interventions into the conceptualisation, cultural construction, social engagement with, and policy
 considerations in addressing gender and (trans)sexuality (see work by Beeston, Bigold, Darcy,
 Furneaux, Heilmann, Mandal, Miller, Munford); disability, ill health and age (Aldridge, El Refaie,
 Wray); race and ethnicity in relation to slavery, migration, war and trauma studies (Cotton,
 Mohanram, Plasa); intercultural communication (Butler, Handford, Reynolds); and the ethics of
 discourse and exclusionary practices in social and political interaction (Heffer, Tanesini).
 Maternity/paternity/adoption/parental/carer leave: Eleven staff took 18 periods of family-
 related leave. One colleague on a year’s adoption leave was granted a third semester’s leave and
 accrued a fourth semester via annual leave and ‘Keeping in Touch’ days. Another colleague with
 time-sensitive caring responsibilities abroad was offered a one-semester teaching and
 administrative load in order to facilitate a focus on research while overseas.
 EDI training: Our commitment to Cardiff’s EDI policies, training processes and championing of
 protected characteristics (REF5a_3.1) enhances our own School-specific practices. We have had
 productive input into the University’s approach to EDI and Unconscious Bias training by proposing
 an extension of the training module from line managers and REF output readers to a larger staff
 base (REF5a_3.6). The University-based training module is complemented by an ENCAP
 pilot in which trained staff in turn train further ENCAP colleagues.
 REF processes: We believe that our collaborative practice goes hand-in-hand with shared
 responsibility and collegial interchange. From a small base of senior staff with REF output
 reading responsibilities, we have expanded our internal peer-review and calibration training to
 more than a third of staff. In reflection of our commitment to transparency and inclusion, our
 peer review group is not constituted as a ‘top down’ senior staff initiative, but comprises colleagues
 at all career stages. Our long-term aim is to have a peer review collective that is made up of all
 colleagues, from ECR to senior professor, who, through mutual support and exchange, optimise
 the quality and impact of our research.
 ENCAP has provided the template for the institutional development on REF output
 reviewing processes: the internal reviewing and self-assessment model we designed was
 adopted as best practice by the College and subsequently approved for use of all Schools across
 the University.
 REF decision-making processes: Our selection of outputs complies with the EDI principles
 outlined in Cardiff’s REF2021 Code of Practice (REF5a_3.6) and was guided by the principles of
 excellence, transparency and inclusion, with the additional emphasis within ENCAP on
 ensuring the outputs selection process was reflective of the different stages and rhythms of
 individual researchers across REF periods. For example, a number of staff submitted multiple,
 sustained long-form outputs into REF2014 as the culmination of major programmes of research
 towards the end of the last cycle. Consequently, their output contribution to REF2021 may bear
 resemblance to the developmental phases of new scholarly enquiry; in other cases, the opposite
 might be the case. We view our submission as a collective and inclusive endeavour that
 celebrates our diversity and recognises that the contribution of individual colleagues sits
 across all aspects of the submission (outputs and impacts).
 Section 3 (S3). Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Since August 2013, we have generated total research income of £2,228,575 (a steep rise from
 £1,027,323 in our combined 2014 submission). Our year-in-year increase – from £130,498 in
 2013-2014 to £514,606 in 2019/20 – continues to grow, with £1,327,396 of awards in 2018-20,
 including two notable AHRC awards, totalling £843,645, extending into the next cycle. This
 acceleration in activity and awards bears testament to the effectiveness of our strategy and
 support structures.
 Our research funding enables pioneering work that reaches across our disciplines and boosts
 interaction between them. Our grant projects, our distinctive infrastructure and the facilities of the
 extended University estate come together to provide bespoke support for our key research
 principle of trans-disciplinary creative-critical collaboration.




                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.1 Income
 ENCAP research is funded from a variety of sources: UKRI, major charities and trusts (national
 and international), arts and creative organisations, and government. Our portfolio ranges from
 sole-scholar fellowships (Leverhulme; AHRC Leadership fellowship awarded at the end of the
 cycle), through developmental or seed-corn funding from the British Academy, to large-scale
 collaborative grants from the AHRC, ESRC, and the John Templeton Foundation. Our awards
 demonstrate the value of our innovative creative-critical practices and underpin our ambition to
 continue redefining our fields into the 2020s. This is illustrated by four examples of small-, mid-
 and large-scale grants, across and within our disciplinary fields, awarded from a range of funders:
    •   Creative-critical interventions: Gwyn’s attainment of The Creative Wales Ambassador
        Award (Arts Council of Wales, 2014, £25k) for developing a new model of travel writing
        as a means of cultural, linguistic and literary investigation and a mode of philosophical
        reflection on the nature of genre, identity, nationhood and language, reflects our
        engagement with wider agendas around innovation in form, subject and approach. The
        award, which rewards significant individual achievement in the arts alongside the aim to
        raise the profile of Welsh culture outside of Wales, funded Gwyn’s ‘Unfinished Journey’, a
        series of lectures and poetry readings at literary festivals and universities across Latin
        America, accompanied by interviews with newspapers, magazines and radio programmes.
        Additional sponsors included Wales Literature Exchange and the Club de Traductores
        Literarios de Buenos Aires, Argentina, with supporting partners at the Universidad Austral,
        in Validivia, Chile; the International Poetry Festival of Medellín, Colombia; and the
        Periódico de Poesía, at the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México in Mexico City.
        This was complemented by Gwyn establishing an equivalent public platform in Cardiff with
        Fiction Fiesta, an annual Latin American literary festival designed to introduce diverse
        publics to fiction and poetry in translation through visits by leading novelists, poets,
        publishers and journalists. The project was supported by the British Council, Wales Arts
        International, the Argentine and Mexican Embassies, and, in 2017, by UEFA, to coincide
        with Cardiff hosting the European Champions League Final. Events were also organised
        in collaboration with the Argentine Ambassador’s London residence, the Wales Millennium
        Centre and Hay Festival.
    •   Literature: An example of trans-disciplinary and (inter)national collaboration is The
        ScienceHumanities Initiative led by Willis (supported with three grants from the AHRC
        and Wellcome Trust, 2015-21, £42,938, ENCAP: £27,139.19). Spearheaded by ENCAP
        and the School of History, Archaeology and Religion, ScienceHumanities draws on
        collaboration with colleagues in Biosciences, Mathematics and Medicine. Cross-
        institutionally, the project is one of three flagship research projects within the Bremen-
        Cardiff University strategic partnership, and also involves our regional partners within the
        Great Western 4 (GW4) alliance, Bristol and Exeter. ScienceHumanities has enhanced
        postgraduate provision, delivered new research and impact projects, and advanced novel
        policy approaches by developing best practice models for collaborative interdisciplinary
        research. Supported by ESRC Impact Accelerator Account funding (£34,300), this policy
        work has contributed to the development of wider institutional interdisciplinary agendas
        such as the building of the new Innovation Campus (REF5a_4.4.2), and internationally has
        advised interdisciplinary activity in France, the Netherlands and Chile. The focus on
        ‘Populations’ (2018-19), ‘Energies’ (2019-20) and ‘Healthy Futures’ (2020-21) has
        delivered significant programmes of doctoral and staff exchange, placements and summer
        school/masterclasses with partners in Germany, North America and Australasia.
    •   Work led from Philosophy (Tanesini) funded by the John Templeton Foundation (2017-
        19, c.£180K) marks another space where the collaborative nature of research and impact
        within ENCAP benefitted from the diverse disciplinary range at play. Based on a
        partnership with Psychologists at Bath and Philosophers at Nottingham, Changing
        Attitudes in Public Discourse developed and tested practical interventions to reduce
        arrogance in public debate. The project energised synergies with Language research
        (Heffer) that explored questions of truth, post-truth and ‘bullshitting’ in contemporary
        politics and society. Supported by two cross-School ‘Cardiff Speaks’ public engagement

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        initiatives on ‘Populism and Hurtful Speech’ and ‘Constructing the Welsh Public Sphere’
        (Williams), events included a public debate organised in collaboration with the Welsh
        Assembly at the Senedd on ‘Responding to Populism: education, voting & constructing the
        public sphere’. (2017). A fortnightly (guest) blog series (‘Open for Debate’) engages the
        general public in reflecting on fake news, arrogance and closed-mindedness, trust, and
        empathy, and has garnered responses from 52 countries.
    •   In Language, Knight’s major corpus construction project CorCenCC (2016-20, £1.8m
        AHRC/ESRC) exemplifies ENCAP’s community-driven vision in the context of our location
        in Wales. Following on from WordNet Cymraeg (a database funded by the Welsh
        Government’s Grant Cymraeg scheme that developed new Welsh-language
        technologies in conjunction with a Welsh Stemmer, with a subsequent project on Welsh
        word and term embeddings), CorCenCC enables community users to investigate dialect
        variation or idiosyncrasies of their own language use; professional users to profile texts for
        readability or develop digital language tools; teachers to develop and utilise pedagogic
        tools and materials; and researchers to investigate patterns of language use and change.
        Partners and collaborators included: BBC, S4C, Welsh Government, Say Something
        In.com, the National Dictionary of Wales, the Welsh Language Commissioner, the National
        Library of Wales, CBAC-WJEC (Welsh Baccalaureate and exam board), and HEIs in the
        UK and internationally. The project provides a major tool in addressing Welsh Government
        concerns about Welsh language transmission and use in families (see ICS3).
 Funding not recorded in HESA returns: We secured a range of competitive funding awards for
 the production of (predominantly creative) outputs, associated research requirements and/or
 dissemination to public audiences. Over £77,103 was awarded by the American Philosophical
 Society, Arts Councils of England and Wales, the British Council, Ffilm Cymru, National Lottery,
 Severnside Community Rail Network, Wales Art International, and Wales Literature Exchange.
 Enablers and support mechanisms: Our ability to scale up grant income was underpinned by a
 robust and dynamic support strategy. Research grant planning and application is supported by
 three professional services staff and an internal team of grant advisers and reviewers led by the
 DoR. Staff are encouraged to consult mentors, discuss funding plans with their line manager as
 part of the PDR process, and attend in-School and College/University-run training. In 2017 we
 created the designated role of DoRF (Llewellyn, formerly AHRC Director of Research). The
 training and mentoring programme led by Llewellyn (who also holds an advisory College role)
 facilitated a more targeted approach to research funding; major recent awards are evidence for
 the efficacy of this strategy.
 A further enabler was College and University funding, including £24,999 for a network funding
 initiator (2015); international initiatives funding of £48,280 (2016), and £17,787 for impact
 development (2019), with additional support for a prospective case study. Five awards from
 Cardiff’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (£28,955) supported two impact case studies and
 a ScienceHumanities sub-project.
 3.2 Value-added institutional investment through supplementary University research leave
 awards
 The (competitive) University Research Leave Fellowship scheme (URLS, REF5a_2.1.5)
 invested £392,854 into bids from ENCAP, enhancing School research leave by enabling year-long
 sabbaticals. ENCAP’s high success rate involved 4-6 awards p.a., culminating in eight awards
 in 2018/19 (6F:2M). Our selection process for the scheme – including extensive mentoring and
 application development support – resulted in a total of 24 awards (13F:11M), equivalent to a
 third of our staff receiving leave additional to the School rota.
 URLS allowed for the completion of major book and impact projects for REF2021, such as
    •   The Afterlives of Roland Barthes (Bloomsbury, 2016)
    •   Centenary Barthes conference and establishment of OA Barthes Studies
    •   The Other Tiger: Contemporary Poetry from Latin America (Seren, 2016)


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Nineteenth-century Illustration and the Digital (Palgrave, 2017) and work towards ICS2
    •   The Dynamics of Dementia Communication (OUP, 2020) and work towards ICS4
 Following the URLS’s strategic review in 2018/19, ENCAP continued to perform to a high standard,
 resulting in three Disglair ECR appointments (REF5a_2.1.5; S2.2) to cover seven leave periods
 in 2019-20 and 2020-21. This has supported ECR development, releasing time for funding bids
 (Dunne, AHRC Research, Development and Engagement Fellowship application), yielding a grant
 award (Roberts, Innovate UK, for a Software Service for Predicting and Responding to COVID-19
 Outbreaks), and supporting the completion of three post-REF2021 monographs (Cotton, Gilchrist).
 3.3 Infrastructure and facilities
 Our research, impact activities and postgraduate teaching were supported by sustained
 engagement with the University’s Special Collections and Archives. The archive was the venue
 for MA modules, an annual student conference, and our Romanticist research seminar. Special
 Collections was an important collaborator in visual and illustration studies, such as Victorian digital
 resources. Further collaborative work involved research on the history of the book. Recent archival
 acquisitions (like the W.G. Collingwood family papers with materials related to Ruskin) have
 catalysed new research projects. Thus the Janet Powney Collection of Victorian and
 Edwardian Fiction (initiated and organised by CEIR and catalogued within ENCAP) was a key
 resource for O’Hagan’s ESRC Postdoctoral Fellowship project on ‘Understanding Literacies and
 Class Conflict through the Edwardian Book Inscription’, enabling a digital exhibition on ‘Prize
 Books and Politics: Rethinking Working-Class Life in Victorian Britain’.
 A notable example of how the infrastructure afforded by Special Collections enables new critical
 engagement and creative work is Munford’s Women in Trousers project, which brings
 together images of bloomers, knickerbockers, culottes and all manner of bifurcated or ‘divided’
 garments to tell the story of trouser-wearing women through an online gallery of digital images.
 The visual account of the complex and sometimes contradictory meanings represented by women
 ‘wearing the trousers’ from the 1850s to the 1960s documents the cultural, historical and political
 shifts affecting women’s lives across this period. The archive is designed to be used by
 researchers, students and school-level learners, and includes teaching resources on gender and
 dress history. In line with the ethos outlined in S1 about creative-critical interactions and new forms
 of repurposing artistic interventions, the launch event included an online exhibition of original
 artworks by the artist Anne Thalheim, entitled Astride Two Worlds, inspired by the project, and
 was accompanied by a specially curated trouser display from the National Museum of Wales’
 textile collection.
 ENCAP research has additionally benefitted from Cardiff’s broader facilities. Most important of
 these is CUBRIC (the Cardiff University Brain Research Imaging Centre, £44m investment,
 REF5a_4.4.2). CUBRIC’s sleep laboratory catalysed innovative new research methodologies for
 ScienceHumanities and work in Literature and Visual Cultures in relation to nineteenth-century
 and medieval literary, artistic and scientific accounts of sleep, sleeplessness, insomnia and
 dreams (see outputs by Willis and Leitch [monograph in press]). Literary research on Victorian
 constructions of sleep was able to be placed in a novel conceptual context through personal
 observation of contemporary sleep research in the CUBRIC laboratory. Similarly, large-scale
 Language projects like CorCenCC (as well as digital projects in Literature) have been supported
 in research collaboration with Computer Science.
 Section 4 (S4). Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Sustaining and invigorating our research communities is at the heart of ENCAP’s identity. The
 collaborative spirit that shapes our interdisciplinary practices also energises our partnerships
 locally, nationally and internationally. Our spearheading of collaborations with researchers,
 stakeholders, and diverse publics, the comprehensive nature and impact of our contributions to
 knowledge production and research governance, and the pre-eminent standing of our staff in the
 global community, as evidenced by significant distinctions and major strategic roles, bear
 testament to ENCAP’s prominence as a key player within and across our disciplines.



                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Initiatives like ScienceHumanities demonstrate our interventions into debates and policies
 around the means by which collaborations across disciplines (humanities, biosciences,
 medicine, psychology) might work towards the development of a ‘team research’ approach
 within the humanities and social sciences. An ESRC-funded sub-project, ‘Shaping Best Practice
 in Science-Social Science-Humanities Collaborations’, examined the methods and practices
 of cross-disciplinary collaboration to generate a series of best-practice recommendations to inform
 the future work of practitioners, government bodies, and third sector organisations, which were
 then shared with the Office of the Chief Scientific Advisor for Wales, Arts Council Wales, the Sêr
 Cymru Programme, Cancer Research UK, and HEFCW. The aim in taking this work forward into
 the next cycle is to effect change upon the policies of cross-disciplinary engagement that emerge
 from third-sector and governmental organisations.
 ‘Shaping Best Practice’ is representative of the way in which our approach to research is
 grounded in sustained collaborative practice, engagement with evolving discourses
 surrounding partnership, co-production and co-design of research, and attention to the
 complexities in the relationship between research, practice and creative, cultural and other
 organisations. An example in the context of our location in the capital of Wales is our work with
 the National Museum of Wales (NMW). Building on prior collaboration (Illustration Archive, ICS2)
 and cemented by two successive chairs of the implementation group (Kayman, Llewellyn),
 ENCAP’s leadership of the partnership between Cardiff University and the NMW has generated
 further joint projects (Refugee Wales, S4.2).
 The multiple mutual benefits of sustained local collaboration are illustrated by a Language
 project with the Royal Gwent Hospital (Newport) on effective clinical handover communication
 methods. The subsequent appointment of ENCAP staff to the steering group for collaborations
 with the Aneurin Bevan University Health Board acted as the catalyst for a project on practice
 methods and needs, supported by the ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (£15,000), which in turn
 led to an ESRC-funded Collaborative Doctoral Award studentship.
 In the broader national context, ENCAP assumed a key role in collaborative projects within the
 GW4 partnership with initiatives like Remediating the Archive. Funded by the GW4 ‘Building
 Communities’ Initiator Award scheme, this project supported two workshops,
 a JISC/GW4 hackday, development of an online resource, and a continuing/live database of
 expertise and resources. In a second example, we delivered on aspects of the Creative Industries
 strand of the interdisciplinary AHRC/GW4-funded Bridging the Gap project, focusing on the
 creative economy, heritage, modern languages and environmental humanities, in collaboration
 with the National Trust, Bristol Watershed, Ffilm Cymru, National Theatre Wales and NMW.
 An important enabler of international collaboration is our Visiting Scholar programme. We
 hosted 152 visitors, from PhD students to senior academics, including a BA Visiting Fellow
 (University of South Pacific, Fiji), from overseas institutions in Australia, Canada, China, Finland,
 France, Germany, The Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, South Korea, and the USA. Research
 visits frequently originated from and further developed collaborative international networks, such
 as two ENCAP colleagues being invited to join a three-year (2018-21) Spanish-government
 funded research project led by the University of Málaga.
 The most notable example of the vitality of our international collaboration is ENCAP’s joint
 research on interculturality with partners in Japan, which has been instrumental in opening
 up wider economic and business concerns in relation to tourism and engineering education. A
 heritage project on ‘Children’s Fantasy Literature and Japanese Fantasy Tourism, in Japan and
 the Cotswolds’ (supported by the Japan Foundation Endowment Committee and involving a series
 of lectures, visiting classes and symposia contributions at four Japanese universities) consolidated
 collaborative research plans that will see delivery in the next cycle. Butler’s literary research on
 the heritage and experience economy in Japan and its engagement with British literature as a
 cultural export is complemented by Handford’s partnership with multinational construction
 companies in Japan in collaboration with international colleagues in the social sciences and
 engineering, members of the Tokyo-Warwick research group, and the Deans’ Forum (a network
 of leading international engineering institutes, such as Oxford, Cambridge, Tokyo, UCB, KTH,

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ETH, MIT, and companies including IBM, Rolls Royce, Dyson, Hitachi and Scania). The
 opportunity for enhanced relationships with Cardiff’s partners resulted in a (staff and student)
 mobility exchange with Leuven University. The collaboration has yielded an influential team-
 authored publication that conceptualises a new model for improving intercultural and professional
 communication for Japanese engineers operating in international environments, offering good
 potential for impact development.
 4.2 Wider contributions to the research base, society and the economy
 Our impact work demonstrates the range, scope and depth of our engagement with social,
 medical, public sector, educational and cultural life. This is reflected in nominations for prestigious
 impact prizes such as the Emerald Real Impact Award (Wray, 2019) for ‘Mobilising Research Into
 Action’ in the field of dementia communication. Capitalising on our expertise in healthcare
 research, and supported by AHRC Image Gallery and Being Human Festival funding, a project
 led by Willis on The Conditions of Seizures engaged third-sector organisations focussed on
 epilepsy, alongside artists and other creative professionals connected to the epilepsy community,
 enhancing their work on representation, stigma, and public communication. An ongoing impact
 project is El Refaie’s work on visual metaphor, which has led to the development of DrawingOut,
 an innovative patient support tool accessible online and through workshops. Creating new
 channels of communication and self-advocacy for individuals with conditions such as infertility,
 endometriosis, ME and kidney disease across the UK and in Zambia, the tool has been adapted
 for use with victims of violent conflict in Myanmar.
 It is our work with disadvantaged groups – dementia sufferers, individuals with learning
 difficulties or chronic illness, refugees – that we consider our most significant contribution to
 society. This is illustrated by our Creative Writing team’s engagement with different learner groups,
 in particular Rhys’s work on ‘Representations of the Autistic Experience’. Supported by the
 Arts Council of Wales and the National Lottery, Rhys’s plays on autism, young adult development
 and ‘mate crime’ address policy concerns in the National Assembly of Wales around the protection
 of vulnerable adults, and have been sponsored by a Member of the Senedd. The plays have
 produced important benefits for people with autism, their families, carers and wider support
 networks, and UK creative industries, by expanding public discourse about, and deepening
 understanding of, the challenges experienced by autistic people and their families, engaging with
 social care professionals and support organisations, including the National Autistic Society, and
 acting as a catalyst for the professional development of the lead actor. A third play is in planning,
 and we anticipate this work leading to an impact case study.
 ENCAP’s attention to underrepresented and disadvantaged communities is also evidenced by
 Refugee Wales: The Afterlife of Violence. Overseen by Mohanram with Co-I Weedon (ENCAP
 Emerita) and supported by two PDRAs, this ongoing AHRC-funded project (2019-22, £624K) in
 collaboration with NMW enables refugees to articulate their changing experience of war, flight and
 integration into a new society; to nuance and expand trauma and memory studies by including
 non-Western subjects of trauma; and to produce knowledge that will contribute to better public
 understanding, policymaking and practice in relation to refugee experience.
 Our commitment to our civic mission is complemented by our contribution to the creative
 economy, as illustrated by Mandal’s Jekyll 2.0: Embodying the Gothic Text. Supported with
 two AHRC REACT awards (2013; 2015: £50k), this digital project combined expertise in Gothic
 literature with Bristol-based design SME Slingshot to develop an interactive installation (Jekyll)
 and game (Black Maze) that enabled public audiences to experience a Gothic sensorium.
 Showcased at gaming festivals, Black Maze challenged players to rethink the relationship between
 the human body and technology through its use of bio-data and heartbeats of players in interaction
 with the gaming experience. Collaborative outreach included talks for business networking events,
 schools outreach initiatives and interactive workshops aimed at postgraduates around the UK, as
 well as engagement with other prospective partners (e.g. Yello Brick, Cardiff; StoryJuice,
 Plymouth) and doctoral supervisions in the emergent field of gamification and literary culture
 (2017-19, 2019-).




                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Models of engaging diverse communities and publics
 Public engagement is organically embedded in ENCAP’s research practices, as reflected in
 regular contributions to public festivals (Cheltenham, Hay) and the media, in print (Aeon,
 Conversation, Guardian, Evening Standard, Independent, New Statesman, The Quietus) or on
 radio or TV (BBC Radio 3, 4, 5; BBC Wales, Radio Birmingham; Radio Coventry; Radio Cymru;
 S4C documentaries; Sky Arts; the World Service). Our research seeks to engage diverse
 audiences and stakeholders, ranging from literary consultancy for the BBC One Series Dickensian
 and philosophy workshopping with actors in the Welsh-language soap opera Pobol Y Cwm
 (S4C/BBC Studios), to public debates on Brexit and presenting to the 2016 meeting of the Cardiff
 United Nations Association on the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia on
 issues of linguistics and law.
 We organise a range of creative-critical platforms:
 Our Cardiff BookTalk series provides engagement opportunities for PGRs, and delivers
 discussion events that place into dynamic interplay academic perspectives across a range of
 disciplines and readers’ responses to classic and contemporary fiction.
 The Cardiff Poetry Experiment brings experimental poetry to a wider audience while fostering
 connections between poets and collaborations with other bodies, such as the Glasfryn Seminars,
 Ghost Jam, Poetry Wales, the Welsh Enemies Project, and Seren Poetry Festival.
 Grangetown Philosophy Café: Organised in the most ethnically diverse and disadvantaged ward
 in Wales as part of the University's wider engagement scheme, this community café project was
 inspired by local residents’ interest and addresses subjects that encourage members of the
 community to reflect on their lived collective experience.
 4.4 Wider influence: Contributions to the discipline and international recognition
 Funding bodies and research councils: Our commitment to advancing national and
 international research agendas in the arts and humanities has been underpinned by the
 assumption of major responsibilities in our work with key funding bodies and research councils.
 Heilmann was a sub-panellist for REF2014 (SP29) and now acts as a Deputy Chair of SP27,
 while Llewellyn held the office of Director of Research for the AHRC and has since served on a
 number of ERC grant boards chairing multi-national funding initiatives, including two rounds of the
 2019 EU-funded HERA calls involving 24 EU funding agencies. The significance and time
 commitment of such leadership roles are recognised in our workload model, and our support
 mechanisms have in their turn ensured that mentorship and training processes are informed by
 senior strategic experience.
 Alongside such senior interventions, ENCAP has a sustained record of dynamic contribution to
 major international funding programmes, involving standing membership of the AHRC Peer
 Review College (Furneaux, Heilmann, Mandal, Robinson, Sullivan, Tanesini, Willis); Australian
 Research Council College of Assessors (Heilmann); British Academy (Willis), ESRC and ESRC
 CDT Peer Review Colleges (Durham, Knight, Wray); Irish Research Council (Irvine, Moore);
 UKRI Future Leadership Fellows Review College (Llewellyn); Wellcome Trust (Willis).
 ENCAP staff have advised national and international funding bodies, ranging across the Arts
 Council Wales; Austrian Science Fund; Belgian Research Foundation; British Academy; British
 Council; Carnegie Trust; Czech Science Foundation; DAAD and DFG (Germany); ERC (Horizon
 2020; Marie Curie); Estonian Research Council; Hungarian Research Council; Israel Science
 Foundation; Leverhulme; MRC; National Science Foundation; Netherlands Organisation for
 Scientific Research; Polish Research Council; Portuguese Ministry of Economics and Culture;
 Rannis-Icelandic Research Fund; Research Foundation Flanders; Research Promotion
 Foundation, Cyprus; SSHRC (Canada); Swiss National Research Foundation.
 Research consultancies and assessments: We acted as invited assessors on 44 appointments
 and professorial promotions panels, including for overseas institutions in Australia, Canada,
 Denmark, Finland, France, Germany and the USA. Additionally, senior staff (Handford, Heffer,
 Heilmann, Llewellyn, Willis) undertook research consultancies, including REF and research-



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 quality-related advisory work, for a large number of HEIs in the UK and internationally (ANU, Hong
 Kong, NUI Galway, Tokyo).
 Fellowships: The prominent international reputation of our staff has resulted in significant
 distinctions. ENCAP’s six Fellows of the Learned Society of Wales represent our four disciplines
 (Gramich [recently retired], Heilmann, Tanesini, Thomas, Walford Davies, Wray). Four of these
 served (including as chair) on three LSW committees. Seven staff are Fellows of the English
 Association (Furneaux, Heilmann, Llewellyn, Sullivan; recently retired: Coyle, Gramich,
 Kayman); two are Fellows of the International Association of University Professors of English
 (Heilmann, Pons-Sanz). Wray is a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences, Webber was a
 member of Council at the Royal Institute of Philosophy and two Literature colleagues were
 appointed Fellows of the Royal Historical Society (Sullivan) and the Royal Society of Arts
 (Willis).
 Prizes: Our Creative Writers achieved two Wales Book of the Year awards (Darcy, Hughes). Other
 awards include: Winner of Edward Stanford Award for Fiction with a Sense of Place (Hughes);
 The Writers’ Trust of Canada Journey Prize (Keevil), The O. Henry Award (for stories; Hughes)
 and the Sir Karl Popper Prize for 2016 from the British Journal for the Philosophy of Science
 (Irvine).
 Major roles and executive responsibilities in Learned Societies and research networks
 (entailing Chair/President, Advisory Council, Book Prize coordinator/judge, Grant Advisory Board,
 Membership Secretary, Secretary, Treasurer, Trustee roles) include: Alzheimer’s Society (Wray);
 Analysis Trust (Shackel); British Association for Applied Linguistics (Knight, Potts, Spilioti); British
 Association for Romantic Studies (Mandal); British Association for Victorian Studies (Heilmann);
 British Comparative Literature Association (Robinson); British Philosophical Association
 (Tanesini); British Society of Aesthetics (Paris); British Society for Ethical Theory (Webber); British
 Society for Literature and Science (Willis); Corpus Linguistics (Fontaine); European and
 International Systemic Functional Linguistics Associations (Fontaine); Institute of English Studies
 (Potts); Institute of Philosophy (Tanesini); International Association of Languages and Intercultural
 Communication (Reynolds); Literature Wales (Walford Davies; Mohanram); MLA: Opera and
 Musical Performance (Morra); Réseau des Barthésiens (Badmington); Royal Institute of
 Philosophy (Irvine, Tanesini, Webber); Society for Literature, Science and the Arts in Europe
 (Willis); Society for Renaissance Studies (Sullivan); UK Sartre Society (Webber); UK Society for
 Women in Philosophy (Tanesini); Viking Society for Northern Research (Phelpstead).
 ENCAP staff have held a range of writing residencies (including Cill Rialaig Artist Retreat,
 Ireland) and visiting scholarships/fellowships at ANU; Huntington Library, Lewis Walpole
 Library; Universities of Göttingen, Jadavpur (Kolkata), Leuven, Manitoba, Munich, Nehru (Delhi),
 Sydney; Tokyo; Toronto, Vienna.
 Our expertise is regularly sought at key conferences. ENCAP staff delivered 225 keynotes and
 plenaries (91 international) and presented 298 guest and public lectures (113 international).
 The international presence of our research includes the translation of outputs into Chinese,
 Italian, Macedonian, Norwegian, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish and Turkish.
 The REF cycle saw a dedicated programme of ENCAP-led or co-organised conferences,
 symposia and workshops (95 in total). Major international conferences, organised in
 collaboration with key subject associations and/or key academic bodies or stakeholders
 include, in annual sequence:
    •   2015: ‘Roland Barthes at 100’: supported by the Institut français Royaume-Uni, this
        centenary event saw the launch of Barthes Studies. Later that year ENCAP hosted
        ‘Romantic Imprints’, the largest annual British Association for Romantic Studies
        conference to that date.
    •   2016 was a particularly productive year, with three major events which all constituted the
        largest in the association’s history. The annual British Association for Victorian Studies
        conference, ‘Consuming (the) Victorians’, was accompanied by a Dickensian exhibition
        co-curated with the Charles Dickens Museum, and the Roald Dahl Centenary conference
        provided access to manuscript and visual material from the Dahl archive at Great

                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Missenden. The 90th Joint Session of the Aristotelian Society and the Mind
        Association was flanked by the annual conferences of the British Society for the
        Philosophy of Science and the British Society for Ethical Theory.
    •   In 2017 our venue moved to London for the ‘Britain, Canada and the Arts: Cultural
        Exchange as Postwar Renewal’ conference, run in partnership with the British Film
        Institute, the National Film Board of Canada, the Institute of English Studies, the Canadian
        High Commission and the Canada-UK Foundation.
    •   In 2018, Cardiff hosted the annual Applied Linguistics and Professional Practice
        conference. Supported by the ESRC, the event brought together scholars and
        practitioners working in mediation, management, business, law, journalism, education,
        healthcare, social care, therapy, translation and interpreting.
    •   2019 completed our cycle of world-leading conferences with the four-day International
        Corpus Linguistics conference, which included a British Council-sponsored colloquium
        in conjunction with the UK Association for Language Testing and Assessment. With its
        app-based setup, the event also paved the way for greener practices, ensuring a paperless
        and plastic-free environment.
 The practice of shaping our research fields goes hand-in-hand with our commitment to PGR
 development and support. We have externally examined 131 PhDs (32 overseas, including
 Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Greece, Hong Kong, Iceland, India, Ireland, Netherlands,
 New Zealand, Pakistan, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain).
 ENCAP’s leading role in sustaining the health of our disciplines and revitalising the profession is
 also reflected in the (co-)editorship of journals and book series. Among the journals are
 Arthurian Literature; Barthes Studies (OA); Children’s Literature in Education; Essays and Studies;
 International Journal of Welsh Writing in English; Journal of Corpora and Discourse Studies;
 Journal of Literature and Science (OA); Journal of World Languages; The Library; Lingua; Revue
 Roland Barthes; Romantic Textualities (OA); Scintilla; Year’s Work in Critical and Cultural Theory.
 Book series include ‘Emerald Studies in Digital Cultures’; ‘Critical Perspectives on Theory,
 Culture and Politics’ (Rowman & Littlefield); ‘Gender and Genre’ (Routledge); ‘Gothic
 Originals’ (University of Wales Press); ‘History of Feminism’ (Routledge); ‘New Approaches to
 English Historical Linguistics’ (Palgrave); ‘Routledge Advances in Functional Linguistics’; ‘Viking
 Society Text Series’. ENCAP staff are represented on 70 editorial boards and carried out 1,004
 peer-reviews for journals and publishers.
 Conclusion
 The diversity and momentum of our interventions into and across our disciplines speak to the
 strengths of ENCAP’s vision and ambition. Alert to identifying opportunities and keen to address
 challenges in our fields, we are committed to setting new research agendas and to sustaining,
 developing and supporting research leadership across all career stages, in close cooperation with
 our local, national and international partners. Our structures are invested in supporting trans-
 disciplinarity, an inclusive environment, and collaborative working practices as a means of testing
 boundaries and exploring innovative ways of thinking creatively and critically. Our research reflects
 our ethos of experimenting with new forms of output and new models of knowledge production in
 order to identify alternative ways of delivering transformative impact within and beyond our
 communities.




                                                                                              Page 19
