Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Swansea University

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The UoA of English Language and Literature (ELL) combines expertise from two departments:
Applied Linguistics, and English Literature and Creative Writing, both located within the College of
Arts and Humanities. The UoA has 29 full-time and part-time Category A submitted staff (24.2 FTE)
and 81 research students.

Our research and impact strategy reiterates and expands the aims presented to REF2014:

We have maintained our world-leading and internationally excellent research in literature,
linguistics and creative writing, particularly in Welsh writing in English, language acquisition,
medieval literature and gender studies.

In addition, our priorities for this census period were to:

      consolidate and extend impact
      support interdisciplinarity
      develop existing strengths in creativity and digital humanities
      diversify income streams
      develop open access and open research

Major research achievements during the census period reflect the UoA’s leading roles in
collaborative and interdisciplinary research. These include the completion of a national corpus of
contemporary Welsh (CorCenCC), the open access publication of a digital edition of the letters of
Elizabeth Montague (1718-1800) and the publication of the groundbreaking Cambridge History of
Welsh Literature. The extended impact of our research is visible in national education planning
through the new literature curriculum for the GCSE English Literature in Wales from 2015 and the
literature components of the new Curriculum for Wales for 2022. These will see Welsh writing in
English taught as part of the national curriculum in Wales for the first time.

Research Centres and Groups

Research is organised around research centres and interdisciplinary research groups. ELL staff
move between these centres and groups and actively collaborate on interdisciplinary projects with
staff from other fields.

CREW (Centre for Research into the English Literature and Language of Wales). Founded in
1996, CREW has unrivalled expertise in Welsh Writing in English and spearheads an often
interdisciplinary programme of research in Welsh culture which includes leading a national Wales
Studies initiative. Major projects include The Cambridge History of Welsh Literature (2019) and the
book series Writing Wales in English founded by CREW in 2004 (31 volumes to date), which together
are shaping the field. A Digital Literary Atlas of Welsh Writing in English, with Cardiff school of
Geography and funded by AHRC, has created an interactive online map of large collections of
novels, and deep maps of twelve key texts. The Centre’s expertise in Dylan Thomas underpins our
Impact Case Study (ICS) Dylan Live, The Centenary Edition of the Collected Poems of Dylan
Thomas (2016), the University’s sponsorship of the International Dylan Thomas Prize for Literature
(launched in 2006) and the establishment of the DylanED outreach programme. CREW staff also

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
work closely with other centres, for instance on projects with GENCAS on Welsh women’s writing
and the innovative recovery of LGBTQ literature, and with MHRC on disability and industrial writing
(which are outlined below).

The LRC (Language Research Centre), established in 2010, is led by Applied Linguistics with
membership from Welsh and Modern Languages, Health and Human Sciences, as well as other
institutions in the UK and overseas. LRC hosts three main interdisciplinary research groups. The
Applied Linguistics and Welsh Group (ALAW) directs a strategic emphasis on language matters
in Wales, harnessing the momentum of a large collaborative ESRC/AHRC award
(www.corcencc.org) to create a hub for research on bilingualism policy, pedagogy (collaborative
ESRC DTP scholarship), assessment (with the WJEC exam board), and social inclusion
(multiculturalism and multilingualism in Wales). The Lexical Studies and Language Acquisition
Group works on language processing, translation, and psycholinguistics (including collaboratively,
with EPSRC block grant funding). Their work has been boosted by investment in a state-of-the-art
interpretation suite and an Applied Linguistics laboratory, with eye-tracking and reaction-time
equipment. The Security, Safeguarding and Policing Group work with partners in criminology,
law, computer science, politics and psychology to produce potentially high-impact outputs relating to
online grooming (with NSPCC). The LRC also contributes to ELL’s growing work in the medical
humanities, via funded research in multilingualism and dementia and early linguistic markers of
future Alzheimer’s disease.

The CMG (Creative and Media Writing Group) brings together creative and critical practitioners. It
makes a substantial contribution to contemporary Welsh culture, as evidenced by the Making Ethnic
Minority Women Visible ICS, while it maintains an international reputation with practice-based
research across a full range of genres. It was strengthened in 2016 by the creation of a new Chair
of Creativity (Sheers) whose high-profile writing across literary, performance and media genres
complements existing expertise, while his work across the University has fostered interdisciplinary
creative projects including two new Creativity Fellows. The group have won large grants from the
Arts Council of Wales and other arts funders, including Donahaye’s prestigious Creative Wales
Award for ’Slaughter’. Practitioners combine high profile work, published by leading publishers and
produced by the BBC (R4, R2, BBC1, BBC2, BBC4, including a BAFTA Cymru Award and BAFTA
UK nomination), Bristol Old Vic, National Theatre Wales and Theatr Cadair.

GENCAS (Centre for Research into Gender Culture and Society) was established in 2004. Led
by English Literature it draws members from classics, history, modern languages, politics, Welsh
and media studies. Major research projects include an open access digital edition of the letters of
Elizabeth Montague, EMCO: Elizabeth Montague Correspondence Online, with partners in
Oxford Brookes, Kings College London, the Huntingdon Library, California, and funding from AHRC,
MHRA, Foyle Foundation, and large philanthropic donations which led to the establishment of a
charity in the project’s name. A collaboration with CREW on the Victorian Welsh writer, Amy Dillwyn
gave rise to the ICS on Queering Amy Dillwyn, complementing the drive by the new Director
(Magnani) to champion equality and diversity.

MEMO (Centre for Medieval and Early Modern Research) brings together scholars from literature,
history, modern languages and Welsh. Its interdisciplinary feminist project The Medieval Enclosed
Garden (Leverhulme Trust) brought together literature specialist McAvoy with two research
assistants from the history of medicine. The team participated in many public engagement events
and have advised the National Parks, National Botanical Gardens and others on the establishment
of medieval gardens. With collaborators at Oxford, MEMO has established the flourishing new
Marjorie Kemp Society and hosted two Leverhulme Visiting Professors.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The MHRC (Medical Humanities Research Centre) was formalised in 2018 out of the earlier Health
Humanities Research Group. Led by English Literature, MHRC drives research into health, well-
being, disease, culture, literature and history. Two new appointments were made 2017 to co-direct
the centre, with Kallas, a specialist in medieval women’s health and literature joined by an expert in
medical history. Existing projects in this area, including the history-literature Disability and
Industrial Society Wellcome Trust project, came to a successful conclusion in 2016. The influence
of the latter – a collaboration between Swansea, Glasgow Caledonian, Strathclyde and Aberystwyth
– is still being felt, via permanent and touring exhibitions, and in the interdisciplinary monograph
Disability in Industrial Britain (2020). MHRC hosted a symposium on ‘Bees, Climate and Health
across History’ with Cardiff University and one on Resilience with Bristol University in 2019, which
led to the choice of ‘Resilience’ as the theme of the Social History of Medicine Biennial conference.

Some common themes emerge from the collaboration between centres and research groups,
including the UoA’s unrivalled expertise in Welsh writing in English, the study of language acquisition
in Wales and Wales-facing impact in the digital humanities, which is supported by CODAH (Centre
on Digital Arts and Humanities), bringing together researchers from across the College of Arts and
Humanities and computer science. This was boosted by the appointment in 2018 of a new
Lecturer in Contemporary Writing and Digital Culture (Pak) and two Digital Humanities officers
based in Information systems and services. Significant digital humanities projects include CREW’s
Digital Literary Atlas, GENCAS’s Elizabeth Montague Correspondence Online, and a series of LRC
digital projects, particularly in collaboration with Criminology.

Open Access, Open Research and Research Integrity

The UoA has embraced the expansion of gold open access publishing, funded by external sources.
Staff have published a Wellcome funded gold OA monograph (Disability in Industrial Britain), an OA
monograph on Terraforming and several gold OA articles in journals including the fully OA journals
Neo-Victorian Studies, which is edited and published at Swansea. Distinct contributions to open
research include the Elizabeth Montague Correspondence Online project which makes freely
available a vast transatlantic archive of letters, complete with scholarly editorial apparatus. The
CorCenCC corpus of contemporary Welsh is also open source and freely accessible. Current
projects include CREW’s transatlantic digitisation project, Digital Dylan Thomas, which will make
available the poet’s archives in Texas and Wales and investment in a publicly accessible analogue
archive of Welsh writing in English.

Research integrity training is compulsory for staff, as is unconscious bias training for staff involved
in recruitment or REF management. There is a College level research ethics committee (with
membership from the UoA) while members of the LRC have served on the University’s Research
Integrity and Ethics Committee. All student research projects and dissertations now require research
ethics approval on commencement. Continuous professional development courses range from
managing project finance and pathways to engagement and impact to peer reviewing and research
project ethics assessment.

In line with the University’s Code of Practice, the team who decided on the final selection of
outputs received mandatory unconscious bias training as well as REF specific training on the fair
and transparent selection of outputs. The submission comprises the one best-quality output from
each Category A submitted staff member with the balance made up of the best-quality outputs from
the available pool of outputs, including outputs of eligible former colleagues.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Impact Strategy and Delivery

Our research contributes significantly to public knowledge and drives social, cultural and economic
gains. Our impact strategy builds on the REF2014, in which we were ranked joint first in the UK. It
focuses on informing policy with national and international government; influencing arts funding
in Wales, providing new content for the creative industries, arts practitioners, programme
makers and heritage and tourism sectors, fostering civic engagement and awareness through
direct public engagement. Collaboration and co-creation with research users and beneficiaries
has been particularly important as evidenced in our Impact Case Studies.

ELL research has a longstanding record of impact on government policy particularly educational
policy within Wales. LRC and CREW staff provided detailed research and evidence to national
government, including an independent report on ‘Arts in Education’ (September 2013) and the Welsh
Government funded Rapid Evidence Assessment of ‘Effective methods and approaches in second
language teaching’ (2017-18). These respectively fed into the Donaldson ‘Shared Futures’ report
and the resultant Curriculum for Wales, which, from 2022, will ensure the inclusion of Welsh
writing in English at all stages of learning. LRC staff contributed to Welsh-language
assessment tools while CREW, with funding from Literature Wales, Learned Society of Wales and
the Books Council of Wales, created extensive resources for teachers of the Welsh writing in English
component of the new WJEC GCSE.

The Security, Safeguarding and Policing group in LRC have produced potentially high-impact
outputs relating to online grooming (with NSPCC) which has fed into public policy; criminality and
crypto-drug markets (with UN Interregional Crime and Justice Research Institute); online jihadism
(National Counter Terrorism Policing; funded by GIFCT/ Royal United Service for Defence and
Security Studies Project); and language in the Youth Justice System (Leverhulme-funded).

CREW staff continue to lead or advise the major literature and arts funders of Wales including Arts
Council of Wales (National Adviser), Books Council of Wales (Chair, and Chair of the English-
Language Grants Panel) and Literature Wales (Critical Friend). CREW’s continuing collaboration
with the arts, heritage and tourism sectors included curated and co-curated exhibitions at the
National Museum of Wales, the National Waterfront Museum, Swansea, the National Library of
Wales and the Senedd (Welsh Parliament). CREW also worked with local and national government
and arts and heritage organisations on events marking the centenary of Dylan Thomas during 2014,
including Dylan Live outlined in ICS 1. Other collaborations included work on medieval gardens
with the National Trust and a continuing collaboration with the British Library’s British Accents and
Dialects project, which is underpinned by two sound archives, one of which is CREW’s internationally
acclaimed Survey of Anglo-Welsh Dialects. Significant contributions to the Hay Literary Festival by
ELL staff have been consolidated since 2018 by Swansea’s role as Hay Festival Education
Partner. Alongside several high profile festival appearances by ELL staff during the census period,
Bilton and Donahaye have participated in the Hay Festival Writer at Work Scheme and Gower has
been a Hay Festival International Fellow.

We extended our impact in the creative industries. The appointment of a Professor of Creativity
fosters cross-disciplinary collaboration and partnerships with the creative industries, for instance
via new creativity fellowships. The CMG have contributed to work produced by Welsh National
Opera, National Theatre, Theatr y Cadair, Bristol Old Vic and BBC (R4, R2, BBC1, BBC2, BBC4),
while performances based on our literary research have been created by Lighthouse Theatre, Living
Histories and Dylan Live. The Library of Wales classics, a book series commissioned in 2004 by
Welsh Government based on CREW research, edited by CREW staff, and published by Parthian
Books who benefit from an office on campus, reached its 50 th volume (and 95,000 sales); its poetry

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
anthology was adopted as a set text at GCSE from 2015, with CREW creating new resources to
support teaching in this area.

In addition to the contribution of creative writers to theatre and TV, UoA research has underpinned
a wide variety of broadcast content, particularly documentary and arts programming, with CREW
a go-to centre for commentary on Welsh writing in English. Academics have made television
appearances on BBC Wales and S4C and numerous radio appearances on BBC Wales, Radio
Cymru, BBC R3 on BBC R4’s ‘Forgotten History’ programme on Idris Davies.

Public engagement is at the heart of centrally organised festivals and events in which the UoA
takes a prominent role, including the annual AHRC Being Human Festival, the British Science
Festival (2016), the International Dylan Thomas Prize, and DylanED schools programme and a
three-year programme of University Centenary events curated by our Professor of Creativity. Staff
also contribute to civic engagement through numerous public lectures and workshops.

Research Plans

The UoA will reinforce its profile as home to world-leading high-impact research communities and
to individual researchers who value connectivity, between disciplines and research groups, and also
with students, stakeholders, and the public. Across the UoA research students and ECRs will be
nurtured, while outreach work with schoolteachers and pupils, and via education policy, will help
foster the foundations of the discipline. We will maintain the world-leading status of CREW alongside
cutting-edge research in the fields of linguistics, gender studies and medieval literature and medical
humanities, and promote informal research clusters, for instance in modernism and contemporary
writing, particularly in the area of environmentalism and climate change. Our commitment to Open
Research will remain a priority, delivered primarily through digital projects.

Staff in ELL will continue to value and support excellence and leadership in research in the
interdependent and increasingly interdisciplinary fields which make up our UoA. CREW will continue
to lead in the creation of the newly recognised interdisciplinary field of ‘Wales Studies’ including the
formation of a Wales Studies Network under the aegis of the Learned Society of Wales.
Succession planning will be factored in to ELL appointments to ensure this research centre and the
UoA’s excellence in this field is maintained.

ELL’s commitment to diversity, in all its forms, partly grows out of CREW’s historic engagement with
decolonialising the curriculum and with the wider implications of decolonisation. This commitment
will continue to inform our work across the UoA. Building on The Medieval Enclosed Garden project,
MEMO and GENCAS will develop projects on intersectionality and on women’s health and medicine,
and will continue to explore synergies with MHRC, particularly in the field of disability studies and in
work on resilience and wellbeing.

LRC will extend language acquisition and Welsh language research with an AHRC Follow-on
Funding application to use CorCenCC (the national corpus of contemporary Welsh) for research for
pedagogic and assessment material. LRC will also work with MHRC to extend existing partnerships
with health care providers for research projects focusing on use of vocabulary in medical contexts.
The Applied Linguistics and Welsh group will build on partnerships with policy makers and
practitioners to contribute to the new curriculum for Wales 2022, and the Welsh Government
ambition for 1 million Welsh speakers by 2050. LRC will continue to grow its capacity in eye-tracking
and reaction time research, further developing national and international partnerships with visiting
scholars (UCL, Kaiserslautern, Germany and The Arctic U of Norway).


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Impact will continue to be a key UoA strategic priority. ELL will contribute to the University’s
commitment to drawing on its industrial roots, its multilingual communities, and Swansea’s City of
Sanctuary status (enhanced by its new ‘University of Sanctuary’ identity), to co-create research
questions, to develop civic engagement and to promote active citizenship.

 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development:

The UoA comprises 29 full and part-time staff (24.2 FTE) on research pathways, and 81 full and
part-time research students in 2019-20 (an increase on REF 2014). Since REF 2014, ten new
permanent appointments have been made to support strategic priorities, six of whom are
ECRs. Two of these, made in 2016-17, were to lead the new departments of Applied Linguistics
(Fitzpatrick) and English Literature and Creative Writing (Barnaby). The two departments remain
closely aligned, while staff benefit from line managers supporting fewer staff which has led to
improved well-being in both departments. These new, strategic appointments have strengthened a
number of research priorities. Two ECR appointments in medieval and renaissance literature (Kallas
and Price) have consolidated both MEMO and MHRC while another ECR appointment in
Contemporary Writing and Digital Culture (Pak) has further promoted our interdisciplinarity in digital
humanities research.

During the census period the UoA has invested strategically in Creative Writing, to enhance
creativity in research and impact and to meet PGR growth. The new Chair in Creativity is a high-
profile Welsh writer who has won awards for poetry, drama, screenplays, opera, site-specific theatre
and prose. Interdisciplinary collaborations with creative industries, including National Theatre Wales
and BBC, have been particularly fruitful. The appointment at Associate Professor level of Rhydderch,
another Welsh writer and former literary editor, strengthened ties with the creative industries,
particularly literary and periodical publishing, and added to the UoA’s existing engagement in
national cultural debate. In addition, two new ECR staff on teaching pathways, screenwriter Vaughan
and novelist Lauppe-Dunbar, expanded the generic expertise of the UoA to the benefit of PGRs. The
expansion of the creative writing PhD programme was underpinned by a redevelopment of the
MA programme by Rhydderch and the co-creation of a unique undergraduate module based on
Swansea University’s International Dylan Thomas Prize.

LRC has seen significant investment with two appointments (Boggs, Fitzpatrick) which have
strengthened research in language education and extended lexical studies to healthcare contexts.
A third appointment on a teaching pathway (Bowler) supports PGR training in this centre.

Staff development is central to our collegial and consensual management style. The supportive
biannual Professional Development Review meetings (with an online infrastructure) is a formal base
but there is a strong culture of mentoring, advice and training on strategic approaches to career
development, promotion and research activity including publications, grant applications and capture
and research student supervision. Three ECRs were promoted to Senior Lecturer, and a further four
staff promoted to Associate Professor (2) and Professor (2). Staff have also benefitted from Blue
Sky, a scheme of one-to-one consultations for research planning.

The UoA is committed to nurturing ECR staff whether on permanent or fixed-term contracts.
ECRs have lighter teaching workloads, receive training on research aids and supervision and are
integrated into the activities and networks of relevant research centres, some of them taking lead
roles. In addition to a probation system, professorial mentoring of ECR staff provides continuous
support and the success of the UoA’s mentoring strategy has been seen in internal promotions and

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
an increase in grant applications. The Florence Mockeridge Fellowship provides training and support
to enable ECRs to maximise their research potential, and within the UoA mentoring and research
funding is available for fixed-term tutors and honorary research associates as well as full time staff.

Staff in the UoA have access to sabbatical leave managed by a College Sabbaticals Committee.
The normal allowance is one semester in seven (or twelve months at the end of a sustained period
working in management roles). On occasions staff have been granted more frequent sabbaticals, for
instance to work on the Dylan Thomas centenary events and follow-up publications in 2014 and
2018. In this period, 31 sabbaticals were awarded, at a ratio of 16 female to 15 male. Staff used the
time to complete research outputs, lay the groundwork for funding applications, develop
impact case studies, or deliver creative works.

Staff mobility and development awards are offered by the University, via the ERASMUS scheme and
Internationalisation schemes which supported multiple visits to partner universities in Texas, and
staff took advantage of external development awards funded by Edith Cowan University, Australia,
the Spanish Government, and the Harry Ransom Centre, Texas, to develop networks, collaborations
or undertake archival research.

Research students: ELL supervised to completion 64 full-time and part-time PhD projects, 10
M.Phil projects and 4 MA by Research students, including three PhDs jointly supervised with other
disciplines. This is an increase of 64% on REF 2014. The ratio of PGR to staff (FTE) has also
increased, from 1.2 to 1.4, according to the latest available data. Steady new admissions in literature
and linguistics and the continued growth of our Creative Writing Programme have all contributed to
this rise. The gender balance of PGRs is tilted towards women and mature students comprise a
significant proportion of the cohort, particularly in Creative Writing. LRC operates an innovative
distance PhD programme with students based outside the UK. Funding for PhDs across the UoA’s
programmes comes from a variety of external, internal and self-funding routes. The LRC hosts PhDs
on the linguistics and bilingualism pathways of the ESRC funded Wales DTP. During this period
there were 7 ESRC funded PhD studentships, of which 4 were collaborative (with the Welsh
government, the NSPCC, Welsh law enforcement and Oxford University Press). Swansea is not part
of an AHRC DTP, but one PhD was funded by an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award (Montagu
Project), another by a full studentship with stipend from the Wellcome Trust (Disability and Industrial
Literature). Others obtained funding from the Pantyfedwen Trust, and from overseas governments
including Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Jordan. A number of students won College or University
scholarships, including one co-supervised interdisciplinary PhD in the field of disability studies
supported by a Swansea University Research Excellence Scholarship.

PhD students are fully integrated into the UoA’s research culture, including serving on the
management boards of Research Centres. There are monthly Creative Writing workshops, an
English Literature and Creative Writing PGR Research Seminar series and a CREW postgraduate
discussion group which bring together staff and students in English Literature and Creative writing.
The LRC Research Club further supports PGRs via an initiative championed by ECR Boggs that
uses “add-on” sessions to attach training opportunities to research seminars. Students contribute to
and are involved in organising the lively conference and research seminar programmes of the
research centres, notably the postgraduate conferences run by GENCAS, the Lexical Studies group
and the Richard Burton Centre for the Study of Wales, in which CREW postgraduates take a leading
role. COAH also runs an annual interdisciplinary PGR conference. At all events, PGR presenters
receive feedback from professorial staff. Students are also offered training in research-related
administration (e.g. funding applications and event organisation), editorial roles with the creative



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
industries (via a relationship with Taliesin and Swansea Grand Theatre) and editorial and marketing
work with on-site publishers (Parthian and, until 2019, Poetry Wales).

Students are supported and encouraged to establish a solid publishing record by the time they
graduate, with mentoring provided by supervisors and other appropriately skilled staff. All
postgraduate English students are offered a place on a 10-week intensive writing workshop to
produce a published article. During the census period PGR students have produced 5 monographs,
3 edited collections and upwards of 50 single- or co-authored articles and chapters with publishers
including UWP, Palgrave, De Gruyeter and Manchester UP. Discipline and project specific training
for PGRs is available through regular professional development workshops in teaching, research
and impact. The COAH Employability Office organises heritage skills training and a range of
internships and placements in the creative industries for ELL PGR students, some of which are
funded via the Swansea Paid Internship Network (SPIN) scheme. Santander paid internships have
been used by college-based Parthian Books to fund extended placements for UoA PGRs, resulting
in two permanent posts with this Wales leading publisher of literary fiction.

COAH has a Graduate Research Centre, led by a Director of Postgraduate Research, who Chairs a
Graduate Research Committee that is complemented by a staff-student consultative committee.
Each ELL PhD student has two supervisors, with responsibility for some pastoral as well as
academic needs, and induction, supervision and progression meetings are recorded monthly in an
online platform. All students benefit from a wide range of COAH and University training workshops
and are encouraged to give conference presentations as part of probation. COAH provides dedicated
PGR workstations, a common room, video conferencing facilities, and up to £600 towards research
and conference expenses. CREW also has purpose-built workrooms for postgraduates and students
on the CREW PhD programme have access to a philanthropic fund of £10,000.

Student Destinations: In this period, our PhD students have gone on to take key roles in national
cultural institutions (including the Books Council of Wales and the Learned Society of Wales), the
creative industries, including publishing (Parthian Books and Yale University Press) and theatre. Our
PGRs go on to work in academic research and as lecturers (Bristol, Salford and Winchester, and
overseas in Saudi Arabia). Some have moved to work in the wider HE sector (e.g. Research England
and Universities UK and HEFCW) or in research roles in the public sector (e.g. at The National
Collaborative Commissioning Unit). Members of this network of alumni are invited back periodically
to speak to our students about their professional roles and pathways to postdoctoral employment.

Staff and Student Equality and Diversity

The UoA has maintained its gender balance in staff complement, including at professorial level
where there are 6 female and 6 male Chairs (equivalent to 4.7 and 4.0 FTE respectively). 21% of
staff in the UoA identify as BAME, 10% as having a disability and 24% originate from outside the
UK. Over half the staff in the UoA also work in a language other than English, including 24% in
Welsh. The department of English Literature and Creative Writing led the first Athena Swan
application within the College. Magnani was appointed College-wide Equality and Diversity
Champion in 2017 and Bowler is a member of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) working
group and the EDI subgroup with responsibility for discussions of workload and issues pertaining to
ECRs. In 2020, the College supported Barnaby’s accreditation as ACAS workplace mediator. The
University is a charter member of Athena Swan with an Institutional Silver Award since 2017. The
UoA actively supports Swansea University’s Strategic Equality Plan, overseen by the University’s
Equality Committee, which aims to improve diversity by making available job-shares and flexible
working hours and other Reasonable Adjustment. Staff take advantage of the University’s onsite
nursery and childcare voucher system. Timetabling and administrative duties are adjusted via a ‘Staff

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Constraints’ system to enable parents and carers and those on fractional contracts to manage their
commitments and core meetings are held during carer-friendly hours of 10am and 3pm.

Students with disabilities or chronic health conditions are served by a dedicated Disability
Officer in COAH and by the University Disability Office. All research students are allocated two
academic supervisors plus an academic mentor, who can provide pastoral support. The University
also runs an on-site Medical Centre, staffed by practitioners and researchers, which provides
audiology, physiology and other healthcare services to staff and students. Line managers oversee
the phased return to work of staff with longer-term health needs and part-time working arrangements
are implemented where required.

The University is a member of Stonewall’s Diversity Champions programme. There is an LGBT+
Network (which won Network of the year at the Annual Stonewall Cymru Workplace Equality Index
Awards in 2017 and 2018) and an associated LGBT+ Allies Network. Several staff are actively
involved and have presented at events organised by the Network. Swansea University has ranked
highly in Stonewall Employer Index since 2018, including as a trans-inclusive workplace. A particular
focus on gender inequality amongst senior staff led to the establishment of The Mary Williams Group
in 2013 to promote networking and support of senior women. This involves all female members of
the UoA above grade 9, many of whom are active in the drive to address the gender pay gap in
partnership with Senior Management.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income: Research and Impact

HESA-recorded research income for the census period totalled £315,566, an increase on
2014. Further research income of around £200,000, from sources including Wellcome, AHRC and
ESRC, was spent directly on ELL research but recorded as income for other UoAs within the
University. In addition to HESA income, non-HESA sources played a significant role in delivering
Swansea-led research projects, with over £230,000 of additional research income producing a
reportable combined total for external research funding of over £545,000. This represents a
robust response to a difficult research funding environment and an excellent level of achievement
relative to opportunity.

Research funding was secured from a wide range of sources, reflecting a strategic drive to
diversify funding streams and representing an increase on the external funding recorded in REF
2014. The Elizabeth Montagu Correspondence Online project established a charitable organisation
in that name (charity no 1174679) with £90,000 from a philanthropic donor, £25,000 from the Foyle
Foundation and smaller grants, including six postgraduate bursaries from the Paul Mellon Centre for
British Art to supplement MHRA funding. Further funding of £30,000 from partner Huntingdon Library
and smaller philanthropic donations supported dissemination. A total of £95,000 was secured for
creative writing projects from the Arts Council of Wales, Books Council of Wales and Literature
Wales. The structural nature of support for the creative arts (where grants are paid directly to the
practitioners) means that none of this funding is routed through the University, but it directly funds
crucial strands of our research outputs and impact. ELL researchers also benefitted from £58,450 of
EPSRC funding for collaborative digital projects. Routed via the University’s Digital Economy
Research Centre (CHERISH-DE) this is also not included in the headline figure above.

The grant capture from Research Councils, Charities and Central/Welsh Government
recorded in the HESA data reflects the research priorities supported by our four main research

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
centres and an emphasis on collaborative and interdisciplinary research. The joint MEMO-GENCAS
project on The Medieval Enclosed Garden was funded by a Leverhulme Project grant of £156,548.
Leverhulme also supported the LRC’s research on The Language Barrier in Youth Justice (£28,000,
Lorenzo-Dus), a project developed using in-house funding. LRC’s Fitzpatrick contributed to a
Research Council Norway and Oslo University Research Grant on Linguistic Profiles of Dementia in
Multilinguals and led the LRC’s Wales-facing research to win a Welsh Government funded Rapid
Evidence Assessment on ‘Effective methods and approaches in second language teaching’ (2017-
18). Fitzpatrick was co-creator and co-investigator of the Corpws Cenedlaethol Cymraeg Cyfoes
(The National Corpus of Contemporary Welsh), a collaboration between Applied Linguistics and
Welsh at Swansea, and Cardiff, Bangor and Lancaster Universities. This project was funded by an
ESRC/AHRC Research Grant totalling £1.8m. CREW’s Bohata worked with Geographers and
computer scientists in Cardiff to create a Digital Literary Atlas of Welsh Writing in English funded by
the AHRC.

ELL researchers at all stages of their careers won competitive funding from the University’s
Research Grant Enabler scheme (SURGE) totalling £14,147. McAvoy’s award laid the foundations
for her successful Leverhulme project award, The Medieval Enclosed Gardens (2015-17).
International, interdisciplinary and collaborative research projects with partner universities including
Texas and Grenoble have been supported by strategic partnership funding and the Erasmus
Staff Mobility Award which supported Rogers, Williams and ECR Price. Our research centres have
also benefited from the College Research Environment Fund, particularly through the funding of
visiting speakers.

All researchers, including staff on teaching pathways and fixed-term research contracts, are
supported in their individual research, networking, dissemination or impact activities through a
College Research Support Fund of up to £1500 each per annum (outlined in section 2). The
University offers a competitive Research Impact Fund which provides centrally organised impact
events or support for data collection to evidence impact. Public engagement and co-creation of
research is further supported by The Cultural Institute whose staff and venues are used to organise
and promote public-facing events. External funding to support public engagement and impact
includes £2,000-£4,000 per annum since 2015 to run the AHRC Being Human festival, and £100,000
from the Rhys Davies Trust to support the new DylanED programme for schools.

CHERISH-DE provides funding for interdisciplinary digital projects, which benefitted LRC
researchers in digital discourse analysis. Lorenzo-Dus’s collaborative studies with Criminology
received £58,450 to study online sexual grooming and radicalisation, which resulted in further
external funding from Global Internet Forum to Counter Terrorism (GIFCT), Royal United Service for
Defence and Security Studies, Edith Cowan University (Australia) and Blurrt Analytics.

A ring-fenced HEFCW fund of £28,400 per annum to support publications and related activities in
the field of Wales Studies (primarily literature, history and culture but also law, politics, social science,
language and the history of science) is administered on behalf of the University by staff in CREW,
with £78,474 provided to support 19 publishing subventions, the Dylan Thomas Centenary
conference, and artist collaborations within the UoA during the census period.

Infrastructure and Facilities for research and impact

The impressive range of funding streams secured by the UoA has been supported by the expertise
and the creativity of dedicated staff in the College Research Office, which supports the Director of
Research, College Research Committees, and the College Research Ethics Committee. A
Research Hub oversees grant applications, providing specialist arts and humanities support for

                                                                                                   Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
external grant capture. In line with our stated impact strategy in REF2014, the College created a
permanent role of Impact Officer in the Research Office and an Internationalisation Office
oversees the administration and provision of facilities for visiting researchers including two
Leverhulme funded Visiting Professors, several scholars from Japan working on the Raymond
Williams Papers and international collaborators working with LRC. The office also supports scholars
establishing relationship with overseas institutions, together with the Director of Internationalisation.

The Graduate Research Centre organises training, PGR Research Conferences, access to
facilities for PGR students. It supports the UoA’s membership of the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training
Partnership and oversees the international collaborative PhD programme (University of Central
Oklahoma).

Research mentoring is provided in each UoA, supplemented by individual coaching for grant
application writing. ELL has a dedicated subject librarian in the University Library, and two new
appointments in Digital Humanities and Digital Content management support EMCO and other digital
projects.

The work of the LRC has been boosted by investment in physical infrastructure (2018), including
a state-of-the-art interpretation suite and an Applied Linguistics laboratory, with eye-tracking and
reaction-time equipment. Workshops on applications of these tools, and fortnightly LRC seminars,
are attended by postgraduate students and colleagues at all career stages from Applied Linguistics,
Psychology, Welsh, Modern Languages, English Language Training Service, and Education.

Impact: infrastructure and facilities for creativity, heritage and public engagement

Facilitating impact in all research lies at the heart of Swansea’s approach across literature, linguistics
and creative writing. We understand the time and commitment it takes to build meaningful
relationships with major beneficiaries and have invested in the infrastructure required for outreach.

There has been substantial investment in infrastructure and facilities to support impact in key
areas of heritage and creativity and wider support for individual collaborations and activities to
promote impact with the creation of the Cultural Institute and Heritage Office, which supports work
with the heritage sector, (e.g. fixed and touring exhibitions at museum and galleries, including one
on Disability and Industrialisation). The Cultural Institute, which facilitates research-related public
engagement, is the only one of its kind in Wales. It benefits from the purpose-refurbished Taliesin
Create, and has organised the AHRC’s Festival of the Arts and Humanities, ‘Being Human’ in
Swansea since 2015 and also coordinates Swansea’s contributions to the University Festival of
Science, the University’s continuing partnership with the Hay Festival and Jaipur Literature
Festival, the annual Swansea University International Dylan Thomas Prize for Literature, the
DylanED outreach programme for schools and organises high-profile appearances by leading
literary figures through the Centenary Lectures (Morpurgo, Nagra, Armitage) and other programmes.

The UoA has strong links with the creative industries, supported by the University’s Creative
Industries Network and individually fostered relationships, resulting in creative interpretation of
research (recognised by the University’s Research as Art awards) and, for creative writers, a closer
relationship with the publishers. ELL offices and in-kind support are provided to Parthian Books,
which publishes the landmark series of classics, Library of Wales, in collaboration with CREW staff.
The magazine Poetry Wales similarly occupied offices until 2019. Theatr Cadair, co-founded by the
UoA and Taliesin Art Centre, works closely with dramatists, including PGRs.




                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Open Research: Opening the Archive and Expanding Research Collections

Sustained investment in developing the research collections of ELL was a strategic priority during
this period. This has boosted ELL research and attracted visiting scholars to use the important
archive of the Welsh English dialect and attract visiting scholars and collaborations with creative
and heritage sectors, including the British Library. A major new study of Welsh English in the
Dialects of English series was published in 2020 (Penhallurick).

There has been investment to expand the holdings of the nationally significant CREW Archive of
Welsh Writing in English. Following the University’s Centenary Celebrations of Dylan Thomas in
2014, the University archives bought the rediscovered ‘fifth notebook’ for £85,000 and the University
awarded a fully funded PhD studentship to work on a scholarly edition (published 2020). The
notebook and additional Thomas-related papers acquired since 2014 underpin a major collaboration
with The Humanities Research Centre in Houston, Texas to digitise the transatlantic archive of
Dylan Thomas manuscripts. This fully open access archive will be launched in 2021.

Swansea’s archive of Welsh Writing in English has acquired significant new holdings during the
census period. Existing holdings include manuscripts and papers of Raymond Williams, Ron Berry,
Amy Dillwyn, Alun Richards, Elaine Morgan and facsimiles of R. S. Thomas’s unpublished
manuscripts. A major new acquisition is the Emyr Humphreys papers, part of a wider archive
documenting the role of the foundational scholar M. Wynn Thomas in the history of the field of Welsh
Writing in English. Other acquisitions include the Dylan Thomas manuscript notebook, the papers of
communist writer Dai Alexander and a substantial archive of twentieth century little magazines.
These growing archives are housed in the purpose-built Richard Burton Archives in the University
library.

From 2020, a Rhys Davies Trust Fellow (with funding of £120,000) will work on CREW Archives
alongside the University’s South Wales Coalfield Collection to explore the cultural, social and political
milieu that gave rise to the extraordinary wave of writers in south Wales. The CREW archives have
also been a hub for creative and critical impact, as outlined in the Queering Amy Dillwyn ICS.
Building on the in-house digital humanities capacity developed during the Elizabeth Montague
Online Correspondence project, the Amy Dillwyn diaries will be made freely available online in the
next census period.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Swansea’s national and international research leadership, partnerships and collaborations directly
benefit the disciplines represented within the UoA and make a major contribution to interdisciplinary
research projects, while our research generates cultural, economic and social benefits both locally
and nationally.

Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

The UoA has seen major international collaborations in Romantic literature and gender, Welsh
writing in English, medieval scholarship and applied linguistics. International collaboration has led to
research which crosses both disciplinary and national boundaries in projects which have produced
landmark publications and high levels of impact.

LRC’s major collaborations during the census period include The Rapid Evidence Assessment report
on language teaching, LRC’s role in the lognostics online database, which was created in Swansea,

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and OUP’s Oxford 3000 project. LRC’s central role in the creation of CorCenCC (the National Corpus
of Contemporary Welsh) is also a standout achievement.

GENCAS’s research in gender and literary culture in the Romantic period has brought together
scholars in literature, archives, digitisation and digital editions, to create an open access scholarly
edition of the correspondence of bluestocking writer Elizabeth Montague. Elizabeth Montague
Correspondence Online (EMCO) is led by Franklin, in collaboration with Oxford Brookes and Kings
College, London. A partnership with Electronic Enlightenment (Bodleian Libraries) at the start of the
project was supported by an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award and by the Huntington Library,
California (which has provided rights to digitise its archive and is funding a prestigious symposium
to launch the open access digital edition in 2021). The international advisory board of EMCO includes
membership from the USA, Canada, France and Finland. A further digital project, funded by AHRC,
brought together an interdisciplinary team of geographers, computer scientists and literature
specialists from Cardiff (lead) and Swansea to produce a Digital Literary Atlas of Welsh Writing
in English that mapped special collections at Swansea and Cardiff Universities and the National
Library of Wales as well as creating interactive deep maps of 12 novels. The project partnered with
Literature Wales and scholars collaborated with twelve artists to produce an exhibition that toured
Wales in 2019-20.

The interdisciplinary Wellcome Trust project Disability and Industrial Society involved scholars in
history and literature from the universities of Swansea (lead), Aberystwyth, Northumbria, Glasgow
Caledonia and Strathclyde. It culminated in 2016 with an award-winning touring exhibition, a special
issue of Disability Studies Quarterly (co-edited by Bohata) based on an international symposium
with contributions from Sweden, Germany, Spain, Brazil, USA and Japan. The long-standing Japan-
Wales Raymond Williams network, established in 2013, organised a series of conferences in Wales
and Japan and three visiting scholars from Japanese universities (Tokyo, Tohoku and Kitakyushu)
worked for extended periods on the Raymond Williams papers at Swansea. Further collaboration
between Swansea, Japan, and Appalachia on Post-industrial Literature led to an international
programme of events and the UoA’s links with Japan were enhanced by a Leverhulme Visiting
Professor Award that brought a scholar from Shizuoka University to Swansea to work on medieval
women writers (2019-20).

Work in the medical humanities was furthered by Fitzpatrick’s work on a project funded by Research
Council Norway and Oslo University on linguistic profiles of dementia in multilinguals. LRC’s
interdisciplinary work with Criminology in the field of digital discourse analysis has led to multiple
collaborations, including the Leverhulme project The Language Barrier to Youth Justice (2017-
19) with Loughborough University and the 2017 project, ‘The Language of Social Media Extremism’
supported by Edith Cowan University, Australia, and Blurrt Analytics. The 2019 project
Dissemination of Jihadi propaganda via Social Media was funded by the Global Internet Forum
to Counter Terrorism (GIFCT) in partnership with The Royal United Service for Defence and Security
Studies. LRC enjoys long-term research collaboration with linguists at universities in Greece, Japan,
York and Germany and in Wales, the LRC’s CorCenCC project constitutes a major collaboration with
Cardiff, Bangor and Lancaster, with consultants from Canada, England, Japan, and the USA, and
advisors representing community and professional users of Welsh, policy makers and educators
including the Welsh Government, WJEC and commercial companies such as
‘SaySomethinginWelsh’.

CREW collaborated with Bristol University in the landmark volume The Cambridge History of
Welsh Literature (2019). Led in Swansea by Evans, the project was commissioned out of the New
York office of Cambridge University Press. The project involved eight international contributors from


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
America, Australia and Canada and nine of the book’s 36 contributors are current or former Swansea
academics (CREW, Welsh and History). This project highlights CREW’s leading role in shaping the
new interdisciplinary field of Wales Studies, an innovation pioneered by Thomas.

GENCAS and MEMO were partners on the three-year network project: Women’s Literary Culture
and the Medieval Canon and MEMO co-organised the ‘Margery Kempe in the 21st Century’
international conference with the Society for the Study of Medieval Language and Literature (Oxford)
where the new Margery Kempe Society was launched (Kallas).

Individual scholars collaborated in the UK and internationally on a diverse range of projects, which
contributed to the creation of international and interdisciplinary networks. Literature collaborations
were led by Reeve, whose edition of The Jolly Corner and Other Tales (CUP, 2017) was part of the
international collaboration to create the first full scholarly edition of Henry James. Ongoing
collaborations include Robinson (‘The Problem of Style’, Durham), Kohlke (‘ORION Project’, Malaga)
and Evans (‘The Archives of the English College in Rome’). Creative writing collaborations include
Britton serving as the first Writer in Residence at UIC, China, and Sheers extensive work with the
creative industries.

Our expertise is recognised by multiple national and international Fellowships including The
Academy of Social Sciences, The British Academy and the Learned Society of Wales (including four
new Fellows during the census period). ELL staff held international fellowships at Yale and Emory
University (Farebrother), Columbia University, New York (Sheers), the University of Athens (Milton),
and at Edith Cowen University, Australia, Valencia University, the University of Brasilia and
University of Santiago do Chile (Lorenzo-Dus).

Contribution to the Research Base

ELL staff provide subject leadership as chair or via other senior roles on national and international
subject associations, committees, advisory boards and cognate organisations. Bohata is a
member of the AHRC’s Advisory Board, Thomas was Vice-President of the Learned Society of
Wales until 2017 and now jointly leads the Learned Society of Wales’s ‘Wales Studies Group’,
co-chairing a working group of academics from across HEIs and public bodies in Wales. Williams is
Chair of the North American Society for the Study of Welsh Culture and History (NAASWCH)
organising conferences in Harvard (2016) and Austin, Texas (2021). Bohata is co-Chair of the
Association for Welsh Writing in English (AWWE).

Medieval, early modern and renaissance scholars are particularly active in promoting diversity and
equality in their field: McAvoy and Magnani served on the advisory board of the International Society
for Medieval Feminist Scholarship, the former as President. Price’s British Shakespeare Association
conference, held at Swansea in 2019, broke new ground in UK Shakespeare studies with four
plenaries by women of colour.

LRC has a long-standing relationship with the British Association of Applied Linguistics. In this
REF period LRC members have served as chair, treasurer and postgraduate officer. Rogers is Co-
Founder of Linguistics and Knowledge about Language in Education (LKALE, 2016-18),
Tschichold was president of the EuroCALL Special Interest Group on ICALL and Fitzpatrick is an
IRIS Advisory Board member (Digital Repository of Instruments for Research into Second
Languages, funded by ESRC and British Academy).

Our UoA is committed to the sustainability of the subject areas it represents as demonstrated by
extensive activity in editing, peer reviewing and in organising and speaking at conferences in the UK

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and beyond. Five important book series are edited from the UoA. Bohata and Williams are series
editors of Writing Wales in English, the world-leading series of monographs and essays founded
by CREW in 1994 and published by University of Wales Press. The 31st volume in this series
appeared in 2020. Kohlke is Series Co-Editor of The Neo-Victorian Series (Brill, Rodopi), Williams
is series editor of Safbwyntiau: Gwleidyddiaeth, Diwylliant, Cymdeithas [Points of View:
Politics, Culture, Society] (University of Wales Press), Barnaby is commissioning editor of
Routledge’s Directions in Cultural History series.

Staff hold editor’s posts at six international peer-reviewed journals including the open-access
digital journal Neo-Victorian Studies, Women’s Writing, Medieval Feminist Forum: A Journal for
Gender and Sexuality (Iowa) and ReCALL (CUP). Staff hold significant editorial positions at other
journals, including the Marlowe Society of America Newsletter and the BMJ’s Medical Humanities
journal, and staff sit on the Editorial or Advisory Boards of a further 20 peer-reviewed journals,
three of which, including the International Journal of Welsh Writing in English, are fully open access
journals. Staff guest edited nine special issues of peer-reviewed journals during the census
period and undertook peer review work for leading academic presses and over 47 journals. Staff
also undertake reviews of funding applications, as members of peer-review colleges in the UK or
their international equivalent, including the ESRC Peer Review College and the AHRC Peer Review
Panel.

Staff have organised or co-organised numerous international conferences and panels in the UK,
Europe, north America and east Asia, and international online symposia during the pandemic. During
the census period ELL staff gave 65 invited lectures at national and a further 41 at international
venues as well as presenting over 165 other papers at conferences at home and abroad. We have
acted as external examiners for 47 PhD theses in institutions in the UK and abroad, including
Denmark, Sweden, France, Spain, Greece, Australia, South Africa and Hong Kong.

Honours and prizes include the Wales Book of the Year in 2014 (Rhydderch), 2015 (Sheers), and
2016 (Donahaye). Other awards to staff included the Hay Festival Poetry Medal (2015), a Bafta for
Best Writer (2017), the Wilfred Owen Poetry Award (2018) and the Calvin & Rose G. Hoffman Prize
for a Distinguished Publication on Christopher Marlowe (2020). Other markers of esteem include
having research translated into Spanish (Barnaby) and Portuguese (Williams) and invitations to
judge literary prizes including the Costa Coffee Book Award (2015), the National Eisteddfod of
Wales Crown (Anglesey, 2017), the Folio Prize for Literature (2018), and the Arthur C. Clarke award
for Science Fiction.

Impact: Collaborating with public bodies, creative industries, heritage and arts
practitioners.

Researchers in the UoA enjoy close associations with major public bodies and national governments,
who benefit from our contributions to policy, the allocation of cultural funding, and the
commissioning of work in the creative industries.

Our researchers serve on various public arts and policy making bodies, including Books Council
of Wales, Arts Council of Wales and Literature Wales. Founding fellow and former Vice-President,
Thomas now co-leads the Learned Society of Wales project to develop the infrastructure, funding
and coordination of Wales Studies in HE, with representatives from the Senedd (Welsh
Parliament), National Library, Arts Council Wales and major publishers. ELL staff also worked with
local and national government on Dylan Thomas Centenary events and Sheers was part of the
creative team supporting the Swansea City of Culture bid in 2018.


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Swansea researchers are also in demand in the creative industries. Recent work includes
consultancies by Price (Shakespeare, Austin, Texas) the work detailed in our three impact case
studies, and several television and radio appearances by ELL staff in Welsh and English, which raise
public awareness of research insights. The British Council commissioned some of Swansea’s
international Dylan Thomas events (USA and Canada) and recently selected Sheers to represent
Contemporary British Literature in Russia. Creative writers have a major impact in providing
innovative programming. Britton’s creative collaborations have led to Arts Council of Wales
development and production funding and £70,000 for Theatr Cadair’s Windsongs of the Blessed Bay
/ Alawon Gwynt y Mor, while Sheers’ acclaimed dramatic film-poems for the BBC about Aberfan and
the NHS helped to define these anniversaries.

Much of the UoA’s work benefits the heritage sector. Penhallurick was consultant and, with his
PGR student, compiled a Gower Dialect for the £1.9m Heritage Lottery Funded Gower History
Project. Thomas advised the Glynn Vivian Art Gallery on their Dylan Thomas exhibition and CREW
worked with the National Waterfront Museum to create fixed and touring exhibitions on disability
history and literature that are still in circulation, and with the National Library on a Cartographic
Imaginaries touring exhibition.

Diversifying and expanding audiences

Research in gender, sexuality and decolonisation has led to a programme of events, in collaboration
with the Cultural Institute, Swansea-led festivals, and groups supporting marginalised communities,
which have reached new and increasingly diverse audiences.

Education and Schools

A commitment to the long-term future of our disciplines and to their reflection in national
educational are evident in CREW and LRC’s work with government on curriculum development,
Welsh literature and language acquisition. ELL’s other major contribution was work on the
development of the literature curriculum for the GCSE English Literature in Wales from
2015 and on the literature components of the new Curriculum for Wales for 2022.




                                                                                            Page 16
