Unit–level environment template (REF5b)


   Institution: Royal Holloway, University of London

   Unit of Assessment: 19: Politics and International Studies

      1   Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

   Politics, International Relations and Philosophy (PIRP, established 2004) is a dynamic and
   ambitious department. In REF2014, the proportion of our research classified as world-leading or
   internationally excellent grew from 30% to 72%. Since 2014 the number of researchers in the
   department has increased from 23 to 37, supporting submissions to two related units of
   assessment (29 members of staff in UoA 19 and 8 in UoA 30 [Philosophy]). Anchored in a
   commitment to pluralist research in all subfields, the politics and international relations (PIR) unit
   specializes in the study of elections, representation and international security, and has expanded
   its expertise in the political economy of development, political communication, and gender and
   politics. These areas of special expertise are supported by four research centres which act as a
   source of financial, intellectual and moral support, with a particular remit to foster early-stage
   collaborative research between early-career and more experienced researchers.

   During this REF period, we’ve been animated by a vision of the department as a methodologically
   sophisticated community of researchers. We take quantitative and qualitative methods seriously-
   not just for their own sake. By linking our decade-long investment in methodology to substantive
   expertise, our research addresses core questions of political science in new ways that address
   real world challenges, whether that’s matching refugees to Swedish municipalities (Jones),
   improving food security in Ethiopia (Petrikova), or finding out how Westminster constituencies
   voted in the EU referendum (Hanretty). Motivated by our desire to improve popular and elite
   understandings of society, research in PIR benefits marginalized and at-risk groups nationally,
   internationally and transnationally.

   1.1 The structures supporting our research

   A new school-based structure. In 2014, PIRP was one of six departments in a Faculty of Arts
   and Social Sciences where politics was the only social science. In 2019, the faculty system was
   replaced by Schools. PIRP formed part of the new School of Law and Social Sciences. This
   reorganized structure better reflects shared research interests with Law and Economics, and has
   led to greater joint provision of research training and collaboration on large grant bids.

   Research centres. Growth in staff meant that the research centres we described in REF2014 no
   longer reflected our key areas of research. In 2016, we reviewed these research centres, re-
   focusing some existing research centres. PIR now houses four research centres which reflect
   established specialisms and strategic investments:

   1     The Democracy and Elections Centre brings together researchers interested in electoral
   behaviour and its consequences, and how elections shape public policy (Allen, Benedetto, Childs,
   Collignon, Hanretty, Hackett, Heath, Prosser, Shrimankar, Sloam, Smets, van Spanje)
   2     The New Political Communications Unit (newpolcom) carries out research into new media
   and communications technologies, and how these shape behaviour and institutions at domestic
   and international levels (Collignon, Galai, O’Loughlin, Sloam, van Spanje).
   3     The Centre for International Security studies how wars are waged and how people are
   made insecure; how ethnicity, environment and natural resources provoke or ameliorate conflict,
   and how international institutions build or maintain peace (Janina Beiser-McGrath, Liam Beiser-
   McGrath, Bentley, Cianetti, Dyson, Jones, Lai, Lerner, O’Loughlin, Petrikova, Sjoberg, Stubbs)



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
   4     The Global Politics and Development Centre combines our long-standing commitment to
   area studies in the non-Western world with an analysis of policy challenges in the developing
   world, specialising in migration, economic and social development, conflict resolution, and climate
   change (Kalantari, Galai, Heath, Jones, Lai, Lerner, Petrikova, Schwartz, Shrimankar, Stubbs).

   The unit also supports two interdisciplinary research groupings: the Gender Institute, directed by
   Sjoberg, and established in 2020 as an interdisciplinary cross-university hub for research,
   teaching, and activism; and the Contemporary Political Theory Reading Group, which brings
   together political theorists and philosophers to work on areas of overlapping research.

   Our Centres are the means to nurture individual and collaborative research, develop new research
   agendas, and produce diverse and impactful outputs. Two centres (the Democracy and Elections
   Centre and newpolcom) host leading journals (Electoral Studies (2016-present) and Media, War
   and Conflict (2010-present)). The Global Politics and Development Centre is in the process of
   establishing its reputation, and has received additional funding to enhance its capacity and further
   its national and international profile. Research centres are sustained through strategic resourcing:
   established colleagues lead each centre together with early-career researcher (ECR) co-directors
   (Jones, Lerner, Prosser, Petrikova, Stubbs and Schwartz). Annual centre budgets of £5,000 fund,
   amongst other things, workshops, conferences and reading groups. Post-graduate taught
   programmes run by each centre provide additional funds, greater staff cohesion, and additional
   opportunities for ESRC 1+3 PhD studentships capable of growing further our PhD community.

   1.2 Our strategic objectives 2014-2020

   In our REF2014 submission, we listed three strategic objectives: 1) build strategic narratives,
   international security and quantitative political science; 2) to exploit links between political theory
   and philosophy; 3) develop collaborations and funding initiatives. We met our objectives by
   aligning department structures with staff specialisms and staff growth, and by bringing in both
   senior and future leadership by hiring at the professorial and ECR level. The steps we’ve taken to
   achieve these strategic objectives have transformed our capacity to support all colleagues
   (including mid-career), undertake more collaborative research, attract greater and more diverse
   funding, and extend and deepen relationships with non-academic beneficiaries.

   1. Building strategic narratives, international security and quantitative political science.
   Identified in 2014 as core research strengths that warranted additional resources, these three
   subfields continue to animate our research centres, but also help realize PIR’s overarching
   commitments to methodological pluralism and research that benefits at-risk groups:
      • Strategic narratives. O’Loughlin’s research, highlighted in our REF2014 submission,
            continues to anchor the work of newpolcom, and features as a continuing impact case
            study in 2021. Three new staff members complement and extend this work with research
            on: memory and narrative in IR (Galai, appointed 2018); narratives of victimhood and
            trauma (Lerner, appointed 2019); and ostracism (van Spanje, appointed 2020).
      • International security. Enhanced capacity through new hires has transformed how PIR
            organizes its research in international security. Sustained investment began with two ECR
            appointments at the beginning of the REF period. Jones, appointed in 2016, was promoted
            to Senior Lecturer in 2018. His research on matching refugees has led to collaboration with
            international immigration aid societies and government bodies (see ICS XXX). Petrikova,
            also appointed in 2016, was made Senior Lecturer in 2019. Her research on food security
            has led to grant success (she is co-I on a £900k Global Challenges Research Fund grant),


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
          and collaboration with biologists/food technologists. Three subsequent ECR hires since
          2018 have added expertise in visual politics (Galai), quantitative conflict studies (Janina
          Beiser-McGrath) and transitional justice (Lai). Sjoberg’s BA Global Professorship, awarded
          in 2019/20, provided internationally recognized academic leadership in this subfield, whilst
          also adding expertise in gender and sexuality.
      •   Quantitative political science. New hires at both ECR and Professorial level have
          augmented existing research skills, and strengthened methods across several different
          research centres. Hanretty, appointed at professorial level in 2017 to provide intellectual
          leadership, bolstered established strengths in electoral behaviour (Smets, Heath), a
          subfield strengthened further by the appointment of Prosser in 2020. Our commitment to
          quantitative political science is not restricted to electoral behaviour, but operates across
          multiple subfields: Schwartz, appointed in 2017, brought substantive and methodological
          contributions through her work on protest in Latin America and through her ESRC-funded
          combination of agent-based simulation and field experimentation. Most recently, Janina
          Beiser-McGrath and Liam Beiser-McGrath were appointed (2020) to bring expertise in
          quantitative IR. Quantitative political science has also benefitted from greater cooperation
          with Economics as part of the School of Law and Social Sciences.
      •   Growth also enabled the identification of a new priority area - gender and politics - with two
          professorial appointments in 2019/20. Sjoberg and Childs will lead research on gender and
          sexuality within PIR (working with Collignon and Smets), and through interdisciplinary
          College level initiatives. The Gender Institute directed by Sjoberg was established in 2020
          as an interdisciplinary cross-university hub for research, teaching, and activism. Current
          projects - which involve colleagues from PIR together researchers from ten other
          departments - include gender-sensitive responses to Covid-19, the gendered effects of
          access to credit in Cambodia and South India, and Sjoberg’s British Academy funded
          project on “Sexual relations as International Relations”.

   2. Exploiting links between political theory and philosophy. Close research relationships
   between the department’s political theorists and philosophers have been maintained
   notwithstanding the separate REF2021 submission in UoA 30. Five new staff members in
   philosophy benefit PIR’s political theorists (Bacon, Seglow) through an increase in the number of
   jointly supervised PhD students, greater participation in the cross-unit Contemporary Political
   Theory Reading Group, and the emergence of a cluster of researchers working at the intersection
   of political theory, ethics and public affairs: Seglow’s research on hate speech relates to Roache’s
   research on the ethics of swearing, and Bacon co-authors with Gascoigne on American
   pragmatism as both political philosophy and epistemological position.
   3. Developing collaborations and funding initiatives. PIR has succeeded in diversifying
   sources of funding, thereby increasing our financial resilience. Researchers have secured funding
   from the ERC, the EPSRC, and the BBSRC, as well as more traditional sources such as the
   ESRC, the British Academy, and the Leverhulme Trust. We have also increased research income
   from commercial sources, notably Survation. Much of this research has involved collaboration with
   policy users and other beneficiaries - from work that has been carried out on a consultancy basis
   to fully co-produced research. Within the UK, researchers in PIR have worked with charities, local
   and national governmental bodies, and industry. Internationally, we have worked with EU bodies
   and NATO. Transnationally, we have worked with a range of international development
   organisations on issues relating to migration and global health policy (see also Section 4 below).

   1.3 Distinguishing characteristics of our research



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
   Throughout the period 2014 - 2020 we have demonstrated our commitment to research that is
   interdisciplinary, characterised by openness and integrity. These characteristics are present in our
   published (textual and para-textual) outputs and working practices.

   Our commitment to interdisciplinarity is evident in our published research. To assess the
   interdisciplinarity of our published work, we matched information on our published outputs
   (deposited at pure.rhul.ac.uk) with information from the last REF. For each journal publication, we
   identified the single most common UoA for the same journal in the 2014 REF. We then calculated
   the percentage of our published outputs falling in each of these UoAs. Almost half (44%) of our
   published journal articles appeared in journals more common in other units of assessment than in
   politics and IR. Significant shares of our published output were published in journals common in
   communications (9%), social work and social policy (8%), sociology (5%), law (4%), and a “long
   tail” of journals from other disciplines.

   Our commitment to interdisciplinarity is supported by the structures that organize our work. The
   formation of a School of Law and Social Sciences brought together researchers in different fields
   with shared interests. We share with researchers in Economics an interest in conflict deaths
   (Spagat from Economics together with Sjoberg) and development economics (Rud from
   Economics together with Stubbs and Petrikova). With colleagues in Law we share an interest in
   public law and judicial behaviour (Yuratich from Law together with Hanretty), and human rights
   and emotions (Marshall from Law together with Jones and Seglow). At the level of the research
   centre, we work with colleagues from across the university. This is particularly true for the Gender
   Institute, which brings together researchers from ten different departments.

   We display a commitment to the integrity of our work by making our research procedures
   transparent and by reflecting on the processes involved in our research. Replication data and code
   (in both R and Stata) for all quantitative REF outputs are available through the Harvard Dataverse.
   Where replication data or code is stored in a proprietary format, code is given to import the data
   using open-source software. This replication archive was made possible by a department-
   organised introduction to R for Stata users, delivered to researchers in Economics and PIRP.
   Additionally, we empower “sound research” (LERU, “Towards a Research Integrity Culture at
   Universities”) by valuing replication studies (Stubbs, Liam Beiser-McGrath), null findings (Hanretty,
   Liam Beiser-McGrath), and systematic reviews (Smets, Stubbs). We also recognise the
   obligations we as researchers owe to our interviewees, particularly those in post-conflict settings
   (Lai) and women in political life (Childs; Collignon).

   The steps we’ve taken to demonstrate the integrity of our work also speak to the openness of our
   work. Our work is discoverable via the pure.rhul.ac.uk repository, which also contains links to non-
   paywalled versions of our research. Because we recognise that the openness of our research is
   enhanced when user-friendly summaries are made available, we’ve made efforts to write short
   blog-posts for a general audience: collectively, we’ve written 62 articles for The Conversation
   (which Royal Holloway supports financially), totalling almost 60,000 words. These articles - which
   have either been summaries of published research or have applied the knowledge we’ve acquired
   in producing that research - have been read by more than half a million users.

   1.4 The impact of our work

   PIR’s impact strategy is underpinned by our desire for our research to change the distribution of
   political power (and attendant opportunities and resources). The ultimate beneficiaries of our
   research impact are varied, but our research pays particular attention to marginalised and at-risk

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
   groups nationally, internationally and transnationally. Within the UK, our research looks at groups
   which are marginalised or disconnected from politics, such as working class (Heath, Benedetto)
   or young (Sloam, Smets) voters. We also look at particular elite groups which, though not
   marginalised in the same way, are at risk of discrimination or violence (online or offline), such as
   women candidates (Collignon, Childs). Internationally, our research addresses sources of
   insecurity such as ethnic conflict (Janina Beiser-McGrath) and food insecurity (Petrikova).
   Transnationally, our research on migration flows and settlement regimes allows policy-makers to
   understand likely consequences of their policies and identifies ways to match migrants to
   welcoming, safe communities (Jones, Schwartz).

   To benefit these groups, we’ve formed sustained partnerships with external agencies, and in
   particular public or quasi-public organisations which are in a position to change policies. These
   partnerships have involved different forms of collaboration, from the provision of evidence
   (Collignon, Hanretty, Heath, Jones, O’Loughlin, Childs) or presentations at internal seminars or
   conferences (Bentley, Dyson, Hackett), through to the provision of research-informed training
   (Benedetto) and bespoke research (for example, Schwartz’s work for USAID and the Department
   for International Development on migration flows).

   These beneficiary groups and partner organisations are heterogeneous, and our impact strategy
   has been premised on broad-based financial support for impact activities. Seed funding for impact
   work, including partnership formation, comes from the university’s Research Strategy Fund (which
   also provides seed funding for grant applications). Sustained impact has been recognised
   throughout this REF period by a long-list of potential impact case study authors, who have
   benefitted from additional financial support and reductions in workload. From our long-list of five
   potential case studies, we have selected case studies which reflect priority areas from our 2014
   REF submission (international security, through Jones' case study of refugee policy; strategic
   narratives, through O'Loughlin's case study; and quantitative social science, through the case
   study featuring Sloam and Heath), and which represent a blend of continuing (O’Loughlin) and
   new impact (Jones, Sloam and Heath).

   1.5 Research objectives 2021 - 2026

   We have set the following research and impact objectives for the 2021 - 2026 period:

      1   To consolidate growth and thereby enable the unit to tackle research questions that are
          bigger in scope. We’ve grown considerably over the REF period. We have four new
          professors offering intellectual leadership in their subfields, and a dozen ECRs with future
          leadership potential. Co-authorship is increasing in the social sciences as authors tackle
          research questions which are bigger in scope or require substantive and technical
          knowledge. Our growth over this REF period makes it more likely that researchers in the
          unit will be able to find colleagues with complementary research interests and skillsets.
          Tackling research questions which are bigger in scope often requires greater resources,
          so this objective also brings with it a subsidiary objective to increase our grant capture per
          annum by 40% (from £216k/p.a. to £300k/p.a.), comparable to the increase between
          REF2014 and REF2021.

      2   To develop multiple, diverse and sustainable pathways to engagement and impact.
          Achieving either engagement or impact requires maintaining relationships developed over
          the course of several years. The profile of our department means that the large number of
          ECRs in the department will be in a position to use such relationships, developing during

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
          their probationary period, to achieve impact over the coming REF period. To support
          researchers in developing impact, we will ask centre directors to consider how teams of
          researchers can be included in collective plans for achieving impact, and create a new
          departmental administrative role in Research Engagement. These steps, together with
          increased grant income (1), will help us achieve a broader dissemination of our research.
          We’ll assess our success by tracking media mentions, with particular regard not just to the
          number of mentions but to the number of staff involved in any media work.

      3   To channel more research through our centres. Thanks to our 2016 centre review, we do
          not envisage major changes to the structure our research centres. With mixed leadership
          teams involving more experienced and early-career researchers, our centres are well
          poised to develop multi-annual plans reflecting centre-specific goals and respecting unit-
          wide commitments to pluralism and interdisciplinarity. We will maintain our existing level
          of funding for centres, and try to exploit efficiencies by purchasing from the same research
          service provider (computing, opinion polling) and employing administrators where multiple
          researchers within the same centre hold grants. We'll recognize success in this objective
          by tracking the proportion of outputs of all kinds which result from co-authorship between
          individuals in the same centres and the number of large-value (>£500k) grant applications
          originating in a centre.

      4   To achieve objectives (1) - (3) whilst maintaining our commitment to interdisciplinarity and
          research that benefits marginalized and/or at-risk groups. The structural changes
          associated with the move to a School of Law and Social Sciences bring us closer to other
          cognate disciplines and create new possibilities for inter- or multi-disciplinary work, and
          we’ll continue to support training and knowledge exchange events which bring together
          researchers from across the School. We'll track our success in maintaining
          interdisciplinarity by continuing to compile information on the proportion of our work
          published in outlets typically associated with other disciplines. We expect our investment
          in a new area of specialism (gender and politics) will produce both research and impact
          that addresses the marginalization of different genders, but our success in this objective
          depends in part on our ability to achieve the sustainable pathways to engagement and
          impact described in (2).

      2    People

   The unit has grown considerably between 2014 and 2020. We now have 29 staff on full-time
   teaching and research contracts, an increase of nine since 2014. We have increased our staff
   numbers by hiring staff to newly created positions at Lecturer and Professorial levels. Recruitment
   has been a significant part of our overall people strategy, but our record on staff promotions is
   also testament to the ambitions we have for existing staff at all levels. We’ve recruited and
   promoted approximately equal numbers of men and women, and we’ve taken care to protect ECRs
   and develop staff careers at all levels of seniority.

   2.1 Staffing strategy

   Staffing strategy: Recruitment
   Over the past six years, we have hired eighteen staff on open-ended research and teaching
   contracts. In hiring this many staff, we have balanced three competing objectives which relate to
   expertise; specialism (and how it relates to the development of our research centres); and
   methodological focus.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)


   In relation to expertise, we sought to strike a balance between hiring ECRs as Lecturers, and
   recruiting mid-career researchers as Professors. Given that PIRP as a department has at times
   had a low proportion of professors compared to the sector average, five of eighteen appointments
   were made at the professorial level. Presently (and as a result of our conscious recruitment and
   promotions strategy) eight of thirty staff in PIRP are professors, higher than the average for politics
   departments (27% v. 17.5%; HESA data). Three of eight professors were hired in the academic
   year 2019/20; two staff members were promoted to professor in that same year. The appointments
   were a departure from the normal practice of replacing departing members of staff with
   appointments at Lecturer level, and were supported centrally in recognition of the need for breadth
   of intellectual leadership in the unit.

   In relation to specialism, we sought to strike a balance between making open calls that would
   attract the most qualified field regardless of specialisation, and more targeted calls that
   strengthened the subfields identified in our 2014-2020 research strategy. Striking this balance was
   made easier by clustering appointments in 2015/16 (six appointments) and 2019/20 (seven
   appointments). Twelve out of eighteen appointments were made as a result of open calls
   (“Lecturer in Politics”/ “Lecturer in International Relations”). We made more targeted calls where
   we felt it was necessary to bolster an existing area of specialism (Collignon-Delmar and Galai
   were recruited to strengthen newpolcom); to develop a new area of specialisation (the call for a
   Professor of Politics and Gender [taken up by Childs], launched at the same time as Sjoberg’s
   British Academy Fellowship started); to strengthen our methodological expertise (Schwartz and
   Janina Beiser-McGrath were hired as Lecturers in Politics (Quantitative Methods)); and to ensure
   broad geographical coverage (Lerner was hired as a Lecturer in Politics and International
   Relations (South Asia)).

   In relation to methodology, we have balanced (and at times combined) substantive and
   methodological appointments, and prioritised recruitment in quantitative political science.
   Prioritising hires in quantitative political science has not meant sacrificing expertise in qualitative
   methodologies: Galai, for example, was appointed as a Lecturer in Political Communication after
   a previous career in photojournalism, and researches visual representations of national myths; Lai
   was appointed as a Lecturer in International Relations on the basis of her extensive fieldwork
   experience in post-conflict societies.

   Staffing strategy: developing staff
   Management of workloads. We recognize that the “effective management of workload” is a part
   of “excellent people management” (Concordat to Support the Career Development of
   Researchers), and we’ve taken steps to track and allocate workload more equitably. In April 2015,
   we replaced our existing workload tracking model with a new one that allocated points for different
   teaching and engagement related activities. As part of this model, workload points were assigned
   to impact case study authors. At different points in the REF cycle, workload points have been
   allocated to four different case study authors. Points are also allocated to directors of research
   centres, and to journal editors. In this way, we ensure that activities designed to make a
   contribution to the profession more generally are properly recognised as additional work.

   Giving ECRs time. We recognise the particular value of research time for ECRs establishing a
   research agenda, and the extra work required to prepare teaching materials for the first time. For
   these reasons, we ensure that our ECRs have substantially reduced teaching and administrative
   loads. Staff appointed at the rank of lecturer or senior lecturer are appointed on a probationary
   basis. During this probation period, colleagues are allocated 70% of the teaching load of non-

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
   probationary staff on the basis of the workload allocation model described above. Probation gives
   staff the opportunity to establish their research agendas and make their first grant applications.
   During their probation, staff are paired with a probation mentor, who is able to provide career
   guidance as well as research skills development. In this way, we provide the “structured support”
   called for in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Although ECRs
   are not normally expected to take on significant administrative roles during the period of their
   probation, we encourage ECRs to take a role in our research centres, and all research centres
   feature an ECR in a key role.

   Regular appraisal. We “actively engage in regular constructive performance management
   with their researchers” (Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers). Non-
   probationary staff meet with line managers or their delegates for annual appraisal meetings.
   (Staff on probation meet instead with their probation advisers). These appraisal meetings
   provide an opportunity to set annual objectives for research and engagement, to evaluate past
   progress, and to discuss these achievements in the light of longer-term (3 to 5 year) objectives.
   Staff value these conversations: a 2018 survey conducted by Capita found that 100% of
   researchers who had had an appraisal within the last 12 months agreed that their appraisal
   was useful for them.
   Mentorship at all career stages. Childs has established department-wide mentoring groups
   for ECRs and mid-career women, which collectively identify and create a program of mentoring
   sessions. These mentoring sessions - which reflect Childs’ experience at the University of
   Bristol - explore strategic career planning, academic leadership, constructing the successful
   CV, saying 'no', and a reasonable work/life balance. Childs’ role is to facilitate discussion;
   where appropriate, invited internal and external speakers will be brought into the group
   sessions. The ECR mentoring group is more directed, although remaining responsive to
   colleagues' stated needs/interests. It aims to ensure that ECRs can successfully negotiate the
   responsibilities of the contemporary academic, in teaching, research, dissemination and
   impact, and administration/good citizenship.
   Our sabbatical leave policy is generous and takes into account individual characteristics. We
   ordinarily give two terms of sabbatical leave to non-probationary staff who have completed
   twelve terms’ service. Our scheme (adopted 2015) derogates from, and is more generous than,
   the university policy of one term for every nine terms’ service. Sabbatical leave can be brought
   forward or postponed where members of staff can show that earlier (later) sabbatical would
   bring substantially greater benefits for research or teaching. Staff are required to use sabbatical
   leave to read themselves into new areas of research or work on major grant applications. A
   specific additional sabbatical scheme (adopted 2019) exists for staff returning from maternity,
   adoption, shared parental and caring leave. Two members of staff (Smets, Schwartz)
   benefitted from this policy in the 2020/21 academic year.
   Promotion and reward
   Promotion. Over the REF period, thirteen staff members have been promoted. Promotions
   were approximately gender balanced: seven men and six women were promoted. For staff
   appointed as Lecturers during this REF period, promotion was rapid: the average time to
   promotion was 28 months (counting from date of appointment to decision date). This is
   substantially quicker than the average amongst UK academics. All of the Lecturers hired
   between 2015 and 2017 (Hackett, Petrikova, Jones, Stubbs) have now been promoted to
   Senior Lecturer. This rapid promotion reflects our ability to hire exceptional ECRs over this
   period, coupled with the protection afforded those researchers.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
   We have also promoted to senior positions colleagues who started their career at Royal
   Holloway. Between 2017 and 2020, four individuals who had taken up their first permanent
   lectureship at Royal Holloway were promoted to Professor: Heath (appointed 2008); Gallagher
   (appointed 2010); Allen (appointed 2009) and Sloam (2005). We celebrate these promotions
   as examples of how colleagues have been able to develop their careers to the highest level
   whilst at Royal Holloway.
   2.2 Equality, diversity and inclusion
   We have implemented a number of policies designed to foster inclusion of individuals with a variety
   of protected characteristics across our work. In our hiring, we’ve ensured all panel members have
   completed unconscious bias within the past two years, provided by the Department or the College.
   All our hiring panels included both men and women, and we have structures in place to assure
   future panel diversity. Royal Holloway is an institutional member of the Disability Confident
   Employer scheme, so all disabled applicants who meet core criteria for posts are automatically
   interviewed.
   In the promotion and development of our own staff we’ve worked proactively to address
   inequalities. In response to research showing a gendered citation gap, we commissioned a PhD
   student to email academics cited in recent articles by female members of staff, highlighting these
   publications. To improve recognition of the work of our female and minority staff, we have been
   promoting it on social media. As part of an institution-level commitment to staff development,
   female members of staff and ethnic minority members of staff have benefitted from targeted
   leadership development programmes (the Aurora and Mandala schemes respectively, and
   previously the Women’s Encouragement Programme, attended by Smets, Hackett and Bentley).
   To improve the accessibility of our work to individuals with different protected characteristics we’ve
   reorganised it. We have, for example, moved the time of our seminars from the early evening to a
   caring-friendly lunchtime slot. Our regular meetings now all fall within the normal working day.
   Several staff within the unit benefit from the institution’s flexible working policy, and the unit has
   worked with the Estates and timetabling teams to ensure that room allocations and times respect
   different staff characteristics. In addition to these logistical changes, we have made several
   changes to how our meetings work to be more inclusive. These include an active chairing style to
   improve the diversity of staff recognized at meetings and questions recognized at seminars, a
   series of trainings on diversification of our work and working environment, and increasing
   recognition of research collaboration with colleagues in the Global South (including India, South
   Africa, and China). Our Department has put together a working group for minority staff to identify
   targets for improving work environment. Members of our unit are also leaders in the Gender
   Institute’s subcommittee on the College’s work environment.
   Measures like these have been championed by the department equality and diversity committee
   (from 2016) and the School equality and diversity committee (from 2019). Work carried out in the
   department between 2016 and 2019 in preparation for an Athena SWAN application continues at
   the school level, where a Silver Athena SWAN application is in preparation. Members of the
   department equality and diversity committee have, over the past year, produced reports and
   organised training events on unconscious bias and curriculum diversification. These events
   originated in, and responded to, concerns from our student body, which is one of the most diverse
   politics and international relations student bodies in the UK (approaching 50% BAME). Our
   students and staff have inspired us to reflect not just on how we teach but also how we research.
   We have incorporated what we have learned from our equality and diversity work into our hiring
   priorities.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
   The gender diversity of our staff exceeds that of the average UK politics department on gender
   diversity (41% women, compared to the average 36% nationally (Pflaeger Young et al., “Women
   in the Profession”, 2020). Appointments (50% female) and promotions (46% female) during this
   period have been roughly gender-equal. A lack of available data from other departments makes it
   difficult to see how our staff minority representation (14%) measures against peer departments.
   Our aspiration is that through hiring and development our staff profile will come to resemble more
   closely our diverse student body.
   2.3 Research students
   Our PhD community continues to grow. The average number of doctoral degrees awarded
   per member of staff over the period has increased from 0.7 (2008 RAE) to 3.8 (2014 REF) to
   4.7 in this submission. We’ve been able to increase the number of PhD students thanks to new
   sources of funding detailed in section 3, and the ESRC SeNSS 1+3 programme which
   facilitates MSc students feeding into the PhD programme. The increase in PhD students has
   gone hand-in-hand with a decision to move to dual supervision. Dual supervision ensures that
   doctoral students are provided with a range of substantive and methodological experience that
   they can call upon, and allows continuation of supervision upon staff absence. This change
   moreover permits a broader range of colleagues to undertake PhD supervision, and in
   particular allows ECRs the chance to gain experience of doctoral supervision. Our 29 current
   doctoral students (12 female, 16 male) are supervised by 21 different members of staff. Our
   PGR community is highly diverse and international, comprising students from the UK, EU and
   overseas.
   Our PhD students and employability. We've supported our PhD students by emphasising
   employability from their very first year, as part of our compulsory departmental-level first year
   skills training. The institution’s Doctoral School, in addition, provides face-to-face and online
   courses for developing generic and transferable skills (e.g., time management, academic
   writing, presentation skills, media awareness). Doctoral students graduating in this period have
   gone on to work in a variety of tertiary education institutions in the UK and abroad, including
   the LSE, Manchester, Imperial College London, and indeed Royal Holloway. Employment
   outside of the academy is also something we discuss with our students, and an increasing
   number of students have gone on to work in the institutions that they studied, particularly
   students who studied the European Commission and European Parliament.
   A strong PhD research community. We create opportunities for our PhD students to be
   embedded into the research culture in diverse ways. Our generous conference fund (£250 by
   right, with further funds available on application) encourages students to attend professional
   conferences, and many find this an excellent way to disseminate their work and to cultivate
   new contacts. Our students can also freely attend specialist training courses offered at
   universities that are part of the SeNSS Doctoral Training Centre. SeNSS students, finally, have
   their own additional funding for training, conference attendance, etc.. Finally, students in the
   last year of writing-up are encouraged to present their work to the department in our PGR
   seminar series.
   A rigorous annual review and upgrade process. All students have annual reviews where
   they have to present their work to two members of staff not involved in their day-to-day
   supervision. Annual review deadlines are tracked closely to make sure all students are
   regularly assessed. Annual reviews feed in to a formal upgrade process that takes place
   between twelve and twenty months in to the programme. Students first submit their material to
   an advisory annual review panel. During the annual review, upgrade materials are discussed
   and advice is given on how to improve the submission. Annual review materials are submitted


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
   appropriately six weeks before the upgrade, to allow students to revise their material before
   submitting it for the upgrade. Upgrade panels consist of 4-5 members of academic staff not
   involved in the supervision of the student. Thanks to the careful scheduling of review and
   upgrade meetings, and through the inclusion of academic staff from disparate subfields,
   students in the early part of their PhD are now better able to make an argument for the general
   importance of their research at an earlier stage in the process.
   Our practices as a source of best practice. The changes we’ve introduced have been
   recognised as best practice by other departments in the university. The format of our weekly
   departmental-level Postgraduate Research Professional Development and Research Seminar
   series has been adopted by other departments, and our PGR Charter (on the responsibilities
   of supervisors and supervisees) has been rolled out across the university to complement the
   institutional Code of Practice.
      3   Income, infrastructure and facilities

   The material and physical conditions supporting research into politics and international relations
   at Royal Holloway have changed significantly. Over the past six years, PIR has multiplied its
   annual grant income by 40%, with more to come; moved into a custom-refurbished building, and
   gained access to new technologies and resources for collaborative working and research
   provision.

   These positive outcomes are due in part to the structures that support our research income
   generation. Researchers within the unit are encouraged to bid for research income; their grant
   success makes possible the continued growth of our unit, and contributes to colleagues’
   professional advancement. In submitting grants, staff are supported by department and university-
   level structures. Within the department, the Director of Research administers an internal review
   scheme. All grant applications, no matter their size, are reviewed by two colleagues. Medium-
   sized grants also receive feedback from the department research committee, which comprises the
   Director of Research, the REF leads for politics and international relations and philosophy, the
   director of postgraduate research, the current and former heads of department, and two additional
   ECRs. For large grant applications, we also solicit external reviews. At the university level, we
   benefit from services provided by Royal Holloway’s Research and Innovation (R&I) team, who
   have met collectively and individually with researchers in the department to understand better our
   areas of specialism, and who have provided information on funding opportunities and grant
   applications together with more bespoke guidance on research consultancy and intellectual
   property. R&I also administer a university-level scheme providing internal seed funding.

   Staff are encouraged to bid for research grant income at all stages of their career, and our strategy
   for grant capture is related to our staffing strategy. ECRs on probationary contracts are required
   to submit a grant bid as a condition of their probation. One successful application which resulted
   from this requirement was Collignon-Delmar’s application to the British Academy/Leverhulme
   Trust to study the harassment and intimidation of candidates in local elections, research which
   has gone on to inform parliamentary debates. Researchers who qualify for sabbatical leave are
   also encouraged to submit a grant application during their period of sabbatical. Researchers at all
   stages of their career are encouraged to reflect on opportunities for grant capture through the
   annual appraisal process. Often, this is linked to promotion, and our revised promotion criteria
   include explicit recognition of the importance of grant capture. Successful applicants benefit from
   policies that return partial overheads to principal investigators.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
   We’ve seen success come from early seed funding, both for ECRs and for established members
   of staff. Through its Research Strategy Fund (RSF), Royal Holloway provides internal funding of
   up to £5000 for projects likely to lead to future grant applications or future impact. Funding is
   provided on a matched basis: the department contributes £1 for every £3 from central university
   funds. Researchers from PIR have been successful in winning RSF funding, and this internal
   funding has led to significant external funding and impact. Of the ten different projects funded (total
   value of internal funding: £31k), two led to successful large grant applications. Julia Gallagher was
   able to get funding to help her prepare her successful ERC grant bid. Petrikova was able to get
   funding to build networks with colleagues in Nigeria and India, networks that led to an unsuccessful
   ESRC grant bid but also to the successful BBSRC bid described below. For ECRs (three of eight
   awardees), this source of internal funding can make collaborative research bids possible.

   Increases in grant income. As a result of internal support schemes like the RSF and our ability
   to attract external holders of competitively-awarded funding, we’ve increased our grant income
   over the period, with more to come. Total income from all sources for the six reporting years of
   this REF period was £1.3m, or £216k/year. This represents an increase of 40% on the annualized
   grant income over the previous REF period (total grant income for 2008 to 2013: £774k / £155k
   per year). Because these figures reflect grant expenditure over this period rather than grant
   capture, they are a lagging indicator of grant success, and underestimate the significant steps
   forward that we have made over this period. Based on grants captured but for which no or limited
   expenditure has been made (van Spanje’s ERC Consolidator grant [£1.8m], Sjoberg’s British
   Academy Project [£587k]), we estimate that our grant expenditure over the next five years will
   outstrip all the grant expenditure reported in the REF submissions of 2014 and 2008 combined.

   We have also diversified our sources of funding, and in doing so, we’ve celebrated notable firsts.
   In 2018, Gallagher (a former staff member, now Professor of African Politics at SOAS), was
   awarded a grant from the European Research Council (ERC) to research architecture and
   statehood in Africa, the first ERC success for PIR. We were able to attract our second holder of
   an ERC award, van Spanje, in June 2020. Van Spanje’s five-year Consolidator grant investigates
   how new(s) media and new parties shape attention and electoral support for political ideas.

   We have also been able to attract funding from UK research councils that do not traditionally fund
   research in politics. Together with other colleagues in RHUL, Petrikova is part of the £1m BBSRC
   grant Nutrifood, which explores production and promotion of nutrient rich foodstuffs, particularly in
   Sub-Saharan Africa. The BBSRC application was the result of seed funding from the RSF for work
   on food security governance in Nigeria and Ethiopia. Together with Lizzie Coles-Kemp in Royal
   Holloway’s Information Security Group, Jones won £370k from the EPSRC to research “People
   Powered Algorithms for Desirable Social Outcomes”, a grant application which built on Jones’
   existing work on matching algorithms for refugee settlement. These grants are our first awards
   from these research councils, and our success in these applications reflects the talent of our ECRs
   (both Jones and Petrikova were hired in 2016/17) and the strong links they have already built
   across the Royal Holloway community.

   We have also secured our first research funding from industry, and increased our income from
   commercial consultancy. Polling company Survation paid for PhD studentships for Ben Lobo and
   Laura Serra to work on public opinion and electoral behaviour. Funding from Survation was
   matched by funding from Royal Holloway, demonstrating an institution-level commitment to
   industry partnerships.



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
   Our built environment has changed. For much of the REF period, PIR was located in the
   Founder’s Building in Royal Holloway, a C19 building originally designed for mixed residential,
   teaching and office use. In 2019, we moved to the McCrea building, a building centrally located
   on the campus, which brought us closer to the other departments which form the School of Law
   and Social Sciences. The McCrea building was refurbished to the department’s specification at a
   cost of £5m. The original intent behind the relocation and the design of multiple shared spaces in
   the building (including a staff-room, a break-out area, and a hot-desking area for PhD students)
   was to promote physical proximity between researchers within the department and within the
   School of Law and Social Sciences more broadly. With Covid-19, that intent has had to be re-
   thought, and the building has now been altered for a second time to reduce contamination risks,
   with bookable desks for PhD students and reduced activity in staff break-out areas.

   We’ve made home working easier. Due to Covid-19, all staff have spent significant amounts of
   time working from home from March 2020 onwards. We purchased laptops for six staff members
   who lacked a laptop or webcam-equipped computer; research students were able to borrow
   laptops from the university. At the end of the summer term (June 2020) the department also made
   a decision to give each member of staff £500 to spend on equipment to improve their home
   working environment. Purchases under this scheme have been varied, but loan laptops and
   purchased webcams have made it possible for staff to attend virtual conferences that they would
   otherwise have missed out on.

   Even before Covid-19, we had moved to ensure that all offline and online departmental activities
   take place within “core hours” (10am-4pm). Our research seminar series, departmental meetings,
   and reading groups have all switched to lunchtime or pre-lunchtime slots, save in exceptional
   circumstances (for example: due to the participation of speakers in different time zones).


   Investment in estates and home working equipment has been matched by investment in
   research-relevant facilities. One example is the continued investment in library stock relevant to
   researchers in politics and international relations. The library budget for politics and international
   relations has increased from £32k in 2014/5 to £46k in 2019/20. This increase has made possible
   an increase in the number of books we have access to. Between 2014 and 2019, the number of
   books in Dewey Decimal ranges 320-329 (political science) and 350-359 (public administration)
   has increased by 8%; all staff purchase requests for research monographs over this period were
   granted.

   We have also ensured that staff have access to the software they need to carry out their
   researchers. Thanks to university-level provision, researchers across the unit have access to
   Dropbox for Business, allowing staff and PhD students to share project files and acting as a means
   of backup. Figshare is used for larger persistent file storage. Quantitative researchers in the unit
   who use Stata have department-provided licences for the latest version of the software (version
   16), though our commitment to reproducibility means we encourage and train staff to move to the
   free and open-source equivalent R. Quantitative researchers in the unit who use high performance
   computing (Hanretty, Schwartz) have used cloud computing services purchased from Amazon,
   either funded by PIR or by our polling industry partners Survation.




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
      4    Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

   Researchers in the unit have contributed to the provision of public goods for research, both within
   their own subfields and for the profession as a whole. Our research has also changed the way
   industry partners and governmental organisations go about their work. This research has been
   recognised by prizes and fellowships awarded by national and international academies.

   4.1 Contribution to the research base

   One form of public good provision is the provision of reusable data. Researchers in PIR maintain
   qualitative and quantitative sources of data that are widely used by other researchers.
       • Cianetti works with Freedom House as an area expert on Central/Eastern Europe.
            Freedom House reports are used as source materials for qualitative and quantitative
            research on democratic backsliding across the region.
       • Hanretty produced estimates of how Westminster constituencies voted in the 2016 EU
            membership referendum. These estimates have subsequently been incorporated into
            materials produced by the House of Commons Library and the Times guides to the 2017
            and 2019 parliaments. Hanretty has followed this up by producing estimates of how the
            2019 European Parliament elections would have looked on Westminster boundaries.
       • Stubbs maintains imfmonitor.org, a website that tracks conditions imposed on
            governments by the IMF. The conditionality data-set and other data-sets hosted on the
            site have been used by researchers to investigate why the IMF imposes greater conditions
            on some countries but not others

   Researchers in PIR also provide public goods by organising subfield networks of researchers.
   Benedetto is vice-president of Eurosci, a Jean Monnet funded network of university lecturers in
   EU Studies. Hanretty convened the ECPR’s Standing Group on Law and Courts. Seglow is chair
   of the Association for Social and Political Philosophy. This work contributes to the vitality of
   research life in these subfields.

   We also contribute through national and international professional associations. In this REF
   period, Bentley and Sjoberg have sat on the governing board of the British International Studies
   Association and the International Studies Association respectively. Through the Political Studies
   Association, we’ve shaped the present REF exercise itself: Bacon and Hanretty both served on
   the joint PSA/BISA working group that provided input into the REF 2020 process. Heath serves
   on the advisory board of the Q-Step programme. At the intersection of politics and international
   relations and UK academia more generally, Bentley is an assessor for Athena SWAN.

   Editorial contributions. Colleagues currently edit two journals: Electoral Studies (Smets and
   Heath) and Media, War and Conflict (O’Loughlin). We support these journals by providing
   funding for editorial assistants and by recognising editorial contributions in our workload model.
   During the REF period, three more journals (International Feminist Journal of Politics;
   International Studies Review;’European Journal of Politics & Gender) were also edited by
   researchers in the unit. Staff also sit on the editorial boards of 16 journals, making a sustained
   contribution to peer review.

   4.2 Contribution to economy and society

   We’ve worked with industry to help partners understand political trends. We have a three-year


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
   exclusive partnership with the polling company Survation, who provide funding for PhD students.
   As part of this partnership, Survation has forecast seat-level outcomes in the Westminster
   elections of 2017 and 2019 and provided on-the-night estimates of election outcomes for private
   clients. We also help industry understand different regions of the world: Schwartz is scheduled
   to present research on taxation in Latin America to Canning House, the UK’s leading forum for
   debate on Latin American politics and economy (date TBC due to Covid-19).

   Our work with industry partners also has cultural elements: between 2016 and 2017, Heath acted
   as a consultant to the stage performance The Majority (National Theatre, August 2017), where
   audience members used voting handsets to indicate their responses at key points in the
   performance. Heath was consulted to check that the audience questions were true to life and
   were likely to divide the audience and heighten narrative tension. Also playing a role in ensuring
   verisimilitude was Nick Allen, who acted as a political script consultant to a US remake of Four
   Weddings and a Funeral (Hulu, 2019).

   Our engagement with governments and governmental bodies spans several different levels.
   Locally, Sloam has worked with the Greater London Assembly to identify young people’s
   priorities regarding sustainability, work that led to a collaborative booklet with the charity Bite the
   Ballot. Nationally, we’ve presented policy relevant work to the Department for International
   Development, the Home Office (Schwartz), the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory
   (Bentley), the Foreign Office (Hackett), and the Cabinet Office (Hanretty). Internationally, we’ve
   worked with governmental bodies in other countries and with transnational organisations.
   Schwartz has written two policy reports for USAID and will be writing further reports for the
   International Organisation for Migration. Benedetto has run workshops on EU budgetary
   processes for staff within the Commission, the European Parliament, and the European
   Investment Bank. Childs authored the Commonwealth Women Parliamentarians Gender
   Sensitizing Parliaments Guidelines. Dyson is in regular contact with “lessons learned” branch
   heads in EU militaries and militaries in the Five Eyes countries, and has presented at NATO
   conferences. The work carried out by Schwartz and Benedetto has combined engagement with
   specially commissioned consultancy, showing that our research and expertise meets a real
   commercial need.

   Like other departments of politics, much of our engagement has been engagement with
   Parliament. We’ve contributed written and oral evidence to UK parliamentary committees on
   political candidacy (Collignon), polling (Hanretty, Heath), irregular migration (Jones) and soft
   power (O’Loughlin). Childs in particular has made extended contributions to parliamentary reform
   through her work on gender-sensitive parliaments. Though much of that work was carried out
   before her arrival at Royal Holloway, this work is ongoing, and involves parliamentary authorities
   in the UK, Jersey, and Wales, the Women’s Parliamentary Labour Party, and the Centenary
   Action Group.

   We’ve engaged with broader society on a consistent basis at local, national and international
   levels. This varied activity has involved organising public-facing events to understand issues
   before and after the EU membership referendum (Benedetto, funded through his Jean Monnet
   chair); working with national groups to explain complex issues relating to nuclear weapons
   (Bentley’s work with the Nuclear Information Service), and organizing gallery installations
   (Galai’s 2019 installation “You May Not See It”, part of the Belgrade Triennial of Expanded
   Media). Our most common form of engagement with the public is through the media. We’ve

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit–level environment template (REF5b)
   written articles that have appeared in the Guardian, The Times, The Observer, Prospect, and
   several other print publications. Our most common channel is The Conversation, which Royal
   Holloway supports financially. During this REF period, fourteen staff members have contributed
   62 articles totalling 60,000 words read by half a million users.

   4.3 Recognition of our work. Our colleagues have won significant national prizes. Hackett’s
   doctoral thesis won the Political Studies Association’s Walter Bagehot Prize in 2014. The PSA
   awarded Allen the 2018 Richard Rose prize for a “distinctive contribution to the study of British
   politics”, and awarded Hanretty the same prize the year later, when he also won a Philip
   Leverhulme Prize. The PSA also recognized Childs, who won the Special Recognition Award in
   2016 for her work on gender and politics. Internationally, Sjoberg was awarded the ISA’s Susan
   Strange Award (for “innovative thinkers in the field of international studies”), and O’Loughlin was
   appointed Thinker in Residence at the Flemish Royal Academy. Newer hires have come to Royal
   Holloway after prestigious competitively awarded fellowships (Hackett and Sjoberg through the
   British Academy’s Post-doctoral Fellowship and Global Professorship schemes respectively;
   Prosser after a Presidential fellowship at Manchester; Janina Beiser-McGrath after a Marie Curie
   post-doctoral fellowship).




                                                                                            Page 16
