Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: A-03 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Overview

Allied Health, Dentistry and Nursing research at Sheffield makes positive contributions to
human health and quality of life from birth to old age. Our strategy is driven by recognition that
innovative solutions to major healthcare challenges are based on new insights gained from the
integration of basic biomedical sciences with clinical or clinically related research, working in close
partnership with industry and healthcare providers. Our two research themes: Mechanisms of
Health and Disease and Transforming Care provide a continuum from basic biology, through
translational studies to deliver improvements in clinical practices, to policies, and investigation of
healthcare improvement over the life course (Section 1).

Our ambition is to fully exploit the synergies within our Allied Health community, which includes
basic and clinical scientists, healthcare professionals, biomedical engineers, and social scientists,
through our commitment to creating a nurturing and supportive environment for staff, thus ensuring
that the skills, experience, and potential of this diverse community can be fully harnessed (Section
2). Our research is underpinned by significant investment in supporting infrastructure and facilities
(Section 3). Pivotal to our mission are our collaborative links with the NHS, industry, charities, and
policymakers, which means that research and impact within the unit are inherently intertwined,
leading to tangible national and global impact (Section 4).

During the current assessment period, we have built upon our strong performance in REF2014:

   •   Underpinning biomedical research has significantly increased mechanistic
       understanding of major clinical challenges including cancer, neurodegeneration,
       inflammation, impaired hearing, infection, and antimicrobial resistance (Section 1.2).

   •   We have advanced translations of this new knowledge into novel therapies, for cancer
       (ICS Lynparza), nerve repair, chronic pain, irritable bowel syndrome and a first-in-man stem
       cell treatment for deafness (Pipeline Impact Exemplar 1).

   •   Our policy-oriented research addresses global healthcare problems resulting in significant
       improvements in quality of life (ICS HeadsUP, Dental Anxiety), and step changes in NHS
       and global policy and practice (ICS Progas, Endocarditis, Response, Practitioners).

   •   Collaborations with industry have allowed the development of healthcare devices (ICS
       Zedscan) and potential therapeutics resulting in significant economic and societal benefit,
       e.g. ICS Cordella System (>$100M investment); Pipeline Impact Exemplar 2, AFYX
       Therapeutics (>$20M investment).

   •   Our research awards of >£58M have leveraged additional investments of >£80M and
       additional royalties of £63M.

   •   We have grown our PGR community awarding 390 doctoral degrees, a 100% increase
       on REF2014 in a range of Allied Health Professions. The quality of our training is evidenced
       by a 100% 4-year submission rate in 2019.

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2 Research themes and progress against REF2014 objectives




A. Mechanisms of Health and Disease

Cell and developmental biology (19 PIs)

This group seeks to understand fundamental elements of cell behaviour, working across scales
from cells through to tissues and organisms. Following our REF2014 aspirations to dissect
underlying mechanisms of development and adult homeostasis, we have further explored
membrane trafficking in health (Smythe, J Cell Biol) and disease (Ridger, Nature Comms),
signalling in vitro (Erdmann, Nature Comms) and in vivo (van Eeden, Nature Comms), adhesion
and the cytoskeleton (Winder, Aging Cell).

Future strategy: To fully understand how fundamental cellular processes contribute to health and
disease, we will collaborate with neuroscientists, cancer biologists, computational biologists, and
psychologists, to take a truly systems level approach. We aim to exploit the availability of large sets
of ‘omics’ data to develop novel cell biological tools to understand the dynamics of molecular and
cellular events that impact on whole organism physiology, during development, adult homeostasis
and ageing (e.g. Sudbery, Mol Cell).

Neuroscience (19 PIs)

Sensory neuroscientists, using both mammalian and non-mammalian animal models, combine
electrophysiology and imaging techniques with computational modelling, cellular and molecular
biology, behavioural analysis, and drug discovery, to investigate how specific genes, physiological
processes and pathological conditions affect sensory outputs. Recent studies have identified key

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
regulators of the development and function of the auditory system (Johnson, Nature Comms) as
well as effective ways to repair damaged nerves (Boissonade, Biomaterials).

There is significant expertise in understanding mechanisms of neurodegeneration through studies
in non-mammalian models (Cooper-Knock, Cell Reports) and induced pluripotent stem cells
(Allen, Brain), thus delivering on our REF2014 aspirations. This is largely focussed in the Sheffield
Institute of Translational Neuroscience (SITraN) which is the only NIHR Biomedical Research
Centre dedicated to neuroscience (awarded £4M, 2018).

Future strategy: Our ambition is to develop the expertise needed to bridge the different modalities
in brain processing of sensory inputs, including expansion of both our behavioural studies and our
therapeutic pipeline for sensory-related disease. Via the flagship Neuroscience Institute, we will
invest in facilities for high-throughput analysis (e.g. multielectrode array technology) and maximise
use of our drug screening and imaging facilities (Section 3.3). We will continue to translate our
fundamental understanding of mechanisms of neurodegeneration to improve prognosis, treatments
(e.g. MRC Developmental Pathway Funding Stream, 2021-2024, £3.5M, Mead, collaboration with
Aclipse Therapeutics), and quality of life for patients suffering from neurodegenerative disease and
chronic pain.

Stem cells and regenerative medicine (10 PIs)

Research is focussed on understanding mechanisms that drive stem cell self-renewal, fate
decisions and differentiation to the exploration of their application in future therapies. There is a
major focus on human pluripotent stem cells (hPSC), while also including research on other adult
and tissue-specific stem cell populations using animal models (Roehl, Nature Comms). In line with
our REF2014 aspirations to translate our discoveries towards clinical impact, researchers are
closely involved in the UK Regenerative Medicine Platform (UKRMP, Section 4.2). The group has
been instrumental in developing safety protocols for preclinical use of hPSCs (Andrews, Nature
Comms) and realising impact for the clinical translation of hPSCs. It developed the first clinical
grade lines to be validated by the UK Stem Cell Bank, producing one of the first lines to be used in
a clinical trial worldwide for age-related macular degeneration (collaboration with UCL) and,
recently, has spun out Rinri Therapeutics (Section 4.2, Pipeline Impact Exemplar 1).




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Future strategy: hPSC-derived therapies are becoming a reality. In the future we will combine the
use of organoids and organ-on chip technology (established via the MIMIC ITN, Section 2.3) with
development of hPSC approaches, informed by institutional expertise in developmental biology
(Tsakiridis, eLife), to develop therapies for Hirschsprung Disease (Section 3.2) as well as other
spinal cord and neural crest pathologies.

Microbiology, infection, inflammation, and immunity (28 PIs)

The Florey Institute (Section 1.4) fosters interactions between basic scientists and clinicians to
address the global problem of antimicrobial resistance, by understanding host-pathogen
interactions and mechanisms underpinning the immune response. Through elucidating
fundamental properties of bacterial structure (Bullough, Nature) and infection of mammalian cells
(Kelly, Nature Comms), this group aims to translate their findings into antimicrobials to overcome
problems of resistance (Fagan, Science Translational Medicine; Stafford, Infection and Immunity).
Consistent with REF2014 aspirations, studies on host-pathogen interactions have had a particular
focus on macrophages and neutrophils, (Marriott, Amer J Resp Crit Care Med). A further
important breakthrough has been demonstrating the benefits of antibiotic prophylaxis to prevent
cardiovascular disease after dental treatment, with implications for prescribing practices and
guidelines in the UK and overseas (ICS Endocarditis).

Future strategy: The Florey Institute will be used as a platform to understand how host-pathogen
responses result in changes in immunity and inflammation with the goal of reducing antibiotic
usage and combatting antimicrobial resistance. Strengthening links with the Bateson Centre
(Section 1.4), via Wolfson Foundation funded joint research space, is a priority to exploit expertise
in non-mammalian models of infection and inflammation (Johnston, PLOS Pathogens). We will
perform clinical studies using novel antimicrobials developed by our spin-out company DeFENition
(Section 4.2). Immunity researchers within the flagship Healthy Lifespan Institute will investigate
age-related immune dysfunction in interdisciplinary consortia. Our goal is to improve outcomes
from infection, combat antimicrobial resistance and increase global vaccination against COVID-19
(Collini, Cell Host Microbe) and other communicable diseases.

Cancer (10 PIs)

Cancer research is focused on bone oncology and the tumour microenvironment (Gartland,
Nature; Rainero, Cell Reports) and has also resulted in advances in understanding oral cancer
progression (Lambert, British Journal of Cancer). Basic research is complemented by translational
programmes including novel approaches for cancer treatment (Muthana, Nature Comms), drug
discovery, target and biomarker identification (Holen, Journal National Cancer Institute), and use
of in vitro and in vivo models that move towards human clinical studies (Ottewell, Clin Cancer
Research). Our basic scientists and clinical pathologists have collaborated with industry to further
develop and optimise an innovative cancer detection technology from the UK SME, Zilico Ltd. in
research directed at improving cervical (ICS ZedScan) and oral cancer detection (SBRI Healthcare
Award, Hunter).

Sheffield hosts one of 18 adult Cancer Research UK/Department of Health Experimental Cancer
Medicine Centres (ECMC) (Scientific Lead: Holen) reflecting outstanding research at the
translational interface. The PARP inhibitor olaparib (ICS Lynparza) was the second highest earning
oncology drug for AstraZeneca in 2018, earning over £63M in royalties for the University in the
census period. Sheffield is also part of the Yorkshire Cancer Research Early Phase Trials
Network, which provides infrastructure support for oncology early phase research (clinical trials:
ZOLMENO, NEPTUNE). The Yorkshire Cancer Research Catalyst for Innovation in Cancer Care
and Treatment in Sheffield (YCR CONNECTS, 2020) was established to exploit infrastructure in

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the ECMC and imaging via POLARIS (Section 3.3), to improve cancer outcomes through early
diagnosis and clinical trials in Yorkshire and, ultimately, more widely.

Future strategy: Through a coordinated University and Sheffield Teaching Hospitals (STH)
oncology research strategy, we will undertake integrated research to inform prevention strategies,
early diagnosis, and better treatments, driven by patient needs to improve patient outcomes. We
will create an interdisciplinary centre with world leading scientific, clinical, and translational
oncology expertise that is integrated with primary, secondary and public health care, and industry.

B. Translational, clinical, and patient-centred research

Dentistry (31 PIs)

Oral and dental research at Sheffield mirrors the wider ethos of the unit, with basic biomedical
research feeding translational programmes directed at major clinical challenges, informed by
patient and public engagement. Delivering on our REF2014 goals, staff collaborate with other
academic groups, industry, and the NHS to develop drugs, devices, and other interventions that
have the potential to make a major impact on human health. For example, EPSRC funding (MeDe
Innovation, £360k, Hatton) enabled the engineering of mucoadhesive oral patches for
management of oral diseases, including pre-malignant lesions (Colley, Biomaterials), resulting in
venture capital investment for clinical trials (Pipeline Impact Exemplar 2, Section 4.2). We lead
key clinical and related studies, including new ways of reducing children’s dental anxiety (ICS
Dental Anxiety), and a multicentre trial investigating melatonin as a pre-medication in children
(NIHR MAGIC, £1.64M, Deery). Our goal of increasing interdisciplinary collaboration has resulted
in a significant increase in research income compared with the previous REF period (£6M to
>£8.5M).

Future strategy: Our research will maintain its focus on disease biology, including cancer, infection,
pain, and tissue injury and degeneration. To benefit patients, especially children and young people,
we will exploit synergies between our scientific, engineering, patient-centred research and clinical
expertise to develop innovative modelling, detection, and advanced therapeutic interventions.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Nursing (10 PIs)

Nursing is among the top 100 nursing departments worldwide (QS World University Rankings) with
research centred around the themes of: child and family health; palliative and end-of-life care; and
enhancing the lives of older people. Reflecting our research strength and exemplifying our
collaborative relationships which translate to patient benefit, Sheffield is the only UK university to
host a Strategic Research Alliance (SRA) with the Royal College of Nursing, a programme of
research on workforce, emerging nursing roles, and nurse education (Ryan, Tod). The SRA seeks
to influence public policy and promote better outcomes for the population and the NHS workforce.
Building on this success, Nursing was awarded (2020) the Mesothelioma UK Research Centre
(Tod, Gardiner), to conduct research that is of benefit to the care of people diagnosed with
mesothelioma and their families. Research on relationship-centred care has led to significant
enhancements in quality of life for older people (Ryan).

Future strategy: Collaborations with local and regional NHS Trusts are being strengthened, with
plans to expand joint clinical research capacity by way of senior research appointments and the
development of a shared agenda and strategy with Sheffield Management School focused on
interdisciplinary research. We will continue to expand the evidence base for clinical practice in
nursing; this includes user-focused translational pathways for improving patient outcomes and
clinical environments.

Human Communication Sciences (HCS) and Orthoptics and Ophthalmology (OO) (17 PIs)

HCS researches speech, language, literacy and interaction, contributing to the empirical base for
theory and practice in speech and language therapy, linguistics, education and the biobehavioural
sciences in adults (Herbert, Cortex) and children (Clegg, JCPP). Our research is conducted in
English and other languages (Ozturk, PNAS; Cowell, J Mem Lang) with specific applications to
multilingual communication (Fricke, Reading and Writing). We have developed and tested
interventions for acquired speech disabilities in adults (Whiteside, Stroke) and literacy difficulties
in young people (Thomson, Reading Research Quarterly), which were conceived with strong
theoretical frameworks. Speech rehabilitation using technology forms the basis for significant
impact (Cunningham, Section 4.2). Award-winning communication clinics (Royal College of
Speech and Language Therapists, Sternberg Award, Herbert) provide a means to support
community engagement, student learning experience, and clinical and research capacity in
partnerships with the NHS and Charity sectors (Tavistock Trust for Aphasia, Sheffield NHS
CCG, Parkinson’s UK, Alzheimer’s Society UK).

OO is one of three UK academic units in the field of Orthoptics, researching the evidence base for
clinical practice. Key areas involve psychosocial and functional impact of adult strabismus
(Arblaster, NIHR Clinical Doctoral Research Fellowship) and visual system neuroplasticity
(Buckley, Frontiers in Psychology). A diverse portfolio of research-driven KE involves UK and
international partners. It includes: the development of cost-effective clinical guidance for vision
screening across Europe (Griffiths, EU Screen, Horizon 2020,) which has shaped Public Health
England’s guidance on early vision screening in children; and partnership in an award-winning
network developing patient pathways (Griffiths, Arblaster, Nystagmus UK Eye research group,
British Medical Association Award).

Future strategy: Our research will drive advances in science, practice, and policy. Focal areas
include: improving social inclusion in relation to socio-economic disadvantage and clinical
conditions affecting vision and communication; applying novel linguistic and behavioural
approaches to human health research; and innovating digital technology to increase access to
education and rehabilitation. Strategic research alignment with Nursing will expand our capacity to

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
better serve the health and social care needs of children and young people, and of adults in later
life.

Health and social care research (11 PIs)

Health and social care research is focussed within two interdisciplinary research centres: the
Centre for Assistive Technology and Connected Healthcare (CATCH) and Centre for Urgent and
Emergency Care Research (CURE). CATCH (Director: Hawley) is an interdisciplinary centre,
researching digital healthcare and assistive technologies which aims to develop new user-friendly
technologies to enable independent living and improve healthcare for older and disabled people.
CATCH encompasses a broad range of expertise including: identifying unmet clinical needs;
harnessing engineering research; technology development; patient/user group evaluation; and the
implementation of new technologies within health and social care.

In combination with investment of £1M from the University, CATCH has won substantial (>£11M)
grants over the assessment period (Section 3.1), produced a portfolio of notable outputs (de Witte,
J Med Internet Res; Palmer, Lancet Neurology) and collaborated with the NHS and care
organisations to introduce and evaluate >20 innovative technology-supported services (Section
4.2).

CURE is the focus of research into urgent and emergency care, securing ~£10M in funding in the
current assessment period. Through close links with the Emergency Department of STH and the
Yorkshire Ambulance Service locally, and emergency and urgent care services nationally, it aims
to improve the delivery of care across the urgent and emergency system. Key work areas include
performance metrics (ICS Response), waiting times and risk-adjusted mortality rates, methods for
managing demand for urgent care, reducing avoidable admissions, and delivery of specialist
emergency care.

Future strategy: The mission of health and social care research is to address one of the world’s
grand challenges: how to provide the best care for all in the context of a rapidly ageing population
with rising incidence of long-term conditions, frailty, and disability? One major goal is to develop
new user-friendly technologies to enable independent living and improve healthcare for older and
disabled people (Hawley, de Witte, JMIR Aging 2020). Future plans include examining how
emerging technologies (AI, robotics, IoT) and data science are likely to impact health and social
care and shaping how these emerging technologies impact on health and well-being.

1.3 Enabling impact

Our strategy since REF2014 has been to maximise our impact by fully exploiting the translational
potential of our two themes of Mechanisms of Health and Disease and Transforming Care.
Impact activities have been facilitated by the Sheffield Healthcare Gateway (SHG, Section 3.2)
which has been supported by >£2M HEIF funding. SHG provides dedicated professional expertise
to enable the development of relationships between academics and external collaborative partners,
sustaining an environment that fosters innovation, maximises opportunities for impact and
accelerates translation, often using HEIF funds for pump-priming. We have focused our investment
and support for impact on three overlapping areas, which span the breadth of research within the
unit and are reflected in our ICS.

   a) Through investment in, and development of, translational health-related research
      partnerships, we have harnessed the strengths of our fundamental biomedical science to
      develop effective anti-cancer treatment (ICS Lynparza). Substantial University support has
      led to the first-in-man stem cell therapy for hearing (Pipeline Impact Exemplar 1 and


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Section 4.2) and improved management of trigeminal nerve pain (Boissonade, Atkins),
       where Sheffield is the main tertiary referral centre for trigeminal nerve injury, performing
       95% of repair surgeries in the UK in the assessment period. Facilitated by SHG, we
       maximize exploitation of IP and establishment of University spinouts (Section 4.2).

   b) To significantly improve patient experience we build on our extensive links with the NHS
      to ensure the achievement of impact for our clinical and clinically related disciplines. The
      University and STH have a joint research office and a joint research hub for the
      Transforming Care theme. NHS clinician scientists (Cooper-Knock, Swift, Rothman)
      carry out basic research in labs, informed by their clinical practice, leading to the
      development of health technologies (ICS Cordella System), improving cancer detection
      (ICS Zedscan), providing physical support for those suffering from neurological disease
      (ICS Heads UP); and psychological interventions: reducing anxiety in children about dental
      visits (ICS Dental anxiety).

   c) To ensure that our health and social care research can be effectively translated into policy
      changes, we have developed a comprehensive Programme of Parliamentary
      engagement through links with the UK Parliament Knowledge Exchange Unit, e.g. the
      launch of research findings from the Recovering Quality of Life (ReQoL) research
      programme. The recruitment of Lord Willis to act as Chair of the Collaboration for
      Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care, Yorkshire and Humber (CLAHRC YH,
      Section 4.2) provides a further focus to raise the profile of our research in Parliament. Staff
      in this theme (e.g. Hawley) also work part-time within the NHS. There are over 40 Patient
      and Public Involvement (PPI) groups in STH, which allow reciprocal exchange of expertise
      and experience between researchers, patients and families. This has resulted in step
      changes in NHS policy for ambulance response times (ICS, Response), paramedic training
      (ICS, Practitioners), use of prophylactic antibiotics to prevent endocarditis (ICS
      Endocarditis), and nutritional support and the use of gastrostomy in patients with motor
      neurone disease (ICS Progas).

Future impact strategy

Recognising that impact is likely to be stronger when co-produced, we will continue to build upon,
and sustain our interactions with key stakeholders and partnerships to ensure research is relevant
to identified priorities, leveraging appropriate investment and research support as required. We
currently have an extensive impact pipeline (Impact Pipeline Exemplars 1-4; Section 4.2 and 4.3)
and ongoing projects likely to lead to significant impact include: Cork, building on his REF2014
ICS, on skin emollients to establish international guidelines for skin treatments from birth (Cork,
Lancet); Gardiner developing policy with Public Health England and National End of Life
Intelligence Network to enhance palliative care; development of antimicrobial bone graft
substitutes, supported by HEIF-funded collaborative R&D awards, (Miller, patent
WO2020044028A1) where the global costs for device associated osteomyelitis is estimated as
>$1.6B in 2020 alone; increased patient access to the IBS drug, alosetron, (Grundy), which has
resulted in significant patient benefit as well as pharmaceutical industry profitability. The IBS
treatment market is projected to reach $1.6B by 2026. Repurposing methotrexate, a rheumatoid
arthritis drug, to treat myeloproliferative leukaemia, opens the possibility for it to be sold cheaply in
low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) (Zeidler). Bass is collaborating with Smith and Nephew
to develop non-invasive ultrasound devices to treat chronic wounds (Bass, J Invest Dermat), a
current NHS burden of ~£3B per year. Further examples of our industrial and societal impact
pipeline are described in Section 4.


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.4 Support for interdisciplinary research

In recognition of the scale of research required to understand the complexities of health across the
life-course, the challenges of an ageing population and how this is integrated with brain function,
the interdisciplinary University Flagship Institutes of Neuroscience and Healthy Lifespan
(Figure 1) were established with projected investment of £13.7M over 5 years. These provide
overarching umbrellas within which collaborations and synergies between research themes are
being realised. Researchers in the areas of stem cells, cell and developmental biology, cancer and
inflammation collaborate with neuroscientists to tackle the enormous challenge of treating
degenerative, sensory, and developmental neurological disorders (Cunliffe, Epilesia; Grierson,
Hautbergue, EMBO J). The Healthy Lifespan Institute provides a focus for the breadth of our
research aimed at improving quality of life from birth to old age, encompassing our themes of
Nursing, Health and Social Care research, Human Communication Sciences as well as cellular
mechanisms of ageing (Foster, Lancet Psychiatry; Ryan, Health Services and Delivery).

More specialist interdisciplinary research is driven by a variety of research centres that are devoted
to key biomedical challenges. These in turn have overlapping research interests, e.g. members of
the Florey Institute (Section 1.2), in addressing mechanisms of inflammation resolution,
collaborate closely with researchers in the Bateson Centre to use non-mammalian models of
disease (Furley, JCI). Collaborations between staff in the Sheffield Institute for Nucleic Acids,
and the Florey institute underpin our spin-out company DeFENition (Section 4.2).

In silico modelling and mechanobiology are increasingly yielding new insights and opportunities for
improvement in healthcare. The Institute for in silico Medicine (INSIGNEO) is Europe’s largest
research institute dedicated to the development, validation, and use of biomedical modelling,
imaging and informatics in healthcare. INSIGNEO comprises >150 staff across the University,
attracting £54M of research income in a partnership that aims to generate a framework for
computer modelling of mechanical, physical, and biochemical functions in man (Serbanovic-
Canic, Circulation Research; Lawford, JACC Cardiovascular Imaging). Future collaborations
between unit staff and INSIGNEO include increasing critical mass to establish Sheffield as a
recognised hub in understanding mechanopatho-mechanisms and the development of novel
therapies. This interdisciplinary endeavour will build on international networks of biophysicists
established by the Biopol and MIMIC ITNs (Section 2.3).

The University Flagship Institutes and centres act as hubs, promoting collaborations through
vibrant seminar series and retreats and acting as foci for recruitment (Section 2.1, IRFs). Our
postgraduate researchers (PGRs) are exposed to the value and execution of interdisciplinary
research through our PhD programmes which bridge fundamental biomedical science, clinical and
patient-oriented research (Section 2.3). Almost all staff are actively involved with these institutes
and centres, including several with senior roles (Bellantuono: co-Director of the Healthy Lifespan
Institute, Hawley: Director of CATCH, Collini: Clinical Lead for the Florey Institute, Smythe:
Director of Centre for Membrane Interactions and Dynamics (CMIAD); Narracott: Director of
Operations at INSIGNEO).

1.5 Progress towards an open research environment

We embrace open science approaches to research, and see these as key to raising and
maintaining standards of research integrity across the sector as well as in our own environment.
We are part of the UK Reproducibility Network and a Research Practice Lead has been appointed
to develop the processes and platforms we use in research, including study design, data collection,
storage and sharing, analysis, interpretation and integration of research findings, and publishing


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and dissemination (REF5a). There is an active ECR-led Reproducibility group, which meets
regularly to explore open science and its challenges.

Within the unit we are moving to a system of electronic lab notebooks and all raw data are stored
securely on mirrored storage for 10 years in line with journal and UKRI requirements.

To ensure maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all outputs in White Rose
Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York (green route). The 2,832 outputs
deposited over this assessment period were downloaded over 277,000 times. This is our preferred
route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of available funding; we also publish
outputs in fully OA journals or hybrid where required for funder compliance. In addition, staff
increasingly submit papers to preprint services such as medRxiv or bioRxiv to ensure timely
dissemination of research findings.

We regularly host seminars and workshops on open data and sharing practices. Where possible
data are shared in national data centres or repositories, e.g. mass spectrometry data in the
PRIDE/ProteomeXchange repository. We also encourage data deposits in the University’s data
repository (ORDA), which enables research data to be preserved, discovered, and accessed.

Accessible databases

Research within the NHS can lead to significant cultural changes within the organisation itself,
including potential impacts on workforce, skills and knowledge, service delivery, patient and carer
experience, as well as economic benefits. To capture and share these ‘ripple’ effects, VICTOR
(Visible ImpaCT Of Research, Cooke) was launched by CLAHRC YH as a tool to demonstrate the
impact of delivering research. VICTOR can be accessed online, was already accessed by ~200 UK
organisations by August 2019, and is being used in Australia and Denmark. The Addressing
Capacity in Organisations to do Research Network (ACORN) organisations have included the
VICTOR tool as part of their annual planning to promote the benefits of research at executive level
and into the community, e.g. provision of easy access to information regarding ambulance
response times (ICS Response), which can be used more widely to inform policy. Support is
currently being sought from NIHR to fund an interactive VICTOR tool, which will further extend its
reach.

NIHR-funded CUREd is a unique research database, containing over 15 million patient episodes,
collated from a number of service providers in the Yorkshire and Humber region (2011-2017). This
allows analysis of patient demand as well as the flow of patients through the system. Data are
available on request to external researchers focusing on urgent and emergency care within the UK.

Clinical trials data

In accordance with current guidelines, we ensure that any research involving patients that is
considered a trial, is registered in a suitably accessible database. Many of our larger research
projects (MAGIC, Deery; BRIGHT, Marshman), managed by NIHR-funded Clinical Trials
Research Units, have study specific websites and/or Twitter accounts, which also help with the
recruitment of participants and disseminating study outcomes. It is our policy to publish the findings
of clinical trials that do not result in positive effects of the tested intervention e.g. Marshman,
Deery, FiCTION, PMID: 32340074.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.6 Promoting a culture of research integrity

We promote a respectful, egalitarian, and supportive environment where open discussion and
constructive criticism of experimental approaches and findings are actively encouraged. Ensuring
trust and confidence in the methods used and the findings of our research is fundamental to our
reputation. We expect high professional standards from our research staff and ensure that the
training and development opportunities that we offer facilitate this. Awareness and implementation
of research governance is organised within departments, with appropriate academic leadership,
integrated with the central University systems and interfacing with colleagues in STH. The unit
builds on the outstanding support of the University for research integrity (REF5a) e.g. in line with
institutional policy every PGR has to undertake a mandatory ethics module and provide a
research data management plan. Ethics modules cover topics such as the legislative limitations
and ethical implications in human interventional research and biomedical science, including
considering real-world scenarios. In the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, 94% of
students agreed that their understanding of research integrity had improved, evidencing the
success of this approach.

Research requiring research governance is automatically flagged at costing/ application stage.
Post-award, funds are released only when appropriate Home Office licences and ethics
governance are agreed and in place. STH’s Clinical Research & Innovation Office is responsible
for research involving human patient samples. Ethical approval applications for human
interventional studies and clinical trials are supported by our Research Ethics team. A flow chart
tool helps researchers identify the appropriate governance requirements for each study. Human
volunteer studies not requiring NHS approval, require ethical approval from our Research Ethics
Committee, chaired by an academic who sits on the University Research Governance sub-
committee. Towards the study end the ethics office flags the biorepository and the investigator
with reminders on sample storage requirements (destroy, extend, transfer) governed by the agreed
ethics. We perform an annual audit of all projects to confirm that all samples are held in
accordance with the Human Tissue Act or under active ethics approval. All PGRs detail ethics
proposals within their data management plan. We view maintaining strong integrity as essential to
conducting impactful research that is transparent and reproducible.

Research using hPSCs falls under the regulatory framework of the UK Stem Cell steering
committee. Derivation of stem cell lines requires HFEA licences. Sheffield has been at the forefront
of establishing due diligence, enabling derived cell lines to be used in clinical studies (PMID:
29553577). Human tissue storage is either under licence or held within the Sheffield BioRepository
in accordance with the Human Tissue Act. PGR students are trained in GMP policies and good
practice.


 2. People


People are our most valuable resource and our unit is a collegial and supportive place to work. We
promote an environment where all can flourish and realise their ambitions, with equal opportunities
for recognition, reward, and progression for all staff whatever their career stage or role. Our goal of
excellent underpinning research to drive translation and impact requires a strategy that recruits
for diversity, in individuals, career stage, disciplines and approaches, and recognises a very
wide range of contributions. For administrative purposes, e.g. teaching, staff are affiliated with
several departments in two faculties, however membership of research centres and institutes
allows narrow disciplinary barriers to be dissolved.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.1 Staffing and recruitment policy

Staff profile and succession planning

Our overall demographic is illustrated in Table 1. We recognise the importance of an appropriate
balance of early career colleagues, together with those moving towards research leadership, as
well as existing leaders, and this is reflected in the distribution over early, mid-career and senior
academic positions. This enables effective succession planning, which is also enabled by
appointing deputies to shadow leadership roles, allowing more junior staff to gain experience. It is
noteworthy that 72 staff (46%) in the unit are female. There are 149 staff who have open-ended
contracts (125 full-time, 24 part-time), and 28 with clinical contracts. We are returning all our
Category A Eligible staff.

Table 1a. Category A staff profiles

       Total              Female                 Male             BAME             Promotions
        155             72 (46.5%)            83 (53.5%)         13 (8.4%)               73

Table 1b: Grade profiles within the unit

           Lecturer                        Senior lecturer and                Professorial
        and equivalent                         equivalent
               36                                  64                               55

Independent research fellows (IRFs)

We continue to focus on attracting future leaders to our clusters of research strength (e.g. Swift,
Rothman: Inflammation; Cooper-Knock: Neuroscience; Gardiner: Palliative care; Tsakiridis:
Stem Cell Biology). Our strategy is not only to attract, but also to nurture IRFs with the highest
potential to achieve excellence. We thus mentor prospective candidates from their initial
applications through to setting up their independent research teams. As IRFs establish themselves,
we provide a supportive environment. Since 2018, the Faculty of Science has guaranteed
progression to an open-ended contract for all IRFs with fellowships longer than three years, subject
to the candidate meeting new lecturer probation requirements. A fully- funded PhD studentship is
also provided for each IRF to help develop their independent research programme. This is also
common practice within the Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Health. Because IRFs are attracted
to particular research centres, they join existing research groupings where they have access to
shared equipment as well as joining cognate group meetings to gain constructive feedback from
staff with complementary expertise. Administrative and teaching loads are kept low and intellectual
and pastoral support is provided by allocation of an experienced academic mentor. IRFs are thus
allowed to fully dedicate themselves to establishing their nascent research groups and the success
of this approach is evidenced by their significant publications as independent researchers (e.g.
Tsakiridis, eLife; Swift, Am J Crit Care Med; Rothman, JACC Cardiovasc Interv; Cooper-Knock,
Cell Reports).

Our strategy of attracting and supporting the next generation of research leaders is further
evidenced by the success of Gardiner (with Tod) in winning substantial funding (£480K), to
establish the first Mesothelioma UK Research Centre. She is also instrumental in establishing
national and international policy (Government response to end of life care) on the delivery of
palliative care for a range of conditions. Rothman has been instrumental in developing devices
that have had significant patient, as well as commercial benefit (ICS Cordella system; Pipeline
Impact Exemplar 3). Tsakiridis has been awarded EU funding (€530K) for emerging technologies

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and MRC funding (£1.2M), jointly with Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health, to develop
therapies for Hirschsprung disease. Cooper-Knock was awarded an MNDA/MRC Lady Edith
Wolfson Clinical Research Training Fellowship to pursue PhD studies, prior to his Wellcome
Career Development award and is now an NIHR Clinical Lecturer. We will continue to recruit future
leaders to areas of existing and developing research strength and we are currently supporting
candidates who are submitting applications investigating mechanobiology and hearing.

During the assessment period we have strengthened existing research themes through strategic
appointments to more senior positions. Condliffe was appointed as Professor of Respiratory
Medicine, further strengthening our infection and inflammation core. Mustapha relocated from
Stanford, funded by a non-clinical MRC Senior Fellowship, to understand congenital and age-
related hearing impairment, thus further enhancing our sensory neuroscience research.

2.2 Staff development policy

Academic departments within the unit provide all staff (professional services and academic,
temporary and permanent) with a tailored induction on arrival, and staff are subsequently mentored
through an annual Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS). This is an important
opportunity for individuals to reflect on their work of the previous year, including the most and least
satisfying aspects, as well as to consider their career aspirations and how best to achieve them.
Although not used as a metric, SRDS is integral in preparing staff for promotion, working with a
designated mentor. This means that staff are able to build a portfolio of achievements that align
with both organisational and personal goals, and this enables them to maximise opportunities for
reward and recognition, including promotion following the Academic Career Pathway Framework
(ACP, REF5a). Impact activities are recognised and rewarded through ACP (e.g. promotion of
Miller, Murdoch, Pacey and Whiteside to personal chairs).

Early career researchers (ECRs)

A dedicated ECR committee, (Miller, Chair), composed of departmental ECRs, ECR academic
champions as well as human resources representatives, aims to ensure we provide the best
support and environment to enable our ECRs to exploit opportunities for personal and career
development. The ECR committee inputs directly into the strategic design of a wide-ranging
programme of training (Think Ahead) and mentoring to equip ECRs with a broad range of
specialised and generic skills. This not only allows ECRs to develop and flourish in their current
roles, i.e. produce high quality research outputs, but also contributes to future career aspirations
within or outside academia. To ensure we achieve our aims, and in line with the 2019 ‘Concordat
to support the career development of researchers’, the ECR committee Chair sits on the Faculty
Research and Innovation Committee. This has led to better representation at both departmental
and faculty level and ensures input into relevant institutional policies. Regular meetings between
the ECR Champions have led to clarity around their responsibilities during the recent COVID-
related disruption. In response to requests from ECRs, we have initiated dual SRDS reviewers,
normally the line manager, and another staff member who ensures that ECR professional
development is prioritised alongside research projects. University policy is for fixed term
researchers to have 1 day/month equivalent for professional development, exceeding the
recommendation of the Concordat.

“Think Ahead” is a specific ECR staff development programme coordinated by a dedicated
member of the professional services team, which aims to highlight employment opportunities and
professional and career development. This programme is a comprehensive blend of training
workshops, career mentoring, and selected work-based opportunities. The scheme encourages
researchers to develop plans to support their career trajectory through access to tailored

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development activities. For example, an undergraduate research experience scheme enables
ECRs, with the support of a senior academic, to develop skills as primary supervisors for funded
summer student projects. Cooke, as Professor of Capacity Building, facilitates the development of
non-medical clinical research careers. An annual Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Health prize
recognises the outstanding contributions that postdoctoral research staff make and rewards
excellence in any of the four categories: Research, Teaching, Leadership and Wider Participation.
Less formal mechanisms also contribute to ECR development, including a number of relevant
postdoctoral researcher societies, e.g. Researchers in STEM. These are run by ECRs who
organise seminars and events that contribute to cohesion and well-being among these
communities. This integrated approach to managing ECRs work and welfare is considered key to
maximising career development opportunities, including transition to academic, clinical, or
industrial settings.

Onward destinations for our ECRs include academia with 16 appointments to lecturer or senior
lecturer in diverse Allied Health Research settings (e.g. Hollinger, Clinical Educator for NHS
Highland, and Lecturer, Scotland; Atapattu-Bakmeewewa, Human Communications, Sri Lanka;
Gupta, Dentistry, Aberdeen; Lodge, Respiratory Medicine Clinical Lecturer, Imperial College), IRFs
(McGovern, Sir Henry Dale Fellowship) and more than 40 appointments as postdoctoral
researchers; roles as NHS analysts (NICE, CRUK Biomarkers), in biomedical charities, industrial
roles in R&D and management (e.g. Covance, Janssen, Boehringer Mannheim, Afyx
Therapeutics), medical writing and communication, and politics.

Through CURE we have collaborated with Health Education England to improve paramedic
recruitment, retention, and clinical development. One of the first paramedics (Miles) to be awarded
an NIHR AHP clinical research fellowship is based in CURE.

Specialised technical support

Our strategy to maintain our first-class research facilities (Section 3.3) is to recruit and retain highly
qualified senior experimental officers (SEOs) and technicians. Sheffield launched the first National
Technician Development Centre for University technicians in 2017 and is a signatory to the
Technician Commitment, pledging to ensure visibility, career development, recognition,
sustainability and evaluation of the impact of technical roles. The value of this approach is
exemplified within the unit. This cohort of staff is responsible not only for the maintenance of
equipment but also for training of staff and students in state-of-the-art technologies. Importantly,
they ensure that the latest developments are implemented. In turn this provides significant
opportunities for staff development. Robinson was initially appointed as an SEO for the Wolfson
Light Microscopy Facility and, through ongoing career development, has been promoted to Facility
Manager, line managing two SEOs and contributing to intellectual as well as technical elements of
microscopy (e.g. PMID:32340074). Baxendale (Zebrafish screening unit) has contributed to several
publications (Section 3.3). Acosta-Martin, (BiOMICs) quantitated the contribution of our research
facilities to Masters training as part of her own Masters degree.

Dedicated research time

The University offers study leave for academic staff with the opportunity to seek dedicated time to
further an area of research. There will be renewed emphasis on the benefits of study leave in the
next REF period to encourage staff to develop avenues which will have long-term benefits for their
research programme. This will be achieved by co-operative management of teaching, and
application for schemes such as Leverhulme Research Fellowships (Smythe, 2020/21).



                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our work allocation model has been developed during this assessment period to allow us to
allocate and protect a specific proportion of academic time for research and related impact
activities, as well as recognising the importance of time (5-10%) for external activities that
contribute to professional standing.

2.3 Postgraduate research

We train both clinical and non-clinical PGRs and our community has grown significantly with a
100% increase in doctoral degrees awarded since 2014. It is a diverse community of UK (51%),
EU (4.1%) and non-EU international students (44.9%). Our submission rate reached 100% in
2019.

Strategy and recruitment

We recruit PGR students on the basis of excellence at undergraduate and postgraduate level, with
particular emphasis placed upon research experience and motivation. Our aim is to equip students
to become excellent researchers, with the potential to excel both in academic and non-academic
careers, and to be able to engage fully with end-users (from industry to policymakers), thus
ensuring they maximise their potential. As our submission rates have improved, facilitated by key
monitoring milestones at 12 and 36 months, we are now focused on ensuring that PGRs have a
realistic expectation of submitting their theses within their funded period, as working without
funding has such a detrimental effect on mental health. We have undertaken a full review of the
essential skills and competencies required to achieve a PhD to ensure that PGRs manage the
amount of development they wish to undertake but also to ensure they do not over-commit. To do
this we complement subject-specific training in the context of a broader Doctoral Development
Programme, which identifies existing skills and offers potential to develop new skills by having a
tailored training needs analysis, agreed upon by student and supervisor. Students can access a
wide range of University courses in skills such as statistics, computer coding as well as master
classes in microscopy, mass spectrometry and bioinformatics. PGRs have many opportunities to
present their data as oral and written presentations to departmental and research centre
groupings. This provides excellent opportunities for constructive criticism and pastoral support if
required. They are also actively encouraged to attend national and international meetings where
they have been successful in winning prizes (Section 4.4).

The success of our training is reflected in significant PGR contribution to our research output (e.g.
19% papers submitted to the unit have PGRs as authors, including first authorship on ground-
breaking studies: Webster, EMBO J; Greenald, PNAS; Kirk, Science Translational Medicine;
Bardsley, Biomaterials; Dehghani-Tafti, Nucleic Acids Research a and b; Maib, JCB; Rayagiri,
Nature Comms; Frith, eLife; Allison Nature Comms; Sharma, Nature Comms; Pasquina-
Lamonche, Nature). Beaurivage (PMID: 31726729) was awarded paper of the year. Stavish was
first and corresponding author (Nature Comms, PMID:33020476).

We actively support those students who wish to remain in research to launch their independent
careers. Examples include Frey (Fulbright Scholarship, University of South Florida), Frith (Sir
Henry Wellcome Fellowship, Francis Crick Institute), Stooke-Vaughan (Otis Williams Fellowship,
University of Santa Barbara). Many of our basic science PGRs remain in research taking
postdoctoral positions in the UK as well as worldwide, including institutions such as Harvard and
Stanford. Other career destinations include positions in industry, government departments, e.g.
DEFRA, clinical trials management, allied health disciplines including nursing and patient care.

Building an awareness of impact is integral to our postgraduate programmes. From the beginning
students are expected to write and maintain statements highlighting the impact of their research.

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Students have opportunities during Professional Internships for PhD students (PIPS, BBSRC DTP
Section 2.3) to explore how they can use their expertise in a wider professional context (e.g.
Natural England Evidence Services). In addition to those students who are funded by CASE
collaborative awards with industry, students often choose to carry out their PIPs in industry (e.g.
Taylor, now employed by Janssen Pharmaceuticals). Studentship programmes such as the MIMIC
ITN-ETD and the HEFCE-funded Catalyst Industrial Placement Award scheme (Ferreira with Eli
Lilly, resulting in Boissonade, Mol Pain) allowed students to spend significant time in an industrial
context. Students are actively encouraged to participate in schemes such as the BBSRC
Biotechnology Young Entrepreneurs Scheme (Section 4.4).

Funding and capacity building

A variety of studentship programmes reflect our research themes and commitment to
interdisciplinary research. Staff within Transforming Care can access funding from the ClinicAl
Doctoral Nurses and ALlied Health Professionals (CArDiNAL) network (NIHR) which is a
network of universities and NHS Trusts that provides the opportunity for fully qualified nurses to
pursue postgraduate studies while continuing with clinical work. The Nursing SRA supports the
development of clinical research careers through studentships and scholarships. The Wellcome
4ward Northern Clinical Academy (in partnership with Manchester, Leeds, Newcastle, Francis
Crick Institute) aims to train the next generation of clinician scientists through funding 25 clinical
fellows (4 awarded to the unit). To fully exploit this pipeline, additional bursaries are available to
enable newly qualified clinician researchers make the all-important transition to successful
postdoctoral research careers. Arblaster was supported by an NIHR Doctoral Fellowship to
pursue PhD studies as a staff candidate. MRC Discovery Medicine North (Furley: co-lead), in
partnership with Leeds, Newcastle and Liverpool, aims to deliver training in stratified medicine,
focusing on the best treatment for every patient. The EPSRC-funded White Rose Doctoral
Training Centre in Tissue Engineering and Regenerative Medicine (Sheffield Lead: Hatton),
Centre for Innovative Manufacturing in Medical Devices and CDT in Polymers and Soft
Matter (Unit lead: Hatton) all provide opportunities for interdisciplinary studentships focussing on
development of therapeutic devices while the BBSRC Mechanistic Biology White Rose DTP (in
partnership with Leeds and York) trains basic science PGRs in interdisciplinary approaches to
understanding the organisation of molecules, cells and tissues that are fundamental to
Mechanisms of Health and Disease. The UKRI programmes have received substantial University
investment (>£2M), as well as the appointment of Ortega to build capacity in tissue engineering. In
line with our REF2014 aspirations we have more than doubled (4 to11) the number of CASE
studentships. Recognising the contribution of the PGR community, the University also funded a
significant number of studentships (>£1.5M) during the assessment period, notably 18 to the
Florey Institute.

Internship scheme

As part of our commitment to sustainability in impact awareness, we have used the OnCampUS
PGR/T impact internships to work with researchers to identify, develop and track impact. The
scheme has expanded significantly since its inception, building from 1 intern in 2016 to >350 by
2020, and the unit has been awarded 4 interns from each cohort. Many of the students are
recruited from the Master’s in Public Research programme which, having a high proportion of
international students, builds capacity not only in the UK but worldwide.




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.4 Equality, diversity, and inclusion

Within the unit, we recognise the importance of an inclusive, diverse, and high-performing culture
which leads to richer, more creative and innovative research. Our EDI strategy is based on
adapting our recruitment, support, and development mechanisms to ensure we can fully harness
diverse talents and perspectives to advance our research themes. In this assessment period we
have embedded this strategy into our operational organisation in the unit, creating departmental
EDI Directors who have ex officio roles on departmental executive committees and promotions
review panels. We now ensure that EDI is considered in all decision-making processes. EDI
shapes our recruitment strategy with a shift to job descriptions reflecting the requirements of the
role, debiasing job advert language, unconscious bias training for all recruitment panels, addition of
positive cases encouraging candidates with diverse backgrounds to apply, and independent
scoring of candidates against the essential criteria of the job.

The University is a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA)
in recognition that assessing outputs according to journal-based metrics particularly disadvantages
early career, female and BAME researchers. We are committed to responsible research
assessment, ensuring that objectives are proportionate for part-time and other equality impacts.

Addressing gender equality

The University holds an Athena SWAN Silver award and ~90% of unit staff are associated with
departments that have been awarded either Silver or Bronze awards. Each department has a
Gender Pay Gap target. We recognise that practical support is required to further our EDI agenda.
Of particular value is the Women Academic Returners’ Programme (WARP) scheme where
funding up to £10k is available to provide additional support for women (ECR and academic) if
needed, during a period of parental leave or upon return to work. This helps to minimise the impact
of extended leave on research activities. WARP was used by Rainero (CRUK Career
Establishment Award), Miller (promoted to personal chair), Spencer (IJLCD, 2017) and Fricke. It
is University policy that staff on parental leave are entitled to up to 10 keep-in-touch (KIT) days,
allowing them to maintain contact with their research groups, e.g. by attending research retreats or
seminars, or to hold discussions about grant and paper writing with collaborators within, and
beyond, the University. To maximise use of these days, researchers within the unit can also
access the Whyte payment to contribute to childcare expenses during one KIT per leave. The
Dame Pamela Shaw Awards give students and staff the opportunity to apply for small awards
aligned with the goals of Athena SWAN, including bursaries of up to £1k for conference attendance
or projects to develop and explore equality issues. Dedicated rooms for infant feeding have been
specifically refurbished within easy reach of laboratories and offices to facilitate nursing mothers
returning to work. The terms and conditions for staff moving between University and Hospital posts
have been harmonised.

Our proactive engagement with support for EDI is evidenced by our equal gender balance and by
women holding senior positions: Mawson was the only Allied Health Professional to direct an
NIHR CLAHRC; Bellantuono is Co-Director of the Healthy Lifespan Institute; Holen is Director of
ECMC, Smythe is Director of CMIAD, Daly is PGR Director. Over 57% of our current PhD
students are female.

Support for LGBTQ+ staff

Sheffield’s commitment to eliminating discrimination and promoting diversity includes strong and
active support for our LGBTQ+ staff and students, as evidenced by being included on the
Stonewall Top 100 Employers list in 2020 for the seventh year running (ranked 11th). This

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
achievement is testament to the importance that the University places on LGBTQ+ inclusion and
frames our own efforts in the unit.

Support for neurodiversity

We have actively taken steps to support neurodiverse staff through technological and mentoring
support, prioritising tasks that make the most of their inherent strengths, facilitating and
encouraging flexible working arrangements and adjustments to workspace or encouraging
homeworking where possible.

Support for disabled staff

Disabled staff and PGRs are supported via the University Disabled Network. Within the unit, there
is provision for disability leave, a form of reasonable adjustment to enable disabled staff to be
absent from work in certain circumstances, for example to undergo treatment, assessment or
rehabilitation as part of managing their disability and maintaining their fitness/health and well-being
at work. We have protocols in place, where feasible, to ensure access to equipment (e.g. remote
access to microscopes) for people of all abilities.

Support for BAME staff

By creating a diverse and inclusive community, we aim to address the clear discrepancies in
career progression between Black, Asian and minority ethnic (BAME) and White researchers. We
have a race equality action plan with targeted actions around positive recruitment of IRFs. Ali is a
member of the BAME Staff Network Committee, set up to address the needs, priorities, and
concerns of staff from diverse non-White groups. All staff on boards and committees undertake
implicit bias and addressing diversity training. We aim to improve diversity from the ground-up,
building and progressing BAME talent from PGR and ECR stages using BAME mentoring and
support networks, with senior academics as advocates.

To provide good role models, we take practical steps to increase diversity in our external seminar
programmes and encourage staff to invite female researchers and members of BAME communities
to present seminars. Our seminar programmes include recognised academic experts in the field of
inclusion (Apampa, Birmingham, Tiwari, Colorado) as well as experts in EDI in research (Tracey,
Wellcome Trust).

Preparation for the REF2021 submission

The University has a Code of Practice for REF2021 submission that stipulates processes to ensure
EDI which was adhered to in preparing this submission. All members of our REF Committee
undertook REF-specific EDI training, including material on recognising and countering implicit bias.
Our REF team is representative in gender and as inclusive as possible, with peer review of outputs
undertaken by staff with a breadth of expertise. Following our Code of Practice, outputs were
selected on the basis of ranked quality. Where outputs were assessed as being of equal quality,
we considered protected characteristics, both in output selections and in deciding author
attributions for co-authored outputs. The University has undertaken equality impact assessment of
our output scoring and attribution, and on our independent researcher decision-making, and found
no evidence of bias.

The institutional process for disclosing equality-related circumstances was highlighted to staff to
ensure awareness of the support available. Clear policy statements ensure there will be no
detriment to staff either in their independent researcher status or in the number of their outputs
submitted. REF status is not used during recruitment, review, or promotion.

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Research funding and strategies for generating research income

Our aim has been to grow our external research income to support our strategy of underpinning
excellence and its translation to patient benefit. Within the assessment period, researchers within
the unit have successfully secured new research awards > £75M as PIs, of which ~£56M comes
from grants greater than £100k. The mean funding is ~£0.51M per FTE. Notably 50 PIs obtained
funding in excess of £0.5M, reflecting the strength and breadth across all of our research and
ensuring that our success is not dependent on a small number of individuals. The breadth of our
research is also reflected in our funding portfolio, which includes UKRI (MRC, EPSRC, ESRC,
BBSRC and Innovate UK), NIHR, charities (Wellcome Trust, Royal Society, CR-UK and BHF),
central UK government as well as commercial and industrial sources. This diversity of sources
ensures resilience and demonstrates our agility in winning funding in an increasingly challenging
landscape. Members of the unit have successfully led large consortium grants including: Mawson
(NIHR CLAHRC YH, £10M); Andrews (UKRMP Pluripotent Stem Cell Platform, £25M); Ryan and
Tod (SRA with the Royal College of Nursing, £1.4M); Erdmann (MIMIC and BIOPOL EU ITN
networks, €3.9M), Hoggard and Griffiths (POLARIS MRC, £3.2M); Fagan (Wellcome
Collaborative grant £1.2M); Deery (NIHR MAGIC clinical trial, £1.64M); Hawley (Telehealth and
Care Technologies, £1.2M).

Grant capture

Our strategy is to provide support for grant capture at all stages, including recognition of EDI as a
priority, resulting in a high proportion of successful grants being led by women. Staff can outline
ideas for both developing and more mature projects at grant workshops attended by colleagues
within research themes who provide constructive feedback. Internal peer review on draft
applications is carried out for all UKRI grants with at least two independent reviewers providing
feedback in time for pre-submission revisions. Peer review is also widely used for grants to other
funding agencies. For fellowship applications, specific support is provided by University Research
Services who co-ordinate mock interviews with academics who have served on fellowship
committees. Evidence for the success of the approach is that within the assessment period, we
have obtained several prestigious fellowships (MRC Non-Clinical Senior Fellowship (Mustapha),
Wellcome Clinical Career Development Fellowships (Swift, Rothman, Cooper-Knock), Royal
Society Fellowship (Johnson), and BHF Intermediate Fellowship (Serbanovic-Canic)).

Enabling sustained success

Our well-developed mentoring system and support for staff (Section 2.1) ensures that all newly
appointed lecturers since 2014 have successfully secured grant funding. Several of our recently
appointed staff have subsequently won substantial funding, e.g. Fagan won further UKRI (MRC
and BBSRC) project grants as well as co-ordinating a Wellcome Collaborative award. Existing
Royal Society IRF, Johnson, successfully secured his renewal. Building on an Academy of
Science Springboard Award, Rainero was awarded a CR-UK Career Establishment Award.

Alignment with national funding agencies

Our strategic priorities align with those of UKRI and major UK charities. Andrews and Barbaric
have had key roles in leading the UK Regenerative Medicine Platform (UKRMP) (Sections 1.2 and
4.1). Condliffe, Parker, Bullough, Prince and Marriott are all part of the SHIELD consortium

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
which received £3.5M to combat antimicrobial resistance by boosting immune responses (Bewley,
Am J Respir Crit Care Med., Section 4.1). Condliffe is part of the COG-UK Consortium (£20M
from government, NHS, PHE, UKRI) to sequence the UK SARS-CoV-2 virus. Monk, with
Partridge, has a GCRF award (£675K) to explore membrane microdomains as a target for
antimicrobial drug discovery.

Research funding generating impact

Fagan co-ordinated a Wellcome Trust Collaborative (£1.2M) award to study the antibiotic
resistance of Clostridioides difficile using cutting-edge structural biology and infection modelling.
Following a successful collaboration with AvidBiotics (Kirk, Science Translational Medicine), Fagan
is developing a new relationship with Summit Technologies to understand the mechanisms of
action of novel antibiotics targeting Clostridioides difficile. Bullough (PI) and Fagan (collaboration
with AvidBiotics) received BBSRC funding (£579k) to investigate the structural interactions
between engineered bacteriocins and explore their potential as non-antibiotic anti-microbial agents.
Since its foundation (2016), DeFENition (Sayers) has awarded research contracts (>£720k) to the
University. Sayers (co-I) received MRC DPFS funding (£2.6M) to develop novel treatments for
acromegaly (collaboration with Asterion, Sheffield spin-out company established 2000). University
spin-out company DeFENition (Section 4.2) arose following MRC CinC funding (Section 3.2)
exploiting genome integrity studies (Sayers, Nat Structural Mol Biol). This triggered Bill&Melinda
Gates Foundation funding ($463k) to tackle TB and malaria.

Boissonade (collaboration with Nottingham) leads a programme funded by Eli Lilly, Versus
Arthritis, and BBSRC (£1.3M in the assessment period), providing proof-of-concept that a specific
chemokine axis provides a novel target for analgesic development. Davletov has developed a long
sought-after, highly sensitive cell-based assay for tetanus. The Sheffield-patented technology has
been developed with grant and industrial research funding, and is now a commercial opportunity
which is attracting significant interest from end users including vaccine regulators (e.g. MHRA
NIBSC) and companies (e.g. Merck).

Together with co-investigators in Cambridge and Holland, Condliffe holds an MRC MICA
programme grant with GSK involving a clinical trial (Coulter, J Allerg Clin Immun). Innovate UK and
Coeliac UK are funding Kurien to work with Cievert Ltd (Gateshead) to improve detection and
treatment of coeliac disease. Examples of industrial contract research include the Skin Barrier
Facility (Cork) and the Skeletal Lab (Bellantuono).

3.2 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

Identification and exploitation of potential impact:

The Sheffield Healthcare Gateway (Section 1.3) establishes healthcare partnerships and
collaborations between academic researchers within the unit and service providers as well as
pharmaceutical, clinical, life science and biomedical companies. SHG provides a single point of
contact to promote and support knowledge exchange and commercialisation. It employs three
dedicated business managers who identify, signpost, and assist with internal and external
translational funding schemes (e.g. MRC Confidence in Concept (CinC), MRC DPFS, NIHR i4i),
developing the route to market, including licencing and spin-out formation (Section 4.2),
coordinating contracts, and liaising with other key professional services including costing and
intellectual property, as well as media and public relations. During the assessment period, PIs
within the unit have engaged in research collaborations with industrial partners, including CASE
studentships with AstraZeneca, GSK, Eli Lilly, Afyx Therapeutics and Sosei Heptares, while 27 PIs


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have benefited from knowledge exchange funding from HEIF. Patenting has always been strongly
encouraged and there have been over 92 patent applications filed in all territories. Support is
provided to develop and manage translational funding schemes such as MRC MICA (Condliffe with
GSK).

MRC Confidence in Concept (CinC) funding: The University has secured 8 successive rounds of
MRC CinC funding (since 2015 in collaboration with STH and Sheffield Children’s NHS Foundation
Trusts as well as Sheffield Hallam University) with a cumulative total >£3.1M to support early-stage
translational research. CinC funding has resulted in >£26M follow-on funding of which £16.9M has
been secured either by the academic or partners for further development of the translational
concept (Impact Pipeline Exemplars, Section 4.2), and >£9M to further develop underpinning
science (e.g. Boissonade; Barbaric).

3.3 Infrastructure

Our strategy in the current assessment period has been to continue to maintain and develop our
world-class research facilities, because of their importance in underpinning excellent research.

Imaging infrastructure

Imaging across scales is key for much of our research. Biomedical scientists study interactions
within individual cells, between cells within tissues, and between tissues within organisms and,
importantly, the dynamics of these interactions. Clinical scientists use MRI imaging in diagnosis of
respiratory disease, cancer, and neurodegeneration. In recognition of the importance of state-of-
the-art imaging, the University established the Imagine, Imaging Life initiative, and invested
approximately £10M in studentships and equipment to develop advanced microscopy to gain new
insight into life and disease.

The Wolfson Light Microscopy Facility (LMF) (Academic lead, Smythe) is a key pillar of the
Imagine initiative. It is a multi-user microscopy facility that houses the latest commercial
microscopes. During this assessment period it added a light sheet microscope (BBSRC Alert2014,
PI: Whitfield), as well as an AiryScan microscope (Royal Society and University) to its existing
suite of standard confocal, TIRF, wide field and super resolution microscopes. The light sheet
microscope has been particularly useful for imaging ear development in zebrafish (Whitfield,
Elife), while the AiryScan has been used to understand mechanisms of bone loss (Hunter, Faseb
Journal).

Visualisation of cellular and molecular events that are below the diffraction limit of light is also key
to understanding conditions such as cancer, neurodegeneration, and antibiotic resistance.
Delivering on our REF2014 aspirations, the University invested in the Cryo-Electron Microscopy
Facility (Academic Lead: Bullough). Key University, UKRI and Wellcome investments (~£4M)
allowed the installation of state-of-the-art equipment and computational facilities for CryoEM.
Central to this has been the installation of an FEI Arctica cryo-electron microscope, which enables
determination of the three-dimensional structure of molecules in cells. This investment has allowed
the detailed structure of the cell walls of Staphylococcus aureus and Bacillus subtilis (Bullough,
Nature), which are the target of many antibiotics, as well as components of the motility apparatus
of Campylobacter jejuni, which is the major cause of food poisoning worldwide (Kelly, Nature
Comms).

The unit has an established tradition in clinical imaging via POLARIS. Sheffield acts as a national
centre for pulmonary MR imaging, functionally assessing 25% of adults with hypertension in the
UK for lung disease using hyperpolarised gas and proton lung MRI. During the assessment period,

                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
POLARIS received major capital investment from the MRC (£7.5M). Facilities include 5 polarisers,
a radio frequency lab dedicated to building new technology scanners and a pulmonary function test
lab to couple functional breath testing to imaging. Technological research is facilitated by image-
based computational models of lung structure and function (Norquay, Thorax). Reducing nuclear
medicine scans reduces radiation risk and invasive catheter procedures for patients. A
collaboration with the German DZL consortium has led to participation in CHANGE-MRI, a Phase
III multi-centre diagnostic trial to demonstrate that functional lung MRI can replace ventilation-
perfusion scans in a diagnostic strategy for patients with suspected Chronic thromboembolic
pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). If successful, this is likely to lead to a European guideline
change for CTEPH screening.

Recently the University provided matched funding of £2M to match £2M raised by donations and
alumni to install a new MRI-PET scanner to enhance our clinical research capabilities. The scanner
will be used by scientists and clinicians at our NIHR Biomedical Research Centre, dedicated to
translating neuroscience research for chronic neurological disorders. In the long term we aim to
fully integrate our MRI and PET anatomical and functional imaging techniques through
development of hardware via Polaris.

Mass spectrometry

Biological mass spectrometry is performed in the BiOMICs facility (Deputy Director: Collins) and
allows the identification of protein binding partners as well as established (Collins, Cell Reports)
and novel post-translational modifications (Collins, EMBO Reports). Our capability in
metabolomics has been enhanced through a BBSRC Alert award to purchase a mobile GC-MS
system whose use has included metabolic profiling in precancerous lesions and HPV resistance
(PMID:28508693). Demonstrating the scope of the facility, a collaboration with Croda
International funds a technician to investigate shampoo damage to hair.

Bioinformatics

At the end of the last REF period the University invested £0.5M in a jointly funded high-throughput
next-generation sequencing facility for diagnostic and research projects and also set up a
bioinformatics hub to provide essential expertise for analysis and modelling of the data generated
by these and other screening facilities within the University. The Hub has now developed into two
branches: (i) a Bioinformatics Core, staffed by two SEOs, provides advice and training to
biomedical scientists and public health workers within the unit on experimental design, high-
throughput next-generation sequencing (NGS) analysis, clinical bioinformatics services and
microarray analysis; (ii) a partnership between the University and the Sheffield Children’s NHS
Foundation Trust consisting of independent research groups who have been recruited because of
their expertise in different aspects of computational biology (e.g. Sudbery) who synergise with our
biomedical (PMID:32592946) and clinical research (PMID:28454844).

Non-mammalian models of disease

Sheffield has an established tradition for the use of non-mammalian organisms, especially
zebrafish, as models of disease. Our zebrafish facility is one of the largest and best equipped in
Europe, housing a globally important collection of mutant and transgenic lines. The aquaria house
>112,000 fish, and are complemented by a comprehensive genotyping service, microinjection
rooms, cryogenic storage, a behavioural analysis suite and a small molecule screening unit with
high-content imaging and robotics for liquid handling. A new database has been installed and
philanthropic investment has supported the upgrade of behavioural analysis equipment and
software. Funded zebrafish projects during the assessment period include a community wide

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
CRISPRi resource (BBSRC, van Eeden). Output highlights include studies on inflammation
(Furley, JCI) and regeneration (Roehl, Nat Comms). As a University we have signed the
Concordat on Openness in understanding animal research and are at the forefront of
implementation of the 3Rs.

Screening facilities

The Sheffield Zebrafish Screening Unit performs a wide range of in vivo drug screening assays in
zebrafish embryos. Since 2014, the facility has responded to a shift in drug discovery research
towards phenotypic screening in in vivo systems because of success in producing ‘first-in-class’
drugs. Screens have identified potential anticonvulsants (Cunliffe, Epilepsia); regulators of
androgen signalling (PMID: 31919453, van Eeden), pituitary function (Watt, Human Molecular
Genetics). External collaborations include screens to prevent hair cell death (University of Sussex
PMID: 29263311; Baxendale, Whitfield); with UCL on Usher Syndrome (PMID:31998945,
Baxendale) and there are ongoing collaborations with ICR, KCL, and Manchester. Whitfield
collaborates with Sosei Heptares (BBSRC NPIF and EPSRC PhD studentship), seeking novel
GPCR targets (Diamantopoulou, eLife). Screens in the siRNA Screening Facility have identified
novel pathways involved in cytoplasmic drug delivery (BBSRC CASE studentship with
AstraZeneca, Smythe).

Sustainability of research facilities

Our facilities have appointed academic leads supported by management committees that include
representatives of user groups. The leads ensure that facilities remain state-of-the-art by co-
ordinating and enabling appropriate multiuser equipment bids (e.g. BBSRC Alert) This led to
awards of £1.29M supported with matched funding from the University (~£2M) during the
assessment period. Our facilities run on established business models allowing them to be self-
funding to cover maintenance and personnel costs. This ensures that our equipment is always fully
operational and is supported by highly trained SEOs and technicians who provide specialised
training which in turn enables us to expand our capability. In the Wolfson LMF, for example, in
addition to the LMF manager we have employed two part-time SEOs who provide specialised
support for light-sheet and super-resolution microscopy.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

Collaborating with and contributing to society form an integral part of our vision. The global issues
addressed by our research: Mechanisms of Health and Disease and Transforming Care, can
only be tackled through interdisciplinary approaches, coupled with national and international
collaboration. Our strategy is first and foremost to create an environment for excellent research,
then to ensure that our researchers have the time and support needed to develop appropriate
collaborations.

International collaboration

We have a number of mechanisms to support researchers at all career stages, and our institutional
frameworks underpin this. For example, the ACP rewards and recognises international
collaboration resulting in excellent research or impact. We provide funds and organisational
support for:


                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Staff visits and exchanges, examples include: Winder: Mexico, Germany, and USA (Aging
       Cell); Johnson: Italy (PMID:31846752); Murdoch: Poland (PMID: 27777406, 32681704);
       Thomson: Norway (Reading and Writing) and Canada (SSHRC Partnership Grant 2020,
       CA$2.5M).

   •   Early career colleagues receive support and mentorship to access Marie Curie schemes:
       Palanca (Dall’Ara, PMID:28457604); and these have led to new collaborations for more
       senior colleagues Gentile (Hatton, PMID:28169513); De Felice (Boissonade),
       Radhakrishnan (Hunter, PMID: 29980182, 29416610), and Zafred, (Sayers).

   •   Seminar programmes and conference attendance.

As evidence of our international collaboration, some 50% of our outputs have international co-
authors.

The following exemplars illustrate participation in national/international networks, which have been
initiated during the assessment period:

   •   Narracott is providing research leadership to build capacity in Krakow via an EU and Polish
       government funded project (New Methods in Computational Diagnostics and Personalised
       Therapy to deliver in silico products and services).

   •   Gardiner works with partners in Canada and Africa with funding from the Winston Churchill
       Memorial Trust to advance our understanding of international approaches to palliative care.

   •   Erdmann and Smythe have collaborated with EU partners on an EU Industrial doctorate
       programme advancing work on organs-on-chips for high throughput drug screening.

The unit has benefited from opportunities arising from institutionally funded initiatives and
networks:

   •   The Worldwide Universities Network has provided a springboard for work with Ghana
       (Thompson) and the US (Rutter: The phonetics of dysarthria: studies in production and
       perception. Equinox)

   •   Institutional Global Challenges Research Fund competition enabled new collaborations
       benefiting our understanding of the global south and allowing us to provide funding to
       support their participation. Examples include:

           o   Ortega (India) worked with LVPEI Prasad and successfully improved synthetic
               membranes, a step in the process for developing a new low-cost corneal blindness
               treatment which is viable in LMICs.

           o   Cunliffe (Ghana) is testing natural compounds as anti-convulsants.

           o   Stafford (US) secured funding of $165,000 from the National Institute of Dental and
               Craniofacial Research (NIDCR) scheme for a collaborative PhD studentship.

Reflecting our two research themes, we both lead and participate in significant national networks
and collaborations:




                                                                                                Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Mechanisms of Health and Disease

   •   Andrews and Barbaric are key partners with Cambridge, Edinburgh, and Imperial in the
       UK Regenerative Medicine Platform. Andrews was Director in the first phase (£25M UKRI
       funding 2013-18) and the unit is a partner in the second phase (£17M, 2018-23).

   •   Juusola collaborated with Sussex and QMUL with EPSRC funding to investigate reverse
       engineering biological systems to develop improved robots. This research underpins a
       University spin-out company Opteran Technologies, which secured £2.1M venture capital
       investment to develop low-cost silicon robot brains which mimic insect behaviour.

   •   Cunliffe is part of a BBSRC/ESRC funded EpiStressNet network, including Glasgow,
       Bristol, Imperial College and Leicester which takes an intradisciplinary biosocial systems
       approach to understanding epigenetic embedding of social stress responses.

Transforming Care

   •   Hatton, Miller, and Ortega secured £6M from EPSRC with Leeds, Bradford, Newcastle,
       Nottingham, and Cambridge to undertake biomedical manufacturing research.

   •   Deery and Marshmann secured £2M with Dundee and Aberdeen to undertake a clinical
       trial to improve treatment for children with Pulpitis.

   •   Palmer, with Manchester and Glasgow, (£1.5M HTA NIHR) evaluated self-managed
       computer-based speech and language therapy post stroke in 20 UK NHS speech and
       language therapy departments.

4.2 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries, and audiences

Our ambition is to enhance quality of life for all ages and to improve disease treatments and
diagnostics. To ensure that our research delivers appropriate impact we actively engage with the
NHS, DHSC, industry and other key stakeholders including the public.

Collaborations with the NHS

Perhaps our most strategic relationship is with the NHS. In order to ensure that our research
impacts positively on patients, we have a threefold approach.

Investment in excellent clinician scientists: Bishop is the only Professor of Paediatric Bone
Disease in the UK and leads the largest paediatric metabolic bone disease unit in Europe. His
research translates into better treatments for childhood bone fragility and he has transformed
patient fracture prediction by developing the FRAX tool, which is now used routinely in 64 countries
worldwide.

Securing funding for commissioned research: CURE has had a substantial NHS policy impact
through work on ambulance performance measurement and standards (PGfAR PHoEBE project
and NHS England Ambulance Response Programme). Two current NIHR funded studies in
progress are developing pre-hospital assessment or triage tools to help paramedics identify
patients with major trauma (MaTTS) and sepsis (PHEWS).

Strategic investment in regional networks: an exemplar of this approach is the Collaboration for
Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care Yorkshire and Humber (CLAHRC YH, Director:
Mawson). Established in 2014 it aimed to perform high quality applied research and evidence-
based implementation to improve the health and wealth of Yorkshire and Humber. From an initial

                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
investment of £10M from NIHR, CLAHRC YH realised £14.6M in matched funds along with an
additional contribution of £2.6M from industry which resulted in the generation of >£74M of external
income in the period to 2019. Funding supported a diverse range of projects including
establishment of smoke-free mental health services, palliative care through collaboration with
Sensory Technologies (see below) and expansion in the range of diseases screened in new-
borns (collaboration with Great Ormond Street Hospital). Projects supported through CLAHRC
YH have had international reach with new-born screening implemented in Bangladesh while in
Bangalore local women have been enabled to use a mobile diagnostic and screening toolkit to
screen for diseases in some of India’s poorest urban areas. The legacy of CLAHRC YH has
provided the foundation for ongoing partnerships through the NIHR Applied Research
Collaboration alongside NIHR MedTech Co-operative Devices for Dignity.

These approaches have enabled us to respond swiftly to the COVID-19 pandemic. Rapid
commissioning of two studies in CURE have assessed outcomes of patients with suspected
COVID-19 admitted to emergency departments (PRIEST study) and who called NHS111 or the
999 emergency ambulance service (Prehospital PRIEST).

In 2020 we won contracts from DHSC to supply recombinant SARS-CoV-2 Nucleocapsid antigen
for development of new, high-throughput COVID-diagnostics tests as alternatives to PCR for
potential NHS deployment.

Collaborations with industry

Collaborations with industry are vital both in co-creation of research questions and in ensuring
research results have impact. Unit staff collaborate with companies ranging from large
multinationals (e.g. GSK, Afyx Therapeutics, Pfizer) through to SMEs, including businesses in the
Sheffield City Region and the North. Pipeline Impact Exemplar 1-3 indicate how the infrastructure
described in Section 3.2 has facilitated collaborators between researchers within the unit with
industrial partners, leading to substantial translational impact.

CATCH collaborations with industry have led to development of a range of assistive technologies:

   •   Research with HMA Digital (Hawley) developed three health apps targeted at older people
       and people with dementia.

   •   NIHR funding and collaboration with Therapy Box (Cunningham, Hawley) created a post-
       stroke rehabilitation app with IP being licensed to the company to underpin the technology.

   •   Work with Sensory Systems Technologies led to investment of £1.1M into end-of-life
       technologies enabling community-based care providers to deliver palliative care under the
       online supervision of specialist palliative care clinicians.

   •   Funding (£970k) from Innovate UK and Department of Health, and collaboration with
       Therapy Box (Hawley), led to a unique communication aid app for people with severe
       disabilities and moderate to severe dysarthria.

Spin-out companies

Our spin-out companies are an excellent route to develop therapies and to transform care. They
also provide research funding back into the unit to continue research: a truly symbiotic relationship.
Exemplars during the period within our two themes include:




                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Mechanisms of Health and Disease

   •   Davletov collaborated with the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences and
       Maximov at the Scripps Research Institute, to found Neuresta; a significant US government
       grant has ensured regulatory support and leveraged private investment into non-addictive
       treatments for neuropathic pain.

   •   Mead founded Keapstone Therapeutics with co-investment of £2.6M from Parkinson’s UK
       and the University to enable exploitation of a novel chemical series which aims to treat
       Parkinson’s and motor neurone disease.

   •   Sayers secured £1.4M venture capital funding, together with SBRI and Innovate funds of
       £600k for DeFENition which develops inhibitors of Flap endonuclease in Gram negative
       bacteria.

Transforming Care

   •   Rothman has collaborated closely with SoniVie, a start-up with initial investment of $11M
       to develop pulmonary artery denervation technology (Pipeline Impact Exemplar 3).




4.3 Wider societal impact

We engage with a broad audience with the aim of creating wider societal impact.

Dedicated support is available for researchers wishing to exploit their intellectual property through
social enterprises. Hinchliff, working with local artist Pete McKee, has set up a new social
enterprise “Age of Love” to support older people in their relationships. This has facilitated
conversations that were considered difficult. The idea has been adapted by Channel 4 for their
‘dementia café’ series. Pipeline Impact Exemplar 4 illustrates how institutional funding from the
Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) enabled the development of this impact.




                                                                                              Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Ali received institutional investment from our IP Development fund, and the Burdett Trust, to work
with Focus Games. This led to development of a board game for domestic abuse support workers
(https://www.dvagame.co.uk/ ) which is now on sale and has been endorsed by ‘Safe Lives’ and
Police Scotland. This led to a course ‘Supporting Victims of Domestic Violence’ on
FutureLearn.com, which was ranked in the top 35 such online learning resources across the globe
in 2020 and has enrolled over 10,000 students.

Stakeholder engagement promoting policy

We identify appropriate stakeholders to ensure that our research is translated into tangible patient
benefit. Gardiner and Seymour (Emeritus) have engaged with policymakers including Public
Health England to improve advanced palliative care (ACP) planning following a commission from
the European Association for Palliative Care, the leading European advocacy organisation for
palliative care with membership from 52 countries worldwide. The work resulted in an international
‘White Paper’ defining optimal APC, providing a consensus framework and facilitating greater
understanding and adoption of APC across Europe, North America and which is now underway in
Asia. Seymour was a member of the expert panel of the Canadian ‘Palliative Care Matters’
Consensus, an initiative that promotes debate and informs policy initiatives. This led to the
commission of research about how best to raise public awareness of PC which subsequently
informed the Canadian PCM consensus statement on PC which has been widely adopted across
Canada and contributed to a federal private member’s bill committing to the adoption of “a
framework on palliative care in Canada”.

Enderby is a technical expert on the WHO Rehabilitation 2030 program to develop rehabilitation
guidelines and harmonise services. de Witte is co-editor of the flagship report on emerging
technologies and their potential for the field of assistive technology that the World Intellectual
Property Organisations (UN) is developing. He is also a member of the editorial team for the Global
Report that WHO is developing.

Public engagement

Recognising the importance of public engagement and dissemination of research and research
principles, staff within the unit make regular contributions to local, UK and international events,
including Festival of the Mind, which have attracted more than 400K people in recent years


                                                                                              Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(https://www.sheffield.ac.uk/pre/public-engagement), Discovery Night, Science Week, Pint of
Science, Researchers Night, Sheffield International Documentary Festival (DocFest) and the
literary festival ‘Off the Shelf’.

Pacey is extending his work set out in a REF2014 case study, as a writer for BioNews and Trustee
of the Progress Educational Trust (PET). He has appeared in 1,306 English Language media
articles within the assessment period with an estimated audience of ~2 billion. He regularly
appears on news and documentary programmes on major networks such as the BBC.

Gardiner (2019) broadcast an interview on US National Public Radio on loneliness among older
people.

Mustapha participated in an exhibition on hearing and deafness at the MRC Festival. Due to
positive feedback, an invitation to present ‘The Senses’ (MRC Festival 2020) online followed.

International Clinical Trials Day is an annual event in Sheffield city centre, which demonstrates a
‘mock’ clinical trial, demonstrating how clinical trials are conducted.

Staff at all levels participate in visits to local schools, motivated to increase public understanding of
research and also widen participation of less advantaged children in Higher Education. For
example, Hautbergue presents “Our Amazing Brain” interactive lecture series to local schools
(>100 children each year). Staff perform hands-on experiments during Science Week, as well as
during Pint of Science, and the MRC Festival of Medical Research.

4.4 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

The institutional framework for recruitment and promotion recognises academic citizenship as a
core part of our endeavour. As such, unit staff contribute to the sustainability of their disciplines
both in leadership and contributor roles.

Societies and professional bodies

Unit staff make significant contributions to their professional communities through membership of
relevant societies, professional bodies, and institutions. This includes leadership roles within these
organisations. Exemplars include:

   •   Founding member of the Association of Biomedical Andrologists and Chair of the British
       Fertility Society (Pacey)

   •   Vice-President for Science and Research at the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child
       Health (Bishop)

   •   Chair of the Oral Microbiology & Immunology Group of the British Society for Oral & Dental
       Research (Stafford)

   •   Director of research and development for the Royal College for Speech and Language
       Therapists (Palmer)

   •   Chair of the Biomedical Materials Division Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining
       (Hatton)

   •   Chair of the Dental Schools Council (Deery).

   •   Enderby is president of the International Association of Communication Sciences and
       Disorders.

                                                                                                Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Support for journals

During the assessment period, staff were members of editorial boards of over 80 peer-reviewed
journals which cover the full range of subjects that are relevant to the unit (Figure 2).




Figure 2: Examples of journals where unit staff play leading roles

Invited Presentations

Researchers gave >250 keynote lectures including Rothman (Royal College of Physicians
Quincentenary Lecture, 2018), Condliffe (Royal Society of Medicine 2017), Prince (British
Thoracic Society 2016 meeting), Bishop (Slemenda Award lecture at the International Conference
on Children's Bone Health meeting 2019), Gardiner (5th International Conference of Advance
Care Planning and End of Life Care), Hinchliffe (21st Congress of the European Society for
Sexual Medicine, Slovenia).

Services to funding bodies

Unit staff serve or, have served, on grant awarding panels for a wide range of UK and international
sponsors.




                                                                                           Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 3: Examples of national and international funding agencies where unit staff serve on panels

Related evidence of esteem and standing

Staff also serve on over 50 advisory boards in the region, UK, and overseas. These include:

   •   President of the Global Alliance of Assistive Technology Organisations (de Witte).

   •   Director of International Stem Cell Initiative 2004 - 2017; member of steering committee
       2017 onwards (Andrews).

   •   Chair of the Steering Group for the UK National External Quality Assurance Scheme for
       Andrology (Pacey).

   •   Chair of the European Association for Palliative Care taskforce on financial costs of caring
       (Gardiner).

   •   Membership of Scientific Advisory Boards including charities (Holen: Breast Cancer
       Campaign/Breast Cancer Now; Winder, Duchenne UK), research centres (Davletov, Izmir
       Biomedical Centre, Turkey; Hatton, Versus Arthritis Centre for Tissue Engineering),
       international, national and regional bodies (Hinchliff: World Association of Sexual Health,
       Rivolta: Stem Cell Program for the Cell & Gene Therapy Catapult; Hatton: Yorkshire &
       Humberside Medilink; Allen, South Yorkshire Motor Disorders Research Advisory Group).

Honours and awards

The high esteem and contributions of members of the unit has been reflected by the award of a
wide range of national and international awards. Exemplars include:




                                                                                            Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   In recognition of its contribution to improving the lives of patients suffering from
       neurodegenerative diseases, SITraN was awarded the Queens Anniversary Prize for
       Innovation in Neuroscience (2019).

   •   Rodd received an MBE (2020) for services to children’s dentistry. Enderby (Emeritus)
       received an OBE (2018) for outstanding contributions to speech and language therapy.
       Pacey received an MBE for services to reproductive medicine (2016).

   •   Di Giovine was awarded the Sir James Black Award for Contributions to Drug Discovery
       (British Pharmacological Society) in 2016 (jointly with Duff and Nuki).

   •   Lifetime achievement award (2014) from International Journal of Palliative Care Nursing
       and Macmillan Cancer Support (Seymour)

   •   Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists Sternberg Award (Palmer, 2014;
       Herbert, 2015)

   •   Outstanding Achievement Award from Lung Cancer Nursing UK (Tod, 2019)

   •   Mary Seacole Leadership Award by RCN 2016 and the Emerging Researcher Award by
       Sigma 2017 (Ali).

   •   David L Turpin Award for Evidence-based Research (Benson, 2018)

   •   Samuel Charles Miller Award of the American Academy for Oral Medicine (Thornhill)

   •   Charles Tomes Lectureship, Royal College of Surgeons of England (Rodd, 2016/17)

   •   Distinguished Scientist Award for Behavioural, Epidemiologic and Health Services
       Research by IADR (Baker, 2018)

   •   IADR Giddon Award for Behavioural, Epidemiologic and Health Services Research (Baker,
       2016).

   •   Alan Wilson Memorial Lecture Award of the UK Society for Biomaterials (Hatton, 2019)

   •   European Network for Cure of ALS (ENCALS) Young Investigator Award (Cooper-Knock)

   •   Julie Wallace Award by the Nutrition Society (Kurien, 2016)

   •   Hautbergue is an elected fellow of the Royal Society of Biology.

We offer tailored support to ECRs and PGRs and the quality and impact of their research has been
recognised by numerous poster prizes and awards. These include INSPIRE, the International
Association for Dental Research, and the Royal Society of Medicine, Colyer Prize 2020. MIMIC
students were finalists in the BBSRC BioYes competition, winning Best Intellectual Property
Strategy prize (2018). Harrison won the British Society for Dental Research ‘President’s Prize’ for
her work on osteomyelitis where she is also named on a patent. Emerson won the Ghent
University Researcher Award for Best Conference Proceedings Paper (2017) from the European
Society for the Cognitive Sciences of Music. Kindell won the Award for Outstanding Paper of 2015:
Emerald Literati Network Awards for Excellence.

Conclusion

We represent a highly effective research community, dedicated to improving human health and
well-being throughout the population. Our basic biomedical science provides key insights into

                                                                                          Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
health and disease where it frequently underpins translation into new therapies and devices. Our
patient- and public-orientated research results in significant improvements in treatments, practices
and policies that have a positive impact on quality of life. The impacts from the research and
related professional activities of our staff extend far beyond academia, with development of new
medical devices, drugs, surgical techniques, industrial innovation, and increased competitiveness.
Building on our twin pillars of Mechanisms of Health and Disease and Transforming Care, we
look forward with confidence to continuing our collaborations with key stakeholders, including the
NHS and industry, forming interdisciplinary partnerships to tackle the most pressing healthcare
challenges and to improve quality of life across society.




                                                                                            Page 33
