Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Queen Mary University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

   A) Overview

The School of Law has its roots in the East End of London, between the City and the docks, drawing
upon and speaking to the needs and ambitions of the many immigrant communities there. Listening
to the voices of the marginalised, then tracing the productive connections between those voices and
the institutions of the law, is fundamental to the way we conceive our School’s place in the world.
This means attention to what is too often neglected, creativity about what may be possible, and
dexterity in negotiations with power. The achievement of social justice, in the workings of both public
and private life, is at the heart of what we seek to do. Among the real privileges of our location is that
it enriches that mission by investing us with a global, pluralistic outlook on what social justice means.

The School is composed of two parts, the Department of Law (DoL), located in its original home, and
the Centre for Commercial Law Studies (CCLS), in central London. Each part has a distinct remit,
yet the two work together to achieve a common purpose. The DoL has a well established reputation
for innovative work in social policy areas, including immigration, human rights and state crime, po-
licing and criminal justice, feminist legal studies, labour law, environmental law, practical ethics, and
social theory. CCLS was founded to address pressing commercial policy issues, in intellectual prop-
erty, banking and finance, arbitration and international dispute resolution, technology, taxation, and
energy regulation. It continues to be pre-eminent in those fields. These two aspects of the School
are distinct entities in the service of a joint responsibility. Success in the execution of this responsi-
bility depends upon a concrete grasp of human problems in all their diversity and novelty (the DoL’s
speciality), coupled with an acute understanding of the operations of power (CCLS’s speciality). Both
parts of the School share these distinct commitments, but address them in different ways. The chal-
lenge has always been to ensure that the two perspectives speak to one another as productively as
possible, and in the last few years we have worked very successfully to ensure this. We have estab-
lished a joint research committee, joint appointment panels, a joint promotion committee, joint EDI
and Athena Swan committees, consolidated the PhD programme, introduced co-supervision be-
tween the units and encouraged joint research projects with joint research management. Our syner-
gies are now wholly productive.

   B) Research structure

The School is fundamentally committed, as an ambitious research institution, to the enduring value
of individual scholarship. We ensure sabbaticals, generous research allowances, research reviews,
early career mentoring and workshops, research away days, and grant writing workshops. In addi-
tion, the School has established a rich range of specialist Research Centres and Institutes to foster
collaborative research and to generate impact. These research hubs bring together researchers and
doctoral students with a shared sense of problem and different intellectual resources, thereby en-
couraging interdisciplinarity in our research and its funding. They also promote knowledge exchange
beyond the academy, with government, the professions, civil society, industry and international or-
ganisations, so fostering public engagement. These commitments, to interdisciplinarity and to public
engagement, and the vital contribution both make to excellence in research, executed with equality
and diversity uppermost in mind, are shared by Centres and Institutes, with ongoing flexibility as to
which commitment should predominate in each unit.

    a) Centres and Institutes

Since 2014, we have incorporated seven new interdisciplinary Centres and Institutes into the School,
an increase of nearly 50%, so bringing together social scientists, economists, historians, political

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
scientists, and specialists in medicine and public health, all with international experience and outlook.
Our existing centres have long-standing and successful relationships with researchers in global
health, English and drama, politics and international relations, geography, and economics. Some of
them are resourced through project grants, both collaborative and individual, for example, a €1.25
million HERA grant; more than £775K funding from the ESRC, Horizon2020, Leverhulme Trust and
Open Society Foundation; and a €300K Erasmus+ Strategic Research Partnership. Others have
built partnerships with industry and legal professionals in order to create mentoring and internship
programmes (for example, bringing together the energy sector and specialist law firms, to offer re-
search mentoring and internships and to broaden dialogue between the academy and the objects of
its enquiry).

Some research hubs have become incubators for the development of new disciplinary pathways,
such as the Institute for Communications and Computer Law, which established the Cloud Compu-
ting Project, and through it has funded six early career researcher positions, in addition to two re-
search studentships. Other Centres and Institutes have translated their research into policy engage-
ment, as demonstrated by the fact that two research hubs hold accredited observer status at UN
bodies, while the International State Crime Initiative conducts regular workshops in the Foreign Of-
fice. The School as a whole has invested significantly in supporting the public engagement, outreach
and impact activities of all research hubs. In addition to our Research Managers, this investment
includes five events and communications positions.

    b) Individual research support mechanisms

Since 2014, we have increased the degree of the School’s engagement with individual research,
introducing constructive mechanisms to reshape institutional and collegial expectations, so as to
promote rigour while respecting the creativity and self-direction of each individual researcher. In
addition to reducing the teaching and administrative load by a third, and providing a mentor to each
early career researcher, we have established an innovative scheme of regular mentoring (six meet-
ings per year) for all researchers up to Senior Lecturer (the Early Career Researcher Network). The
aim is to provide tailored support to our community of junior colleagues, including developing strat-
egies in relation to journal selection and submission; navigating journal decisions; identifying and
applying for research funding; accepting and supervising PhD students; and most important, reading
one another’s work and providing constructive, critical feedback. This commitment has been ex-
tended to all staff, including the most senior, though the touch becomes lighter and more nuanced.
Our aim is to ensure that all researchers have the support they need to produce outstanding work
that is capable of making a difference in the world. To this end we have an extremely active research
committee that coordinates review of grant applications and work-in-progress, supplemented by an-
nual one-to-one research reviews with the Director of Research to discuss individual progress, future
ambitions and access to further support from the School. We then provide supportive spaces in
which research can be aired at every stage of its development. Our weekly seminar series for aca-
demic staff and research students brings in visitors, showcases the work of our best and most inno-
vative scholars, and dedicates half its sessions to the enhancement of work in progress. In parallel
to these seminars, our Centres and Institutes hold more focused seminar series of their own, so
building dedicated environments for specialist communities.

None of this would have been possible without significant investment in dedicated research support.
Since the last REF the School, working from its own resources, appointed a second School Research
Manager to strengthen its support for research grant applications, to boost the research culture, and
to encourage collaboration and interdisciplinary working. In addition, the University created a Faculty
Research Manager, responsible for developing and coordinating research strategy across Schools.

   C) Research strategy

The School’s research strategy emerges naturally from Queen Mary’s location, historic character,
and convictions. Through our research we seek to capture voices that have been neglected or un-
heard, to incorporate them in our thinking and writing, and then, through our understanding of and
connections to government, the professions and industries, to ensure a hearing for what they have

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to tell us. It is this comprehensive endeavour that we seek to make excellent. The organising aim of
the School’s integrated research strategy is to generate research achievement of the highest order,
in terms of its imagination and rigour, that in all its aspects is keenly attentive to diversity of circum-
stance and outlook, demonstrates social and intellectual leadership, and helps to shape the world
for the better. How do we go about achieving this?

In REF 2014 we committed ourselves to enhancing our research income, expanding the number and
extent of our research collaborations, increasing our intake of PhD students (and improving comple-
tion times), and promoting access to our research through Green Open Access. In fulfilment of those
commitments, we have increased grant income from £4.6 million in 2010-14 to £9 million in the
period 2014-2020. We have also increased the intake of our PhD students from 116 in 2010-2014
to 148 in 2015-2019, while maintaining completion times within four years at 80%. We have also
increased the number of conferences and workshops facilitating cross-disciplinary collaborations to
fifteen annually. Finally, all research is now deposited on an open platform, including the QMUL
repository Elements, as well as on general sites such as SSRN.

During the present assessment period we have committed ourselves to a new, yet more ambitious
set of strategic goals, designed to embed our vision and to establish its place in the world. Those
are as follows:

•   To secure a community of scholars that reflects and enhances the School’s historic commitment
    to social justice and multiplicity of voice. To this end, the School has structured its recruitment so
    as to pay more attention to formerly neglected topics in law (such as climate and energy justice,
    state crime, the ethics of migration, the vulnerability of democracy, and the predicament of small
    states) and to attract contributions from those researchers whose communities have not tradi-
    tionally figured large in the legal academy (by taking active steps in our recruitment advertising
    and outreach to encourage applications from BME and other protected groups that had remained
    under-represented in the School).

•   To make certain strategic and interdisciplinary appointments, with a view to fostering fresh voices
    while continuing to learn from proven ones. The School has appointed nineteen full-time Early
    Career Researchers (eight of whom have since been promoted), a British Academy Global Pro-
    fessor, and six fractional Global Law Professors since 2014. Overall we have made 42 new re-
    search appointments.

•   To develop our Centres and Institutes in the manner described above.

•   To build international research collaborations, in three ways:
    o Through the appointment of Global Professors with homes both within the School and in
       institutions abroad (including Princeton, Tilburg, Max Planck Institute). These professors sup-
       port the development of an international research culture, by leading international confer-
       ences and workshops, offering PhD masterclasses and research seminars, and collaborating
       on grant applications.
    o Through the presence of international visitors in the School. To this end, the School has
       undertaken a competitive recruitment of Distinguished Visiting Professors who have a real
       and significant perspective to bring to our research community, in exchange for a set pro-
       gramme of commitments, in terms of lectures (to specialists and the public), PhD master-
       classes, and cross-Faculty seminars to interdisciplinary audiences. Since 2014, the School
       has been successful at securing sixteen of these funded positions. We offer other Visiting
       Researchers (some established academics, some research students) a structured pro-
       gramme, overseen by the Research Committee, in which office space, library access, and
       administrative support are provided, in return for a commitment to research collaboration, the
       delivery of a research paper, and participation in Research Centre activities and our research
       seminar series.
    o By encouraging our researchers to take up Visiting Fellowships abroad. The School actively
       encourages staff to spend part of their sabbatical leave abroad and, where needed, offers


                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       funding to make that possible. In the period staff have held Research Fellowships in institu-
       tions around the world (Australia, Italy, France, USA, Singapore, Hong Kong, China and Ja-
       pan), at institutions of acknowledged prominence (Bologna, the Sorbonne), and with recog-
       nized distinction, for example, three Senior Fernand Braudel Fellowships at the EUI.

•   To secure the most effective placement of our research, by encouraging publication in genuinely
    rigorous journals (those with the most robust reviewing processes and the most open-minded
    editorships) to promote research that has the best chance of changing the shape of debate, in
    terms not only of quality but also of readiness to cross disciplinary boundaries and break new
    ground. To this end, the School has instituted its own pre-submission rigour, in the form of inter-
    nal mechanisms for peer-reviewing draft outputs, for advising colleagues on the appropriate
    placement of articles, and for annual discussions of research plans.

•   To secure the widest and most flexible possible access to research support, in recognition of the
    fact that successful research depends on resources that are both diverse and sufficient, in terms
    of time, money, and institutional backing. To this end, the School has ensured that a generous
    research allowance (£3K per year) is available to all research-active staff. Further funding is
    available on special application to the Research Committee. A member of the EDI Committee
    sits on the Research Committee to ensure that EDI concerns are reflected in all special funding
    decisions, and that diversity of perspective is embedded in all the projects we encourage and
    support. In addition, new mentoring and probation guidelines have been introduced, designed to
    address the special challenges faced by early career researchers.

•   To create better patterns of work and workload. A new workload model has been introduced, in
    part to ensure that research time is appropriately protected in the allocation of responsibilities in
    teaching and administration. Alongside this, specific policies were introduced to ensure that staff
    returning from parental leave are assisted in their reintegration into research practices and the
    research community, through mentoring, active involvement in research centres, and the alloca-
    tion of research-related administrative roles. In addition, staff are encouraged to take annual
    leaves in full, so as to promote the kind of work/life balance that fosters fresh-mindedness and
    openness of thought.

•   To preserve the existing guaranteed sabbatical leave (of one semester following six) and to work
    towards its enhancement as part of our strategy for the next five years.

•   To build research understanding and research community through annual Research and Impact
    Away Days, designed to operate in conjunction with Centre and Institute activities, annual re-
    search reviews, and participation in the weekly seminars and Network training events.

•   To promote the participation of research staff in funding workshops offered by the University.

In the next five years, in fulfilment of the Law School’s Research Strategy 2020-25 and in order to
continue setting international research agendas within and beyond law:

•   We plan to respond to the Climate Emergency by creating an interdisciplinary Centre of Climate
    Justice, with contributions from the Schools of Geography and Politics & International Relations.
    We have already committed to funding a Chair and a Lectureship within the School. The Centre’s
    focus will be on the achievement of climate justice, and the implications of that ideal for questions
    of forced migration, food security (and conflict), and the intersectionality of climate justice with
    other domains of justice and injustice.

•   We plan to develop research opportunities in the politics of international investment, starting with
    a successful GCRF Networking grant exploring the implications of Chinese investment in Africa.




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   We plan to increase the extent to which our doctoral students are fully funded. This is a reflection
    of our more general commitment to increase the rigour, sense of community, completion rates
    and future prospects of our research students.

•   We plan to enhance our existing sabbatical leave provision by creating a scheme under which
    staff will have the opportunity, where appropriate, to compress a year’s teaching into a single
    semester. This will free up a further semester for research, allowing for more frequent and flexible
    periods of research leave, and the possibility of combining those into an extended leave.

•   We plan to enhance the scrutiny and analysis of our research practices, so as to refine our
    awareness of the position of underrepresented groups in the School, and to continue to strive for
    complete parity. This involves regular questioning and challenging of accepted patterns of eval-
    uation in all decisions, from the allocation of research studentships through to appointments of
    and promotions to Professor.

•   Having regard to the terms of the VITAE Concordat for Researcher Development, we plan to
    invest yet further in the career development and welfare of our staff.

•   We plan to make further adjustments in our workload model, to offer teaching and administrative
    relief to those who have received significant grants from funders and schemes that do not support
    teaching buyout. This is designed to equalise the impact of grants for Named Investigators re-
    gardless of funding source.

    D) Impact

Our character and ambitions as a School have led us to seek forms of impact that make a difference
in the world for those whose voices and interests have been historically neglected, diminished, or
even suppressed in the operations of law and justice, nationally and internationally. Our goal is to
strengthen the connections between marginalized peoples and the too often marginalized domains
of research that focus on their predicaments. Impact significantly diminishes marginalization, and
that, no less than a concern for transparency and accountability in public expenditure, is why impact
matters to the School.

The six impact case studies submitted to REF2021 reflect this commitment and speak to the suc-
cessful embodiment of our impact strategy in the overall research culture of the School. Two speak
to the predicament of the internationally dispossessed: those fleeing conflict in their home territories
in boats across the Mediterranean, and the Rohingya, driven from their territory by a genocidal pro-
ject on the part of their government. Two speak to the predicament of the vulnerable in our midst:
those who are endangered by the rise of online gambling, and those who are vulnerable to the impact
of big data, AI and cloud computing. Two speak to ways of strengthening the legal institutions that
are entrusted with ensuring the rule of law and the security it offers against abuse of power: of se-
curing a governing structure for paperless transactions, and of preserving the independence of the
judiciary. Two further areas not included in the submission, on access to medicines and access to
justice, were in the same spirit.

In 2015, two Academic Leads for Impact were appointed. They head an Impact Group that meets
four times a year to support, encourage and promote research knowledge and its external usage.
The Group is backed by our Research Managers, in running workshops to increase the School’s
understanding of the nature and potential of impact and mechanisms for achieving it. Our impact
activities have been supported with awards funded by the QMUL Centre for Public Engagement, the
QMUL Collaboration Fund, and Faculty impact funding, four of which yielded impact case studies
that form part of this REF submission. Successful applications for funding have been used, among
other things, to identify and analyse research impact in other jurisdictions.

In more fine-grained settings than those reflected in the six case studies, the School’s academics
disseminate their research findings through a range of public engagements, aiming to influence the
future development of the law. During the period of assessment, academic staff have held advisory

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
positions with many influential bodies (including the Foreign Office, Bank of England, the European
Central Bank and the World Bank), and have made acknowledged contributions to law reform bodies
(including the Law Commission, UK Parliamentary Committees, the Foreign and Commonwealth
Office, UN Human Rights Council, UN Commission on International Trade Law, European Parlia-
ment and European Commission) and a wide range of civil society organizations. They have con-
tributed at senior levels to industry and self-regulatory bodies such as the Press Complaints Com-
mission. Indeed, collaboration with industry has extended to the appointment of Industry-based Pro-
fessors, who join us for defined periods of time in order to disseminate knowledge about industry
practices and engage in teaching activity (to the benefit of PhD students especially) and who take
our research findings back into their industry work. In some high-profile areas, such as human rights,
state crime and refugee law, academic research frequently informs newspaper commentary and
other modes of public dissemination.

In order to facilitate further the achievement of impact, the allocation of teaching and administration
workloads among the School’s teaching and research staff takes into account time needed to de-
velop research impact and to gather evidence of it. Whenever possible, the allocation is undertaken
flexibly, in order to respond to particular needs. The Faculty provides generous funding on a com-
petitive basis for impact development, with biannual calls for grants up to £3K [REF5a, section 4].
Personal research funds may also be used to develop impact and to employ research assistants to
gather evidence of impact.

As evidence of the success of our commitment to the impact agenda a number of our research
groups have been recognized in impact prizes: the International State Crime Initiative was shortlisted
for the ESRC Celebrating Impact Prize for its work on genocide in Myanmar; within QMUL three
School research groups have been awarded Public Engagement and Enterprise Awards in recogni-
tion of outstanding achievement in research impact beyond the academy, in terms of genocide, res-
cue of asylum-seekers, and domestic violence.

    E) Interdisciplinarity

The School’s commitment to interdisciplinary research is central to its present and future research
strategy, and so is embodied in our academic appointments (which are designed to be strategic and
interdisciplinary), in the character of the ongoing expansion of our Research Centres and Institutes,
and in our international research collaborations. In particular, the School has done the following:

•   Working together with the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, the School has secured
    three early career strategic lectureships, funded initially by the Faculty and thereafter by the
    School, specifically dedicated to the furtherance of interdisciplinarity [REF5a, section 2].

•   In fulfilment of its own local appointment strategy, the School has also made a number of per-
    manent appointments from fields other than law, for example from Criminology, History and Po-
    litical Science.

•   The School has encouraged and supported its research staff in working with scholars from other
    disciplines, inside and outside Queen Mary. It has supported joint research projects with Medi-
    cine, Computer Science, English and Drama, Geography, and Political Science and International
    Relations. The School has been open to research vehicles and outputs embodying media of all
    kinds, photography, film, and art as well as books and articles, in print and online.

•   The School is open to doctoral students from disciplines other than Law, and where appropriate
    secures joint supervision for them outside the School. Second supervisors have been drawn from
    the Schools of Business and Management, Politics and International Relations, Electronic Engi-
    neering and Computer Science, and History. In support of these students the School has been
    involved in interdisciplinary doctoral training programmes and has successfully pursued funding
    for a range of interdisciplinary PhD studentships.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Since 2014 every Centre or Institute has assumed an interdisciplinary outlook, as part of the
    School’s commitment to a fully rounded sense of the issues that Centres and Institutes exist to
    confront, and a wide-ranging view of the skills that are required to comprehend them. In this way
    Centres and Institutes regularly engage with non-legal perspectives, from economics, history,
    international relations, social science, political science, computer science, industry, the profes-
    sions, and non-governmental organisations of all kinds. For example, the Institute of Banking
    and Finance Law works with economists and the financial sector, the Intellectual Property Re-
    search Institute works with pharmacologists and the agro-business sector, the International State
    Crime Initiative works with theatre groups, medics, and political scientists, and the Cloud Legal
    Project works with computer developers.

•   The growing interdisciplinarity of our research is reflected in the range of journals in which it is
    now published, including leading outlets in geography, political science, anthropology, econom-
    ics and finance, business studies, philosophy and history. The promotions committee acknowl-
    edges the significance of such interdisciplinary work.

•   The School has a strong and active programme for the presentation of research findings by
    visitors of all disciplinary backgrounds, as outlined above.

    F) Open access

In fulfilment of the commitment made in REF2014, the School nominated a senior colleague to de-
velop strategy around, and raise awareness of, the benefits of Open Access. Seminars were deliv-
ered in person and then disseminated electronically to all researchers. An administrator was ap-
pointed to support colleagues in uploading outputs to the QM repository, Elements, and to answer
queries. In 2016, a second Research Manager was appointed with particular responsibility for fos-
tering Open Access. The School has followed the University in favouring Green Open Access, on
the basis that this is more sustainable, but where appropriate, for example as part of a project grant,
has supported Gold Open Access. We also recommend that colleagues include Article Processing
Charges on funding applications where possible. Internal funding is available which can be used for
Open Access costs.

Additionally, we have established operational teams to monitor and support Open Access. There is
an act on acceptance campaign across the University to encourage the sharing of publications as
early as possible. The School of Law has an active working paper series prominently displayed on
our website as well as a dedicated SSRN series. We also publish the fully Open Access Queen Mary
Human Rights Law Review and Transnational Commercial Law Review.

We are continuing to develop our support for the sharing of research data, though we recognise that
for some research areas this is not feasible for reasons of security and/or confidentiality. In terms of
publications we have been closely following the development of the UKRI-endorsed Plan S, given
its planned introduction in January 2021. We are aware of the profound problem of asymmetry of
access, for example between the Global North and South, whereby many of those who would benefit
from knowledge lack access to it. As part of our strategic plan for the next five years, we are devel-
oping a scheme under which all of the School’s articles will be made available by the author on
request.

    G) Research ethics and integrity

Research integrity in the School is founded on institution-wide practices. QMUL has adopted the
commitments of UUK’s Concordat to support research integrity [REF5a, section 2.III]. All research
projects that involve human or animal participants must be approved by the Ethics of Research
Committee, on which two members of the School sit. Two Research Ethics Facilitators offer dedi-
cated support for non-medical disciplines. QMUL has separate policies for key aspects of research
governance including managing risks, research data management, duty of care, and publication
ethics. All research must be demonstrably independent, and where conflicts cannot be eliminated


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
they must be declared in all research applications and publications. The Misconduct Committee con-
siders alleged cases of lack of research integrity.

All QMUL staff members are required to act ethically and with integrity in all aspects of their research.
For funded work Principal Investigators must complete an ethics process on WorkTribe and, where
significant concerns have been identified, must meet with a central Research Governance Officer.
At School level Research Managers and Directors of Research are available to support colleagues
with any research governance queries or concerns.

Within the School we have fostered a culture of integrity based on staff training and commitment to
mentorship and transparency. There is an annual ‘researcher essentials’ programme, mandatory for
all doctoral students, with sessions such as ‘Integrity and ethics in research’ and ‘research design
and reliability’. All staff undergo training on GDPR and data management. Our annual away day and
weekly staff seminar series complement this training, with wider discussions around key aspects of
research governance. The International State Crime Initiative has developed its own protocol for
conducting fieldwork in hostile environments, available to all researchers and doctoral students in
the School.

Our conception of research ethics includes climate ethics. As part of our commitment to confronting
the climate emergency, we are changing our ways of working in order to reduce the School’s carbon
footprint. We are asking colleagues to reduce air travel as far as possible. While we accept the need
for fieldwork, we are now encouraging the use of digital platforms to develop our international net-
works and exchange of knowledge in place of physical attendance. All this was prior to the corona-
virus pandemic.

 2. People

   A) Staffing strategy and staff development

   a) All research staff

The School recognizes that research achievement depends for its ultimate success on a responsive
and inclusive research community, in which support, guidance, fellowship and concern for welfare
all figure highly. At the centre of this community is the relationship between individual researchers
and their Research Directors and Research Mentors. Part of this is expressed through research
community engagements, in which Research Directors have held workshops on topics from meth-
odology to funding and have facilitated attendance at writing retreats. Part is expressed through
annual face-to-face Research Review Meetings, in which Directors and Research Managers, sup-
ported by an experienced professor, meet researchers to discuss individual progress and plans.
Outcomes are agreed and become the foundation for the following year’s meeting and the review of
progress there. These meetings are also opportunities for individual researchers to convey their
thoughts about the nature and quality of research support in the School. Further promoting this sense
of research community are the distinct intellectual homes offered to researchers by Centres and
Institutes.

Within the School, the Head and CCLS Director ensure that research support is tailored to the cir-
cumstances and welfare of every researcher, by making appropriate and reasonable adjustments to
workloads and opportunities. In addition, they make themselves available for individual discussions
about progress and promotion, helping to shape careers in the most rewarding directions and at a
healthy pace. The promotions process has been made significantly more robust and inclusive, and
now incorporates more clearly articulated research expectations and draws upon more diverse
points of view. The effect has been to make internal promotion as important in the development of
the School’s research culture, and as important a source of diversity of outlook, as is external re-
cruitment. Furthermore, staff are encouraged to participate in Faculty and University training on grant
writing, UKRI and EU frameworks, impact, research budgeting, and public engagement.



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   b) Early-career researchers

In partnership with the University, the School has embraced the principles of the Concordat to Sup-
port the Career Development of Researchers [REF5a, section 3.I] and seeks not merely to uphold
but to exceed its expectations. Every early career researcher is allocated a Research Mentor from
the professoriate, working to agreed guidelines, and encouraged to meet on a regular basis. Re-
searchers then meet separately with the Academic Lead for Probation to discuss expectations and
progress. Promotion now represents a genuine pedagogical achievement.

Early Career Researchers enjoy reduced teaching responsibilities in their first three years of employ-
ment (no more than four hours a week), so they can properly adjust to life in academia and make a
start in fulfilling the high research expectations of the School. The Early Career Researcher Network,
mentored by a member of the professoriate, brings ECRs together six times a year, forming valuable
bonds across sub-disciplines. The ECRN is reviewed annually, and feedback from probationers and
their mentors has led to regular and ongoing improvements in design and delivery.

   c) Staffing and recruitment policy

In 2013, the gender distribution of our academic staff, reported in REF2014, was disappointingly
uneven and our professoriate was predominantly male. Since then we have developed and imple-
mented a conscious strategy to remedy both those issues. That strategy has been very successful.
Women now constitute 46% of our staff, up from 41% in the previous cycle; more significantly, they
now constitute 43% of our professoriate, up from 29% in the previous cycle. Men and women are
now exactly equally represented at Lecturer, Senior Lecturer and Reader level. This has been a
huge step toward the goal of achieving complete gender parity. In a similar vein, we have made
considerable headway in recruiting BME academic staff. In 2013 only 8% of our staff were BME.
That figure is now 12%, approaching the goal of parity.

As part of our research strategy the School is committed to excellence of scholarship and diversity
of voice. We have sought to strengthen the vitality and sustainability of the School’s research com-
munity by investing heavily in Early Career Researchers, as a counterweight to our already strong
professoriate, now further strengthened by the appointment of fractional Global Chairs. In addition,
and in concert with the Faculty, we have secured the appointment of three Strategic Lecturers, ded-
icated to interdisciplinary research. More broadly, we have sought to make the School more inclusive
by significantly expanding our research staff numbers so as to achieve a greater balance, both be-
tween established and under-represented groups and between those at different career stages. Of
the 42 appointments made since 2014, nineteen have been Early Career Researchers. The compo-
sition of the School is no longer as top-heavy as it was, reflects a significantly wider range of intel-
lectual perspectives, and is better secured against the future.

In line with the Concordat, the School has ensured that, with the exception of a small number of
professorial researchers who have permanent posts elsewhere, short-term contracts are used only
as pathways to permanent posts, for example, by holders of a British Academy or Leverhulme Fel-
lowship. Three of these independently funded research fellows have obtained permanent posts in
this manner since 2014.

The School is an open and diverse community, committed to the support of legal research of all
kinds. That said, we have a particular commitment to social justice, in the janus-faced form described
at the outset, attentive to the voices of the marginalised and alive to the connections between those
voices and the institutions of the law. In support of that commitment we have enhanced our existing
Research Centres and Institutes, and added to their number, so as to offer sympathetic, supportive
and inspiring homes to scholars of climate justice and energy regulation, immigration and shipping
law, democracy and intellectual property, state violence and international arbitration alike. A signifi-
cant portion of our recruitment is now vested in Centres and Institutes.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    d) Support and integration of early-career researchers and PDRAs

Early Career Researchers and others below Senior Lecturer are offered an active network of regular
meetings and tailored research support. This network focuses on publication strategies, grant writing
and supervision, while being an important showcase for work in progress. In addition, we have suc-
ceeded in building a research culture in which attendance at the research seminar series is expected
of all, including the most senior, and presentation opportunities are open to all, including the most
junior. Postdoctoral research assistants are afforded research support and training comparable to
that received by Early Career Lecturers. PDRAs are recognized as a vital part of the research culture,
in addition to the crucial role they play in the life of the particular Centres and Institutes in which they
are housed. Early Career Researchers receive the further support of a significantly reduced teaching
load.

    e) Individual research support mechanisms

All research staff are presumptively entitled to a semester of research leave after six semesters.
Applications for leave must set out the nature and scope of the research and/or impact project that
is planned. Those returning from sabbatical must report on their research and/or impact achieve-
ments. Additional grants of research leave are available when the project in question calls for it, upon
presentation of a supporting case to the Head of School. Research Directors and Centre/Institute
Heads are recognized conduits for such proposals and for their encouragement. Part-time staff enjoy
as frequent sabbaticals as full-time staff; fixed-term staff are considered for sabbaticals as is appro-
priate in their particular case, depending on the length of their fixed term for example.

    f) Evidence of procedures to stimulate and facilitate exchanges between academia and
       business, industry or public or third sector bodies

Our Centres and Institutes serve as gateways for collaboration with the relevant professional fields.
One of the main aims of the Institutes in CCLS is to produce research that enables some of the most
significant international commercial law actors to reform their policies, practices and attitudes. Ben-
eficiaries of our research include international organisations (IMF, ECB, International Chamber of
Commerce, World Trade Organisation, World Bank, World Intellectual Property Organisation), Eu-
ropean and U.K. policy makers (EU Commission, Department for International Trade) professional
bodies (Law Society, London Court of International Arbitration) and law firms. Many Institutes have
advisory committees that include members of these bodies and vice versa: the structures are de-
signed to promote the cross-pollination of ideas.

Other procedures to facilitate exchanges include: the creation of global fora for high-level debate
with practitioners, regulators, the judiciary, industry and selected representatives from corporate and
civil society; disseminating research to non-academic audiences through publication, practitioner
training, seminars, postgraduate programmes of study, engagement with policy formation; and the
provision of strategic bursaries to research students, enabling them to make dialogue with the wider
world central to their vision of research.

    g) Recognition and reward of staff for carrying out research and for achieving impact

The School has a long tradition of paying direct tribute to research achievement, from successful
completion of a doctorate, to receipt of or shortlisting towards a research grant, to publication of a
monograph, to achievement of a promotion, to election to a distinguished body of scholars. An-
nouncements are made, receptions, book launches, and symposia are held, all in the service of
publicly and prominently respecting and supporting research culture and achievement. Such tributes
are foundational to the sense of community in the School. Tribute is further paid to research achieve-
ment in the central role that it plays in promotion decisions, in financial support in the form of grant
buyouts, language training, further higher degrees in a research-relevant discipline, and additional
grants of research leave.



                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In addition, the School has a newer tradition of supporting and enabling research impact. This now
receives priority as an issue in sabbatical applications. Since 2014 the School has held two Away
Days specifically devoted to impact, has funded, through research allowances and otherwise, en-
gagements that could lead to impact, and has recruited two external consultants to work with re-
searchers in identifying and communicating their impact. Communications teams meet researchers
annually to discuss dissemination strategies through media and other outlets. By providing a bridge
between academia and industry, government policymakers, the judiciary, and NGOs, one of the
central functions of our Research Centres and Institutes is to facilitate impact.

   B) Research students

We are committed to the view that a successful research environment depends on the presence of
an intellectually outstanding, vibrant and diverse research student community. Since 2014, the
School has taken steps to increase the size and quality of its doctoral cohort, while paying special
attention to its composition. The number of research degrees awarded has grown from 87 in
REF2014 to 137.8 in REF2021. We have established a robust recruitment and support scheme for
doctoral students, composed of eight representative staff members, headed by two Co-Directors of
Graduate Studies. We require that all members of recruitment panels have undertaken unconscious
bias training. Doctoral candidates are selected according to their academic achievements, the
strength of their proposal and their fit with the research expertise of School staff. Our present doctoral
student community is made up of 148 students, 88 of whom are women and 60 are men. Of those,
40 are BME, 91 are non-BME, and seventeen did not declare. This speaks to a diverse and healthy
recruitment process.

   a) Evidence of studentships from major funding bodies

Since 2014, we have sought to maximize the number of doctoral candidates with fully funded stu-
dentships. Prospective supervisors regularly support candidates in the drafting of funding applica-
tions. Seventy-two out of 148 recruits between September 2014 and September 2019 entry have
been awarded highly competitive studentships from sources including ESRC LISS DTP (Queen
Mary/Imperial College/King’s College London) and AHRC LAHP DTP, Leverhulme Mobile People
DTP, as well as Principal’s Studentships and the School’s own graduate teaching associateships.

   b) Monitoring and support mechanisms linked to evidence of progress and of successful
      completions

We are aware of the acute vulnerability of doctoral students faced with the challenge of solitary
research, and sensitive to the many different forms this vulnerability can take, particularly given our
diverse student body. In addition to supervisors, all of whom are required to undergo training in the
regulatory and personal demands arising from doctoral study, a specialist Doctoral Academic Advi-
sor provides individual advice on personal welfare, managing time, and planning work. Research
students can also obtain personal support from the advice and counselling centre and the Univer-
sity’s Dignity and Disclosure officers.

All research students participate in an induction programme. They then have three monitoring
stages, at 9, 18 and 36 months. The first stage consists of a review of written material (by a panel of
two assessors) and a student presentation. For the second stage students must submit two substan-
tive chapters, an outline of the remainder, and a timeline for completion. At the beginning of the third
stage students must have a complete draft and, following review, may transfer to the ‘writing up’
stage. Two supervisors accompany each student through this process, meeting them a minimum of
ten times per year, recorded on the university’s student information system. All PhD students enjoy
access to computerised workspace, and to all the research resources available to academic staff,
including the exemplary facilities of the new Graduate Centre.

As part of their ongoing assessment, each student completes an annual appraisal, focusing on pro-
gress and with an opportunity to raise any concerns, including difficulties that might arise in the


                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
supervisory relationship. The School’s completion rate within four years has remained at 80% de-
spite the fact that all students are now expected to publish at least one refereed journal article or
book chapter during the course of their degree.

   c) Support provided to research students: skills development and preparation for their
      future career

As part of our mission to prepare doctoral students for a career in academic life, in the belief that the
skills involved are also valuable in other professional, governmental, corporate and civil society set-
tings, we provide support for skills development not only in research methods, but also in teaching,
publication, grant writing, and other forms of dissemination and public engagement. Career prepa-
ration is fully integrated in our doctoral programme, in the conviction that the two should be treated
as inseparable.

Research skills development is secured by a partnership among students, individual supervisors,
and staff involved in the doctoral programme. The School requires all first-year students to undergo
an intensive two-week training in research methods at the Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, plus
a year-long qualitative and quantitative research methods module, which includes research ethics,
strategies of interviewing, conducting field and ethnographic research, Nvivo and SPSS training,
working in a hostile environment, and archival skills. In addition, the ESRC LISS DTP provides train-
ing to PhD students according to individual needs. This includes social theory and epistemology,
quantitative and digital methods, archival research, and knowledge transfer and co-generation meth-
odologies.

All students are encouraged to engage in a range of research training opportunities, including aca-
demic writing, language acquisition, and methods training. These opportunities are supplemented
by Master Classes delivered by senior visiting academics from around the world, and by our Global
Professors, themselves based in distinguished institutions abroad. There are also seminars deliv-
ered through the Doctoral Training College focused on issues specific to PhD writing, dissemination
and employment.

The School encourages the sharing of ideas among its PhD cohort and with more senior scholars,
not necessarily based at Queen Mary. PhD students attend the weekly staff seminars that take place
in the School as well as the workshops and seminar series run by Centres and Institutes. Students
also have the option of attending PhD student seminar series elsewhere, such as that on interna-
tional political sociology, organised by Politics and International Relations (Queen Mary) and War
Studies (King’s College London).

Students are encouraged to present their research through the PhD student seminar series, which
takes place three times a year (with four students presenting at each seminar). Each year, a group
of the School’s PhD students organises the Queen Mary Postgraduate Legal Research Conference,
where PhD students from the UK and abroad are invited to present their research, with the most
promising research appearing in the Queen Mary Law Journal.

The School provides strong financial support for the research activities of its PhD students. In 2018,
the annual funding available to each student to cover the costs of accommodation, conference fees,
and travel was increased to £750. Students can apply for up to £2000 in further funding. The Post-
graduate Research Initiatives Fund offers amounts up to £1000 to support activities to enhance in-
dividual students’ research experience, intellectual, and/or professional development. Grants are
available also to students who wish to spend time at one of our strategic international partner uni-
versities. Erasmus grants are available for doctoral exchanges in India and China. Two students are
funded to attend the annual Small States Summer School hosted by the University of Iceland in
Reykjavik, and six students are funded to attend the ATLAS Agora each year.




                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   d) Inclusion in academic research projects

The School attempts, where possible, to involve its students in advanced academic research projects
relevant to their studies. This is evident in several initiatives. The EIPIN Innovation Society brings
together the Queen Mary Intellectual Property Research Institute and like institutes at Alicante,
Maastricht, Strasbourg and Munich. Funded by the European Commission, it has pioneered a major
European intellectual property research network, which launched a cross-platform and interdiscipli-
nary Dual PhD programme in 2017. The Society offers competitive PhD scholarships to support
empirical and doctrinal research into intellectual property, both within the traditional university envi-
ronment and for interns who engage with nominated industry and non-profit public interest organi-
sations. Currently, we are host to six such students.

Teaching accomplishment goes hand-in-hand with research accomplishment and with career prep-
aration. All doctoral students are given the opportunity to contribute to our taught programmes, on a
limited basis compatible with their studies. We strongly believe that teaching forces the teacher to
interrogate both their discipline and their audience. It also equips them with the kind of confidence
that enables them to present their work at research seminars and be ready for vivas and job inter-
views. Our aim is to ensure that when students graduate they are able to step immediately into a
research and teaching position. All doctoral students involved in teaching are entitled to pursue the
HEA Certificate in Learning and Teaching and are supported by the Queen Mary Academy in gaining
this qualification.

In terms of publication and grant writing we seek to teach by example. Students are encouraged to
attend research staff sessions on work-in-progress and securing funding. In their turn supervisors
work closely with doctoral students not only on their thesis but also on transforming chapters into
publications and, if required, on how to manage revise-and-resubmits and rejections. Where the
topic calls for it students work with their supervisors on grant proposals.

As part of our commitment to dissemination and public engagement the School hosts and funds an
annual international conference, organised by and for doctoral students. Academic staff serve as
chairs and discussants. We also encourage and fund students to present their research at leading
conferences abroad. The aim is to involve students in a range of global conversations, engaging
them in different academic and cultural perspectives and in different intellectual disciplines, in aca-
demic and non-academic settings. Students learn the value of dissemination, while honing their
presentation skills and establishing international networks. Our sense of responsibility to our stu-
dents extends to helping them to make the transition into their first positions and beyond, through
assisting them in the preparation of cover letters and CVs, and in conducting mock job interviews.

   C) Equality and diversity

We recognize that intellectual perspectives born of different material and social backgrounds lead to
diverse and potentially more challenging questions that have the power to enrich and advance re-
search excellence. We further recognize that attentiveness to the protected characteristics is central
to this project. For those reasons we have consciously sought to identify and dismantle barriers that
have historically informed academic recruitment. As but one example, in the review period the School
secured an appointment which granted a contractual waiver of the qualification period for maternity
leave. Since REF2014, we have introduced a variety of specific recruitment and support mechanisms
to reach our goal of achieving complete parity of opportunity

In terms of recruitment, and a fully inclusive entry into the life of the School, the School took part in
a University review of the different approaches used by HEIs to encourage applications from BME
candidates. Drawing on the best of these, the School devised its own wording for inclusive job ad-
vertisements. We now explicitly encourage applications from all underrepresented groups and sup-
port those applications by ensuring the diverse composition of appointment panels, all members of
which have mandatory training in unconscious bias and EDI awareness. Since 2017, five of our
fifteen research-staff appointments have been BME.


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   a) Study leave arrangements

Our sabbatical leave arrangements are fully informed by equality and diversity considerations. Part-
time working, and periods of parental, sickness and caring leave all count equally in the calculation
of time accumulated towards sabbatical leave. In addition, we are fully open to the support of study
in neighbouring disciplines wherever appropriate, for example, in the acquisition of a language or
other skill that may be relevant to legal research. As but one case, we are currently supporting a
staff member in pursuit of a Masters in Art History, in furtherance of her research in law and aesthet-
ics. Leave of absence to support full-time study is available where that is called for.

   b) Arrangements for supporting flexible and/or remote working

Staff teaching timetables are negotiated individually, in a manner that seeks to respect the personal
circumstances, caring responsibilities, and convictions of everyone, and offer equal access to pro-
tected research days. Research interactions are commonly conducted remotely through facilities
supported by the School. This has enabled us to maintain the participation of research staff engaged
in fieldwork or on fellowships abroad. School research events such as workshops, seminars, public
lectures and away days are scheduled as far as possible to capitalize on moments of overlap in the
schedules of all staff. Remote work can involve special risks for the researcher. Staff are encouraged
to work in pairs in certain situations. Their location is logged at all times. For those committed to
research that involves fieldwork in politically and physically hostile environments we maintain regular
contact through vehicles such as WhatsApp.

   c) Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff

We are committed to full-time permanent employment for as many of our staff as possible, in the
conviction that on the whole this status is vital to the flourishing of academic research. For that rea-
son, we do not normally make part-time appointments and as a result 95% of our current research
staff are full-time. However, we are also aware that our research community is diverse and we are
seeking to make it more so. This means that for some of our colleagues, part-time work can be the
best way of contributing. The School accommodates such part-time colleagues fully, so as to ensure
that they enjoy the same conditions as full-time staff, including sabbaticals and research allowance
(pro-rata) as well as promotions. We also seek to ensure that they are fully integrated in the School
community and in subordinate Centres, in the scheduling of events such as staff seminars, staff
meetings and social gatherings.

Our commitment to permanent employment further means that we contemplate fixed-term positions
only in special circumstances: for example, as replacement for a staff member on research leave,
as post-doctoral research assistants, and as research fellowship holders. As in the case of part-time
staff, we make a special effort to integrate fixed-term research staff in the life of the School. This
includes access to the same benefits as permanent staff. Wherever possible we seek to develop
pathways that will allow fixed-term researchers to become permanent staff in our school, and failing
that, to develop the skills and capacities in them that will enable them to find permanent employment
elsewhere.

   d) Conference attendance or other necessary travel to support research is facilitated for
      staff and research students with caring responsibilities, ill health etc.

The School is committed to increasing the standard staff research allowance of £3K to meet the
needs of staff with special circumstances. Applications are made to the Head on a case by case
basis, and are assessed in consultation with the EDI Committee. The School provides strong finan-
cial support for the research of its PhD students. The annual funding available to each student to
cover accommodation, conferences, and travel has been increased to £750. Applications for addi-
tional funding to meet the needs of those with special circumstances are assessed by the Director
of Graduate Studies in liaison with the Head.



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The School standardly provides support to the parents of young children where the only way to
attend the conference would involve childcare. It also supports special classes of travel where those
are warranted by physical needs.

   e) Equality and diversity considerations with regard to support for submission of funding
      applications, access to internal funds, research-related promotion and reward proce-
      dures, recruitment for research- related leadership roles, conference attendance, sab-
      baticals and training

The School encourages all staff members to pursue funding opportunities that will enhance their
research. We hold regular workshops, open to all, to introduce staff to the prospects of funding and
how they might be pursued. Support for applications takes place in two steps. Early career research-
ers are asked to share their proposals with their mentors and, like all other staff, with colleagues in
their field. Once a proposal has been settled on, it is submitted to the Research Committee, members
of which have undertaken EDI training and are sensitive both to the different needs of applicants and
to neglected and marginalized topics.

The Head of EDI sits on the promotion panel and is asked to bring their judgement to bear on the
merits of each application and the process for its consideration. The panel is gender-balanced. The
extent to which these processes are successful is borne out in the composition of our staff, not least
in the substantial increase in the number of women in senior positions. A similar process has been
instituted in recruitment panels, where we have been placing ever more emphasis on attracting BME
applicants. EDI criteria are taken into account in recruitment to research leadership roles. Currently,
the six primary research leadership roles are gender-balanced. Our approach to sabbaticals and
training has been described under Study Leave, above.

   f) Support for staff and research students returning from periods of leave

The principle informing our support for staff and research students returning from periods of leave
or ill health of three months or more, managing long-term illness, or with caring responsibilities, is
one of combating isolation and marginalization and facilitating the optimal conditions for engaging in
research. After extended absences, the Head meets the staff member to agree upon the best way
of facilitating their reintegration into the School’s research community, while enquiring if they have
any special needs. This might include additional mentoring, or encouragement to participate in joint
research and in collaborative grant applications. Adjustments are made to ensure the staff member
is not disadvantaged where career progression may be affected by absence or disruption to research
caused by factors such as ill health, care and family commitments, maternity/paternity, disability,
religious commitments or part-time status. Adjustments may include flexible working and/or reduc-
tion in teaching and administrative duties. QMUL’s Occupational Health Service makes appropriate
adjustments with respect to workload and infrastructural needs.

   g) Support for staff with protected characteristics

In addition to the reasonable adjustments required by law in respect to staff and research students
with protected characteristics, the School is committed to ensuring that all members of its research
community are equipped with the particular resources they need in order to conduct their research
to their full potential. In doing so it works closely with individuals, who may or may not wish to self-
identify, and with the Occupational Health Service to assess particular needs. We recognize that the
life of a researcher is emotionally and psychologically demanding, and that researchers need to be
assured at all times of the presence of appropriate support. Our research reviews are designed to
bring out the special needs and capacities of each researcher, and to establish an agreed and indi-
vidually tailored scheme of expectation and support. Some researchers suffer from high levels of
anxiety, and their timetables have been adjusted accordingly. Other researchers suffer from depres-
sion, and in response the shape of what has been expected of them has been made more flexible.
Other researchers have mobility issues, and their environments have been reshaped and supported
so as to make research resources fully accessible to them. These are but examples; the School is


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
engaged in an ongoing reflection upon and reconsideration of our modes of working, to which ac-
commodations of these kinds make a valuable contribution. Our research community does not at the
moment include anyone with visual or hearing impairment, but we are alive to the possibility and to
the provision of appropriate assistive devices for reading, dictation and other forms of navigation,
knowing that these could well be empowering for all.

   h) Supporting the wellbeing of staff and research students

The School is and has long been committed to the conviction that the best research comes from a
supportive and caring environment, one in which researchers feel respected, cared for, and listened
to. Our first concern, in our processes and our communications, is the predicament of the individual
scholar and how best to respond to it. In part that is a matter of building a supportive community for
everyone, that people can reach out to and engage in. To that end the School has introduced weekly
yoga sessions, supports sponsored activities such as walks and runs, and is considering mindfulness
training, on top of more familiar forms of community-building such as weekly research seminars (with
lunch), research workshops, book launches and the like. Second, a supportive and caring environ-
ment is a matter of developing processes and mechanisms capable of responding appropriately to
individual circumstances. For research staff, this takes place through research reviews and through
the mentoring relationship between more and less experienced colleagues. For research students,
it takes place through doctoral pastoral care, in which a senior academic joins individual supervisors
in the oversight of each PhD student. Finally, it is a matter of flexibility. The coronavirus pandemic
has brought home with dramatic power the necessity and value of ongoing adaptation to circum-
stances and challenges, showing the way to greater refinement of our ways of ensuring the well-
being of all our researchers. Communities and sub-communities are finding new ways of reaching
out to one another, using the wide variety of online resources to combat isolation and build the bonds
that successful research depends upon.

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

   A) Strategies for generating research income

Since REF2014, the School has committed itself, as part of its research strategy, to a culture in
which research is underpinned by external funding wherever possible, both for the support to re-
search enquiry that this provides and for the engagement with external stakeholders that it involves.
All research-active staff are strongly encouraged to apply for external funding once a year. Staff
performance in this respect is part of the annual research review process, and feeds into criteria for
promotion. Our Centres and Institutes provide the immediate research environment for collaborative
grant application and assist members in applying for grants. The training and support of early career
researchers and PDRAs includes guidance in the development of funding bids, enabling junior staff
to make applications on their own and to take part in research collaborations with more senior col-
leagues. Researchers often work in clusters and are encouraged to support one another in funding
bids. The School belongs to a number of research consortia and has greatly increased its research
grant income as a result. The two new dedicated Research Managers act as repositories for research
policy and point persons for all practical support issues.

Real engagement in the pursuit of external research funding is now strongly encouraged in sabbat-
ical returns, as well as forming a critical element in probation and promotion decisions. External
research funding has underpinned much of the School’s success in achieving high-quality research
outputs and impact. Our overall funding has increased from £4.6 million (2010-2014) to £9 million
(2014-2020) and the production of monographs has correspondingly increased by 50% since 2014.
A significant proportion of our impact case studies, including those on genocide in Myanmar and
cloud computing, has been externally funded.

Since 2014 the School has been awarded a number of large collaborative research grants and many
smaller grants. Salient examples include a European Commission HERA grant of €1.2 million as
lead partner in a four-nation project, and a Medical Research Council grant of £400K for work ex-


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ploring the impact of the Brazilian economic crisis. These were supplemented by distinguished re-
search fellowships from sources including the British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, Newton Ad-
vanced Fellowships, H2020 Marie Sklodoska-Curie Fellowship Scheme, and the Independent Social
Research Foundation. As one example, the School secured a British Academy Global Professorship,
enabling medium-term engagement with Professor Nicola Piper of the University of Sydney. The
School’s success with applications like this has added to our grant-writing prowess and facilitated
ongoing applications.

   B) Research infrastructure

The School has invested heavily in the development of Centres and Institutes, which bring together
research staff with shared concerns and distinctive skills. Every Centre and Institute receives on
average £7.5K a year from the School to support research and impact and may apply for additional
funding where a project is sufficiently promising. Centres and Institutes are also strongly encouraged
to pursue external funding in their own right.

   a) Operational infrastructure

Our new Research Manager posts were created to provide a strong and experienced support system
for research. This is but one part of a reorganization of our operations to ensure the effectiveness of
its support of research achievement. Our externally funded Research Centres are now housed in a
state-of-the-art New Graduate Centre, which provides accommodation and facilities for all their as-
sociated post-doctoral researchers. Global Chairs, whose primary employment is often abroad, are
all guaranteed dedicated office space. There is no hot-desking of research staff. All researchers
have access to whatever software is needed for their research.

   b) Utilisation of infrastructure, facilities and expertise in relation to impact activities

Impact activities are supported by dedicated impact managers. Possible avenues for impact are
discussed, needs considered, and support tailored. The School’s Research Managers assist staff
with impact funding plans and their execution, while the School regularly offers its facilities for the
establishment of dialogue between research staff and Government officials, industry and NGOs.
Staff are strongly encouraged to develop and host policy networks in the expectation that they will
become part of a larger research community, shaping the direction of research and its impact.

   c) The nature, quality, provision and operation of specialist research infrastructure

The School is committed to research in many disciplines, and its infrastructure is designed to support
not only legal research but research in the social sciences and humanities more broadly, and even
in the arts. It has contributed in kind to the making of films, has co-operated in the support of satellite
imaging, and has routinely funded fieldwork abroad. It supports the SAROBMED site for refugees,
an open-access database that documents human rights violations in the Mediterranean Sea [see
REF3].

   d) Cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of research infrastructure

The School serves as a regular facilitator of national and international research initiatives, lending
its resources for collaborative activities. It hosts academic conferences, workshops and meetings,
and acts as a centre for a number of research groups. For example, the HERA-funded project brings
together researchers from institutions in Italy, Netherlands, Poland and the UK to examine memory
laws and the interpretation of shared events. All visiting scholars have access to the library, archives
and databases and those who are residents for any length of time receive office space. We regularly
provide funding to staff to enable them to engage in collaborative projects with researchers here and
abroad, while being attentive to the environmental impact of travel. Finally, the School supports the
Institute of Advanced Legal Studies, a richly resourced centre shared by London Law Colleges.



                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The School adopts a genuinely global approach to the study of law, aspiring to influence academic
and community debates wherever it believes it can make a rewarding contribution, and regularly
works with those in government, industry, civil society and the academy to enhance research, facil-
itate problem-solving, and advance social justice.

       a) Support for and effectiveness of research collaborations

The School has committed itself, as part of its research strategy, to strengthening collaborations
between its researchers and those in other disciplines and at other institutions. In 2018, the School
helped establish the Institute for Humanities and Social Sciences, the purpose of which is to facilitate
research cooperation across disciplines inside and outside QMUL [REF5a]. In addition, a key aspect
of the purpose of the School’s Centres and Institutes is to build relationships and partnerships with
scholars, policy makers, industry, and members of civil society. These arrangements have borne
fruit in several ways. For example, in collaboration with QMUL Geography we secured British Acad-
emy funding of £300K; in collaboration with Sydney University we secured British Academy funding
of £742K; in collaboration with Politics and International Relations at Edinburgh and Médecins Sans
Frontières, we secured EU 2020 funding of £147K; as part of a transnational group we secured
funding of £2,333K from Microsoft, £444K from the EU Cloud Accountability Project, and £16K from
Telesign; in collaboration with four leading international law firms we secured funding of £120K; as
part of a consortium of 21 institutions in the WiseGRID project we secured funding of £488K from
EU 2020; in collaboration with King’s College London, Leuven, Bologna, Erasmus University Rotter-
dam, Tsinghua, Beijing Normal, and City University, we secured Erasmus+ Programme funding of
€300K, of which £134K was for QMUL.

The School’s global law approach is fostered by its many international research links including: the
European Criminal Law Academic Network, European Parliament, Hague Institute for the Interna-
tionalisation of the Law, International Chambers of Commerce, Singapore Intellectual Property Acad-
emy, Society of International Economic Law, World Intellectual Property Organisation Academy, and
World Trade Organisation; Australian National University, Bologna University, EUI Florence, Goethe
University Frankfurt, Harvard Humanitarian Initiative, Leuven University, Maastricht University,
McGill University, Melbourne University, National University of Singapore, National University of Tres
de Febrero, Renmin University, the Sorbonne, Tilburg University, Universidad Autonomada Madrid,
Universidad Externado/Nacional Colombia, and University of New South Wales.

   b) Development of relationships with key research users

The School seeks to make a telling difference in the world, by engaging with a variety of actors on a
wide array of legal and social justice issues, in long-term relationships designed to bring about gen-
uinely productive change. We have learned that working with policy makers, NGO leaders, industry
leaders and victim groups feeds back into the intellectual life of the School, making it a richer and
more productive research environment. Relationships we have fostered include those with govern-
ment (on gambling addictions), the judiciary (on judicial independence and accountability), regulators
(on anti-competitive patenting strategies in the Global South), NGOs and the U.N. (on the genocidal
crimes of the Myanmar state), and industry (on the legal barriers to digitization).

The Data Trusts is an inter-disciplinary research collaboration funded by the Office for Artificial Intel-
ligence and Innovate UK. The project integrates the work of technologists, decision-making special-
ists, economists, and lawyers through three pilot projects for data-sharing in the fields of smart cities,
food waste, and wildlife conservation.

The International State Crime Initiative has taken the lead in research into the situation of the Roh-
ingya, and has worked with the Permanent People's Tribunal in order to launch a tribunal on Myan-
mar’s crimes against the Rohingya, Kachin and others. The Centre has provided evidence to, and
worked closely with researchers at, the U.N. Human Rights Council Fact-Finding Mission on Myan-
mar.

                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The ‘More Than Just a Game’ project brings together creators, innovators, industry experts, practi-
tioners and academics in order to exchange ideas, discuss challenges, explore solutions, and map
issues that must be addressed so as to lead to better interactive entertainment. Conferences have
been held annually across nine European countries. In 2018, the MTJG network launched the peer-
reviewed journal Interactive Entertainment Law Review.

Other contributions to economy and society include Rachael Mulheron’s work, designed to make
civil litigation more accessible to consumers and businesses seeking redress from larger corpora-
tions; Shazia Choudhury’s work with Women’s Aid to ensure representation in the courts for women
suffering from domestic violence; and Violeta Moreno-Lax’s work on extra-territorial border controls
and how they impede access to asylum, particularly in relation to the Mediterranean boat migrants.

The School’s researchers prioritize engagement with diverse audiences beyond academia, including
cultural and religious communities, government agencies, advocacy groups, the legal profession and
the commercial sphere. The International State Crime Initiative has cultivated relations with the Roh-
ingya community, alternative theatre groups such as BÉZNĂ Theatre, and the People’s Palace Pro-
jects; the Centre for European Law has been consulted by government agencies on issues relating
to Brexit; political scientists regularly carry out workshops on Israel-Palestine for the Foreign Office;
indeed, the majority of our staff work with advocacy groups of different kinds to inform their research,
ranging from disabled groups, migrant and refugee groups, victims of domestic violence, consumer
groups, children’s rights groups, prisoner charities, and East End minority communities; others work
with the judiciary, legislators and policy makers on questions fundamental to access to justice.

The School is acutely aware of the shifting intellectual challenges presented by rapid change in the
national and international environments and is dedicated to responding to them in a timely and telling
way. Our staff have responded to Brexit (Centre for European and International Law); the climate
emergency (Energy Law Institute, Centre for European and International Law); shortcomings of the
laws of war due to the development of autonomous weapons, the return of genocide, and precarity
of healthcare in conflict zones (all three analysed by the International State Crime Initiative), the
global refugee crisis (Centre for European and International Law), sanction regimes (Centre for Law
and Society in a Global Context), and artificial intelligence (Intellectual Property Research Institute).

The School’s contribution to the wider research base includes book series editors, editors in chief of
professional journals, and members of editorial boards of leading journals. Our staff serve as review-
ers for hundreds of book and journal publishers. In addition, we provide peer review for national and
international funding agencies, including the British Academy, UKRI, ESRC, AHRC, and Leverhulme
Trust, and research councils in Australia, Canada, Israel, New Zealand, Sweden, and elsewhere.

The reputation of our colleagues has been acknowledged through their appointment to a number of
prestigious bodies. Roger Cotterrell is a fellow of the British Academy and a fellow of the Academy
of Social Sciences; Peter Alldridge is a fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences; Richard Falk
served two terms as the United Nations Special Rapporteur for Human Rights in the Occupied Pal-
estinian Territories; Malgosia Fitzmaurice was elected to the L'Institut de Droit International; Maria
Ioannidou was appointed Commissioner Rapporteur at the Hellenic Competition Commission.




                                                                                                Page 19
