Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Cumbria (UoC)

Unit of Assessment: UOA14: Geography and Environmental Studies

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

A: Overview & Context;
Building upon REF2014, the University of Cumbria (UoC) has enhanced its research capacity and
profile in UoA14: Geography and Environmental Studies. This has been achieved through growth
in research-active Category A academic staff (from 6.0 FTE in 2014 to 10.6 FTE in 2020) and a
significant rise in research outputs (from 44 in 2008-2013 to 95 in 2014-2020), accompanied by a
step-change in the range and value of awarded external research and enterprise funding. Within
a rapidly maturing institution, there is an emergent, thriving culture of inter- and transdisciplinary
research within the Unit, particularly utilising the unique location of the Ambleside campus in the
heart of the English Lake District UNESCO World Heritage Site. The Unit specialises in
environmental research grounded in the sciences and social sciences, applied through community
level partnerships and real-world stakeholders to understanding key challenges at regional,
national and global levels.

Institutional reconfigurations in 2017 and 2019 have resulted in research being coordinated
through four research centres cutting across the five academic institutes constituting UoC (REF5a,
Fig.2.). All Category A staff returned within UoA14 are located within the Institute of Science,
Natural Resources and Outdoor Studies (SNROS) and undertake their research through the
Centre for National Parks and Protected Areas (CNPPA) launched in 2017 and expanded in scope
in 2018-19. Development of the CNPPA has reflected the University of Cumbria Strategic Plan
2017-20, the University of Cumbria Research, Innovation and Enterprise Strategy 2018-2021, the
DEFRA 25 Year Environment Plan and the UNESCO World Heritage Site Inscription for the Lake
District (2018).

Researchers named in bold are Category A staff with ‘significant responsibility for research’ (SRR,
see UoC REF2021 Code of Practice, 2.10) and those in bold and italics are individuals who left
UoC during the REF assessment period. Individuals in plain are non-submitted UoC staff –
including staff with ‘emerging responsibility for research’ (ERR, see UoC REF2021 Code of
Practice, 2.12), Research Assistants (RA), Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) and
honorary/retired staff. Names followed by a number (e.g. Convery1) cross reference to REF2
outputs.

B: Unit Structure & Development;
Research within the Unit contributes to the Centre for National Parks and Protected Areas, a
research centre for the transdisciplinary study of national park and protected area management.
The CNPPA is led by a Director (Mansfield) and overseen by the Deputy Vice Chancellor and
Director of Research through the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee
(REF5a, Fig.2.). The CNPPA is supported by a 0.2 FTE administrator as well a centralised
University bidding team. The CNPPA is managed through an Advisory Board (chaired by the
CNPPA Director, and includes Research Theme Leads, Graduate School (PGR) representatives,
external Professors of Practice) which has developed the CNPPA Research Strategy and the
rolling Annual Operational Plan, reporting to the University Research and Knowledge Exchange
Committee each June. Research Theme Leads hold monthly operational meetings with staff
associated with each theme.

Researchers within the CNPPA are returned in UoA14, UoA17 (Business & Management), UoA23
(Education) and UoA32 (Art & Design) through five research themes. Each theme is co-ordinated
by a senior member of staff (underlined), and comprise early-, mid- and senior career staff and
PGRs. These research themes are interconnected and function as overlapping constellations of
research interest rather than rigid groupings, and many staff are aligned with multiple themes
(Figure 1).


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 1: Structure of the CNPPA. Category A staff returned in UoA14 are noted in CAPITALS,
  those returned in other UoAs or not eligible for REF2021 but who are referred to in this return
 are recorded in lowercase text. Dashed red lines mark the boundaries between the four UoA’s
                                  associated with the CNPPA.

   i. Landscapes & Ecology (UoA14) – Weatherall, Barker, Carr, Holt, Leslie, Poynter, Smith,
      Villadsen, Watson. 3 current, 3 completed PhD students;
  ii. Wildlife Conservation (UoA14) – Convery, Deecke, Dittrich, Holt, Notman, Poynter,
      Smith, Villadsen, Weatherall, 2 PDRAs, 4 current, 3 completed PhD students;
 iii. Human-Nature Relations (split between UoA14 & UoA23), – Loynes, Aglionby, Convery,
      Fenton, Leslie, Mallabon, Mansfield, McPhie, Ryfield, Smith, 7 current, 2 completed PhD
      students (5 within UoA 14)
 iv. Rural & Visitor Economy (UoA17) – Anthonisz, Aglionby, Barker, Leslie, Mansfield,
      Murphy, Watson, Williams.
  v. Cultural Landscapes (UoA32) – Bradshaw, Aglionby, Ferguson, Loynes, Mansfield,
      McPhie, Ryfield. 1 current, 1 completed PhD student.

An emphasis on interdisciplinary research within the CNPPA means that research returned within
this Unit encompasses diverse fields drawn from both the Geography and Environmental Studies
strands for UoA14. However, the transdisciplinary nature of research within the CNPPA bridging
to other UoAs is also demonstrated, mixing different epistemologies and ontologies. This enables
an inclusive, vibrant, but coherent research culture that sustains what could otherwise become
isolated pockets of research expertise within UoC.


                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

C: Research Strategy;
The Strategic Aim of the Unit in REF2014 was to produce research that contributes to solving the
problems faced by society globally. The REF2014 Strategic Objectives were to:
   i. Grow research activity within existing research themes;
  ii. Embed stakeholder relationships and research collaborations;
 iii. Strategically target West Cumbria as an area for research development;
iv. Increase numbers of PhDs, including those funded by external partners;
  v. Deepen internal research connections within the University of Cumbria; and
vi. Increase the amount of external research funding.

 During the period since REF2014, the Unit has been able to meet each of these objectives. Key
 Strategic Achievements in each of these areas include:
  i. Increasing Category A research staff capacity (10.6 FTE) and doubling research outputs (~100
     academic texts, monographs and peer-reviewed research papers) demonstrating a significant
     uplift in research activity at national and international levels; Section 2.A;
 ii. Appointment of two Professors of Practice (Aglionby, Barker) has facilitated and supported the
     translation of research expertise into stakeholder and end-user impact (Sections 1.D and
     4.A/B/D). The (0.4 FTE) secondment of Mansfield to lead development of the LDNPA
     Research Framework, and the appointment of Convery to co-chair the IUCN Commission for
     Ecosystem Management Rewilding Thematic Group demonstrate a long-term commitment to
     embedding stakeholder relationships and collaborations within research in the CNPPA;
     Sections 4.A/B;
iii. The appointment of Ryfield, and the Back On Our Map project (BooM, section 1.D)
     demonstrate commitment to expanding existing research engagement with the West
     Cumbrian coast by the Unit (see Convery1; Ryfield2); Two PhDs undertaken during 2014-20
     were grounded in West Cumbria, and supported by funding from the Energy Coast Campus
     project;
iv. Approval of Research Degree Awarding Powers (RDAP) in 2019, and growth in number of
     PhDs awarded (from 4 in REF2014 to 9 for REF2021) and external funding for PhDs (from 3
     in REF2014 to 9 for REF2021);
 v. The development of the CNPPA provides a coherent structure and vehicle enabling
     researchers across UoC to collaborate and develop transdisciplinary research; This has
     significantly enhanced the organisation and environment for research activity, introducing new,
     exciting areas of research for this and other UoAs. Sections 1.B/C/D;
vi. £1.76M external income awarded, up from £0.49M reported in REF2014; including 25 research
     project grants awarded (£0.33M); full- or part-funding for 9 PhD projects (£0.23M); and 7
     programmes funded through competitive enterprise awards (£1.2M returned to HESA as HE-
     BCIs Enterprise or Regeneration Income; Section 3.A).

The outcome is that the Unit’s REF2021 return represents considerable development from that
described in REF2014 and reflects a vibrant, dynamic research environment and culture. As
shown in Figure 1, research returned in UoA14 focuses around three of the research themes of
the CNPPA, each representing the strategic evolution and expansion of research groups and
research areas returned in REF2014:

a) Landscapes & Ecology explores the interplay between physical and biological systems
   within the context of environmental and climate change. This theme has evolved from the
   National School of Forestry group returned in REF2014, with significant input of new staff
   appointments. Processes that form, shape and modify landscapes (Barker, Carr, Smith)
   and ecosystems (Holt, Poynter, Smith, Villadsen, Watson, Weatherall) are studied to provide
   the scientific basis for real-world decision making at multiple scales and timelines. Agenda-
   setting method development and application in 3D imaging (Carr3,4,5), environmental
   modelling (Smith) and development of low-cost environmental sensors (Poynter2)
   demonstrate the importance of innovative data-gathering and management within
   environmental contexts. Understanding the structure and function of landscape systems
   (Carr1, 2) and the fundamental connections between biological and physical processes

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (Weatherall2,3) inform debates about critical international issues, such as defining how
    climate-smart forestry can prioritise sustainable forest management that enables trees, woods
    and forests to adapt to and mitigate climate change (Weatherall4). Research funding includes
    NERC, EU Cooperation in Science and Technology (CoST), Royal Forestry Society, DEFRA,
    European Regional Development Fund (Section 3.A). Future research will focus on the
    importance of biophysical processes and feedbacks in conditioning environmental resilience
    in multiple landscapes and ecosystems; and exploring landscape function through ecological,
    societal and economic perspectives, including those associated with ecological restoration or
    rewilding within an Anthropocenic framework.

b) Wildlife Conservation researchers adopt a transdisciplinary action-orientated approach,
   drawing upon the natural and social sciences to conduct research with the aim of protecting
   species (Convery, Deecke, Dittrich, Holt, Notman), their habitats and ecosystems (Convery,
   Holt, Smith, Weatherall) from biodiversity loss. The Wildlife Conservation theme represents
   the continued development of the Centre for Wildlife Conservation returned in REF2014.
   Alongside climate change, the loss of biodiversity represents one of the greatest challenges
   facing humanity in the 21st century. Exploring the characteristics and biogeography of native
   and invasive woodland animal species including squirrels (Holt1,2) and bats (Weatherall1)
   within the UK, other globally threatened species such as geckos (Dittrich1, Smith2) and
   snow-leopards (Convery, Deecke, Holt3), researchers within this theme explore how species
   respond to changes to their environment. Investigating the physical and behavioural
   characteristics of marine (Deecke1,2,3) and freshwater (Poynter1, Notman) species and their
   vulnerability to environmental toxicity or changes in population dynamics informs ongoing
   debates about species protection and conservation. Within a broader societal context,
   researchers are involved in projects ranging from engagement with nature and natural capital
   (Convery1, Smith1) to species reintroductions and rewilding (Smith, Convery2,3). Research
   support includes the Heritage Lottery Fund, EU European Regional Development Fund, British
   Council (Section 3.A). Future research will focus upon habitat restoration and species
   reintroductions associated with the BooM project centred on south and west Cumbria
   (Sections 1.D, 4.B), and to include increased engagement with partners through development
   of the Natural Capital Laboratory.

c) Human - Nature Relations examines the nexus relationships between people/wildlife
   (Convery, Mansfield; see Wildlife Conservation theme); communities/habitats (Aglionby,
   Convery, Fenton, Mansfield, Smith); and institutions-societies/land-seascapes (Leslie,
   Loynes, Mallabon, McPhie, Ryfield), within the frame of emerging concepts of post-humanist
   relationships, climate change and biodiversity loss. Aspects of this theme have emerged from
   both the National School of Forestry and Centre for Wildlife Conservation groups returned in
   REF2014, reflecting growing expertise within the Unit and CNPPA. The research approach is
   transdisciplinary, and fields of application include business, recreation, education, civil society,
   conservation, activism, politics and planning. Studies of the engagement between people and
   wildlife and the places they co-habit includes reintroductions (Convery2, Mansfield), place-
   based approaches to human and habitat wellbeing (McPhie, Fenton, Loynes, Mallabon), the
   role of trees and woodland in cultural landscapes and as providers of economic and cultural
   ecosystem services (Leslie1, Ryfield2). Research is also examining the characteristics and
   ecologies of emerging rural land-based economies (Aglionby, Mansfield1, Ryfield1),
   including the role of protected areas in supporting resilient and sustainable economies and
   ecosystems. Further work concerns the equitable participation of all voices, human and non-
   human in socio-political decision-making concerning landscapes and communities
   (Mansfield1, Smith1, Convery1) and the practices of radical place-based pedagogies
   (Fenton, Loynes). Research is supported by the ESRC, European Climate Change
   Programme, Forestry Commission Scotland, Royal Society of Arts (Section 3.A). Future
   research will focus upon nature-based economies; the restoration of nature and communities;
   and studies of human engagement with and construction of places in education, civil society,
   economy and recreation with an emphasis on transformative and radical interventions.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Two additional research themes within the CNPPA represent coalescing areas of research that
examine the economic (Rural & Visitor Economy) and cultural/literary (Cultural Landscapes)
dimensions of use and interactions within protected areas. These themes cross-over with research
undertaken within the Unit (Figure 1), but their disciplinary cores are currently beyond the scope
of UoA14. However, both themes are a focus of future development of the CNPPA through the
exploration of nature-culture entanglement faced by many protected areas, representations of
landscape and environment, and the complexities of multifunctional land use, common property
resource management and the resultant cognitive conflicts of multiple stakeholders.

The Unit’s overarching Strategic Aim from 2019 within the broader framework of the CNPPA is to
develop and sustain world-class academic research with a global reach, the purpose of which is
to inform and influence policy-making, develop best practice, governance and innovation of
resource use. Our vision is for the CNPPA to become a national and international centre of
excellence for the transdisciplinary study of national park and protected area management –
developing sustainable solutions to complex global problems. The environmental research
undertaken by the Unit sits at the core of this future vision.

The current Strategic Objectives are to:
 SOi. Enable staff development through clear governance and support to provide the opportunity
       for research engagement for emerging and early career researchers;
 SOii. increase numbers of research-active staff recognised through authorship of peer-reviewed
       research outputs and contribution to research impact, enhanced through the establishment
       of outstanding, innovative and successful collaborative partnerships;
SOiii. Develop recruitment at graduate (MRes and PGR) level through enhanced reputation and
       academic standing, partnerships with employers and external stakeholders;
SOiv. Continue to grow income through externally-funded research and enterprise projects;

These objectives are embedded within the rolling CNPPA Annual Operating Plan.

D: Impact Strategy;
Context: Impact is both integral and core to research activity within UoA14; ensuring that our
research has significance beyond academia, with a reach extending from local to international
scales. This reflects the University of Cumbria Strategic Plan (2017-20), which focuses on people,
place and partnerships, encapsulating the role of the University as a catalyst for regional
development (REF5a, 2.4). The location of the CNPPA in Ambleside offers a unique opportunity
to contextualise the rationale for protected landscape designations, and to examine their intended
outcomes, governance and conflict, benefits and environmental accounting. This enables us to
work in partnership with the DEFRA family, the Lake District National Park Authority and other
national parks, AONBs, landowners, businesses, schools and communities.

Approach: Research impact is the primary focus of the UoC Research, Innovation and Enterprise
Strategy 2018-21. This represents an emphasis on policy- and practice-based research activity
grounded in the real world, with particular themes of rural and visitor economy, culture and
environment relevant to the work of UoA14. Throughout the Unit, high levels of user engagement
(Section 4.B) in our research practice has generated impact extending beyond the academy in
three ways:

a) Collaborative frameworks for research provide opportunities to identify and work with research
   users to shape and embed research with the communities, organisations and environments
   that ground our inquiry. We regard our research partners as the experts in their fields, and
   collaborative research is designed to enhance their capacity to use our research effectively.
   Research funding has been secured from public, private and voluntary sector organisations
   whose operational needs and interests coincide with those of the Unit (Section 3.A). Within
   this research cycle, we have worked with international bodies including the International Union
   for Conservation of Nature and the Canadian Government (Impact1402, Impact 1401) whilst
   within the UK, our research users and partners have comprised national governmental bodies
   including the Environment Agency, DEFRA, National Trust, Natural England, regional and

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    local organisations, including Carlisle City Council, the Lake District National Park Authority
    and nature conservation bodies including the Freshwater Biological Association. Other
    collaborators in our research comprise voluntary and community organisations including
    Cumbria Wildlife Trust, Friends of the Lake District, and private companies and industry
    associations including AECOM, the Cumbria Local Enterprise Partnership, Maelor Forest
    Nurseries. This includes effective use of KTP-agreements and partnerships through schemes
    such as the ERDF, supported by a central bidding and partnerships team to facilitate clear
    agreement of expectations and anticipated outcomes to the benefit of both the researcher and
    the end-user.

b) Applying research in practice enables members of the Unit to contribute their research
   expertise to membership of advisory committees, working groups and other public bodies
   (Section 4.C). Given the location of the Unit, there is considerable engagement through the
   Lake District National Park Authority (LDNPA), and as a partner within the UNESCO World
   Heritage Site designation. Mansfield was a member of the Technical Advisory Group of the
   English Lake District World Heritage Site nomination. Carr, Mansfield, Smith, Weatherall
   participated in working groups preparing the LDNPA State of the Park Report 2018, working
   alongside other members of the National Parks Partnership to report the condition of the
   National Park to DEFRA, and to inform the 5-year review of the LDNPA Management Plan.
   Mansfield has subsequently led the research framework development for the LDNPA, utilising
   her long-term expertise in upland resource management, demonstrated by Mansfield1. Other
   contributions include Carr’s membership of the Fforest Fawr Geopark Management Group
   (2006-2015) and Strategic Steering Group (2011-2015), and Convery’s role as trustee of the
   Lifescapes Project Charity (2019-) and co-chair of the IUCN Rewilding Task Force (2017-).

c) Reaching and engaging with diverse communities and publics is fundamental to the Unit’s
   research, with many of our projects closely-tied to authentic engagement, outreach and end-
   users. Examples of our engagement beyond the academy are given in Section 4.D. Our
   approach of embedding engagement through our research to generate impact is exemplified
   by Convery’s BooM project (Impact1401), which applies world-leading conservation research
   to a community-based species reintroduction and habitat restoration project in South and West
   Cumbria, generating impact on the environment, but also working with Morecambe Bay
   Partnership, local landowners, community growers, local Young Farmers and prisoners from
   HMP Haverigg to generate wider impacts on social welfare, culture, and ethical practice.

Two examples of research impact on the environment at both national and international levels
comprise the submitted impact case studies (REF3) and represent the impact of research in
influencing policy-making and implementation. Convery’s work (Impact1401) explores the
community contexts for rewilding and species reintroductions in the UK. The research identifies a
lack of sufficient public engagement in the planning process for rewilding and has informed UK
Government decision-making and international policy development of standards in rewilding
programmes; and has developed best-practice frameworks for the implementation of rewilding
schemes for both wildlife and communities. Deecke’s (Impact1402) research identifies the
impacts of underwater noise from shipping and anthropogenic sources on communication,
cognition and feeding behaviour of marine mammals, and the resulting impact on their population
dynamics. These findings have directly influenced policy interventions on commercial shipping
management in Canada and the USA, has informed the designation of marine protected areas
and killer whale management and conservation in Iceland and the UK, and increased public
awareness of Killer Whales and their habitats.

The Strategic Impact Aim of the CNPPA for the next research cycle is on world-class academic
excellence with a global reach, the purpose of which is to inform and influence policy-making,
develop best practice, governance and innovation of resource use and to promote knowledge
transfer within national parks and protected areas through high quality translational skills. Although
this mission has only been recently formalised, it draws upon a long history within the University
and UoA14 of pursuing research closely linked to the needs of end-users and stakeholders, as
identified in REF2014.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The CNPPA Research Strategy and rolling Annual Operating Plan defines four Research Impact
Objectives for the coming research cycle:
    IOi. Undertake applied research to inform and enable better management of National Parks
         and Protected Areas;
   IOii. Establish the Centre as a hub for national and international debate to raise the profile of
         Cumbria, to inform and develop strategy and attract funding relevant to the region;
  IOiii. Produce high quality graduates with the skills required to progress into local and regional
         employment;
  IOiv. Upskill the current workforce in Cumbria, supporting diversification, innovation and
         continuation of businesses enabling a sustainable future for the region.

We are currently developing space within the nexus of the five CNPPA research themes through
the launch of the PLACE Collective in 2021, utilising artistic and creative approaches to research
and relationship-building within a shared landscape to add a new dimension to our impact strategy.

E: Open Access and Ethical, Legal and Professional Frameworks;
With our emphasis on collaborative and applied research with partners within and beyond UKHE,
the University and the Unit is committed to supporting an open and inclusive research
environment. An institutional Open Access Policy for Research and Scholarly Outputs was
approved and implemented in 2015, requiring that all academic staff deposit their work using the
Insight repository (http://insight.cumbria.ac.uk) to enable a ‘green’ open access approach (see
REF5a 4.3). 65% of the REF2 outputs submitted by UoA14 are ‘gold’ open access. Beyond
meeting REF open access policy requirements, members of the Unit extensively use Insight to
share data, technical reports and other research materials. All members of UoA14 have an ORCID
ID and maintain active profiles through ResearchGate and LinkedIn to highlight research activities
and maintain professional networks in a highly-visible public domain.

2. People

A: Staffing Strategy and Staff Development;
Whilst Research Strategy and Research Objectives are led by and monitored through the CNPPA
(Section 1.B), contractual responsibility for Staffing, Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
within UoA14 rests within the Institute of Science, Natural Resources and Outdoor Studies
(SNROS). Category A researchers within SNROS constitute ~28% of total staff FTE returned in
the UoC submission for REF2021 (also returned in UoA3, UoA23), demonstrating a critical mass
of researchers not immediately evident from the numbers of returned staff just within UoA14
(Figure 1). Between REF2014 and REF2021 the Unit has maintained continuity of core staffing,
complemented by new and replacement academic appointments in-line with the strategy outlined
in REF2014, and development of early-career and previously non-active researchers. During the
period 2014-2020, there has been a net increase in Category A permanent staff for the Unit of 2.0
FTE, and replacement of departing staff (Kouloumpsis to Manchester, Sinclair to Islay Community
Trust, van der Velden to Permaculture Association) and retirees (Armstrong).

In line with Strategic Objective (i) in REF2014, the Unit has grown in both research capacity and
research activity. The appointment of five academic posts since REF2014 has strengthened each
of the three research themes across UoA14, but also enables tangible connections to be drawn
between themes: Carr (QMUL) SL: Landscapes & Ecology; Dittrich (Anglia Ruskin) SL: Wildlife
Conservation; Poynter (Natural England) L: Landscapes & Ecology and Wildlife Conservation;
Ryfield (PDRA, University College Dublin), L: Human – Nature Relationships, Cultural
Landscapes; Smith (PhD, Cumbria), L: cross-theme appointment. The appointment of Smith
exemplifies a wider long-term staff development strategy within UoC, including the permanent
appointment of Holt (née Stevenson returned as an ECR in REF2014), and Leslie and Mansfield
achieving research-active Category A status for REF2021. This growth in research capacity is
projected to continue through the development of Notman, Villadsen and Watson towards REF
submission eligibility. The confirmation of Research Degree Awarding Powers (RDAP) in 2019
further enables the Unit to develop and train new researchers.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research activity is supported by 5.8 FTE technicians and 1.78 FTE outdoor demonstrators. The
appointment of 0.2 and 0.1 FTE Professors of Practice (Aglionby, Barker) in 2019 has enhanced
the capacity to translate research findings into policy and professional practice. Visiting and
Honorary staff (Bell, Entwistle, Nevin, van Maanen) also support Unit research culture, offering
distinctive areas of research expertise, engagement and practice to complement core staff.

All staff undertake annual Performance and Professional Development Review (PPDR) and
Research and Scholarly Activity (RASA) planning to monitor and set research objectives with their
individual line managers and the Institute Director. A transparent approach to booking RASA
enables staff to book protected research time in a similar way to that for annual leave. Teaching,
research and administrative workloads are agreed annually through the PPDR and RASA process
between the Institute Director, line managers and individual staff. Funded Sabbatical Leave
periods of 6-10 weeks are available to all academic staff with more than 3 years employment. The
Research Office administers an Internal Research Fund (23 awards, totalling £22.5k to the Unit)
for researchers, primarily as seed-funding and for research dissemination, a one-off Global
Challenges Fund (1 award, £30k to the Unit), and a separate Early Career Researcher Fund (3
awards, totalling £15k to the Unit) to support ECRs. All staff are given the opportunity to join the
University Research Mentor Scheme, with experienced, research-active staff providing guidance
and support for the development of emerging researchers.

UoC operates a biannual promotion application round (see REF5a, 3.1) to encourage academic
career progression. Staff development during the assessment period is evidenced by the
promotion of staff since REF2014 in recognition of their changing status as researchers (Convery
Reader to Prof.; Deecke Senior Lecturer to Assoc. Prof.; Mansfield Principal Lecturer to Prof.).

The vision for future researcher development within SNROS delivered through the CNPPA is
centred around developing an escalator from UG to PGT and PGR, and particularly to grow the
proportion of eligible Category A staff with significant research responsibility (SOi). An initial
consolidation phase (2020-2023) aims to develop current staff (Notman, Villadsen, Watson)
towards Significant Responsibility for Research (SOii), whilst enhancing infrastructural support to
enable increased research grant bidding activity within the CNPPA. This represents an opportunity
to further expand research capacity and vitality without impacting financial sustainability of the
Unit. This will be followed by an expansion phase (~2024 onwards) during which the CNPPA will
look to attract additional research-active staff to extend research expertise and capacity (SOi).

B: Research Students;
Since REF2014, the Unit has expanded the PGR cohort within wider development of the CNPPA.
9 PhD students have completed since 2014, with a further 12 PhD students ongoing (6 FT, 6 PT),
and 1 new funded PhD studentship in Autumn 2020. This represents a near-doubling of the PGR
cohort compared with REF2014 (REF4a). Funding sources for current and completed PhD
students include NERC (UKERC awards), Cumbria Wildlife Trust, Forestry Commission/Forest
Research, EU (European Regional Development Fund), Brazilian Science Without Frontiers
Programme, Sellafield Bursary scheme, and UoC-funded Graduate School studentships. The
granting of Research Degree Awarding Powers in 2019 mark a step-change in the capacity and
capability of the Unit to attract and develop talented research students. Recent validation of a
Masters by Research programme (REF5a, 2.2) with an emphasis on projects working with external
stakeholders will facilitate growth in research capacity within the Unit, and offer a research training
and development escalator stretching from undergraduate through to PhD level.

The recruitment, induction and training needs of PGRs are centrally coordinated through the
Graduate School Office (REF5a, 3.2). In-house theme-specific research training is provided to
extend institutional training programmes, particularly for laboratory and field techniques, and will
become more formally embedded in researcher development through the new MRes programme.
PGRs supported by UoC-funded studentships receive a research training and support grant (£500
pa.) for costs associated with their research. All PGRs have dedicated desk/computing space in
recently refurbished offices (Section 3.A) and have full access to CNPPA research facilities.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The PGR community is fundamental to the evolution of the CNPPA and the Unit’s research culture
(SOi; IOiii), as evidenced by the ongoing development of Holt (neé Stevenson; PhD 2012) and
Smith (PhD 2015) from being UoC PGRs to Category A researchers. PGRs are integrated into all
research themes of the CNPPA and are represented on the CNPPA Advisory Board, the University
Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee and the University REF Steering Group. The
excellence of research undertaken by PGRs within the Unit is evident in the publication of 5
external professional and technical reports, authorship of 15 peer-reviewed research papers
(including 1st author publications in PLoS ONE, Hydrobiologia, Molecular Ecology, Conservation
Genetics Research, Sustainability) and 2 book chapters. Our PGR graduates since REF2014 have
moved on to academic posts (UoC, University of Calgary) or industry/research posts (Duke
University, Forestry England, Wordsworth Trust, Freshwater Biological Association).

C: Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI);
UoC has a centralised EDI Policy and EDI Steering Group that actively works to ensure that the
institutional culture is inclusive, prioritises staff and student wellbeing, and invests in people (see
REF5a, 3.3). EDI policies are followed in all appointment and promotion processes within the
Institution, and Unit staff are supported by centralised policies regarding research and scholarly
leave, requests to work flexibly, reduce working hours, or adjust hours to suit changing personal
circumstances.

Within the CNPPA, there is an approximately 50:50 gender balance of researchers (12 male, 13
female, including Professors of Practice and staff returned to other UoAs noted in Figure 1).
However, within UoA14 gender balance is skewed towards more male Category A staff (Table 1),
although both Professors of Practice (Aglionby, Barker) are female. The proportion of submitted
outputs in REF2 closely mirrors both the gender and age structure within UoA14. In the coming
research cycle, a strategic focus to support two female staff (Notman, Villadsen) towards eligibility
for REF2028/29 (Section 2.A) will increase unit representation of women. The Unit demonstrates
a broad age demographic, with a balance between Category A staff aged below and above a post-
doctoral mid-career threshold of 50 years respectively, and all are employed on permanent
academic contracts, offering long-term stability for individuals and the Unit.

   Table 1: Age and gender balance of Category A staff, REF2 outputs, PGRs within UoA14.
                                % male         % female         Age <50         Age >50
  Category A Staff (n = 10.6)     78%             22%             49%             51%
    REF 2 outputs (n = 27)        77%             23%             48%             52%
  Current UoA PGRs (n = 12)       42%             58%             75%             25%
  UoA PGRs (2014-20 n = 18)       39%             61%             78%             22%

There has been progression towards greater gender equality since REF2014, with an increase in
female researchers, including those at senior levels within the Unit. With regard to other protected
characteristics (Table 2), the Unit is broadly in-line with the University, but the size of the Unit
means that individual categories are easily skewed above or below sector norms. In terms of
ethnic diversity, BAME individuals in Cumbria comprise ~1.5% of the population and our Unit
reflects this low ethnic diversity. All staff have undertaken face-to-face training on EDI issues,
including unconscious bias, and the introduction of positive action statements to encourage the
recruitment of researchers identifying with protected status characteristics marks a commitment
to promote greater inclusivity with future recruitment of PGRs and academic staff (SOi).

Within our PGR community, there is a majority of female researchers since REF2014, with a closer
gender balance of currently registered PGRs. The average age of the current PGR cohort is 40,
and the average age of PhD graduates 2014-2020 is 37, representing a diversity of PGRs,
including those starting research degrees immediately after graduation to those returning to
research after working other employment. This diversity enriches the culture of the Unit and
indicates that the Unit is open and inclusive to all those seeking to conduct research.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                      Table 2: EDI protected characteristics within UoA14
                                                                                   REF2 Outputs
                                        Part-                                       from Cat A
                                                      Identify as     Declared
                        BAME        Time/Flexible                                  staff with EDI
                                                        LGBTQ         disability
                                       working                                       protected
                                                                                       status
     Category A
                          0%               9%            9%              0%            22%
   Staff (n = 10.6)
     UoA PGRs
                          8%            50%              25%             8%                -
  (2014-20 n = 18)

Commitment to achieving Athena Swan Bronze is an institutional priority (REF5a, 3.3)
and Lemmey is Athena Swan Lead for SNROS. All Unit staff utilise PPDRs to request staff
development or to discuss wellbeing issues. Flexible working arrangements are available for all
staff and PGRs, and parental leave has been taken up by Holt, Poynter and Ryfield during this
research cycle. PGRs are encouraged to seek work-life balance, with a number switching between
full-time and part-time status to accommodate changing circumstances.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

A: Research Income & Expenditure;
The Unit has received £0.56M direct external research income and funding for PhD projects since
2014 (REF4b). Although the amount of HESA-returned research income is modest, this represents
growth since 2014, and funding success across diverse funding organisations, including UKRI,
international and UK statutory bodies and research funders, charitable and private sector support
(Table 3). The final category includes successful development of knowledge transfer partnerships
in each theme (KTP = £164k) to increase collaborative research activities identified in REF2014
as a strategic growth area.

 Table 3: Distribution of direct research income across the research themes submitted to UoA14
                           Landscapes &         Wildlife Conservation       Human-Nature
                               Ecology                                          Relations
        UKRI             NERC (3 awards)                    -            ESRC (1 award)
 International & UK EU-COST Action,            IUCN, ERDF, Forestry      DEFRA, ERDF,
  Statutory Bodies ERDF, Forestry              Commission.               ECCP
                         Commission (KTP),
                         DEFRA
    Charitable &         Lake District         SMRU Ltd., HLF, Snow      Nurture Lakeland
   Private Sector        National Park         Leopard Network,          (KTP), Maelor, Royal
                         Authority (KTP),      Tarmac, Derbyshire        Society of Arts, United
                         Royal Forestry        Environment. Fisheries & Utilities, Friends of the
                         Society               Oceans Canada             Lake District, CONE
   PhD Funding &         ECCP, Forestry        British Council,          Energy Coast
      Support            Commission            Freshwater Biological     Campus Project.
                                               Association (KTP),
                                               Knight Inlet Lodge,
                                               Science Without Borders
       TOTAL                   £133k                   £247k                       £180k




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Direct research income is distributed across all three Unit themes and has supported PGR and
ECR activities, including Holt and Smith. Awards during this research cycle have contributed to
10 of the REF2 submitted outputs (Carr5; Convery2,3; Deecke2,3; Holt1,2,3; Smith1;
Weatherall2,3,4) of which 5 also represent support for PGRs or ECRs. Further outputs are being
generated from current research associated with these awards, and represents excellent value for
money and a highly efficient return on direct research funding to the Unit. £68.2k of internal (QR)
funding has provided seed-funding for proposal development and proof of concept research
(Section 2.A).

The focus of UoC on research engagement with business, public and third-sector stakeholders
and end-users regionally to nationally (REF5a, 1) means that the Unit has generated additional
external funding (returned to HESA through HE-BCIs as Enterprise or Regeneration income), with
a total value of £1.2M since 2014. This has enabled growth in the scope and significance of
research impact (Section 1.D) representing significant engagement with research users and long-
term commitment to supporting regional development through application of research expertise of
the Unit (Section 4.B).

Growth in Category A staff (Section 2.A), and maturing structure and governance of research
within the CNPPA (Section 1.A) means our ambition is to grow research income through the next
REF cycle (SOiv, Section 1.C). Our continuing strategy will be to access a broad range of direct
research funding, particularly through increased regional and national partnerships, combined with
enterprise and regeneration funding to support regional development (IOi).

B: Infrastructure & Facilities;
Since 2014, UoC has invested ~£14M on facilities and infrastructure to support research within
the Unit (REF5a, 4.3). Capital investment updating and expanding the Ambleside campus
(~£10.5M since 2014) has included infrastructural investment in a suite of new laboratories, library
facilities, dedicated PGR offices (£5.8M), as well as providing student working spaces and
residential accommodation (£4.7M). The Ambleside laboratory suite offers comprehensive
facilities for physical, chemical and biological analysis of environmental samples, and extensive
optical microscopy capability, including the globally unique Centre for Micromorphology archive of
sediment thin sections. Enhanced by a purpose-built STEM laboratory suite (Carlisle: £3.5M
infrastructure, £200k equipment) opened in 2015, the laboratories provide specialist facilities in
atomic absorption spectrophotometry, spectrometry and chromatography for gas and water
analysis. These facilities support activity within both Landscapes & Ecology and Wildlife
Conservation themes, and laboratory-based research activity is supported by 3.6 FTE of
dedicated technical staff (Section 2.A). An archive suite opened in 2019 provides new space for
our collection of historic mapping of the UK and documents supporting activities within the Human-
Nature Relations theme.

The Unit draws upon a large field equipment pool within SNROS, supported by 2.2 FTE of field
technical support (Section 2.A) and ~£0.24M investment in equipment since 2014. This enables
environmental monitoring and sampling, with field analytical equipment for studying water, soils,
sediment, vegetation and animals, but also comprises an extensive portfolio of expedition,
climbing, caving and water-based equipment and boats, kayaks and canoes for working in
freshwater, coastal and marine environments. Support is provided by 1.78 FTE of specialist
outdoor demonstrators. The Unit is a research partner in the Natural Capital Laboratory, led by
AECOM (Section 4.A), providing access to a ~100ha field laboratory to identify, quantify and value
the impacts of rewilding and ecological restoration. This field laboratory will provide future
infrastructural support for research and collaborations between the Landscape & Ecology and
Wildlife Conservation themes in the coming research cycle (SOii, SOiii).




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The vision of the University is to be recognised as a catalyst for individual and regional prosperity
and pride with national and international relevance, reach and impact (see REF5a, 1). Within this
context, the Impact Objectives for the CNPPA (Section 1.D) are central to growing our
engagement, collaborations and partnerships within and beyond the academy.

A: Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships;
We view research collaboration as the engine room for developing new, exciting and impactful
knowledge: as a small Unit within a teaching-focused university, collaborations enable members
of our three themes to engage across the sector in a manner that maximises our impact and
celebrates our research vitality, whilst maintaining a sustainable research culture. Our
collaborations operate at four levels:
a) Collaborative research amongst colleagues within the Unit is evident in REF2, where ~20% of
    submitted outputs (Convery1,2, Holt3, Mansfield1, Smith1) have been facilitated either by
    joint investigator collaboration and/or joint PGR supervision through the evolving research
    theme structure of the CNPPA. This also reflects support and mentoring in the development
    of ECRs and the transition from PGR to Category A researchers (Holt, Smith). Appointment
    of new Category A staff since REF2014 has opened up further internal collaborative research
    opportunities which will mature through the next research cycle (SOiii, Section 1.C), along with
    opportunity to facilitate career development of less-experienced colleagues (SOi; SOii; Section
    2.A).
b) Transdisciplinary collaborative research within UoC is fundamental to the CNPPA and has
    enabled the expansion of research capacity, drawing together pockets of research excellence
    submitted in other Units (UoA17, UoA23, UoA32) into a coherent research framework (SOi;
    IOi; IOii; Section 1.B; REF5a, 1). This has led to growth of PGRs co-supervised through the
    Human-Nature Relations theme by staff returned in UoA14 (Convery, Ryfield, Smith) with
    colleagues within other UoAs (UoA17: Murphy; UoA23: Loynes, Prince).
c) UK cross-institutional research partnerships and projects enable our researchers to add value
    to larger collaborative research teams and have increased since REF2014. Regional
    partnerships have been established through the ERDF between the University and Lancaster
    University (CUSP), and with Lancaster University and UCLan (Eco-I Cumbria). UKRI Grant
    awards with a total value of £1.15M include members of the unit as Co-Investigators in national
    projects, including Carr (NERC Flocs £558k with QMUL, HR Wallingford; NERC Resist UK
    £582k with Cambridge, QMUL, BGS, Trinity Dublin), Convery (ESRC Productivity, People &
    Place £7k with Lancaster). Developing this approach to involve more members of the Unit
    through the next research cycle is key towards meeting SOi and SOiv. In addition, members
    of the Unit collaborate as external PGR or PDRA supervisors including Carr (QMUL, 1 PGR;
    2 PDRA), Deecke (Iceland, 1 PGR), Mansfield (Bangor, 1 PGR), Weatherall (Bristol, 1 PGR;
    Edinburgh, 1 PGR).
d) International and interdisciplinary networks and collaborations have grown since REF2014,
    demonstrating growth in scope and reach of research within the Unit in response to feedback
    received in REF2014. Carr: Co-I, Combining worms and vegetation to enhance tailings
    dewatering (C$240k/£145k, Institute of Oil Sands Innovation, with QMUL, Deltares,
    Netherlands, Northern Alberta Institute for Technology); Convery, Deecke, Holt: PI/Co-Is,
    Fuzzy Logic modelling of Snow Leopard populations in response to threats from climate
    change (£45k, Snow Leopard Network, with Central Queensland University, Kazakh National
    University, Almaty State Nature Reserve); Deecke: Research on Killer Whales (£7k, SMRU
    Ltd., with Fisheries & Oceans Canada, University of British Columbia, Icelandic Institute of
    Marine & Freshwater Research, University of Iceland, NOAA, Scripps Institute of
    Oceanography); Weatherall, Working Group Leader, EU COST Action CA15226 Climate
    Smart Forestry in Mountain Regions with partners from 28 participating countries.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
B: Relationships with Research Users, Beneficiaries & Audiences;
Our research aims to inform policy-making, best practice, governance and innovation of resource
use in protected areas. Consequently, research opportunities and funding emerge from
developing relationships with stakeholders and end-users outside academia across our three
research themes.

Within Landscapes & Ecology, access to ERDF funding (£730k to UoA14) has enabled Carr,
Leslie and Smith to work directly with 15 Cumbrian SMEs to quantify and reduce the carbon
footprints of commercial and industrial activities. Through Wildlife Conservation, National Lottery
Heritage Funding (£0.4M, with a further £0.88M from 2021), has supported BooM led by Convery
and Deecke to work with the Morecambe Bay Partnership (Impact1401; Section 1.D). Dittrich’s
expertise in terrestrial invertebrate ecology has informed Carlisle City Council’s regeneration plan
for a former golf course as new urban greenspace. Weatherall1 has been highlighted in both EU
policy (Science for Environment Policy News Alert 548, September 2020) and UK practitioner
outlets (Bat Conservation Trust Magazine, August 2020) as valuable research extending beyond
the academy. Finally, Mansfield exemplifies our depth of user engagement within Human-Nature
Relations, with academic research (Mansfield1) underpinning community and business-focused
projects. These include involvement in the Windermere Reflections Landscape Partnership project
(£53k), slope stabilisation using novel methods with Friends of the Lake District and United Utilities
through to supporting the Cumbria Fells & Dales Local Area Group in a LEADER knowledge
exchange project on land management.

Since 2014, Unit staff have written 25 open-access (via Insight) technical and advisory reports for
end-users, 19 contributions to books guiding professional practice, and authorship or editorship of
6 books.

C: Wider Contributions to Economy and Society;
Unit research impact extends beyond influencing policy-making and planning, into implementation
and professional practice, particularly demonstrating impacts upon commerce and the economy.
For example, Leslie’s research into the viability of Eucalyptus as a production crop in the UK
engaging with Maelor Forest Nurseries, Tilhill, Forestry England and Forestry Scotland has
resulted in commercial forest managers trialling species of Eucalyptus as fuel for biomass energy
production. A Royal Society of Arts, Manufactures and Commerce-funded gap analysis within their
2018-19 Food, Farming and Countryside Commission by Mansfield explores Brexit implications
on the sustainability and resilience of upland agriculture, the recommendations of which have been
adopted by the Cumbria Local Enterprise Partnership. Community-level impacts on social welfare
are demonstrated through the application of innovative cognitive mapping developed by Smith
enabling Staveley & Ings Parish Council to incorporate valuing of natural and community assets
in the development of their 2020-25 Parish Plan.

D: Engagement with Communities and Publics;
Beyond working directly with research users, Unit staff reach out to wider publics to offer impacts
on understanding, learning and perception. Research without engagement loses relevance
outside the academy, and across the spectrum of our research projects (e.g. BooM (Convery,
Deecke); NERC Resist (Carr)) there is a deep commitment to public engagement. The first NERC
Resist film won best video category in the 2019 Earth Photo competition
(https://www.earthphoto.world/2019prizewinners), praised for its communication of complex
scientific processes that contextualise and humanise geography, and Ryfield’s research on
heritage and environmental debates featured in ITV’s Best Walks With A View (2015).
Communicating aspects of our research through documentary films such as Terry Abraham’s
Helvellyn: Life of a Mountain (Carr, Mansfield), also broadcast by the BBC in early 2021, and
frequent engagement through local to national press, radio and TV news outlets, and through
online popular science podcasts (e.g. Weatherall: The Naked Scientists) showcases our research
to the widest of audiences.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Within the CNPPA, the Unit engages directly with rural communities in protected areas through
hosting events and conferences drawing together researchers, policy-makers, land-owners and
community representatives, including those from excluded communities, for example through the
Landscapes for Everyone virtual conference (2020) led by Aglionby, Mansfield to explore the
implementation and impact of the 25-year DEFRA Landscapes Review.

More immediate engagement of our research with communities and publics includes the
participation of Convery and Weatherall in the annual TimberFest held annually in the National
Forest, where the often-contested nature of the Unit’s research on rewilding and climate smart
forests are debated on a public platform. Convery is a regular contributor to The Ecologist which
ran a special issue The Timber Takeover, edited by Weatherall after the 2020 festival was
cancelled due to Covid-19. The TimberFest director notes “this is a relationship that has explored
how arts and culture can be used as a vehicle to help translate research in environmental science
to the general public, creating new passions and enthusiasms”. This statement encapsulates
precisely why we undertake our research.

E: Wider Influence and Contributions to the Research Base;
Within what is a small research unit, Unit staff play a dynamic role in supporting the vitality of
research within the discipline. Every member of UoA14 has contributed to sustaining Geography
and Environmental Studies both in the UK and internationally. Protected time in individual staff
annual workload models is negotiated within the PPDR and RASA processes to enable staff to
contribute to external boards, committees and review panels:
a) Journal editorships/board membership: Carr (Editorial Board: Geography, the Journal of the
   Geographical Association, 2019-); Deecke (Editor: Animal Behaviour, 2016-2019);
   Weatherall (Guest Editor: Canadian Journal of Forest Research, 2020; The Ecologist, 2020).
b) Academic leadership on boards and committees: Carr (Trustee, Council Member, RGS-IBG,
   2015-2018; Secretary, Expedition & Fieldwork Committee, RGS-IBG, 2015-2018; Member,
   Expedition & Fieldwork Committee, RGS-IBG, 2012-2015; Member, RGS-IBG NW Regional
   Committee 2018-); Convery (Member, IUCN World Commission for Protected Areas, 2016-;
   Co-Chair, IUCN CEM Rewilding Task Force, 2017-); Ryfield (Secretary, Coastal and Marine
   Research Group, RGS-IBG, 2019-); Weatherall (Member, Working Group Leader, EU CoST
   Action CA15226 Climate Smart Forestry in Mountain Regions, 2016–2021; Member, British
   Ecological Society Forest Ecology Group, 2019-)
c) Peer Review College and Grant Assessment Panel Membership: Carr (Grant Assessment
   Panel, RGS-IBG Geographical Fieldwork Grants, 2009-; Grant Reviewer Polish National
   Science Centre, 2017); Convery (Review Panel member, UN International Resource Panel
   Global Outlook Report, 2019; Panel Member, NERC CASE awards panel 2016).
d) Fellowships: Mansfield (Churchill Fellow, 2019; Invited Fellow, Royal Society of Arts, 2019).
e) Keynote, Invited Lectures, Conference Convenorship: Carr (Invited Speaker, European
   Geoscience Union, 2015); Convery (Conference Keynote Speaker, Qinba Mountain Forum,
   China, 2019; Invited Speaker RGS-IBG Northwest Region, 2019); Deecke (Conference
   Keynote Speaker, 16th Colombian Zoological Congress, 2014; Vienna Rotary Club Inner
   Wheel, 2016; Invited Speaker RGS-IBG Northwest Region, 2019); Leslie (Conference
   Keynote Speaker, Short Rotation Forestry Group Symposium, Dublin, 2017); Mansfield
   (Keynote Speaker, DEFRA Public Consultation on UK Government Farming Policy, 2018);
   Ryfield (Co-Convenor and Chair, Heritage and Changing Environments, AAAG Annual
   Meeting, 2015); Weatherall (Convenor, EU COST International Workshop, 2019).
f) Refereeing Academic Publications: All members of the Unit have undertaken peer-review work
   for: Area, Australian Journal of Forest Science, Basic and Applied Ecology, Biomass and
   Bioenergy, Boreas, Cultural Geographies, Forestry: An International Journal of Forest
   Research, Geography, Geografiska Annaler, Insect Science, International Forestry Review,
   International Journal of Forest Research, Irish Forestry, Journal of Arachnology, Journal of
   Comparative Psychology, Journal of Housing and the Built Environment, Journal of
   Quaternary Science, Journal of Rural Studies, Journal of Soils and Sediments, Journal of
   Veterinary Behaviour, Maritime Studies, Oecologia, Permafrost & Periglacial Processes, Polar
   Record, Proceedings of the Geologists’ Association, Quaternary Geochronology, Quaternary


                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Science Reviews, Restoration Ecology, Rural Landscapes: Society, Environment, History,
    Science, Scientific Reports, Sedimentary Geology.

SUMMARY: Since REF2014, the Unit has grown in research capacity and capability, generating
high-quality, impactful research demonstrating sustained engagement with research beneficiaries
and users. We have continued to increase the amount and diversity of funding to support research
and knowledge exchange. The coherent structure and governance introduced by the CNPPA
provides a platform and clear vision for future development of research activity for the Unit, and
we confidently view 2021-2028 as an exciting period of research consolidation followed by
expansion.




                                                                                          Page 15
