Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Wales Trinity Saint David

 Unit of Assessment: 04

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Psychology unit has operated as a distinct research discipline with expertise in experimental
 and applied psychology since 2015, this therefore being its first submission to REF. Since its
 inception the unit has focused around a clear five-year research strategy (2015-20) to develop
 and support early career researchers and extensive collaborative research. The research
 activity, grant capture, research facilities and output have increased significantly over this period,
 which was bolstered by the unit’s relocation to excellent research facilities and laboratory in the
 University’s new £350 million Waterfront Campus in 2018. The basis for sustainable growth has
 therefore been well established since 2015 when three researchers (Phelps, Hutchings,
 Williams) produced three research papers and successfully bid for two grants. By comparison, in
 2019-20 six researchers (Greenway, Hutchings, Phelps, Rodriguez-Morales, Sullivan, Williams),
 produced nine research papers (four in Q1 journals) and successfully bid for two grants and two
 consultancies with key strategic partners (Tenovus, Welsh Government and Universiti of Malaya
 Sabah). This uplift in research activity has built on successful projects and has allowed the unit
 to establish and pursue a clear strategic programme of work. Now that the unit has firmly
 consolidated its basis for growth, it has adopted a three-year rolling research strategy that aims
 to increase individual funding income and outputs through building programmes of research with
 a clear framework for developing measurable routes to impact.

 Unit research groups
 The unit’s current three-year strategy (2020-22) has continued to build upon the areas of
 research activity aligned to the following four research groups:

    i.   Psychological Health and Wellbeing
   ii.   Social, Group, and Political Psychology
  iii.   The Psychology of Teaching and Learning
  iv.    Applied Cognition

 Psychological health and wellbeing
 Research activity in this group (Phelps, Rodriguez-Morales, Greenway, Williams) focuses on
 understanding the psychosocial and emotional dimensions and predictors of both physical health
 and mental wellbeing. An established strand of research is that of psychosocial oncology, led by
 the work of a registered Health Psychologist (Phelps) but also including funded PhD research
 (Cooke). Phelps’ work demonstrates a strong commitment to multidisciplinary research and
 external collaborations with both NHS and third sector organisations, linked to early intervention
 development and evaluation studies and NHS service evaluation projects. A programme of
 research funded by Tenovus Cancer Care (since 2010). has involved the development and
 evaluation of a range of unique interventions designed to provide psychosocial support to
 individuals affected by cancer. This includes ecotherapy (Phelps, 2015) and online counselling
 interventions (Phelps, Hutchings, 2016), and is supported through multidisciplinary research
 teams including counsellors, computer games development academics, and NHS collaborators.
 This research group has increasingly worked with vulnerable populations and patient groups as
 co-researchers and co-designers (e.g., Phelps 2015, 2016, 2018; Rodriguez-Morales, 2017),
 with recent research funding from Tenovus (delayed due to COVID) enabling a methodologically
 ambitious project bringing patients and health professionals together to identify improved
 communication pathways to support individuals living with incurable cancer.

 This group has a track record of NHS service evaluation research (Phelps, Cooke, Hutchings)
 and is currently engaged in service evaluation research with local NHS partner Hywel Dda
 University Health Board. This research includes a five-year audit of client satisfaction and
 outcomes within their Staff Psychological Wellbeing Service (SPWBS), alongside research
 exploring barriers to accessing the SPWBS amongst staff across the health board region

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Phelps, Smith, Dubovicki-Ferreira, 2020). Phelps is also part of a recently funded (2021) Welsh
 Health Hack research project with NHS collaborators, this exploring the use of a chatbot to
 signpost NHS staff across Wales to appropriate sources of psychological support. Further
 research linked to the University’s health agenda includes measuring the psychosocial impact of
 Prostate Cancer Cymru/Tenovus Cancer Care/Movember foundation’s ManVan for Wales
 (2017); a quality of life evaluation of assistive medical devices for children with
 neurodevelopmental conditions in collaboration with University colleagues in Art & Design (2017;
 submitting unit UoA32); research comparing rural versus urban barriers to seeking healthcare
 for mental and physical health problems in men across Wales (Smith, Phelps; 2020); and
 research supported by Welsh Charity Skin Care Cymru exploring gender differences in coping
 styles for individuals living with chronic skin conditions (Hughes, Phelps; 2020).

 The work of Rodriguez-Morales involves local and global research collaboration in areas linked
 to recovery from addiction (2017), eating behaviour (2019), and health and spiritualism (2019,
 2020). In addition, recent collaboration with the Norwegian School of Sports Science, Oslo and
 the Wales Academy for Heath and Physical Literacy (UWTSD) is developing areas of research
 that crosses traditional academic boundaries. Greenway’s research with steroid users (2018,
 2020) has also involved external collaboration with businesses and health providers around
 Wales. Williams’ (2016) contribution to research exploring incidence rates of multiple sclerosis in
 Wales was published in the open access journal Plos One.

 Social, group, and political psychology
 The social, group, and political psychology research group (Hutchings, Sullivan) demonstrates
 significant international collaboration in the areas of social and political psychology. Recent
 examples include the Gender Harmony Project (Hutchings, Sullivan, 2020) which was an
 international research collaboration with University of Gdansk and University of Southern Florida
 exploring gender role attitudes and stereotypes across 42 countries, resulting in a number of
 pre-registered publications with Q1 journals such as EJSP (2020) and the Journal of Cross-
 Cultural Psychology (under review). Research has also explored the significance of recent
 international terror attacks on prejudice levels of the UK population (Hutchings, Sullivan, 2020),
 published in the highly rated cross-disciplinary journal Terrorism and Political Violence, and the
 links between prejudice levels and political and voting behaviours, particularly related to the
 Brexit vote (Hutchings, Sullivan, 2019). The research from this sub-group has underpinned the
 impact case study (REF3-Hutchings), with researchers from this group delivering workshops,
 training to Race Council Cymru, and advising Welsh Government on issues relating to hate
 crime, refugees and asylum-seekers.

 The psychology of teaching and learning
 The psychology of teaching and learning group (Greenway, Hutchings, Williams) is a highly
 integrative cross-disciplinary research area and collaborations with academic colleagues within
 our wider Institute and the University. This reflects the application of a range of methodological
 expertise to a number of areas linked to the pedagogy of teaching and learning. The evaluation
 of the University Life Design initiative (Williams, Hutchings, Phelps, 2020) published in the Q1
 education journal Studies in Higher Education explored key psychosocial outcomes through
 employing an intervention evaluation methodology. Greenway’s (2020) research into additional
 learning needs in the classroom included exploring knowledge and attitudes towards attention-
 deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in teaching staff and was published in the Australian
 Journal of Learning Disabilities, with an exploration of the impact of home schooling on Welsh
 parents of children with ADHD from the same authors published in Gwerddon, a Welsh-
 language journal. There has also been significant engagement with collaborative partners in
 institutions across the globe in this research group, with collaboration on journal articles and
 book chapters (Hutchings & Sullivan one book chapter and one article, Hutchings three
 additional articles) examining student coping strategies during the COVID-19 pandemic. This
 collaboration with Universiti of Malaya, Wesleyan University, and Penn State University has
 already been highly productive, producing these initial papers supported by a research grant
 from Universiti of Malaya, and has the potential to expand outside of this sub-group to research
 in areas of health and social psychology.

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Applied cognition
 This developing research group (led by Williams with contributions from others) has emerged
 from increased cognitive research within the unit and increased collaboration with outside
 agencies, with a clear focus on the application of knowledge of cognitive processes to real-world
 issues. Williams’ work focuses on retrieval-induced forgetting (2017) and includes publication in
 the journal Memory and Cognition (2020). This expertise has also led to the start of our first
 interdisciplinary PhD supervision with humanities colleagues in the area of working memory
 influences on simultaneous translation by language interpreters (Hutchings). This activity has
 now also included bidding with private companies such as K-Sharp and Vindico on applied
 cognition projects involving technological capability and military training.

 Sustainability of Impact
 The application of research to real-world issues underpins the unit’s research aims, be these
 grant applications, research outputs, or wider engagement with the community and society,
 supported through the unit’s Psychological Evaluation and Research Consultancy Hub
 (PERCH). The two case studies (REF3) stand as cases in point for this approach. Under the
 Psychological Health and Wellbeing sub-group Phelps has carried out research for a number of
 years into psychological aspects of cancer care, and this research continues to have an impact
 in the local and wider community with the provision of breast cancer care and further
 government initiatives informed by her research. The applied and societal focus of the work of
 the unit is similarly demonstrated through the research of Hutchings and Sullivan. Hutchings
 carries out research into prejudice and discrimination in society, also working with local and
 national associations and government. Both projects have PhD students working on them (one
 with a fully funded KESS scholarship) while the international collaborations highlighted above
 provide a potential global impact of the research from a number of these research groups.

 Open Research Environment
 As a scientific discipline the unit has a strong commitment to an open research environment, in
 academic publications and open data storage. Following the guidelines of the University under
 its 2016 Open Access and Data Management policies, all researchers in the unit are actively
 encouraged to seek out opportunities to publish in open access journals or those that are
 compliant with REF2021 policy in terms of embargo limits. Departmental funds have been made
 available to researchers for them to publish in open access formats under gold routes (Phelps
 2016; Greenway, 2018) and a number of papers have been published freely in open access
 journals under Creative Commons licences (Hutchings, 2019; Williams, 2016). This approach
 means that in the 2016-20 period over 90% of publications produced by the unit have been
 REF2021 compliant. All publications are also made publicly available through the UWTSD
 publications repository, and links are provided to these publications in the repository from the
 research group web pages.

 In addition to publications, the unit actively encourages all researchers to make their data freely
 available upon request (subject to ethical considerations) and since Jan 2020 the unit has
 stipulated that researchers must make their data publicly available via the UWTSD Data
 Repository. The unit is also committed to supporting reproducibility within the discipline, with
 academic articles from the Gender Harmony Project pre-registered with several journals, and
 researchers encouraged to engage with data requests from other researchers, particularly grey
 literature requests. For example, inclusion of work by Hutchings in a recent meta-analysis by
 Young et al. (2020) emerged from responding to an EASP call for data. To achieve this
 approach to an open research environment it is crucial that researchers are aware of the
 expectations of the unit, and so the unit engages in its own training workshops and those of the
 wider faculty and university in relation to best practice regarding this open research environment.
 These training events are arranged at unit and faculty level on days exclusively set aside for
 training. In practice many members of the unit act as trainers for these events, at Institute and
 University level, including training in use of specialist research tools such as SuperLab and
 Qualtrics (Hutchings, Sullivan); research integrity and good practice (Phelps) and research
 ethics (Jones, Rodriguez-Morales; see below).


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Environment
 The submitting unit, housed within the Academic Discipline of Psychology and Counselling, sits
 within the University’s Institute of Education and Humanities. The Institute has maintained a
 strong research focus over the last five years (also making submissions to UoA23, UoA26 and
 UoA31) and the Psychology research strategy is clearly aligned to the wider Institute strategy.
 Much of the Psychology research activity of the submitting unit has been housed under the
 Department’s Psychological Research and Evaluation Consultancy Hub (PERCH) which has
 allowed us to become increasingly responsive to requests for support and internal and external
 collaboration with NHS partners and knowledge transfer activities, particularly in relation to the
 University’s Health Agenda. This has also led to the development of junior researchers within the
 wider unit through involvement in NHS or voluntary sector-based MSc research leading to
 Research Assistant, PhD and Technical/Teaching support (see section on staffing below).

 The research lead (Hutchings) represents the Psychology research strategy/unit at regular
 Institute-level meetings and the unit has an integral role in offering specialist research training to
 Institute colleagues. Hutchings and Sullivan manage the Qualtrics online research service on
 behalf of the Institute and offer annual training and bespoke support to research projects when
 requested, including to postgraduate research students within the education unit. In addition, a
 number of members of academic staff from the unit sit on either Institute or University research
 and/or ethics committees. The Institute holds three research staff development days per year
 where staff across disciplines share research activity and also research expertise. Recent
 contributions from staff in the submitting unit include staff development sessions on Qualtrics,
 research ethics, and psychometric measures. Using her expertise of NHS ethics and
 researching vulnerable populations, Phelps was also instrumental in establishing new ethical
 approval processes for all research work taking place in the Institute, shortly after the merger of
 two Universities into what is now UWTSD. This included delivering several development
 sessions to foster more critical awareness of ethical good practice in research. The submitting
 unit’s specific research environment sits within this wider structure and is driven by our
 commitment to mentoring, collaboration, research integrity and societal impact articulated
 throughout this document.

 Research Integrity
 Research integrity lies at the heart of all research carried out in the unit, with a number of codes
 of conduct governing individual researchers and research teams. In addition to following the
 UWTSD code of conduct for research ethics and integrity and the 2019 UK Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity, all research carried out within the unit must adhere to the British
 Psychological Society (BPS) code of ethics and conduct, the BPS code of human research
 ethics and, if involving online research, the BPS ethics guidelines for internet-mediated research.
 All research carried out by researchers in the unit must be submitted to the School of
 Psychology Research Ethics Committee (SREC) for approval before being submitted to either
 the Institute or University central ethics committee, to ensure that the specifics of BPS
 requirements are met in addition to the UWTSD code of conduct. SREC meetings are held
 monthly, currently chaired by Rodriguez-Morales, and a rotating membership of psychology
 academics alongside an independent representative from a non-psychology discipline sits
 monthly to review submissions. In addition to internal ethics and research provision, Hutchings
 has also been a member of the BPS Professional Practice Board (PPB) from 2016-18 which
 oversees and promotes excellence in psychological practice across the UK. Phelps is a HCPC
 registered health psychologist and abides to the HCPC professional framework at all times.

 Future Research Strategy
 In line with the need to ensure the sustainability of our research impact the research objectives
 for the next assessment period will continue to build upon those of the current period and
 through continuing to work with external organisations, third sector and charity collaborators with
 a specific focus on the following:
   • Identifying a clear impact development strategy through continuing to invest in research
       capacity that builds longer term evidence of impact in the most established areas of
       research (psychosocial oncology, prejudice & discrimination, and ADHD in learners).

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •   Developing further collaborative partnerships with NHS in line with the University’s Health
      Offer (see below).
  •   Securing partnership funding from charitable / third sector sources, as well as from
      established funding sources such as UKRI (in particular ESRC and Innovate UK) and
      Leverhulme, to further strengthen our commitment to societal impact, people involvement
      and co-design in applied research.

 2. People

 Research Staff
 The unit has committed to a strong staff development strategy to enhance research capability
 and cohere its research. The original 2015-20 strategy, led by Phelps and Hutchings, clearly
 articulated an expectation of research development for all members of staff, including those not
 currently research active at that time. With a high proportion of early career researchers and
 junior lecturers in the team at that stage, these activities were based around three pillars:
 mentoring; financial support; and focused publication activity. Early activities centred around
 unit-focused research development days, based on sharing existing research expertise with less
 experienced research staff and identified mentoring and support needs. All staff were set
 specific research objectives appropriate to their level of research competence/expertise,
 supported by appropriate budget support for conference attendance. Alongside this a process of
 research mentoring took place to support staff in developing appropriate research objectives and
 outcomes. The success of this approach is evidenced through the fact that in 2013 only two
 members of staff were engaged in current research and/or actively publishing in peer reviewed
 journals; this has now increased to eight staff publishing in journals and all staff having
 completed research activity that at a minimum has led to a conference presentation. The three
 not submitted to this REF assessment will shortly achieve research independence and SRR.

 Career Pathways
 The University operates the HERA job evaluation scheme and this is embedded into the pay
 structure, thereby ensuring a transparent pay scale with clear parameters regarding progression
 from lecturer, senior lecturer, principal lecturer, reader, associate professor and professorship.
 Professional development opportunities are equally available for all members of staff regardless
 of whether full-time, part time, fixed term or hourly paid, and all staff and can participate in the
 Performance and Development Review Scheme to identify short and longer term career,
 performance and development goals. Academic staff use a planning and workload management
 tool, which is negotiated and agreed with the line manager and is aligned to the Performance
 and Development Review Scheme. It acknowledges that the role of a full‐time or part-time
 member of staff involves a range of activities, including study and development activity. In this
 regard, as of 2020, all members of the department are engaged in research, with several of
 these soon expected to achieve research independence and SRR status. Staff and postgraduate
 students are supported by the Director of Academic Discipline (DOAD; Phelps) and Assistant
 Director of Academic Discipline (ADOAD) who acts as Director of Research (Hutchings) in
 strategically considering research requirements and outcomes on an annual basis. The current
 research profile of the Academic Discipline contains a healthy mix of mid-career researchers
 (MCRs) and ECRs. The DOAD, ADOAD, and three others in the unit classify as MCRs whilst the
 other six members of staff classify as ECRs. Whilst the MCRs work closely with the ECRs, often
 in collaboration, to carry out research our ECRs, even without this collaboration, continue to
 carry out high quality research and publish in Q1 and Q2 journals, and to promote impact within
 their fields and within the community (e.g., Williams, Rodriguez-Morales). This informal
 mentoring is supported by a formal annual review process whereby all members of academic
 staff take part in annual appraisals with the DOAD, using the Vitae Framework for Researcher
 Development. Training and mentoring requirements, and specific needs of researchers, are
 passed to the ADOAD and these are then addressed across the course of the next 12 months
 where feasible. Where appropriate, staff are supported to take consolidated periods of time to
 engage in research activity in line with their wider objectives and activity profile, and this support
 has shown to be fruitful in leading to specific research outputs.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academic appointments within the department are usually made on a permanent basis and are
 usually between 0.5 and 1FTE. We currently only use HPL contracts to cover for staff absence
 (not including maternity cover, which is usually dealt with by fixed contract cover). Therefore, all
 members of academic staff currently working within the department hold permanent contracts
 which has further facilitated a supportive and collaborative approach that has proved to be highly
 successful and has led to a number of collaborations between researchers from different sub-
 fields of psychology on research projects.

 The department fosters a culture of internal collaboration, support, and budget allocation in order
 to provide ongoing research development for our ECRs and PGRs. In line with our strategic
 development of the research profile of the department, we have a track record of supporting our
 ECRs and MCRs through budget allocations to provide specialist research equipment; recent
 examples including eye-tracking equipment and physiological measurement tools to support
 internal and external collaborations and research grant submissions. Departmental workshops
 on grant writing and publication skills are held each year within the discipline in addition to staff
 being released from teaching to attend the three Institute wide researcher development days
 which are held each year. In 2014 training was purchased by the DOAD for all academic staff in
 the Academic Discipline to be trained in Occupational Psychology Personality Testing. This has
 since led to a number of staff members who took part in this training providing expertise to other
 areas of the university and assisting with the supervision of PhD students in the Occupational
 Psychology field (e.g., Hutchings in supervision of a Professional Doctorate PhD student in
 collaboration with the colleagues submitted to UoA31).

 The Department actively encourages our more experienced researchers to share their specialist
 expertise to build confidence and skills in grant submission and research publications. Recent
 mentoring of an hourly paid lecture resulted in a ECR led project (Life Design), publication in a
 Q1 Education journal, alongside the researcher gaining applied research skills. Since this
 project the researcher has been approached by a number of potential internal and external
 collaborators requesting input into grant submissions applying experimental expertise within
 applied setting e.g., human factors research. We have likewise been particularly successful in
 supporting the development of our PGRs through additional paid part-time research
 assistantships (e.g. Tenovus Cancer Care) or internships, and have also supported recent
 graduates keen to commence postgraduate study in psychology through funded internships. We
 have twice successfully attained funding from the BPS Undergraduate Research Assistantship
 Scheme to employ students over the summer who have gone on to postgraduate study, one of
 whom was then further employed as research assistant on a Welsh Government grant exploring
 public attitudes towards organ donation. Another example is one of our postgraduate part-time
 research assistants who was supported to complete her MSc dissertation whilst employed as a
 research assistant; she was then subsequently retained on a further part-time research grant
 whilst also being employed as a part-time technical tutor. This experience on a range of
 psychosocial cancer projects then enabled us to successfully apply for a fully funded KESS II
 PhD scholarship for the individual in question (she is now her in final year and due to submit in
 2021). This individual has therefore been with us on paid contracts since 2015 and has recently
 (2021) also received her first part-time lecturing role with us in the Department as a lecturer in
 health psychology.

 Postgraduate Research Students
 The Psychology Unit has always had a small number of mostly international postgraduate
 research students studying at MPhil or PhD level under the supervision of the then Head of
 School. The further expansion of the department and strategic commitment to developing the
 research culture since 2015 has enabled us to continue to attract a small cohort of high-quality
 PhD students working on topics closely aligned with research project areas. To date since 2015,
 we have had two successful PhD completions (Sood and Cole), two are in their final write
 up/corrections stage (Cooke and Sullivan) and a further two students have enrolled onto PhDs in
 the 2020 academic year (Watling, Noble). There are currently five members of staff capable of
 PhD supervision, two as Directors of Study. Three of these (Rodriquez, Greenway, Hutchings)
 are also supervising PhD students outside of the Department. With this increase in supervisory

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 capacity and experience we aspire to grow our number of PhD students to four per year across
 the department by 2025 and to increase the number of supervisors/Directors of Studies.

 Supervisory Arrangements.
 The Institute has two Managers of Graduate Studies who oversee all research students in the
 Institute. Each PGR is assigned two supervisors, a Director of Studies and a second supervisor,
 and these supervisors meet with their PGR on at least a monthly basis (informally often weekly).
 PhD students are initially accepted on probationary status and have to submit an overview of
 their progress, plans for the next stage and evidence of writing to the probation panel that
 assesses their progress. The Progress Review Board monitors the progress of all research
 students on an annual basis and can withdraw a student if satisfactory progress is not made
 following the provision of additional support, training and actin plans. These systems are
 centrally monitored by the Academic Office.

 Training and researcher development:
 As evidenced above, as a small unit we pride ourselves in providing an exceptionally supportive
 and inclusive academic research environment. Our postgraduate researchers are embedded
 into the academic team, working alongside and based in the same location as the wider
 academic team where they are encouraged to support the wider workings of the academic
 discipline in order to broaden their skillset and to disseminate their research activity at
 appropriate internal and external events, supported by departmental or grant funding as
 appropriate. The return on this support can clearly be seen through a number of publications
 from our PGRs alongside their supervisory teams, such as Sullivan’s joint authorship on paper in
 the cross-discipline journal Terrorism and Political Violence and 2019 paper on Brexit.

 Our last four PGRs are all now in academic positions either at our own university or at other
 universities. Since 2015 we have seen two PGRs successfully complete their PhDs, one of
 whom is also a permanent member of lecturing staff (Cole), and (Sood) now employed by
 Swansea University as a Psychology Tutor. We have also retained previous students who
 completed MPhil research on research projects; for example, in 2016 we employed one of our
 successful MPhil students (Butler) as a Technical Tutor and research assistant on an internally
 funded collaboration with the Cerebra Innovation Centre, aiding us in a quality of life evaluation
 of a product designed to assist children living with neurodevelopmental conditions. Butler has
 since gone on to PhD study in Swansea University. All of our PGRs have been funded by the
 department to present their research work at national conferences including the British
 Psychological Society’s Annual Conference, the BPS Division of Health Psychology Conference,
 the British Psychosocial Oncology Society’s annual scientific meeting. Sullivan’s work was also
 presented at the American Psychological Association Annual Conference in New York (2015)
 and at a symposium of the International Society of Political Psychology in San Antonio, Texas
 (2018).

 Our two current PhD students who are in the writing up stage of their PhDs have been employed
 as technical tutors with us since 2016 and have recently received their first part-time lectureship
 with us (February 2021). As described above, one of these PhD students (Cooke) secured
 funding through the Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarship (KESS) programme for a
 collaborative PhD with Tenovus Cancer Care (full stipend, fee waiver and £9k training
 allowance). The creation of our Technical Tutor roles have enabled us to demonstrate the value
 of supporting the development of our postgraduate researchers into future research staff,
 providing support to not only students but increasingly to staff outside of our discipline relating to
 research methods, statistics, and laboratory-based research skills. Technical Tutor contracts
 are fixed-term for 12 months, to allow the postgraduate student to make decisions regarding
 teaching and research on an annual basis, often centred around the requirements of their
 studies. A PhD student who is in a critical phase of their studies may request to reduce their
 teaching load for a year and then take up a fixed 12-month contract the following year, and this
 structure allows them to do so.



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All psychology PGRs have a training programme tailored to their needs, covering the whole PhD
 process from proposals and research questions through to writing up and preparation for viva. In
 addition, students receive training in generic skills as part of the centrally organised Research
 Development Plan. The Research, Innovation and Enterprise Services (RIES) offers a series of
 training events including webinars (e.g., in publishing, presenting at conferences, preparing for
 the viva) in order to accommodate distance learners. This programme is fully aligned to the
 Vitae Researcher Development Framework and all students and staff are encouraged to
 establish personal development plans using Vitae’s online RDF planning tool. Students are
 invited to present and to attend relevant workshops at the Faculty Research Development days
 and annual Summer Graduate School (in Lampeter) and at the Postgraduate conferences which
 also offer the possibility for distance-learning students to present via online facilities. The
 University is currently setting up a new University-wide Doctoral College that will incorporate the
 activities of RIES together with other training events offered in each Institute.

 Equality and diversity: PGRs
 Historically the majority of our successful PGR completions within the department have been
 from international students, including three successful PhDs from students from Libya (pre-2014)
 and more recently India (Sood, 2019). All four of our currently registered PhD students are
 female with a broad age range from early 20s to late 50s. As a department we support our
 PGRs in flexible ways through online and face-to-face (pre-COVID) supervision, and encourage
 all PGRs to become active members of the department as a whole to benefit from shared
 expertise. UWTSD has an effective student support system in place on every campus, which is
 equally available to research students. They are supported by the Learning Support Team
 within the Student Services which provides comprehensive support for students at all levels with
 specific learning difficulties including one-to-one support for disabled students. Research
 students, though recruited globally, make use of the availability of student support. The majority
 of the forthcoming RDP provision will be delivered online using expertise gained through Wales
 Academy for Professional Practice and Applied Research experience in developing communities
 of practice. This reflects strong student preference for remote opportunities, as well as the
 current experiences of online provision with COVID19, and a commitment to flexible provision in
 support of equality and diversity considerations.

 Equality and diversity: Staff
 In preparing its submission to UoA04, the University has complied with the processes detailed in
 the REF Code of practice, in order to ensure that equality and diversity responsibilities are fully
 considered. This has included regular reporting through the University’s governance process, a
 University wide process in activity profiling, a full staff briefing programme, ongoing opportunity
 to declare personal circumstances, an appeals process and data analysis to undertake equality
 impact assessments. The submitting unit considers issues of equality and diversity as integral to
 everything that we do; as can be seen from this statement overall, one of our main areas of
 research is in racial and gender equality (Hutchings, Sullivan). This is also indicated in the
 structure of our department and this submission; 80% of our department is female academic
 staff and that ratio is reflected in the gender balance of our staff returned in this REF
 assessment. The selection of outputs is consistent with this distribution (75% female 25% male).
 As a newly research active department the distribution of staff with SRR by age is as expected,
 26-34(20%), 35-44 (40%), 45-54 (40%), 55-64 (0%), with a weighting towards mid-career
 researchers and investment in ECRs in the lower age group. The selection of outputs is
 consistent with this profile. The ethnic composition of our unit is largely white British, with two
 members of staff from non-UK countries. This is predominantly due to non-white ethnicity
 candidates not applying for the positions that have been advertised over the last several years.
 Further analysis is published in the full equality impact assessment.

 The University’s approach to supporting and managing the well-being of staff is focused on
 prevention and early intervention strategies. The development of ‘family friendly’ and flexible
 working polices enables people to balance work and caring responsibilities, and the principles of
 equality and diversity are fully embedded across all employment related polices and processes.
 Several members of the submitting unit and department have caring responsibilities and the

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 university and department takes active steps to support these members of staff. This includes
 periods of leave for maternity cover, phased returns to work after maternity or prolonged illness,
 academic lead support for staff returning to work, the ability to move to fractional contracts
 where required, and negotiation of flex-time working.

 Future Staff Development Strategy
 Building upon our successful strategy outlined above, our ongoing research strategy in relation
 to staff development is focused around:
 • Continuing our programme of mentoring ECRs and encouraging a cross disciplinary
     approach to this, including engagement with the Doctoral College where appropriate;
 • Supporting our MCRs through increased capacity to apply for consolidated periods of
     research grant writing and publication activity through a focused approach to annual activity
     profiles and appraisals;
 • To increase current supervisory capacity and PGRs across the department;
 • Supporting all current submitting staff to apply for research grant funding to increase the
     research income stream by 50% by 2023.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 As a newly established unit over the last five years we have strategically sought grant funding
 income from sources most directly relevant to existing expertise and project requirements. The
 intention has been to build a research portfolio that firmly establishes our research groups and
 provide the basis on which to seek larger grants in the future. In this regard, the research
 funding we have secured over the last five years has involved smaller-scale project grants that
 have enabled us to expand our research expertise, build research confidence across the unit
 and have resulted in high quality research with a clear impact (please see our impact
 statements). These projects have also enabled us to establish successful internal and external
 collaborations which have now placed us in a position to be able to seek larger research funding
 for national and internationally-focused research studies. These in turn will offer further career
 development opportunities for our existing PGRs (e.g. early career fellowships) and enable us to
 attract new ECRs and PGRs as both researchers and potential lecturers.

 For example, initial funding in 2014 from the Tenovus Innovation Grant fund for a small scale
 project exploring an ecotherapy intervention for women affected by breast cancer led to
 widespread interest and dissemination including a video interview on the
 ECancerMedicalScience website. The successful completion of this project has enabled us to
 secure a number of ongoing funded research projects and research consultancy work from
 Tenovus Cancer Care. In 2014 we received further funding of £28k from Tenovus the Cancer
 Charity for research into the delivery of online counselling support for young people affected by
 cancer, resulting in a deliverable platform and a publication output (Phelps, Hutchings). In 2016
 we received £12k from Tenovus the Cancer Charity for research into the nurse-led call-back
 service for cancer patients, supporting NHS provision, resulting in evaluation and reports for
 Tenovus and NHS (Phelps, Hutchings). This programme of research established us as a strong
 collaborative research group and culminated in a KESS II PHD studentship which has helped to
 support one our ECRs.

 Similarly, successful MPhil completions funded by Cerebra the Charity for Brain Injured Children
 prior to 2015 enabled us to build a track record of collaboration with this charity, leading to
 additional internal small grant funding of £5k in 2015 from UWTSD for a quality of life evaluation
 of a product designed by the University’s Cerebra Innovation Centre (UoA32, also submitted as
 an impact case study – Assistive seating devices for children with neurodevelopmental
 conditions). This enabled us to retain one of the students as research assistant/technical tutor
 (Butler: see above). Importantly, the collaborative links forged during this project have led to
 ongoing collaborations around the work of the University’s Assisted Technologies Innovation
 Centre (also submitted to UoA32) through the process of knowledge exchange and research
 resource sharing, and this will be an area of future development over the next REF cycle as both

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 units establish themselves within the new campus facility. Other grants have opened up a
 number of collaborative opportunities with research colleagues in the Institute’s educational
 research centres. For example, Greenway has recently completed a funded project in
 collaboration with two colleagues from the Centre for Research in Education and Pedagogy
 (CREP) (UoA23) exploring the impact of changes to teaching practice post-COVID on staff
 wellbeing. These opportunities have also resulted from Greenway’s increased research outputs
 in the areas of ADHD and special educational needs.

 The range of collaborative research work led by Phelps in health services research and
 evaluation has likewise resulted in a number of research grants from Tenovus Cancer Care
 which has provided research assistant positions for our PGRs/ECRs as well as attracting paid
 consultancy. The commitment to the University’s Health Offer and particularly the University’s
 strategic partnership with Hywel Dda University Health Board has, in the last two years, enabled
 us to employ two research interns over the summer break to assist with data collection and
 create a suitable project for an MSc research dissertation. More recently, in January 2021
 Phelps has been part of the team who successfully won funding from the Welsh Health Hacks
 Challenge, offering methodological expertise to a project aimed at improving the signposting of
 wellbeing resources for NHS staff across Wales.

 The unit is also starting to develop a strong track record in government-funded work, with the
 successful completion of a grant exploring public perceptions of organ donation legislation in
 Wales in late 2013 leading to government publications and conference presentations, and more
 recently in 2020 Phelps and Hutchings completing work for the Welsh Government (funding of
 £15k) to complete an audit of the availability of mental health and wellbeing resources for
 teaching staff and students in Wales. With previous expertise in working on government
 projects and the relevance of the unit’s expertise in health, social and political psychology, this is
 an area the unit wishes to attract further funding in over the next three years. Finally, the
 dissemination of research findings from the work of Sullivan and Hutchings in the area of
 prejudice and discrimination has led to a number of recent cross-cultural collaborations,
 including recent funding of £5k in 2020 from Universiti of Malaya Sabah to examine cross-
 cultural differences in psychological health and coping in university students during COVID-19.
 Whilst still ongoing this research has already produced one book chapter (Hutchings, Sullivan,
 2020) and two research papers (Hutchings; Hutchings, Sullivan in press). In addition to the
 above research funding members of the unit also carry out consultancy that generates income
 which is used to fund further research time within the department. This includes funding of £6k in
 2015 from Tenovus the Cancer Charity to evaluate efficacy of the Man Van initiative (Phelps) and
 £30k from Welsh Government in 2020 for creation of a suite of evidence based professional learning
 materials linked to Mental Health and Wellbeing for teachers in schools (ongoing; Phelps)

 Infrastructure and Facilities (Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure)
 The opportunities afforded to us by our primary relocation to our new Swansea Waterfront
 campus has allowed us to further develop our research facilities and this has put us in a stronger
 position to further build on a range of research opportunities, particularly in relation to
 experimental research methodologies. Our current research resources include a suite of
 laboratory rooms on our Swansea campus, all fitted with experimental software (SuperLab,
 EPrime, NVivo), specialist biopsychological research equipment (GSR, EEG, eye-tracking) and
 equipment for specific projects (e.g., driving simulator for applied cognition research) and data
 analysis software (e.g., SPSS). Online research is supported by a number of specialist
 programmes (e.g., Qualtrics for online questionnaires, Inquisit and SuperLab for online and lab-
 based stimuli data collection, SONA Experiment Management System for control of participant
 panels and lab bookings).

 Estates and general support are available 24 hours per day on campus, meaning that laboratory
 facilities can be accessed at all times. General IT support is also provided with 24-hour
 coverage. In addition to all of these, which are provided for all departments within the campus,
 the Psychology unit has received significant investment in the last three years in relation to the
 dedicated psychology research labs. Specialist equipment has been used to support our

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research activity and has strengthened our ability to carry out high impact work through the use
 of online survey tools and experimental equipment including eye tracking software. These
 facilities have been put to direct use in many of the research projects carried out by the unit,
 including online resources used in the Gender Harmony Project and the Covid project
 (Qualtrics), and many aspects of Project ImpEx (SONA, Qualtrics, and Inquisit).

 Future income strategy for next assessment period
 Aligned to the strategic development of our main areas of research expertise outlined above and
 the strengthened internal infrastructure within our university, our future strategy for further
 investing in this infrastructure will specifically allow us to align with a number of the University’s
 research priorities, which is being supported centrally with a new Doctoral College (launching
 2021). In this regard we plan to:

    •   To increase larger scale research activity aligned to the University’s health offer through
        promoting the unit’s Psychological Evaluation and Research Consultancy Hub (PERCH)
        to internal and external partners. This will include investment in shared research
        resources to support further collaborative work in this area.
    •   Develop our current discussions with both external partners (NHS) and colleagues
        submitted in UoA 32 (Arts and Design) regarding partnership funding and research
        projects with UWTSDs Assistive Technologies Research Centre (ATIC) and Cerebra
        Innovation Centre (CiC). Specific projects include seeking funding for joint projects
        exploring user experience of healthcare technology / systems / processes / care with the
        University’s ATIC centre (UoA 32) (Phelps, Hutchings, Cooke, Williams).
    •   Further develop high quality joint projects in the psychology of learning and teaching in
        collaboration with colleagues in UoA23 (Education) particularly with the Centre for
        Research in Education and Pedagogy (CREP) (Greenway, Hutchings, Phelps, Williams).
    •   Develop collaborative projects with the Wales Academy for Health and Physical Literacy
        (WAHPL) to support the green health agenda (Rodriquez, Phelps).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contributions to the disciplines
 Greenway, Hutchings, Phelps, and Rodriguez-Morales act as reviewers for a number of peer
 reviewed journals including Health Expectations; The Journal of Studies in International
 Education; Addiction; Qualitative Research in Psychology; The Australian Journal of Learning
 Disabilities; and Behavioural Medicine. In addition to being a reviewer for the Psychology
 Express series of textbooks, Hutchings acts as critical reviewer for the Kite and Whitley textbook
 Psychology of Prejudice and Discrimination, one of the key textbooks on the subject across the
 world. Phelps is also a reviewer for the Wales Health and Social Care Research for Public and
 Patient Involvement research funding scheme.

 Collaboration, Networks and Partnerships
 The collaborative nature of our research has been clearly indicated above with collaborations
 since 2014 including those with other universities (University of South Wales, Cardiff University,
 University of Gdansk and University of South Florida), the NHS (Cardiff and Vales NHS, ABMU
 Trust, Hywel Dda UHB, Swansea Bay UHB) charities and third sector organisations (Tenovus
 Cancer Care, Dementia Friendly Swansea, Race Council Cymru), and local organisations
 offering specialist technical support (Vindico, K-Sharp). The unit also has a strong commitment
 to engaging with patients, service users, and the lay population as part of its collaborative effort
 as evidenced by its recent successful grant to work with secondary (incurable) breast cancer
 patients and clinicians in order to co-design better communication pathways for this patient
 group.

 Engagement with communities and publics
 Rodriguez-Morale’s research interests in mental health have extended to ecotherapy and
 outdoor health and she is actively involved with a number of community organisations including
 West Wales Action for Mental Health, designing and delivering training on green prescribing,

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 forest therapy and working with young people with mental health problems with the Small Woods
 Wales and Tir Coed charities. In addition, she works with Actif Woods virtual nature and
 wellbeing therapy, providing services to Mind and other local mental health services. Her
 expertise in Interpretative Phenomenological Analysis has led to the production of a book on
 qualitative research methods in psychology, including IPA, and she is pursuing a number of
 international collaborations to take this work forward further.

 Impacts and relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 Phelps’ research has helped inform decisions about the appropriate delivery of psychosocial
 support to individuals affected by cancer in Wales through evaluating the impact of intervention
 and support initiatives delivered at an NHS or Charity level. With her current KESS-funded PhD
 student she is currently developing an electronic database and toolkit to help a cancer charity
 effectively log service user outcomes and identify the most effective services with potential roll
 out to other services. Phelps’ research with secondary breast cancer patients which initially
 stemmed from a PG research student (Baker, a cancer nurse) has underpinned two all-Wales
 secondary breast cancer conferences designed for both patients and clinicians to attend, led to
 the creation of Wales first secondary breast cancer nurse specialist post (for Baker) and to a
 paper in the journal Cancer Nursing Practice. Phelps has previously been a member of the
 South West Wales NHS Research Ethics Committee and she has continued to use this
 knowledge and expertise in her ongoing research with vulnerable patient populations but also in
 driving forward the ethical standards within the Discipline and wider Faculty/Institute. She has
 been a board member (grant reviewer) on Welsh Government’s Wales Health & Social Care
 Research for Public and Patient Involvement Research Funding Panel for the last three years.
 Phelps has also used her research knowledge to deliver coping effectiveness training workshops
 to family carers of loved ones with dementia as part of her commitment to Dementia Friendly
 Swansea.

 Responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiative
 We have consistently shown ourselves to be able to be responsive to research opportunities that
 emerge through national and international priorities. Whether this be at a local level (e.g.,
 producing research and a government report for the organ donation legislation changes in
 Wales; Hutchings, Phelps), a national level (e.g., research into attitudes towards Brexit shortly
 after the UK referendum; Sullivan, Hutchings), or an international level (e.g., examining student
 mental health and access to resources in the worldwide Covid-19 lockdown across several
 countries; Hutchings, Sullivan), members of the unit have shown themselves to be both
 responsive to these priorities and also to have developed a track record of delivering, even
 within short timescales. Recently, Phelps has led on the production of Welsh Government-
 funded professional learning materials for schools in Wales in relation to mental and emotional
 health and wellbeing and is currently the national module lead for the new National MA in
 Education’s Emotional and Mental Health and Wellbeing module, the first research informed
 module of its kind to be embedded in the national curriculum.

 Wider contribution to economy and society
 Hutchings’ work on prejudice and discrimination has informed society’s understanding of the
 factors influencing current issues such as attitudes towards migrant populations, Brexit, and
 terrorism. He was part of the British Psychological Society’s working group on asylum seekers
 and had recently published a newspaper article/podcast sharing his understanding of the
 psychological impact of being a refugee in the UK. He has continued to support Black History
 month in Wales through giving talks at a number of events including two at the Senedd (Welsh
 Parliament), and has helped drive forward the university’s mission to become a University of
 Sanctuary. In his role as Chair of the British Psychological Society Welsh Branch between 2015
 - 2018 he has helped to inform Welsh Government strategies relating to obesity, mental health,
 dementia, and the treatment of asylum seekers and refugees. Recent engagement work since
 COVID-19 has included contributing to the early release of educational materials on managing
 anxiety in schools and local organisations, with Phelps also using this expertise to contribute to a
 two-week daily slot on local radio.


                                                                                             Page 12
