Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Roehampton
 Unit of Assessment: 23 – Education
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The School of Education (SoE) has a long and distinguished history in educational research. The
 mission of the 16 research active staff (14.7 FTE) in the unit is to seek to ensure that all young
 people are able to benefit from enriching educational experiences, and to become active and
 engaged global citizens. Our strategic objectives, as identified in REF2014, were to develop our
 specialist research and extend its global reach; to establish high quality collaborations; to provide
 a forum for debate and ensure the wider impact of the research that we undertake; and to integrate
 fully our research students into our research environment. Since 2014, the SoE has undergone
 significant change, and witnessed a generational shift in our staff base. Our research is now
 focussed across three key themes: Special and inclusive education (Bonneville-Roussy, Castro-
 Kemp, Kallitsoglou, Kamenopoulou, Mann, Ockelford, and Terzi) Teaching, learning and
 (in)equalities (Abrahams, Colvert, Douglas, and Fisher) and Early childhood (Elfer, Henning,
 Lawrence, Palmer, and Zachariou). Our objectives have been realised across these themes:

 Special and Inclusive Education
 We advance research into the education, health and wellbeing of children in the context of special
 and inclusive education, and in the wider society. Our research here focuses on class, gender and
 philosophy, and promotes interdisciplinary research into applied musicology. Ockelford is a
 leading international authority on the impacts of autism, visual impairment and learning difficulties
 in musical development. His research finds practical expression in services designed to support
 children and young people with SEND and through charities such as The Amber Trust and Sounds
 of Intent. Bonneville-Roussy researches in the fields of music education as well as educational,
 performance and music psychology. Castro-Kemp has undertaken research to raise awareness,
 and meet the needs, of children and young people under the new SEND Code of Practice in the
 UK and Kallitsoglou works on the behavioural and emotional needs of children, including in Early
 Years. Terzi’s work on questions of social justice, disability and inclusion, analyses the normative
 implications of children living in poverty for education policy and practice. Research by Mann with
 deaf and hard of hearing children has led to the development of a web-based vocabulary test for
 American Sign Language, and a set of dynamic assessment procedures for use with signing deaf
 children. Kamenopoulou’s research focuses on inclusive education and disability in countries of
 the global South, and on children with sensory impairment, including those with complex needs.
 She has led projects on inclusive education in South America, and is co-investigator on two
 Erasmus+ funded projects, on ‘Promoting Effective Communication for Individuals with a Vision
 Impairment and Multiple Disabilities’ and ‘Accreditation and Training of Teacher Assistants in
 Bhutanese Schools’. Staff who made a major contribution to this theme since 2014 also include
 Epstein (2013-2019) through her research exploring the relation between dominant-marginalised
 groups in a wide range of contexts; Healy (2009-2020) whose research focuses on aspects of
 citizenship and social connectedness, particularly the concepts of belonging and loyalty; and,
 Stables (2013-2017) whose work explores semiotic and pragmatic philosophy, with particular
 application to education, and in music.

 Teaching, Learning and (In)equalities
 Our research into teaching and learning seeks to improve the effectiveness, and affective value,
 of teaching and learning, to address inequalities and to promote social justice. Abrahams focuses
 on the effectiveness of Continuing Professional Development programmes and the assessment
 of practical skills. His most recent research (Research-2-Practice, The Wellcome Trust 2020-21,
 £270,000), examines evidence-informed science teaching and seeks, through consultations with
 teachers, to identify issues that they believe prevent the effective teaching of science at both
 primary and secondary levels. Colvert has investigated and theorised the pedagogical potential
 of peer-to-peer authorship of Alternate Reality Games in a primary classroom, developing new
 models of literacies which uniquely serve both as theoretical frameworks and as pedagogical
 tools, and are now being used by policymakers, practitioners, charities and theatre companies
 across the UK. Douglas has led research into school-led programmes of teacher training, a
 national study to explore the effective working of multi-professional teams in children’s centres,

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the promotion of research as professional development for teachers. Fisher's research
 focuses on inclusion and pupil perspective, particularly through reference to the experiences of
 White British girls on free school meals. Staff who made a major contribution to this theme since
 2014 also include Santori (2012-2018) who works in the field of policy-sociology, with a particular
 interest in how policy structures and assumptions shape the social imaginary. Crozier (2008-2020)
 has published extensively on the impact of race, class and gender on educational experiences,
 including in schools and Higher Education, whilst Lander’s (2017-2019) research interrogates race
 and how teachers are prepared, or not, to understand how race and ethnicity affect the
 experiences of children and young people in schools.

 Early Childhood
 Research into Early Childhood is informed and inspired by the work of Froebel and oriented by
 Freire’s work on social justice, and our foundational relationship with the Froebel Trust. It has
 critically examined, developed, and applied these philosophical and practical approaches to
 contemporary issues concerning young children. Elfer's research focuses on the emotional well-
 being of babies and young children in nursery contexts. Henning’s work addresses young
 children's encounter with processes of being taught to read and write, how they interpret that
 encounter and how these interpretations affect their development of in-school literacy practices.
 Zachariou's research focuses on young children's learning and emotional, social and cognitive
 development and the role of the arts - particularly music - in fostering children's development,
 whilst Lawrence's research focuses on children's interactions, specifically young children’s
 involvement in the local, built environment. Palmer has published on the development of early
 years education, plays for child performers and the educator Joseph King and his association with
 the Peasant Arts Movement. Colleagues researching in this area also contribute to the Diversity
 in Education and Training network (DECET) and the Research Network ‘Cultures of Early
 Childhood Education and Care’ (CECEC).

 Interdisciplinary Research
 Our interdisciplinary research builds on the foundational disciplines of history, philosophy,
 psychology and sociology, and additionally, of neuroscience and musicology. It has
 been developed through discussions at departmental meetings, in-house research symposia and
 sandpit events, and through the work of staff who see opportunities for collaboration within and
 outside of the University. Examples of successful cross-disciplinary research can be seen in the
 work undertaken by Zachariou, Bonneville-Roussy and Emeritus Professor Hargreaves (2013
 –2017; Emeritus since September 2017), who have explored the effects of a musical play
 intervention on young children’s self-regulation and, subsequently, the role of autonomy as a
 means to support teachers and young children’s self-regulation in music education. Beyond the
 University, Mann ran a project exploring deaf adults' perception of the speed of information
 delivered on TV in British Sign Language with Christine Kretschmer from the Centre for Creative
 Writing, Translation and Publishing (City), and a study on home language environment and spoken
 English in deaf children with cochlear implants from homes where English is an additional
 language, in collaboration with Merle Mahon (UCL), the Ear Institute, and Great Ormond Street
 Hospital, London.

 Approach to Research Impact
 Since 2014, we have focused on engaging diverse research users to shape our research and
 guide our dissemination strategies. This strategy has been supported through dedicated workload
 allowances, pump-priming resources, and sustained engagement with identified research users.
 Our main user groups and beneficiaries have been 1) charities, companies and NGOs, and 2)
 policy makers, and our engagement with these distinct groups is iterative and often developed in
 praxis. The ultimate beneficiaries of our research are young people and their educators. Our
 Impact Case Studies illustrate this approach. For example, Colvert has developed her research
 into new models of hybrid-literacies, ludic authorship and immersive play, whilst working with an
 array of partners in both formal and informal capacities. Through her work with the Usborne
 Foundation in a formal consultancy role, Colvert’s research has made an integral contribution to
 the BAFTA-nominated ‘Teach Your Monster to Read’ game series, which has ultimately improved
 the literacy and reading of young people internationally. Building on this success, Colvert received

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a 0.3FTE fractional uplift between 2017-20 to facilitate her role as a knowledge exchange
 champion and develop further the impact of her research. Colvert’s research reached diverse
 audiences through collaborations with Punchdrunk Enrichment, a theatre company, and other arts
 organisations such as the Kit Theatre, the Victoria and Albert Museum, and the Museum of
 Childhood. Similarly, Ockelford’s broad range of non-academic collaborators have extended the
 reach and sustained the impact of his research into the musical development of children across
 the spectrum of neurodiversity and its expression through the Sounds of Intent programme.
 Ockelford’s collaborations with a range of charities and organisations supporting music
 education, including Live Music Now, Soundabout, The Amber Trust and Youth Music, have aided
 the rollout of the Sounds of Intent programme to hundreds of schools and thousands of children
 with severe and profound learning difficulties. We also invested in a fixed-term Research Assistant
 post to support the completion of an impact report for the programme in 2018. Both Colvert and
 Ockelford have used their collaborations as a springboard to effect policy change.

 The SoE builds on these examples of successful collaborations to develop practice and policy
 impact. For example, Castro-Kemp is a director of a social enterprise ‘Action-Attainment’, which
 promotes the employability of young people with sensory processing difficulties and has
 participated in meetings of the Functioning and Disability Reference Group of the World Health
 Organisation. She led a project on the implementation of Education Health and Care Plans for
 children with disabilities in England, which was reviewed by the Parliamentary Education Select
 Committee, and has been invited to sit as UK representative to that organisation. Similarly, Elfer’s
 research on the evaluation and implementation of Work Discussion (a model of critical
 professional reflection attentive to underlying emotion and its influence on professional practice)
 (Froebel Trust 2017-20, £52,000) resulted in invitations to contribute to Ofsted and the All-Party
 Parliamentary Group on emotional wellbeing in the early years workforce (2020). Colleagues have
 provided input to the English Education Standards Inspection agency (Ofsted) on the evidence
 base for the impact of Work Discussion as a model for professional reflection in the early years
 (Elfer, Zachariou, et al.). Mann is part of an international steering group on signed language
 assessment, which recently published the first guidelines for signed language test development,
 evaluation and use. Castro-Kemp and Palikara were UK partners in the European Commission,
 Erasmus Plus funded ICF-CY-MedUse project which influenced policy in Germany, where the
 International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health (ICF) framework which it
 examined has now been introduced by law as a tool for multi-agency work in all Social Paediatric
 Centres, across the country.

 Research Integrity
 We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of research integrity and rigour. Our
 governance in these areas is informed by the University of Roehampton Ethics Guidelines and the
 Code of Good Research Practice and Research Integrity in accordance with the revised Concordat
 to Support Research Integrity (Universities UK, 2019). Our approach is distinguished by its
 commitment to moving beyond procedural ethics to instil a culture of ethics and integrity. Ethics
 review is carried out at the School level by Kallitsoglou as the Research Integrity and Ethics
 Committee representative, in conjunction with a pool of authorised departmental reviewers.
 Review takes the form of a dialogue between the applicant and the reviewer, facilitating a view of
 ethics as a critical, reflexive faculty. PGR student research is subject to the same rigorous scrutiny
 with training provided for students and supervisors through Graduate School. All staff and PGRs
 have access to training in research ethics and Good Research Practice and workshops on
 research ethics and integrity are organised within the SoE to embed high ethical standards in
 research. Kallitsoglou is a member of the board of trustees of Nurture UK and Chair of their
 Research, Evaluation, and Ethics Committee.

 Open Access
 The SoE has made concerted efforts to ensure research is openly accessible. From April 2016,
 accepted author manuscripts of our journal articles and conference papers have been available
 through the ‘green’ open access route, with 93% of outputs available overall. Moreover, one
 quarter of the unit's submitted articles were made open access through a mixture of gold and
 platinum/diamond routes. We have found innovative ways to share our research, for example,

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mann’s article on ‘Lexical‐Semantic Organization in Bilingually Developing Deaf Children With
 ASL‐Dominant Language Exposure’ has received the ‘Open Materials’ badge for making study
 materials available through the IRIS digital repository, and the ASL/English Vocabulary Test
 available at http://alsevt.com. We also advocate for OA through our editorial work; Castro-Kemp
 is on the Editorial Board of Open Access journal Frontiers in Education: Special Educational
 Needs.

 Future Research and KE Strategy
 Our primary aim for the next five years is to utilise our diverse expertise to develop a programme
 of world-leading interdisciplinary research across our three areas of core research strength, in line
 with the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy Our research will enrich the
 educational experience of young people, address systemic inequalities and enhance pedagogic
 practices, through policy interventions and external collaborations, both academic and non-
 academic, including with NGOs, charities and educators. We will ensure that our research strategy
 is positioned to meet evolving social need by:

    •   Enhancing the international reach of our research in education, with the impact of that
        research specifically evidenced in pedagogic and welfare developments for children,
        practitioners, and policy.
    •   Increasing grant capture by aligning our research priorities to the external research and
        policy environment, in order to grow our capacities for interdisciplinary and cross-
        departmental research programmes that seek to address inequalities in education.
    •   Growing our doctoral community and its international reach, through the introduction of a
        new ‘PhD (Professional) in Education’ programme that will support the transition between
        research careers and practice, and vice-versa.
    •   Ensuring the continued strategic sustainability and viability of our impact by increasing its
        significance and reach, engaging with a wider range of potential beneficiaries and creating
        links to a greater diversity of end users. We are currently building collaborations with
        commercial, charitable, governmental and educational organisations to develop new
        impact pathways and to ensure the future real-world benefits of our research.
    •   Developing inclusive research cultures by actively supporting diversity in research careers,
        including interventions to assist progression from our UG and PGT community to PGR
        study, and the transition from PGR to ECR for underrepresented groups in education
        research through provision of dedicated post-doctoral opportunities.

 Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy was designed and launched prior to the effects
 of the global pandemic. We remain committed to its delivery, however we will also take advantage
 of the opportunities afforded by new working practices, such as virtual seminars, to extend the
 reach of our work.

 2. People

 The SoE aims to enable every colleague to realise their research potential and to access the full
 range of resources needed to develop and disseminate research of the highest standard. To this
 end we have focused on three key aims: 1) implementing a robust staffing recruitment strategy to
 manage the transition in research leadership in the SoE; 2) providing staff with excellent support
 and development opportunities; 3) enriching our PGR community, and ensuring they have
 exceptional access to research and career development.

 Staff Recruitment Strategy
 The research leadership of the SoE has been characterised by a generational shift since 2014,
 with a significant number of highly-regarded research leaders retiring (Crozier, Epstein,
 Hargreaves) or progressing to leadership roles at other institutions (Urban, Hoskins, Lander,
 Moreau). Our strategy has been to manage this transition through recruiting staff who are engaged
 in high-quality research and who can gain external funding, develop and sustain high quality
 impact, supervise research students and produce world-leading or internationally excellent
 outputs. We have recently invested in research leadership for the SoE, with Abrahams being

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointed to the key new post of Head of Research and Knowledge Exchange, signalling a
 renewed commitment to the strategic oversight and development of research in Education.
 Through the period we have focused recruitment predominantly at the early and mid-career levels,
 of researchers with a proven track record of interdisciplinary work who complement our expanding
 portfolio of expertise. In addition to the appointment of Abrahams, we have welcomed a further 7
 new staff, including 3 high-calibre ECRs (Bonneville-Roussy, Henning, Lawrence), with a view
 to robust succession planning and the sustainability of our research cultures. We have also
 supported one member of staff to develop a research profile, and transition to an ECR research
 post (Colvert). All staff returned to this unit are on permanent contracts.

 Staff Support and Development
 The SoE oversees institutional investment in research time and sabbaticals, with allocations
 ranging between 30% and 40% of workload, and with up to 10% being allocated strategically to
 support significant bidding and impact activities. A sabbatical rota has further assisted staff by
 supporting research leave for one term every three years. During this assessment period, a total
 of 35 periods of research leave have been taken by members of the SoE which has been
 instrumental in enabling them to develop new initiatives, complete a wide range of projects, and
 extend impact activity.

 The SoE operates a system of research mentoring in which all members of staff are paired with a
 senior and experienced colleague who has received mentor training. This support is targeted to
 strategic priorities so that colleagues requiring guidance in such areas as outputs, collaborations,
 impact and bidding will be paired with staff who are experienced and successful in those specific
 areas. Staff meet their mentors twice a year and develop a five-year personal research plan that
 is reviewed annually. All new staff are supported through their probationary period with clear
 objectives in relation to research, and additional workload allocations to aid their integration in the
 unit. Meetings with research mentors and line managers support probation and all staff have
 access to annual appraisals, which offer structured opportunities to discuss career development
 and resources to underpin it. Staff can apply for funding for travel and accommodation to attend
 conferences, to undertake archival research and impact activities and for training costs, as well as
 for the costs related to essential physical and electronic resources. Since 2013/14, our research
 budget has increased by 80% every two years, culminating today in a £70K annual fund to be
 allocated to this end with international research and impact being prioritised. School-wide training
 events, seminars, workshops and talks provide further support and guidance in nurturing our
 research output, impact and culture, and critical writing groups meet regularly to
 discuss colleagues’ writing-in-progress. Workshops with external speakers (for example, Rod
 Parker-Rees, former editor of the Early Years journal), are also arranged and internal bidding
 workshops, led by the professors, have assisted staff to develop high-quality research bids.

 Our reward for research performance is primarily delivered through promotion, which is
 benchmarked against clear expectations for academic roles. Our investment in staff development
 is evidenced by the seven promotions of current SoE staff since 2014, including to research
 leadership positions. Terzi was promoted to Professor and Castro-Kemp and Mann to Reader,
 while Bonneville-Roussy, Zachariou, Kamenopoulou and Kallitsoglou were all promoted to
 Senior Lecturer.

 Our ECRs have a protected reduced workload for their first two years and accelerated access to
 rostered sabbaticals. ECRs can also participate in the University’s Early Career Academic
 Network which runs seminars with themed sessions on areas such as publishing, bidding and
 impact. The unit has also invested significantly in the infrastructure to grow research capacity and
 support career development, particularly focusing on aspirant researchers and practitioners. A
 successful example is a School-funded initiative (2017-18), led by Epstein, to further develop the
 research and writing skills of 16 colleagues. This initiative, which focused on investing time,
 engaging staff in monthly writing groups, and a weekend writing retreat, resulted in 18 journal
 articles, the completion of a book, and two successful book proposals. Additional mechanisms to
 support those entering higher education or wanting to pursue a research career include the
 provision of a year-long professional development allowance, which can provide dedicated

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 workload allocation of up to 30%. We can use this same mechanism to promote the exchange of
 staff between academia and appropriate professional contexts, in addition to the flexible use of
 sabbatical time, the ability to reduce FTE of individual posts, and the use of honorary fellowships.
 Our seminar series and Graduate School training programmes also include practitioner or
 professional speakers to encourage mutually supportive networking.

 Research Students
 The SoE supports a thriving and diverse PGR community that is an integral part of the broader
 research culture. We have actively sustained our PGR community since 2014 and have a current
 cohort of 39 continuing doctoral students, in addition to 35 successful completions. We have
 supported a further 14 completions of EdD professional doctorates. Funding for PGR students in
 the School has been obtained from different sources, including 5 scholarships from the ESRC
 Doctoral Training Partnership, SeNSS, the AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership, TECHNE, the
 Commonwealth Fund, and the Froebel Trust. In addition, our PGRs benefitted from 7
 institutionally-funded VC’s Scholarships, and a further 21 fee-waivers and bursaries.

 PGR recruitment is facilitated through open competition for all funded opportunities, which follows
 University policies on Equality and Diversity, and PGRs are able to approach the Graduate School
 to identify appropriate supervisory teams. All PGR applications are supported by the Research
 Degrees Convenor and the Head of Department. PGRs are only recruited where projects align to
 staff expertise and research strategy. Research students are supported by a Director of Studies,
 who is an experienced staff member who has previously supervised to completion, along with at
 least one co-supervisor. The Graduate School oversees University-level PGR administration,
 assessment and cross-University induction and training while at School level the SoE’s Research
 Degree Convenor (Terzi) oversees all PGR supervisory teams and ensures that appropriate
 progression is being supported and achieved and sits on the University Research Degrees
 Committee. Our PGRs also receive bespoke training tailored to their needs and designed to
 advance both their research and their career progression. Recent training has focused on PGR
 professional development, developing publications from conferences and applying for funding. In
 addition, the SoE plays an active role in providing research training for successful doctoral
 applicants who can undertake its MA in Social Research Methods as part of the SENSS training
 pathway. Within the SoE further career development opportunities are provided by way of enabling
 students to teach or act as research assistants, or to take up opportunities to become part-time
 research centre assistants or researchers on funded projects. The University’s ‘Introduction to
 Teaching and Learning’ course is taken by research students with teaching or demonstrating
 responsibilities and is accredited for professional recognition by Advance HE. Students are also
 provided with £600 research costs support. SENSS training is open to all member institution
 students, while TECHNE embeds a cohort approach to research training, creating networking
 opportunities and providing clear pathways to academic and non-academic employment. PGRs
 can access University well-being and pastoral support and are provided close supervisory contact
 on return from periods of intermission or caring leave. Since March 2020, we have added further
 levels of assistance for all PGRs to help them through the pandemic. This has included funded
 extensions, extra academic and pastoral provision when required, and the revision of research
 topics where necessary.

 The SoE actively integrates PGR students in our research cultures. Research events are held
 every quarter so that shared professional practice, and the challenges of situated knowledge
 acquisition, can be explored regularly in a supportive critical environment while students are also
 encouraged to disseminate their findings both internally and at national and international
 conferences. An annual SoE doctoral research conference for students supplements opportunities
 provided by the Graduate School and features work-in-progress papers exploring the analysis of,
 and critical engagement with, theory. Research students are also supported to develop their own
 research seminar series or conferences, for example, Nikolopoulou organised and chaired the
 ‘More than one and less than two: the literacies of virtual play’ seminar (2018). We actively engage
 our PGR students in publications, including specialist journals and books such as Inclusive
 Education and Disability in the Global South, a book written and edited by MA students and their
 programme convener and promoted as part of a seminar series led by Kamenopoulou.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Equality and Diversity
 The SoE promotes an inclusive research culture and embeds equality, diversity and inclusivity
 (EDI) in its staffing, research culture, and support mechanisms, implementing University policies
 and legislation relating to equality, diversity and anti-discrimination. Management, including the
 Head of Research and Knowledge Exchange, and all mentors, have received EDI training. Senior
 staff and line managers provide bespoke support, for example, on the allocation of duties, timing
 of work, relieving pressures of internal deadlines, and ensuring that workspaces are appropriate to
 meet staff needs, while the planning of timetables and events is arranged to take account of
 individual, caring and parental needs. Staff returning from parental leave are assisted through
 workload allocations, whilst their research sabbaticals are accelerated, taking place in the year
 preceding, or immediately following a period of leave (one current member of the SoE has been
 supported with this policy). Promotion criteria acknowledge periods of parental or caring leave,
 and other personal circumstances through pro-rata expectations for roles. Fixed-term and part-
 time staff are supported through the same mechanisms as all staff, and both workload and
 progression are facilitated on a pro-rata basis in terms of research expectations, and the
 distribution of internal research development funds ensures that individuals’ needs and
 circumstances are taken into account. Colleagues with individual circumstances can take
 advantage of flexible working (including, where feasible, remote working). Examples include two
 colleagues who applied for, and were granted, a move from full- to part-time contracts as a
 consequence of changes to their personal circumstances: one male (Senior Lecturer) is 0.2 FTE
 and one female (Senior Lecturer) 0.5 FTE. We support those staff with protected characteristics
 through a range of measures tailored to the specific needs of the individual, such as regular
 ‘checking-in’ meetings, reduced workloads, and our flexible working policy.

 Staff can seek the assistance of HR and Working Relationship Advisors (colleagues across the
 University trained to support staff in cases of discrimination, bullying or difficult working
 situations) and PGRs are also supported by tailored University services (Graduate School, Staff
 Wellbeing, Student Wellbeing) to ensure that student needs and changing circumstances are
 understood and responded to swiftly and effectively. Staff wellbeing is delivered through our
 college system. All staff are affiliated to Froebel College, and are able to access the support of all
 four colleges, who provide research events, and community building opportunities. All staff and
 PGRs have been offered mental health first aid training in 2020, whilst dedicated research staff
 and PGR wellbeing sessions have been delivered on mental health.

 The SoE also actively promotes inclusive research practices, and this is reflected in the diversity
 of our staff and students. Of our 16 staff, 5 are men and 11 are women. One third of our
 professoriate, and one third of our Readers, are female. Six of our seven colleagues who have
 been promoted internally since 2014 are female. One colleague identifies as LGBTQ+, and one
 has declared a disability. Our selection of outputs process was accompanied by a robust equality
 and diversity analysis to ensure decisions had no adverse effect on staff with protected
 characteristics. Out of our 35 submitted outputs, 66% are attributed to female staff, 3% to staff
 identifying as BAME, 7% to staff who declared a disability and 9% to LGBTQ+ staff. We have
 strived for an inclusive submission by authors of all career levels, with 40% of our outputs
 attributed to Professors, 11% to Readers and 46% to Senior Lecturers. 74% of our completed
 PGRs identify as female, and 14% as BAME, whilst of our registered 39 PGR students, 69%
 identify as female, and 44% as BAME. 18% have declared a disability. We are home to an
 international doctoral community, with 14 nationalities represented from Europe, Africa and the
 Middle East.

 Despite the significant recent growth in the proportion of our PGRs who identify as BAME, we
 recognise that structural inequalities continue to affect the inclusivity of our research cultures. As
 a consequence, the SoE’s ‘Beyond the threshold: Dismantling racism together’ discussion and
 action group has brought together researchers, academics, and administrators to create space for
 genuine understanding and self-examination and, in the process, created a community of practice
 that shares and develops concrete actions for decolonisation both within the SoE and the
 University, as well as with our external partners in the wider community. We are also actively

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 addressing the structural inequalities that affect individuals pursuing research careers through a
 range of strategies which include the launch of a BAME PGR application support platform, aided
 by the TECHNE AHRC funding (£60,000), and a postdoctoral fellow programme which will
 develop and mentor diverse talent, as well as employing a University fellowship scheme
 to further support diversity in research careers.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Since 2014 the SoE has sustained research income across a broad array of funders. Our
 successful strategy has been to enhance the number and scale of funding applications whilst
 focusing on the quality of bids and diversifying participation in them. Established infrastructure
 such as research mentoring, workload weighting, the provision of sabbaticals and targeted seed-
 funding have played a significant part in this development. The Head of Research and Knowledge
 Exchange is responsible for all mentoring and research planning and oversees the development
 of staff research plans which include bidding intentions. Research mentors provide additional
 advice on the appropriateness of bids according to career stage and experience. All active bids
 are supported through a process of internal peer-review conducted by a second reader with a
 track-record of bidding success and relevant expertise to mentor the applicant. This is managed
 within the unit but draws on expertise from across the University where appropriate and we employ
 University-wide peer-review processes for all bids over a £50,000 threshold. For successful
 substantial grant applications, match-funding support is provided by the University to employ a
 PhD student or a postdoctoral researcher, and we intend to use this mechanism to enable more
 ambitious large-scale bids in the future, specifically to assist those researchers who have built
 significant track-records in managing small and medium size grants (for example Castro-Kemp
 and Colvert).

 Our success in sustaining grant capture is reflected in the diversity of the sources that have funded
 our research. In light of the significant changes to our staff base, our strategy has been to grow
 the experience of early- and mid-career staff in managing funded research projects appropriate to
 career stage and from a diverse range of funders. We have attracted £251k (29%) from Research
 Councils and the British Academy, including a wide range of smaller grants that have been
 captured by colleagues who have submitted applications to Research Councils and the British
 Academy smaller bids schemes. The largest component £528k (61%) was from UK charities
 (Open Competitive/Other) and is the result of established close associations, and long-standing
 relationships, with several charitable funders such as the Froebel Trust, The Baily Thomas
 Charitable Trust, the Society for Education and Music Psychology Research (SEMPRE), the
 Southlands Methodist Trust, the Susanna Wesley Foundation, and the Philosophy of Education
 Society of Great Britain (PESGB).

 A focus on research and impact that develops in praxis has been central to our funding strategies
 since 2014. Ockelford has successfully bid for over £200,000 from a range of new and long-
 standing funding partners including the Wellcome Trust, Youth Music, Bailey Thomas, the Amber
 Trust, the Froebel Trust, and the British Humane Society to develop the extent and reach of the
 Sounds of Intent programme with a range of users, educators and children, leading to reciprocal
 enrichment of the research. During the period we have been awarded five BA/Leverhulme Small
 Research Grants, totalling £40,278, to investigate topics ranging from digital literacy to learning
 strategies of Deaf students to children’s perceptions of beauty. We have also been successful in
 obtaining funding from EU government bodies as part of three large, multi-partner, Erasmus+
 project grants which look to develop research with particular end-users. Castro-Kemp’s role in
 the EU-funded ICF-MED-USE Erasmus Plus International Classification of Functioning, Disability
 and Health project brought £22,257 to Roehampton of the £385,000 total and had significant policy
 impacts. Her research into SEND school provision, policy, and assessment has also been
 supported through a £44,566 Wellcome Trust Seed Award, a £35,718 grant from Hogrefe Ltd and
 a £20,101 Bailey Thomas Charitable Fund research grant. Other significant grants in the period
 include a Bertlesmann Foundation Research Grant (£130,795) to investigate education


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 governance and leadership, and a £56,656 Froebel Trust Research Grant to Elfer for a project on
 professional reflection processes among early childhood educators.

 The SoE will continue to support grant applications based on individual colleagues’ research in
 larger collaborative endeavours, and knowledge exchange opportunities. However, building on
 recent successes, we intend to effect a step-change in our bidding culture, through identifying
 interdisciplinary research potentials and international collaborations that will facilitate a more
 prominent public role for colleagues across the SoE. The recent strategic appointment of
 Abrahams, with a history of successful external grant capture (2015-20 £1 million as PI, and a
 further £50,000 as CI), and who is currently PI on a large, funded research project (£270k, The
 Wellcome Trust), is intended to provide crucial expertise and experience to lead a significant
 increase in research and knowledge exchange income in the next five years.

 Infrastructure
 The operational and scholarly infrastructure to support research within the SoE is the responsibility
 of the Head of Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE) and the Research Advisory Group. The
 Research Advisory Group is comprised of all Professors and Readers in the SoE, including
 Abrahams, Castro-Kemp, Douglas, Elfer, Mann, Ockelford, and Terzi. It directs SoE research
 strategy, peer-reviews funding bids, sabbatical applications and annual research plans from all
 staff, responds to initiatives, and identifies general research priorities. The Head of RKE is assisted
 by the central research services provided by the University’s Research Office to facilitate and
 enhance all research and research-related activity within the School. Central support provides
 developmental guidance both in terms of the full-life cycle of research bid development and in
 terms of managing research data to ensure compliance. A dedicated Research Development
 Officer provides bespoke, disciplinary specific, research advice and guidance and works on a one-
 to-one basis to assist bidding within the School and researchers are strongly supported in the
 design, delivery, and evaluation of research impact by a team of Research Impact Officers, whose
 role is to identify, promote and then assist our researchers to capitalise on relevant opportunities
 for collaboration, outreach and engagement leading to measurable impact. The Head of RKE also
 participates in a University-wide forum that facilitates the management of researchers across units
 and supports the identification of potential research affinities and interdisciplinary collaboration.

 Facilities
 All staff and postdocs have dedicated sole-occupancy offices and IT infrastructure. The SoE also
 underwent a major refurbishment programme in 2017 which included the provision of a new
 dedicated study space for our PGR community, equipped with workstations and printing facilities.
 Researchers and PGR students are also encouraged to make full use of the dedicated central
 research resources available within the University’s new library, which includes dedicated PGR
 and staff study space and provides access to a large collection of books, journals, online resources
 and specialist collections as well as to IT and media-equipped spaces that can be booked for
 individual or group study. Education specific resources include the British Education Index,
 Education Research Complete and the Education Research Information Center (ERIC), all of
 which provide access to journals, theses and conferences covering all levels of education, from
 early childhood to higher education, plus multilingual education, health education and testing. The
 library also houses the Children’s Literature collection, a reference collection of 3,000 critical,
 theoretical, bibliographical and reference works including children's books of historical interest and
 significance, along with the Richmal Crompton Archive. Other specialist resources available to
 Education researchers include the Froebel Archive for Childhood Studies. Established in 1977 at
 Froebel College, this is a collection of books, archives, photographs, objects and multi-media
 materials, centring on Friedrich Froebel’s educational legacy, early years and elementary
 education. Together with the archives of the Froebel Trust (founded as National Froebel
 Foundation in 1874), which is housed alongside the Archive, these collections are key sources of
 evidence for the history of the Froebel movement in the UK. Researchers in the SoE can take
 advantage of the newly enhanced conferencing infrastructure, including the Elm Grove conference
 centre and the many spaces available at Frobel College’s listed Grove House, for example in
 hosting the international conference for the European Research Network about Parents in
 Education (ERNAPE 2017 – Crozier: President of this international organisation, 2017-19).

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our partnerships with professional, educational, and community organisations illustrate our
 commitment to ensuring research is socially engaged and available to a wide range of users,
 directly benefitting education professionals and the young people with whom they work. The SoE’s
 commitment to collaboration, networks, and joint research projects is visible across the multiple
 partnerships and working relationships that underpin our research. It is also via this strategic focus
 on working collaboratively with academic, professional, public, and institutional partners that our
 research contributes to the wider economic and social good, promoting the goal of a just and
 sustainable society through educational development. Since 2014, our research has
 encompassed research collaborations with over forty universities worldwide, and at least eighteen
 different NGOs, companies, and charities. Our contribution to society and external collaborations
 is facilitated through our investments in research support, including mentoring, dedicated time,
 seed-funding, and Research Impact Officer support.

 Contribution to Economy and Society
 Central to our contribution to the economy and society has been funded research that supports
 the co-production of research, and the application of research into practice. We aim to assist policy
 makers, practitioners, and education specialists in improving the quality of education and
 educational settings through engagement with academic research projects and findings. As noted
 above, Colvert has been involved in the development of award-winning educational games,
 including the Bafta-nominated 'Teach your Monster to Read'. Her research has led to contract
 research opportunities and consultancy projects with a range of charities, arts organisations and
 industry partners including Coney, KIT Theatre, Punchdrunk and the Usborne Foundation. She
 has recently been invited to join the Digital Futures Commission to support them in developing
 guidance for innovators, as well as regulatory and design recommendations, relating to ‘Play in a
 Digital World’. Commissioners include policy makers as well as industry partners such as the BBC,
 Lego and Sesame Street. She is also working with the UK Literacy Association as part of the Task
 Group to develop a new Digital Literacies Framework. Abrahams’ work as Principal Investigator
 has evaluated a pilot CPD programme for primary science coordinators. His research has
 informed the work of practitioners in education settings through the Wellcome Trust and the
 Education Endowment Foundation project titled ASCENTS 1-2-1 that he led in 2019-20 (£615k),
 an academically asymmetrical paired mentoring project designed to improve science GCSE
 attainment amongst disadvantaged Year 11 students. The SoE’s EU-funded projects have been
 central to facilitating this translation of research into practice, through a broad array of practitioner
 networks. For example, Kamenopoulou’s Erasmus+ Key Action 2 Grant (total 313,306 Euro;
 48,565 Euro to Roehampton) for the research project on Promoting Effective Communication for
 Individuals with Vision Impairment and Multiple Disabilities (PrECIVIM) with European partners
 has brought our research into direct beneficial engagement with users.

 Our research contributes to a range of education charities through individuals’ participation in
 formal governance structures, with colleagues taking advisory positions and acting as external
 representatives on boards of NGOs and educational charities. The SoE enjoys strong links with
 the Froebel Trust, one of the University's Providing Bodies. Elfer is a Trustee of the Froebel Trust,
 promoting high quality education underpinned by the principles of the pioneer educator Friedrich
 Froebel, and he chairs the Trust’s Research Committee. The Trust is also a major supporter of
 our research, funding discrete projects, research events such as ‘Froebelian pedagogy in light of
 the Children and Families Act 2014’ (2018), and bursaries aiding doctoral students. Similarly,
 Ockelford’s research finds practical expression in services set up to support children and young
 people through SEND charities he has helped establish, for example, The Amber Trust, for whom
 he is now a Trustee. The organisation is the only national charity dedicated to assisting visually
 impaired children with their musical development and education. Ockelford is a Trustee for Live
 Music Now, a national charity which recruits and trains professional musicians to deliver inclusive
 performances, workshops and residencies in SEN settings, hospitals and care homes. He is the
 Chair of Trustees for Soundabout, who help children and young people with disabilities
 communicate through music making and is also a Patron of Music House for Children, and the

                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Honorary Vice-President for Decibels, charities which support children through music education.
 Castro-Kemp collaborates with the charities Action for Attainment and the Michael Sieff
 Foundation in their lobbying for change in the current system for developing Education Health and
 Care plans for children with disabilities.

 We are also developing models for practitioners within the SoE, through dedicated professional
 practice workload allowances, to support the contribution of our research to the society and the
 economy. For example, Miles Berry, our subject leader for Computer Education, has played a
 pivotal role in the introduction of computer science to the school curriculum and has worked with
 researchers in the SoE throughout the period, particularly Wong (2013-2017). Berry serves on the
 board of Computing At School, the British Computer Society (BCS) Academy of Computing Board,
 the BCS School Curriculum and Assessment Committee and the academic board for the National
 Centre for Computing Education. He also serves on the board for the Royal Society’s
 Mathematical Futures project. Current international activities include co-chairing the Computer
 Science Teachers’ Association professional development committee and membership of the
 advisory board for the AI4K12 initiative.

 The SoE is committed to shaping public discourse and disseminating research to targeted
 audiences, and particularly professional and public partners, through the extensive and strategic
 use of seminars and conferences, such as the ESRC funded conference ‘The new special
 educational needs framework: Make it work’ which was part of the Social Sciences Festival 2015,
 and a British Academy funded (2017) conference 'Two years of education health and care plans:
 Are we there yet?’. These events drew policy-makers, practitioners and academics together.
 Similarly, SoE webinars, funded by the Williams Syndrome Foundation, have been attended by
 hundreds of professionals, school staff, and families of children with Williams Syndrome – both
 nationally and internationally. We have also made contributions to approximately 100 press
 articles in publications including The Stage, Nursery World, BBC News Online, The i Paper, and
 a range of local newspapers.

 Indicators of Contributions to the Research Base
 Our contribution to the discipline and its research base is evidenced across a range of
 collaborative activities, from editorial projects generating new research materials, to leadership
 positions within subject associations and the organisation of scholarly events which facilitate the
 development and exchange of innovative and original insights.

 Indicators of the wider influence of the SoE include the many active roles that colleagues have in
 a broad range of societies including BERA, ESERA, HDCA, and PESGB. Ockelford is Secretary
 of the Society for Education, Music, and Psychology Research, which has given around £600,000
 in the last decade to support researchers in music education and music psychology in developing
 countries. Recognition of external influence can also be seen in Abrahams’ election as a Fellow
 of the Institute of Physics for his research in physics education, and his being invited to advise
 Ofqual on the assessment of A-level practical work as part of the new Practical Endorsement.
 Memberships, such as Ockelford’s, of the British Association of Teachers of the Deaf, Colvert’s
 of the Executive Committee of the UK Literacy Association, and Lander’s, of the Advisory Board
 for the Centre for Innovation in Teacher Education and Development - a collaboration between
 King’s College London with the Teachers College, Columbia University, New York – exemplify
 external recognition of the wider influence of the ground-breaking research carried out by
 colleagues within the SoE. Epstein’s book Class Choreographies: Elite Schools and Globalization
 won ‘Best Book Published in 2017 on Education and Globalisation’ at the Comparative and
 International Education Conference and came second in the Society for Educational Studies
 awards for the best book on education.

 Colleagues are involved in editorship, and act as reviewers for over 80 academic publications,
 many being leading international journals. Examples include: Ockelford, editor of Music Science;
 Castro-Kemp, associate editor of Frontiers in Education and Special Educational Needs; Terzi
 who is on the editorial advisory boards of British Journal of Special Education, Support for
 Learning, and The Journal for Research in Special Educational Needs; Crozier, on the executive

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 editorial board of the Journal of Ethnography and Education and Epstein on the editorial board of
 Contemporary Issues in Early Childhood. Douglas edits the European Journal of Teacher
 Education. Staff regularly undertake reviewing for a range of funding bodies, for example the
 Austrian Science Fund (Douglas), whilst others sit as members of grant committees such as
 Healy, on the Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain Large Grants Committee, and
 Crozier, who is a Fellow of the College Review for the ESRC Assessment Panel and has been a
 member of the ESRC First Grants Panel. Major publishers who call on our expertise include CUP,
 OUP, Blackwells, Bloomsbury, Continuum, Polity Press, Palgrave, and Chatto. Ockelford is
 Series Editor (with Graham Welch [IOE] and Ian Cross [Cambridge]) of the Sempre Studies in the
 Psychology of Music with 18 books currently published in the series. Douglas (with Barbara Read,
 [Glasgow]) are series editors of Policy and Practice in the Classroom (Palgrave Macmillan), and
 Crozier is the Associate Editor for The Oxford University Press Encyclopaedia of School Reform.

 As a SoE our research has extended forums for debate through international collaborations. We
 are formal members of the ‘Cultures of Early Childhood Education and Care’ (CECEC) research
 network, which aims to develop collaborative research among 8 participating institutions
 internationally. We are frequently invited to give lectures and keynotes which include Epstein’s
 invited lectures at the Universities of Cambridge, Cardiff and Malta as well as presenting at the
 launch of the Centre for Gender, Feminisms and Sexuality at the University of Dublin. Ockelford
 gave keynotes and invited lectures on music, autism and social inclusion in Kosovo, the
 Netherlands, USA, and India and was also a keynote speaker in the Eminent Speakers Series
 (Goldsmiths College, London) and at the European Society for the Cognitive Sciences of Music
 Biennial Conference in Manchester. Abrahams presented keynotes at the Ogden Trust 6th
 Physics Forum at the University of Cambridge, and the ICESME conference in Cyprus, and has
 been an invited speaker at universities in Germany, Ireland, Israel, Portugal, and South Korea.
 Lander gave a keynote at the Diverse Teachers for Diverse Learners International Conference at
 the University of Strathclyde and, along with Douglas, gave a keynote at the Teacher Education
 Advancement Network Conference. Crozier has given keynotes at the Open University Widening
 Participation Conference, the University of Bristol Learning Lives Conference, and at the EARLI
 Conference in Estonia.




                                                                                          Page 12
