Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 33 Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 UoA structure and context of research

 The Faculty of Music at Oxford (which comprises the Unit of Assessment) is committed to
 undertaking and disseminating scholarly and practice-led research of the highest quality across
 the broadest historical and geographical range. Our shared ethos is to avoid narrow specialism
 and disciplinary sub-division. Rather, we seek to foster a large, thriving and diverse community of
 researchers, from postgraduates and early career scholars to senior professors and emeriti. We
 are committed to the study of music and sound in all manifestations, encompassing performance,
 composition, psychology, pedagogy, sociology, ethnomusicology, anthropology, history and
 analysis. Situated within the Humanities Division (alongside the faculties of Classics, English,
 History of Art, History, Linguistics, Medieval and Modern Languages, Oriental Studies, Theology
 and Religion, and the Ruskin School of Art), the Faculty accommodates a rich programme of
 interdisciplinary work, much of it enabled by our involvement with the Oxford Research Centre for
 the Humanities (TORCH) which sits at the heart of the Division. We reach a wide range of
 audiences through our public engagement, impact, and knowledge exchange activities, in addition
 to regular appearances in the national and international media, as well as sustaining a substantial
 record of research publication and grant capture. Over the assessment period, the UoA has
 maintained a volume of research output which surpasses its return in REF2014: our researchers
 have published over 500 items, including 13 monographs, 18 co-edited or jointly authored
 volumes, more than 130 peer-reviewed articles, 10 editions, 12 commissioned compositions and
 22 CD recordings. Our staff have organised some 100 conferences and workshops and given
 more than 1,000 papers, public lectures and research-based performances. They have given 42
 keynote addresses across the globe, and submitted over 200 applications for internal and external
 funding with a consistently high track record of success. Compositions by our composers (Saxton
 and Harry) have been performed around the world to critical acclaim, and Oxford choirs and
 instrumental ensembles have been regularly nominated for major industry awards. We have
 supervised 69 doctorates to completion with an increasing range of interdisciplinary supervision.
 We have been able to celebrate a number of colleagues (from across the career spectrum) who
 have received prestigious awards in recognition of their research achievements (Bent, Born, Liao).

 We recognise that our research has the potential to achieve far-reaching impact beyond academia
 and seek to embrace such opportunities proactively. The expertise of our researchers is valued
 by a broad range of local, national and international organisations and communities, from music
 festivals and venues, libraries and museums to media, policy bodies, educational trusts,
 government departments and NGOs. Key beneficiaries include children, prisoners, arts
 professionals and practitioners, and a cross-section of public audiences and consumers. In many
 cases, individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds have, through the intervention of our
 researchers, been able to engage with music-making with tangible and measurable results in their
 personal enrichment and development.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Strategic research aims

 Our research strategy builds upon the strategic aims and objectives identified in our REF2014
 return, in particular sustaining the Faculty’s reputation as an internationally acknowledged centre
 for theoretical, critical, historical, analytical, empirical, creative and pedagogical research. We
 have sought to meet the challenges of maintaining critical strength in depth in a number of ways:
 firstly, through the appointment of new postholders in innovative and strategically important areas
 (summarised in section 2); secondly, through continuing support for the career pipeline via the
 recruitment and mentoring of early career researchers, contributing to the discipline’s broader
 sustainability; and thirdly through successful large-scale external funding bids, which have
 enabled us to explore new scholarly and creative problems and to undertake vital primary
 research. In addition, we are committed to fostering continued interdisciplinarity, open scholarship,
 and to reaching new audiences though enhanced impact and public engagement.


 Interdisciplinarity
 Located within such a large and diverse group of humanities faculties, we recognise that much of
 our ongoing and emerging research is intrinsically interdisciplinary. Most researchers contribute
 to more than one research area, and many of these areas have natural affinities with other
 disciplines. The Faculty actively promotes and facilitates cross-disciplinary collaboration within
 music and with other disciplines.

 The Faculty has been one of the driving forces behind TORCH since its inception in 2013, which
 facilitates bottom-up initiatives by humanities researchers at all stages of their career with
 particular emphasis on interdisciplinary collaborations and wider engagement. With its support,
 our researchers have led networks on Global Brazil (Stanyek), Colonial Ports and Global History
 (Liao), Embodiment and Materiality (Clarke), Theatre on the Move in Times of Conflict (Andries),
 and Song (Tunbridge). Additionally, interdisciplinary research activity is galvanised through
 externally funded projects: post-doctoral researchers from neighbouring disciplines, ranging from
 medieval comparative literature to contemporary urban design, are firmly embedded within the 3
 ERC projects hosted by the Faculty (discussed below).


 Supporting practice-led research
 We embrace and benefit from the rich interface between scholarship and practice-led research,
 and the range of practical activity reflects the diversity of the faculty as a whole. For example, the
 Electronic Music Practice RESearch group (EMPRES, established in 2017), bringing together
 academics and practitioners from within and beyond the faculty, is a crucial hub for practice-led
 research in electronic music. The Faculty maintains equally strong links with several ensembles
 devoted to research in historically informed performance, including the Academy of Ancient Music
 (through an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award) and the Academy of Ancient Music (through
 Williams’s Rameau project), and it has hosted its own research-led groups, including Accordes!
 (directed by Holden), and Contrapunctus (directed by Rees). Such projects bring the fruits of our
 research to a range of venues and audiences, including the Sheldonian Theatre in Oxford, Modern
 Art Oxford, and many locations in the UK and beyond.


 Open Research
 The faculty has sought to promote and advance Open Access research. We deposit our research
 outputs in ORA (Oxford’s Open Access repository), beyond those mandated by the REF exercise,
 so that they are fully publicly available to all who wish to access them. One of Oxford’s longest
 running online projects, the Digital Image Archive of Medieval Music (DIAMM), which was one of

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our Impact Case Studies in 2014, now contains over 62,000 images and has developed new
 search facilities for its online repository in collaboration with Digital Humanists from McGill
 University (https://simssa.ca/). DIAMM was instrumental in the digital reconstruction and
 restoration of the Tudor Partbooks (an AHRC-funded project in collaboration with Newcastle
 University). In collaboration with Imperial College, the Bate Collection has produced publicly
 available scans of selected historical instruments for 3D printing (2016). Grimley’s AHRC
 Research Fellowship led to the AHRC Follow-on project ‘Digital Delius: Interpretation,
 Performance, and Analysis’, during which a freely accessible online catalogue of Delius’s works
 was created by Bullivant in collaboration with the British Library (impact case study). Grimley and
 Bullivant are engaged in further work in music encoding and digital transformation in collaboration
 with colleagues from the Oxford e-Research Centre (OeRC) and the British Library.

 We expect high standards of research integrity, and require staff to adhere to ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks implemented University-wide. The University is a signatory of the San
 Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA). Research involving human participants
 and personal data is subject to review by the University’s Research Ethics Committee.

 Future Strategic Aims and Objectives
 A key development over the next 7 years will be the opening of the Stephen A Schwarzman Centre
 for the Humanities. Funded by a GBP150M gift, it will house seven of the Humanities Division’s
 faculties, including Music, with bespoke performing spaces with a new 500-seater state-of-the-art
 concert hall (described in more detail below). The Schwarzman Centre offers enormous
 transformative potential for the faculty in coming years, in terms of interdisciplinary research,
 impact, public engagement, and knowledge exchange. In addition, we shall prioritise the following
 key strategic aims and objectives:

    To sustain our strength in depth across the broadest range of disciplinary, cross-disciplinary
     and interdisciplinary research, identifying and helping to shape new strategic areas of
     innovation (for example, in AI and music ethics) while maintaining a strong critical presence in
     other core areas of our activity;
    To build actively upon our existing work in decolonisation and diversity, in light of the Black
     Lives Matter and Rhodes Must Fall movements, to create a more inclusive research culture
     and continue to address Oxford’s historic legacies of discrimination and exclusion. Working
     with students, staff, and external partners such as the Rhodes Trust, we will re-shape our
     research practices in light of our Athena SWAN commitments, extend opportunities such as
     Oxford’s Black Academic Futures scheme, and respond to national initiatives such as the
     2020/1 Research England/Office for Students call for Improved Access and Participation for
     Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic groups in Postgraduate Research.
    To continue to engage with Open Scholarship, digital media and innovation, through our
     involvement with the new 5-year Digital Scholarship@Oxford (DiSc@Ox) initiative, supported
     by a GBP2.4M grant from the University’s Strategic Research Fund. Grimley and Bullivant are
     in dialogue with other members of the DiSc team, and planning future projects on linked data
     and music encoding (MEI); the research of other colleagues (Born, Ouzounian, Hulme)
     engages vital questions of agency and affect in digital musical cultures and sound design.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Impact Strategy

 We strongly believe in the capacity of our research to have a transformative impact upon the wider
 community. This commitment is supported by the Humanities Division’s substantial financial and
 administrative assistance for impact: over the REF period, we have benefitted from GBP136k of
 support for impact and knowledge exchange projects. Knowledge Exchange Fellowships, offered
 by TORCH, support ECRs and enable teaching buyouts for permanent staff to develop public
 engagement and impact projects: examples include ‘Unlocking Late Schumann’ (Tunbridge, with
 Oxford Lieder Festival) and ‘Vehicles’ (Harry, an opera for children, with Operasonic, impact case
 study), ‘Eighteenth-century Tunebooks’ (Little with the English Folksong and Dance Society) and
 ‘Transforming the Operatic Voice’ (Young with McCaldin Arts). The Humanities Cultural
 Programme, which is part of the Schwarzman Centre, has also supported public performance
 derived from or connected with our research, including the Oxford Schools Intercultural Music
 Exchange (Ponchione-Bailey, with the Oxfordshire Music Education Partnership) and The
 Shakespeare Music of Guy Woolfenden (Broad, with the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust).

 We actively seek opportunities for engaging external beneficiaries with the Faculty’s research
 activities. Butterworth’s project, ‘Music, Transformation and Rehabilitation in UK Criminal Justice’
 considered how music was used and conceptualised as a tool for transformation by organisations
 across crime prevention, prisons and probation/resettlement themes. Ouzounian’s ERC-funded
 ‘Sonic Cities’ is working alongside designers and architects to explore ways in which urban sonic
 environments in selected cities across the world can be rethought for the benefit and health of
 their inhabitants.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and career development

 The Faculty is a highly collegiate community of researchers whose work involves almost every
 aspect of musical study. Membership is defined in three ways: academic postholders in the
 university who are ex officio faculty members (and normally retain membership as emeriti); college
 nominees; and other elected individuals who are involved in the Faculty’s teaching or research
 activities. The Faculty’s executive decision-making body is its Board, which comprises all
 postholders and can elect members from the colleges and wider academic community.

 The diversity of our research environment is significantly enriched by the University’s collegiate
 structure, and the Faculty acts as a convening hub which brings Oxford’s extended research
 community together. The core of Faculty postholders is joined by around 35 additional members,
 the majority of whom are college-only employees and postholders. Colleges provide substantial
 opportunities for early career researchers (through Junior Research Fellowships), their own
 research centres and, above all, their teaching staff. Many of our college-based colleagues are
 distinguished researchers. The Faculty actively uses the University’s Recognition of Distinction
 exercise to reward their contributions all the way up to personal professorships (e.g. Burden).

 The University of Oxford has developed a comprehensive Code of Practice for the Employment
 and Career Development of Research Staff (last revised in August 2019). Closely mapping to the
 national Concordat to Support the Career Development of Research Staff promulgated by Vitae
 UK, the Code of Practice underpins the work of Oxford staff at every level of the institutional
 structure. The European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research award, first gained by the
 University in 2012, was renewed in 2016 and 2018. Grimley’s role as Deputy Head of the

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Humanities Division (from 2019) has included oversight of the Code of Practice and its
 implementation, which is managed locally by the Chair of the Faculty Board, the Director of
 Research, and the Faculty Head of Administration and Finance.


 Key components of the Faculty’s career development provision include:

        o   University entitlement to sabbatical leave of one term in every seven; optional further
            research leave to prepare external funding applications and larger research projects;
        o   ensuring that new arrivals and ECRs are offered support by a Faculty mentor on
            research; new postholders also benefit from a lighter teaching load at the start of their
            interim period of office (normally 3-5 years);
        o   a (voluntary) annual academic appraisal for all staff, designed to support the
            development of long-term research planning (including funding applications);
        o   financial support, which includes a research allowance (GBP1,000 per annum) for
            postholders as well as members of the wider Faculty, funds to support conferences
            and other research events, and support for performance-led research and other
            activities. Additional funding is provided by colleges and Divisional initiatives;
        o   dedicated professional services support from a Divisional Research Facilitator, with
            specialist grant expertise;
        o   promotion through the University’s Recognition of Distinction exercise: In this REF
            cycle, Rees and Tunbridge were promoted to Professorships, Maw to an Associate
            Professorship;
        o   training events offered by the Divisional Team for researchers, including sessions on
            external research funding applications for early-career and permanent staff, and on
            generic skills and issues relevant to careers in higher education and beyond.
        o   Further opportunities for professional development are offered through the university’s
            Centre for Teaching and Learning (CTL, described below).

 Colleagues who have retired from the University during the census period have been replaced by
 postholders with expertise in similar or cognate areas (Quinney vice Higginbottom, Tunbridge vice
 Franklin, Leitmeir vice Dreyfus, Grahl vice Darlington). These appointments have both
 consolidated our traditional research strengths and also diversified our research activity.
 Wollenberg’s position, for example, was filled with a specialist in sound art, urban art and
 experimental music (Ouzounian), who has also continued Wollenberg’s legacy by promoting the
 study of women musicians and composers.

 During the census period, we have created two new additional full-time academic posts, one in
 Music Education and Migration (Dieckmann 2018) and a second in Popular Music Studies (Hill,
 appointed 2020 for start in April 2021). Together with the Director of Performance post (created in
 2015 and held by Clein, Kenny and Collyer), these positions bring innovative new areas of
 expertise to the faculty and significantly expand our existing coverage, working closely with
 postgraduates and ECRs as well as senior colleagues on both practice-led and scholarly projects.

 Beyond 2020, we have identified a need to complement and augment our existing strengths, for
 instance in Chinese and/or South Asian Music, Music Psychology, and Curatorship of the Bate
 Collection of Musical Instruments. In each of these areas, potential exists for fruitful collaboration
 with other researchers beyond the Faculty (Oxford China Centre, Experimental Psychology) and
 with local communities, archival holdings, or collections. We hope to be able raise funds to endow
 these positions. We also seek to support entrepreneurship among our students and staff, and in

                                                                                                Page 5
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     co-operation with the Said Business School (part of the Social Sciences Division), we are
     establishing a Visiting Professorship in Music Business to strengthen our engagement with
     industry and to provide further opportunities for knowledge exchange.


     2.2 Early Career Researchers

    We provide a fully joined-up strategy to recruit and support the work of a large group of ECRs,
     who sit at the heart of our Faculty community. They work across the full range of the Faculty’s
     research interests, alongside senior mentors in their particular sphere of expertise. During the
     census period, we have focused on supporting ECRs to win competitive external fellowships with
     detailed academic and professional services advice and matched funding if required. These reflect
     the breadth and depth of the faculty's research interests and involve senior faculty members as
     mentors, and experts. These include 3 Leverhulme Fellows, working on jazz and improvisation,
     music and colonialism in East Asia, and French music criticism (Doffman, Liao, Moore) and 3
     British Academy Fellows, working on Mahler reception, vitalism and biopolitics in contemporary
     music practice, and music ethics and morality (Stoll-Knecht, Browning, Butterworth). A further
     British Academy fellow (Phillips) will start in Oxford on 1 January 2021. Applications to other
     funding schemes have been equally successful, including a Newton International Fellowship
     (Lopatin on music of the Italian Trecento), a Mellon Fellowship (Vuoskoski on music perception)
     and a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship (Einarsdottir on an ethnography of chapel choirs).
     College-funded Junior Research Fellowships are intensely competitive and provide a rich resource
     of high calibre ECRs in music who are then incorporated into Faculty life. The colleges also
     contribute to ECR support through a total of 8 competitively awarded JRFs during the census
     period; the faculty integrates them completely into its research environment; two further JRFs
     started in 2020. Visiting scholars also enrich the research environment through college association
     (e.g. San Martín Arbide at Wolfson), benefitting both from their collaboration with Faculty
     researchers and also from the community and intellectual exchange offered by membership of the
     college. In addition, we have appointed 5 ECRs as cover for colleagues who have obtained
     externally-funded research leave or undertaken major administrative roles (Bullivant for
     Tunbridge; Doffman for Born; Llewellyn for Leach; Wedler for Grimley; Hodgson for Ouzounian).
     The faculty sees Departmental Lectureships as career development opportunities, and supports
     postholders accordingly with contracts, research support, training, and mentoring. Their contracts
     include dedicated time for research and personal development.

     ECRs take full advantage of the unique research environment of the collegiate university and of
     TORCH, both of which foster cross-disciplinary collaboration and networking. They have regular
     meetings with their Faculty mentor and benefit from research-led teaching opportunities. They are
     strongly encouraged to apply for Faculty and Divisional funds to boost their research and receive
     facilitation support for external grant applications. Representation and support are offered by the
     Oxford Research Staff Society (OxRSS), which has elected members from every faculty within the
     Division, as well as from representatives on the Divisional Research Committee. In 2021, as part
     of its commitment to the Concordat, the Humanities Division will appoint a new Academic
     Advocate for Research Staff alongside an enhanced package of support for ECRs, including the
     creation of a dedicated university hub; the Advocate will work closely alongside the Faculty
     Director of Research to support our researchers in Music.

     This network of training and mentorship has helped our ECRs to secure academic positions at
     other institutions, often before the completion of their fellowships. Postdocs have attracted further
     major research grants (e.g. Stoll Knecht: Swiss National Science Foundation, 2019-23) or have

                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 gone on to teaching and research positions at the Universities of Alberta (Morabito), Cardiff
 (Moore), Kent (Herbert), Limerick (Giraud), Nottingham (Boyd-Bennett), Northumbria (Butler), and
 Oslo (Vuoskoski), as well as taking up fixed-term positions at the Universities of Oxford (Wedler),
 Sheffield (Doffman) and Trento (Varelli). During the REF period, every Oxford post-doctoral
 researcher progressed to another funded research position, fixed-term or permanent, after the end
 of their tenure.

 Post-doctoral research staff have similarly been able to benefit from career development
 opportunities offered through their contribution to major projects and are eligible to apply for
 internal research funds. Ponchione-Bailey progressed from the AHRC-funded TCHIP project to a
 Leverhulme Fellowship at Sheffield, and all three research associates recruited for Kügle’s
 MALMECC ERC project (Music and Late Medieval Court Culture) left their positions a year before
 the end of contract to take up permanent or long-term positions. Slater was appointed directly to
 a University Lectureship at Cambridge; military and Masson secured a permanent research
 position at Liège; Murray moved to another post-doctoral position at Utrecht.

 Our ECRs make an invaluable contribution to our research culture. Alongside major peer-reviewed
 articles and book chapters, they have published a total of 8 monographs (often produced during
 their fellowship and published directly thereafter). They are supported with internal and institutional
 funds for pump-priming and networking activities and make successful applications for externally
 funded research grants. Several interdisciplinary research networks were co-founded by ECRs,
 e.g. Andries’s Theatre on the Move in Times of Conflict (with Siviter from Bristol, 2019-20) Colonial
 Ports and Global History Network (co-founded by Liao, based at TORCH), and the project
 ‘Nineteenth-century Musicians as Annotators’ (Morabito and Phillips with Nicholas Mathew at
 Berkeley).

 2.3 Emeriti

 We warmly welcome and support the ongoing activities of our emeriti, who remain members of
 Faculty after retirement and continue to make significant contributions to our research
 environment. The All Souls Research Seminar in Medieval and Renaissance Music, convened by
 Bent for nearly three decades, remains among the most prestigious forums for new research in
 this area. Strohm’s Balzan project on a Global History of Music, funded through a Balzan Prize,
 hosted some of its landmark workshops in Oxford. Wollenberg’s legacy as a pioneering researcher
 of women composers is sustained through conferences and concerts, held at the Faculty and Lady
 Margaret Hall. During the census period, Allen, Bujic and Franklin have all published substantial
 new monographs (in Franklin’s case drawing on his 2010 Bloch Lectures at Berkeley).

 2.4 Research students

 The Faculty continues to recruit very strong doctoral candidates internationally, a reflection of our
 international reputation as a centre for excellent research and of the vibrancy of our PGR
 community. The Faculty has drawn funding from successive AHRC schemes (the Block Grant
 Partnership, 2014-18; Open-Oxford-Cambridge Doctoral Training Partnership, 2018-current), as
 well from other sources: in 2016, two further doctoral students (one in composition, the other in
 musicology) were funded through an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award to work with the
 Academy of Ancient Music.

 On average, the Faculty currently offers 5-7 DPhil studentships and a minimum of 2 funded PGT
 places (Master of Studies) annually. Additionally, many international students secure funding from

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 governments or the grant agencies of their home countries from bodies such as the Rhodes Trust.
 Colleges devote increasing resource to the internal funding of postgraduates (often enabled
 through individual donations and endowments); scholarships for these are made through the
 Faculty’s Graduate Studies Committee, and in recent years colleges have made a significant
 contribution toward the challenging match-funding requirement of the current AHRC DTP. The
 Faculty has access to funding through the Clarendon Fund, the Ertegun Humanities Graduate
 Scholarships (offered in conjunction with the Mica and Ahmet Ertegun Foundation and based at a
 generously appointed centre in central Oxford), and other schemes. We recognise that
 postgraduate funding has the potential to become a highly progressive vehicle for improving
 access and diversity, as the announcement of the University’s Humanities-led commitment to 10
 Black Academic Futures scholarships in September 2020 indicates. This is only a start, and we
 will actively seek to identify and promote further such opportunities within our next REF cycle.

 Integrated support and career development for PGR students takes several forms, including a
 dedicated academic supervisor, a college advisor alongside a range of College, Faculty and
 Divisional training and support facilities. A termly online system of appraisal and review (Graduate
 Supervision Reporting) enables students to reflect critically on their progress. Prior to submission
 of the thesis, PGR students have to pass two milestone examinations (Transfer and Confirmation
 of Status), which provide them with feedback from internal assessors.

 Professional development opportunities are provided via training seminars through the University,
 the Humanities Division and the Faculty, and institutionalised in the AHRC Doctoral Partnership.
 Graduate students are supported by the Faculty to organise their own peer-support events, such
 as the ‘Shut up and write’ sessions (co-convened with Early Career Researchers), GRACIAS
 (Graduate Research and Career Improvement Advice Sessions), and the Seminars for
 Composers in Oxford—Research and Development (SCORD), which receive Faculty funding.

 PGRs form an integral part of our research community. They convene the weekly Graduate
 Colloquia, which feature distinguished visiting speakers alongside Faculty postholders, ECRs and
 advanced doctoral students. Graduates play a full part in practical composition workshops led by
 visiting composers, and participate in performance groups such as Ensemble Isis and
 Contrapunctus. There are several research-led Graduate reading groups (e.g. on Medieval Music,
 convened by Leach; and on Early Modern Music, convened by Leitmeir and Rees), and graduates
 contribute vigorously to the Faculty’s impact activities, working as research assistants on initiatives
 such as DIAMM, Born’s ECR-funded MusDig project, the AHRC-funded Transforming 19th-
 Century HIP (TCHIP) or The Tudor Partbooks projects.

 The Faculty warmly encourages its PGRs to make the most of the training and personal
 development opportunities offered by the University’s Learning and Teaching Training
 programme. The CTL offers routes to a Postgraduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning in HE
 and an accredited Teaching Recognition Scheme. The University’s Language Centre supports our
 students’ language skills, and offers 11 online courses (including Russian and Georgian) in
 addition to a large number of courses on site. We are committed to equal opportunity in the
 recruitment and support of graduate students, and to supporting graduates with children through
 nursery provision and flexible working. Faculty support is further enhanced by the comprehensive
 range of courses offered by the Humanities Division, which includes a full-time Training Officer
 and easily accessed specialist advice on Career Development.

 The success of the Faculty’s doctoral students is reflective both of their own excellent research
 and the support they received during their studies. Upon graduation, many have entered the

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 profession at high-ranking European and American universities, either through post-doctoral
 positions (e.g. MacGregor in Harvard and, as Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow, at Royal Holloway;
 Pistorius to a Leverhulme Fellowship at Huddersfield; Owen to a Junior Research Fellowship in
 Cambridge; Spencer to an AHRC post-doctoral Fellowship in Birmingham) or through direct
 permanent appointments (e.g. Lewon at the Schola Cantorum Basiliensis; Witek via a post-
 doctoral position at Aarhus to a permanent post at Birmingham).

 2.5    Visiting Researchers and Residencies

 The collegiate University welcomes external researchers through its Visiting Fellowship schemes
 available primarily through colleges, e.g. Muller (Stellenbosch) at Christ Church (2018), and
 Wiesenfeldt (Weimar-Jena) at Magdalen, 2019) and Research Fellowships (such as the Albi
 Rosenthal Fellowship in Music at the Bodleian Library, awarded to scholars such as Cunningham
 (Bangor), Rawson (Canterbury Christ Church), Rutherford (Manchester), and Whittaker
 (Birmingham Conservatoire). The Weidenfeld-Hoffman Foundation has endowed Humanitas
 Visiting Professorships at the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, held by distinguished
 practitioners in the field. During the census period, Oxford hosted Ian Bostridge (2014-15), Sérgio
 and Odair Assad (2015-16), and Andreas Scholl (2016-17) as Visiting Professors in Classical
 Music and Music Education and Christian Thielemann (2015-16) as Visiting Professor in Opera
 Studies.

 2.6 Equality and Diversity

 The Faculty is committed to increasing equality and diversity of access and opportunity in all
 aspects of its work and research culture. 4 out of 6 new permanent postholders are female. Recent
 appointments have also led to a notable increase in ethnic diversity. Much of the work of our most
 recent appointees (Ouzounian, Dieckmann, Hill, Hodgson) directly addresses themes and issues
 beyond the white European art music tradition, and the work of other colleagues (Born, Stanyek,
 Grimley) engages questions of race and postcolonialism. Through participation in initiatives such
 as the Division’s UNIQ+ (piloted in 2019), and Black Academic Futures (launched in 2020) and in
 engagement with external organisations, the Faculty is committed to make its postgraduate
 education available to a greater number of deserving candidates from ethnically under-
 represented or socio-economically deprived backgrounds. Grimley hosted a visiting scholar from
 Nigeria (Olusegun Titus), working on music and environment in the Niger Delta as part of the
 university’s Africa-Oxford initiative, and they continue to collaborate. Colleagues are playing an
 active role in the Decolonisation and Rhodes Must Fall debates across the university, and the
 Faculty has published its own statement on the Oxford and Colonialism platform, addressing
 historical legacies and acknowledging the need for further change.

 The Faculty has undergone intensive scrutiny for gender inequality in preparation to its successful
 application for an Athena SWAN Bronze Award (2019). Its analysis presented a detailed action
 plan (by means of further investigation and targeted action) that had been identified in the process.
 The Faculty’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee was established in 2020 for the same
 purpose but with a wider remit. It is chaired by a postholder and welcomes representatives of
 different constituencies within the Faculty.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Our externally generated research income increased consistently throughout the census period
 from GBP578K in the Academic Year 2013/14 to GBP748K in 2014/15, GBP681K in 2015/16, and
 increased to close to GBP900K from 2016/17 onwards, declining slightly in 2019/20. At a
 cumulative total of GBP5.4M, the Faculty has thereby more than doubled the volume of its grant
 capture during the REF2014 period (c.GBP2M).

 The vitality and strength of the Faculty’s research environment is evinced not merely through the
 volume of grant capture. Grants were awarded to researchers across the entire career range (from
 graduate studies and ECR researchers right up to established researchers). The ERC contributed
 most to the Faculty’s externally generated income, reflecting its ambition to encourage blue-skies
 research at scale. During the REF period, Born completed her ERC-funded ‘Music, Digitization,
 Mediation: Towards Interdisciplinary Music Studies’ (EUR1.7M, 2010-16); in 2015, Kügle
 (University of Utrecht) brought his project ‘Music and Late Medieval European Court Cultures’
 (including funding for three post-doctoral researchers and a programme administrator,
 EUR2.186M, 2016-2020) to Oxford; and the work of Ouzounian’s ERC project (‘SonCities’,
 EUR1.99M, 2020-2026) will extend beyond the current REF cycle. At time of writing, a further ERC
 application by Born has reached the second stage of the Horizon Europe programme and is
 awaiting a final result.

 Faculty researchers have secured funding from a range of international bodies, notably Strohm’s
 Balzan Musicology Project ‘Towards a Global History of Music’ (2013-2017), supported by the
 International Balzan Foundation (GBP488k), but also including the Polish Academy of Sciences
 (Leitmeir), the Gerda-Henkel-Stiftung (Varelli), and the Association Paléographique Internationale
 (Varelli).

 The Faculty also has a consistent track record of securing funding from national associations. The
 AHRC, British Academy and Leverhulme Trust have been the main sources of support during the
 cycle, via post-doctoral fellowships, small research grants and large-scale projects. The AHRC
 funded ‘Music, Empathy and Cultural Understanding’ (PI Clarke, 2014), ‘Digital Transformations’
 (PI Ouzounian, CoI Born), ‘Hearing Trouble: Sound Art in Post-Conflict Cities’ (PI Ouzounian,
 2015-18) and ‘Pet Sounds: Social Media & Collaborative Composition’ (PI Ouzounian, 2015-16),
 'Digital Delius: Interpretation, Performance, and Analysis’ (PI Grimley, 2018-19), ‘Transforming
 C19 HIP’ (PI Holden, CoI Clarke, 2016-21), plus a one-year fellowship (Grimley, ‘Delius,
 Modernism, and the Sound of Place’).

 The Leverhulme Trust awarded Major Research Fellowships to two postholders for three-year
 projects (Leach, 2015-18; Tunbridge, 2019-22). ECR Liao obtained an Early Career Fellowship,
 college-employed Maw a one-year Research Fellowship (2018-19), and Llewellyn (then Professor
 at the Schola Cantorum Basiliensis, now research fellow at Vienna) a visiting professorship (2014-
 15). Fabio Morabito pooled funding from Oxford, the British Academy and the Leverhulme Trust
 for his project on ‘19th-Century Musicians as Annotators’. Upon completion of her Oxford DPhil,
 Little secured GBP75k from the Patricia Baines Trust to fund her salary as a research associate
 at the Faculty’s Bate Collection.

 Faculty research activity has also been supported from a wide array of other sources including the
 Music & Letters Trust and the Royal Musical Association, the Arnold Schönberg Centre, the

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Britten/Pears Foundation, the Centre for Eastern European Language-Based Area Studies
 (CEELBAS), Diaphonique, the German Historical Institute, the Maison Française d’Oxford, and
 the Society for Music Theory.

 The University’s John Fell Fund (JFF), funded by an annual transfer from the University Press,
 offers pump-priming and seed-corn funds that support key strategic research initiatives and foster
 new networks and collaborations. The Humanities Division receives an annual allocation of
 GBP500K from the Fund, which it distributes via regular termly competitive calls. During the
 census period, the Faculty has regularly sought seed funding it has identified as priorities,
 submitting an average of 9 applications per year with a success rate of 67% (totalling over
 GBP1M). These awards have enabled significant conferences and workshops and supported
 practice-based research, such as a ground-breaking nineteenth-century chamber music course
 connected with Holden’s AHRC TCHIP project (2017), or the vocal ensemble Contrapunctus, led
 by Rees, for recordings of repertoire from the Baldwin partbooks (in connection with the Tudor
 Partbooks project) and a project on ‘Rhetoric Enacted in the Music of Renaissance Spain’ (2017-
 19). JFF has been a vital contribution toward our success in attracting major external grants (such
 as Ouzounian’s ERC award). Additionally, it has supported conferences that have resulted in
 major edited books (Aspden, Operatic Geographies; Bullock and Grimley, Music and the Nordic
 Breakthrough), and practice-based research leading to innovative recordings (Holden’s Accordes!
 recording of Tchaikovsky and Fuchs from her ‘Expressive Asynchrony’ project) and creative
 outputs (Harry’s Vehicles: A children’s opera). More recently, it funded a project scoping digital
 musical curation at a National Trust property, The Firs (Edward Elgar’s birthplace), in connection
 with ongoing research by Bullivant and Grimley. The Faculty has ensured ECR research also
 benefits, from Varelli’s work on chant fragments to Butterworth’s ‘Music, Transformation and
 Rehabilitation in UK Criminal Justice’.

 3.2 Facilities and infrastructure

 This high level of research activity, across a broad and diverse range of fields, is sustained through
 a suite of dedicated on-site facilities and library resources. In summary, these comprise:

 1. A music library, containing c. 20,000 items of printed music, and 25,000 books and journals,
    and nearly 5,000 CDs, alongside a vast range of electronic and audio-visual materials and
    facilities. Alongside these generous holdings, the Faculty library provides specialist advice and
    curation. The Faculty library collections are co-ordinated with those of the Bodleian library (no.
    5), and benefits from the expertise of a specialist librarian, Martin Holmes, who simultaneously
    serves as Alfred Brendel Curator of Music.

 2. The Faculty’s studio facilities support an expanding range of creative and practice-led research
    (such as TCHIP) as well as research on digital music. The studio plays a key role in supporting
    the Electronic Music Practice RESearch group (EMPRES), established as a collaborative
    initiative between the Faculty’s composers and academics working in closely related fields
    (Clarke, Stanyek, Ouzounian), and directed by the Faculty’s studio manager (Hulme). The
    studio has negotiated a professional relationship with Sennheiser, which provides high-
    specification equipment, professional training, and staff expertise.

 3. The Bate Collection of Musical Instruments (est. 1968) houses an extensive collection of
    instruments, comprising more than 2000 items and including the most comprehensive
    collection of European woodwind, brass and percussion instruments in Britain. Half of its
    collection is on permanent display. The Bate’s ethos differs from most other museums of

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    instruments in that the collection is designated for practical use by students and attracts visiting
    organological and performance practice researchers including Gabriele Ricchiardi from the
    University of Turin, Douglas Yeo from the Boston Symphony Orchestra and Anneke Scott from
    The Prince Regent’s Band/Boxwood and Brass. A hive of practice-based research for half a
    century, the Bate also experiments with the latest cutting-edge technology. In collaboration
    with Mark Witkowski of Imperial College, London, the 18th-century French serpent (no. 504)
    was digitally measured to create an open-access Computer-Aided Design file, which can be
    used for digital 3D printing, and Walden (JRF, The Queen’s College) is currently working on a
    virtual micro-tuned keyboard in conjunction with instruments from the collection.

 4. A dedicated professional services team, which, in close alignment with the Divisional Research
    Office and TORCH, provides support for the development of applications for large-scale
    research projects as well as other research activities (such as workshops and conferences).

 5. The Bodleian Library, a copyright deposit library since 1610, holds over 500,000 items of
    printed music and 4,000 music manuscripts from all periods of music history (including the
    Sadler Partbooks, which were digitally restored as part of the AHRC-funded Tudor Partbooks
    project). The Bodleian has expanded its significant holdings through major donations from
    book collectors, including Harding (1957, which makes it the major holder of American song
    material on this side of the Atlantic), Tyson (1998, for first editions of Haydn, Mozart,
    Beethoven and Schubert) and Rosenthal (2006). It continues to purchase relevant material,
    including, most recently, the Odling portion of the Sterndale Bennett archive, which sits
    alongside the library’s already extensive holdings of music by Sterndale Bennett’s colleague
    Felix Mendelssohn (such as the Hebrides Overture) and that brings works such the 6th Piano
    Concerto into the public domain for the first time since the composer’s death. The development
    of the collection and support for researchers is overseen by the Alfred Brendel Curator in
    Music.

 6. In addition to the Bodleian’s holdings, Oxford college libraries also possess uniquely valuable
    items. Christ Church has an extensive historical collection of printed music and manuscripts
    of English and Italian music before 1700, and Magdalen College holds significant sources
    including chant, a few pages of an early 15th-century choirbook and, at one time, the
    ‘Worcester’ fragments, which were studied by Varelli, who also curated an exhibition and
    conference on the materials (2018).

 7. The close involvement of Oxford’s major choral foundations make a significant contribution to
    our practiced-based and philological research. The chapels of two of the three choral
    foundations (Christ Church and New College) and the chapel of Queen’s College are directed
    by Faculty postholders (Grahl, Quinney, Rees). Their editions, performances and recordings
    (for instance, of music by Taverner, repertoire from the Eton Choir Book, and of Parry’s Songs
    of Farewell) strengthen our commitment to impact beyond the immediate academic
    community.

 8. Close collaboration with musical venues in Oxford. The Holywell Music Room and the
    Jacqueline du Pré concert hall (owned and run by St Hilda’s College), SJE Arts (St Stephen’s
    House) and other performing spaces such as Modern Art Oxford and the Northwall Theatre
    provides the platform for performance-led research and composition, and the work of groups
    such as Oxford Contemporary Music, the Oxford Lieder Festival and Oxford Philharmonic
    Orchestra.


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 9. The facilities in the Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities will have a transformational effect
    upon the Faculty’s activities during the coming period. In addition to the new concert hall,
    performing and music research spaces will include studios, the faculty is involved in planning
    a black box theatre, a rehearsal hall, and some less formal venues within the building (to be
    completed in 2024-5). These spaces will provide opportunities for interdisciplinary
    collaboration and public engagement. Because of its strategic importance, the Faculty has
    taken a leading role in shaping the Humanities Cultural Programme which is embedded in the
    Faculty’s research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Conferences and seminar series

 The Faculty maintains a bustling schedule of research events and academic meetings. The
 keystone is the weekly Research Colloquium series, convened by graduate students, which
 showcases the entire range of research activity in music studies broadly understood. They are
 complemented by more specialised series: from the long-running All Souls Seminars in Medieval
 and Renaissance Music (est. 1992) and the Seminar in Ethnomusicology and Sound Studies (est.
 2010 by Stokes, convened since 2012 by Stanyek), to the Oxford Seminar in Music Theory &
 Analysis (est. 2018 by Cross and Wedler) and the newly formed Oxford Seminar in the Psychology
 of Music (est. 2021 by Clarke). Burden and Thorpe have hosted the Annual Dance Symposium
 since 1998.

 Additionally, our researchers are actively encouraged to become involved in many seminar series
 to take advantage of and contribute to Oxford’s rich interdisciplinary opportunities. Moving
 seminars online under lockdown has created the unexpected benefits of global reach and greater
 inclusivity. The Faculty is committing to finding ways to build upon these advantages in its future
 provision.

 During the REF period, our researchers have organised or co-organised well over 100
 conferences and workshops. The organisers represent the entire spread of researchers active in
 the Faculty: doctoral students, curators (including the Bate Collection), college lecturers, post-
 doctoral researchers, Faculty postholders, and emeriti. Oxford has served as the venue for some
 60 conferences (many of which attracted international speakers and delegates). Highlights
 include: ‘Jean-Philippe Rameau: International Anniversary Conference’ (2014, organised by
 Williams and Sadler), the RMA/BFE study day on Music and Mobilities (2015, organised by
 doctoral student Hoh), the 2nd International Conference on Music and Consciousness (2015,
 organised by Clarke, Clarke and Herbert and resulting in an OUP edited volume in 2019), the
 International Conference on Nineteenth-Century Music (2016, organised by Bullock, Grimley,
 Tunbridge et al.), ‘Spectralisms’ (2017, organised by Cross), ‘Clara Schumann (née Wieck) and
 her World’ (2019, organised by Davies), ‘Approaching Creative Expression after the 2011 Egyptian
 Revolution: Challenges and Possibilities for Current Scholarship’ (2020, organised by Sprengel),
 and ‘Song Beyond the Nation’ (2018, organised by Bullock and Tunbridge and resulting in a British
 Academy edited volume in 2021).

 Like many other UK conferences and workshops, organised by Faculty researchers, these events
 were successful in engaging practitioners as well as external partners, e.g. Cross’s ‘Birtwistle at
 80’ (BBC/Barbican, 2014), Bullivant and Grimley’s ‘Digital Delius: Unlocking Digitised Music


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Manuscripts’ at the British Library (2018) or Tunbridge’s ‘German Song Onstage’ (in collaboration
 with Loges, Wigmore Hall and the German Historical Institute).

 Outside the UK, Leitmeir organised the conference ‘For eyes and ears: The choirbooks of the
 Bavarian State Library’, 2016, including a public concert and a liturgical performance) and
 Butterworth the first SIMM (Social Impact of Making Music) Research Seminar at the Sibelius
 Academy, Helsinki (2018), alongside Kügle’s HERA and ERC-funded conferences and others.
 Strohm’s Balzan project ‘Towards a Global History of Music’ held 13 international workshop-
 conferences in the UK, Austria, Germany and Jerusalem during the REF period.

 4.2 Honorary Positions, Prizes and Awards

 The distinction of individual researchers is regularly recognised through awards, prizes and
 honorary positions. These include a Radcliffe-Brown Lecturership in Social Anthropology, British
 Academy (Born, 2015), an Honorary Professorship, University College London, Department of
 Anthropology (Born, 2015-19). Born (2014) and Leach (2016) were elected into the British
 Academy to join the other longer-serving members Bent, Blackburn, Clarke, Dreyfus and Strohm,
 and Born was awarded the Order of the British Empire for services to academia. Born (2015),
 Cross (2015) and Tunbridge (2020) were elected to the Academia Europaea, joining seven other
 Oxford members in the Musicology and History of Art Section (Bent, Blackburn, Caldwell, Clarke,
 Kügle, Leitmeir and Strohm).

 International prizes were awarded to researchers across the entire career spectrum: in 2019, Bent
 received the first Guido Adler award of the International Musicological Society for ‘outstanding
 contributions to musicology’. In 2017, Liao received the RMA’s Jerome Roche Prize for a
 distinguished article by an early career scholar, followed by a First Honorary Mention of the IMS’s
 Outstanding Dissertation Award (2018)—an award also given to Walden (2020). In 2016,
 Sprengel, while still a doctoral student, was awarded the Lise Waxer Prize, Society for
 Ethnomusicology Popular Music Section. In 2015 Broad was awarded the Observer/Anthony
 Burgess Prize for Arts Journalism and became an AHRC New Generation Thinker in 2016.

 Faculty researchers held Visiting Professorships or Fellowships at a number of national and
 international institutions, such as the Universities of Indiana (Clarke, 2016), Aarhus (Born, 2017-
 19), California, Irvine (Born, 2019), Hong Kong (Born, 2018), Melbourne (Stanyek, 2015), Oslo
 (Born, 2014-18), Southampton, Utrecht (Tunbridge, 2016), and Copenhagen (Grimley, 2019-23),
 as well as the Max Planck Institute in the History of Science, Berlin (Kügle, 2019), the Leibniz
 Institute of European History, Mainz (Kügle), the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study (Kügle,
 2015), Conservatoire de Paris (Cross, 2016) and the Paul Sacher Foundation (Wedler, 2014).

 4.3 Contributions to the Research Base

 Excellence in research remains isolated unless researchers play an active part as academic
 citizens of their discipline more widely. Our researchers are fully committed to fulfilling their
 responsibility in supporting research in other Higher Education Institutions, subject associations,
 learned societies and academic publishing.

 Members of the Faculty have served as external examiners for doctoral dissertations in the UK
 (c.50), Europe (9) and beyond (6), and on advisory boards of national bodies, such as the Institute
 for Musical Research (Leach) or the REF Panel D Subpanel 33 (Tunbridge, for Criteria and


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Assessment phases); Grimley advised Cambridge and KCL with an analysis of their REF 2014
 results.

 Several Oxford researchers are active across different sections of the British Academy, where
 they contribute to the work of standing committees. Born played an active role in the British
 Academy Policy Working Group on Interdisciplinarity (2015-16); in 2018 she established the
 Culture, Media and Performance Group (which she has chaired since 2016) as a full section of
 the Academy and of which Clarke is also a member. Tunbridge represents the United Kingdom as
 Director-at-Large on the Directorium of the International Musicological Society.

 Additionally, Faculty researchers have been invited to serve as advisory members across Europe,
 including the Centre for Gender Studies in Graz (Tunbridge), Doctoral School of the Polish
 Academy of Sciences, Warsaw (Leitmeir), Nikolai Astrup Research Centre, Bergen (Grimley),
 RITMO, Oslo (Clarke), the STARS (Supporting Talents in Research) Humanities & Social
 Sciences research review panel, Padova (Born), and the International Doctoral College of
 Philology, Munich (Leitmeir). Strohm became an Advisory Board Member for the Music and Art
 section of the Austrian Academy of Arts and Sciences (Vienna); in 2015, he served on the
 international evaluation board for Schools and Departments of Music, Israel Ministry of Education.
 Leitmeir serves as the only music researcher from the UK on the Committee of the Musicology
 and Art History section within the Academia Europaea (2016-present).

 Researchers regularly peer-review for funding bodies nationally (AHRC, British Academy,
 Leverhulme, Institute for Advanced Studies, University of London) and internationally. Apart from
 the European Research Council, they have assessed grant proposals for national funding bodies
 of Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany (including
 the DAAD, the Union of German Academies and the Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin), Iceland,
 Ireland, the Netherlands, Poland, Sweden, and Switzerland. As external advisors and referees
 they frequently contribute to professorial appointments at UK and European universities and in the
 tenure processes of US universities.

 Our researchers are editors or co-editors for many leading academic journals and yearbooks,
 including Cambridge Opera Journal (Aspden), Music Perception (Clarke), The Musical Quarterly
 (Grimley), Plainsong and Medieval Music (Leitmeir), Journal of the Royal Musical Association
 (Tunbridge), Twentieth-Century Music (Stanyek). They serve as associate editors of flagship
 publications such as Grove Music Online (Cross) or series editor (Stanyek for the book series 33
 1/3 Brazil).

 We seek to support the discipline and promote good academic citizenship through service on
 editorial boards, including Archivum Fratrum Praedicatorum, Danish Yearbook of Musicology,
 Journal of the American Musicological Society, Muzyka, Revue de Musicologie, Saggiatore
 musicale, Svenska Tidskrift för Musik-Online and the Korean Musica Humana. Faculty
 researchers frequently produce peer-reviews for these and other journals as well as for leading
 academic presses throughout Europe and North America.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4 Collaborations and partnerships

 The Faculty promotes collaborations and partnerships across its activities. Its successful
 engagement with wider constituencies was recognised by a British Library Labs award for
 Grimley’s and Bullivant’s Digital Delius.

 Knowledge Exchange Fellowships, awarded by TORCH, created and deepened collaborations
 with external constituencies, including music educators, performers, arts organisations and
 museums. Collaboration with performers, practitioners and audiences is an increasingly critical
 component of music research. Examples include Holden’s TCHIP and ‘Expressive Asynchrony’
 projects, which included collaborations with the Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment, the Royal
 Academy of Music, the Southbank Centre and the Barbican as well as testing a radical and
 challenging approach to historically informed performance with an ensemble made up of leading
 C19th HIP practitioners (both academic and non-academic). Ouzounian’s ‘Scoring the City’ (in
 collaboration with the London-based charity Theatrum Mundi) laid the foundations for a successful
 ERC grant application, in which knowledge exchange plays a fundamental role. Harry’s long-
 standing collaboration with His Majesty’s Sagbutts and Cornetts has led to the creation and
 performance of one of his largest-scale and most innovative works.

 TORCH support has had a similarly transformative effect on research undertaken by ECRs such
 as Bullivant (on the sources of Elgar’s Dream of Gerontius, in collaboration with the National Trust,
 the British Library, and Birmingham Oratory), Little (‘English Tunebooks of the Eighteenth
 Century’) and Young (‘Transforming the Operatic Voice').

 The majority of our funded research projects have a collaborative dimension, including the
 Bullivant and Grimley’s Delius project (in partnership with the British Library and the Delius Trust),
 and a Collaborative Doctoral Award in partnership with the Academy of Ancient Music (supervised
 by Harry, Saxton and Leitmeir). The Faculty has actively developed a long-standing and fruitful
 partnership with the Oxford Lieder Festival as well with as with musical ensembles and artists both
 local (Oxford Philharmonic, college choirs) and in residence (e.g. Clein, Contrapunctus and the
 Villiers Quartet). Other significant Faculty contributions have included Clarke’s work with the
 Leverhulme-funded ‘Methods of Aesthetic Enquiry across the Disciplines’ (2015-8, Oxford,
 Vienna, Manchester, and Copenhagen) and the international research group Music and the
 Middlebrow (Franklin, ongoing). Cross’s work with the BBC and the Philharmonia Orchestra on
 the South Bank forms the basis for one of our Impact case studies.

 4.5 Impact

 Our researchers make significant contributions to wider society, both nationally and internationally,
 and at all career levels, from our doctoral students (Broad – now a post-doctoral researcher –
 AHRC and BBC Radio 3 New Generation Thinker in 2016) to our senior researchers. They act in
 prominent advisory capacities to political, artistic and other bodies. In 2015-16, Born chaired the
 British Academy initiative on the Future of Public Service Media, linked to Lord Puttnam’s Inquiry
 into ‘The Future of Public Service Television in the 21st Century’. Cheung Salisbury serves as a
 National Liturgy and Worship Adviser of the Church of England. Ouzounian’s research on urban
 sound design engaged sound artists, architects and urban planners through flagship workshops
 in Belfast (2016), Paris (2016) and Beirut (2018) and raised awareness of the wider public both
 locally (through a ‘Supersonic’ event at the Ashmolean Museum) and nationally, through events
 in the context of the Digital Design Weekend of the Victoria & Albert Museum in London (2017)


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the London Design Week (2018). Doctoral student Kathryn King is on the Board of the Office
 for Students.

 The following examples, beyond the Faculty’s specific Impact Case Studies, illustrate the range
 of impact generated by researchers at different career stages:

 ‘Late Schumann Unlocked’, Tunbridge’s collaboration with the Oxford Lieder Festival (2016),
 recontextualised the music of Robert Schumann in performance and history (through study days,
 podcasts and performances). Tunbridge also worked directly with performers such as Dame Sarah
 Connolly, Julius Drake and Emily Berrington to devise a new theatrical presentation of Schumann
 songs (Wigmore Hall, 2019; livestreamed with 1,600 viewers) as a creative means of re-evaluating
 Schumann’s problematic late music.

 Arising from his London Stage Project, Burden curated the Staging History exhibition at the
 Bodleian Library (2016–17), reviewed widely including in TLS and Le Monde, attracting over
 30,000 visitors; he co-edited the catalogue, Staging History 1740–1840. And following his AHRC-
 funded project on ‘Music, Empathy and Cultural Understanding’, Clarke was invited to contribute
 to unconscious bias training materials for the global professional services company Accenture
 (500,000 employees worldwide), and to the ‘Art of Dying Well’ podcasts (>2,000 downloads)

 Growing out of her work on (military) tunebooks, Little organised the symposium ‘Soldiers' Tales:
 Collecting and Sharing Military and Musical Heritage’ (2019) in collaboration with the Musical
 Instruments Resource Network and the Army Museums Ogilby Trust. This event brought together
 over 45 people, representing academics, museum curators and members of the armed forces.

 Butterworth’s research on music in prisons (funded in part through an ESRC Impact Acceleration
 Grant) fed directly into policy-making through a workshop (co-directed by Butterworth) on
 ‘Rehabilitation, Economic Cost and Gaining Community Investment’ at the University of
 Cambridge in collaboration with the Ministry of Justice and the Lammy Review (commissioned by
 the UK Government, 2016), bringing together stakeholders from prisons, the National Offender
 Management Service, NGOs and academia to share experiences and make recommendations to
 David Lammy MP and his team. The workshop ‘Music in Prison, Detention and Resettlement:
 Towards a Research Agenda’ (Oxford, 2016) brought together a wide range of academics (from
 musicology, psychology, criminology and health sciences) and practitioners (from third-sector
 organisations including Good Vibrations, Changing Tunes, Finding Rhythms, Irene Taylor Trust,
 Music in Detention and the National Criminal Justice Arts Alliance and the London Symphony
 Orchestra), with the purpose of developing notions of best practice and outline priorities for a future
 research agenda in this area.

 The range and scope of these projects is further testimony to the Faculty’s ongoing commitment
 and openness to embracing the study of sound and music in the very broadest sense, and to
 engaging performers, public audiences and policy makers in our research at a fundamental level.




                                                                                                Page 17
