Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: 10007140 Birmingham City University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 13 Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview and Research Structure

 The Built Environment cluster at BCU is an established centre for research in the built
 environment and planning, with specialisms in placemaking, construction and environmental
 sustainability. The wider Built Environment grouping is one of two departments within the School
 of Engineering and Built Environment (EBE), which alongside the School of Computing and
 Digital Technology (CDT) comprises the Faculty of Computing, Engineering and the Built
 Environment (CEBE), through which research activity is strategically coordinated. Research from
 BCU’s Birmingham School of Architecture is returned to UoA34 (Art and Design).

 We have made returns in Built Environment and/or Town and Country Planning to every periodic
 assessment since RAE1996. Since REF2014 we have made strides in achieving a sustainable
 critical mass for research. Then, we returned 4 FTE to UoA16 (Architecture, Built Environment
 and Planning), with 21.4% of the submitted outputs ranked as 4* and 42.9% of outputs classed
 as 3*; one of our impact case studies was ranked at 3*. Now, our research community stands at
 11.4 FTE independent researchers with significant responsibility for research (SIGRES), along
 with seven emerging researchers (that is, staff working towards independent researcher status),
 and 17 postgraduate students.

 A combination of staff turnover and recruitment of eight new researchers has enabled us to form
 three distinct research groups, bringing fresh thinking to existing staff with strong industry-based
 experience:

 1. Property, Planning and Policies, led by Higgins, brings together academics across the
 University to focus on the complex interrelationships between people, space and the
 environment. Aiming to contribute to public and professional understanding of the core concept
 of place in modern society, its applied research is focused on a range of contemporary themes
 relating to real estate, sustainability, planning, design and development. This is delivered
 through a portfolio of applied interdisciplinary research, knowledge exchange, education,
 community engagement and advice for decision makers and policy makers at all levels. The
 Group has three core areas, namely 1) Property, Space and Capital, 2) Planning, Governance
 and Communities, and 3) Building and Urban Sustainability, where multidisciplinary research
 brings sustainability perspectives to bear on questions of real estate, landscape, spatial planning
 and governance, as well as buildings, environments and occupiers. Research within the first
 area (Higgins, Lee and Mayouf) is focused on studying the real estate landscape. The second
 area (Carter, Gullino and Larkham) covers a broad range of spatial planning and governance
 issues, focusing on both built and natural environments. The group is interested in how
 environments originate, develop and change, the processes by which they are managed, and the
 stakeholders, organisations and systems involved. Research in the third area of Building and
 Urban Sustainability (Lee, Boyd, Mateo-Garcia, and Higgins) centres on buildings,
 environments and their occupiers from a sustainability (economic, social and environmental)
 perspective. Research includes direct observation, modelling and simulation. Outputs are designed
 to offer advice and solutions to occupants, owners, designers and developers in order to achieve
 sustainable buildings and spaces that are both environmentally and financially sound.

 2. Transforming Building Life Cycle, led by Cheung, advances knowledge related to the building
 life-cycle through the application of digital technology and process transformation as well as the
 application of novel management approaches. Research in the group explores the adoption of
 digital technologies: Building Information Modelling (BIM), internet of things, machine learning
 and virtual reality; the applications of innovative planning, design and construction approaches

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 such as lean manufacturing and integrated project delivery, and the interfaces amongst human,
 building and the living environment. Overall aims are to improve construction health and safety,
 productivity and building performance, to reduce fuel poverty and CO2 emissions, to improve the
 wellbeing of building users, and build intelligence, connectivity and future-proofing to our living
 environment. This grouping has, in turn, three sub-groups. Construction and Digital Technology
 (Boyd, Cheung, Edwards, Mayouf and Patlakas) studies the potential of applying digital
 technology to the building life cycle in order to transform service provisions and practices;
 Innovative Planning, Design and Construction (Boyd, Cheung and Patlakas) addresses industry
 needs by rethinking the people, process and technology in the building life-cycle, and developing
 evidence-based practical new approaches to create value. Intelligent and High Performing
 Buildings (Boyd, Cheung, Edwards, Monica Mateo-Garcia, and Lee) is focused on the
 underlying challenges in delivering intelligent and high-performing buildings, and develops potential
 solutions so as to create better living environments.

 3. Global Environmental Challenges (Interdisciplinary Group with UoA12-Engineering), led by
 Professor Melville (UoA12), focuses principally on energy and water related issues, scoping
 long-term sustainable solutions in partnership with industry, businesses, citizens and experts.
 The Bioresource and Bioeconomy subgroup explores Biomass cultivation and processing (e.g.
 algae) for energy and high value products and materials, and the Bioremediation of water and
 wastewater by characterisation, pre-treatment/ pre-processing and optimisation of technologies
 for Anaerobic Digestion. The Water, Environment and Communities sub-group brings together
 Proverbs, Ioannidou, Fourlaris and Wu from UoA12 with Lim, Larkham, Boyd and Gullino to
 work on sustaining resilient communities under environmental challenges relating to water. One
 strand of research is on methods for improving the quality, supply and management of water,
 improving resilience to flooding and water runoff including property level responses and
 adaptations, storm water runoff, agricultural runoff, mine drainage and industrial by-products
 runoff. Technical and analytical tools used include Hydraulics and fluid dynamics, Modelling and
 control, Structures and materials, Water distribution and engineering, and Water quality testing
 and analysis, including tracer studies. Another strand examines the development and
 implementation of appropriate water policy at national and regional levels. This includes the
 associated governance arrangements to support effective planning and implementation of
 blue/green infrastructure to support the development of healthy environments.

 Overseeing strategy and operations for the cluster is the Built Environment Research
 Directorate, chaired by Professor Athwal, CEBE Associate Dean for Research and Innovation,
 with Professor Fourlaris as EBE School Director of Research Strategy and School UoA lead for
 REF2021, and Associate Directors for Research Degrees (Larkham), Impact (Boyd and
 Cheung), and Outputs/Environment (Dr Ioannidou, from UoA12). The Directorate is supported
 by a Technical Officer. Meeting monthly, it determines and reviews UoA strategy, sets plans for
 implementation, and considers the allocation of Faculty funds to support equipment purchases,
 PhD scholarships, and travel and conference costs.

 Research Aims and Achievements 2014-20

 The strategic growth outlined above reflects the University strategy described in REF5a.
 Following our modest submission to REF2014, the decision was taken to build research
 capacity, with five aims in view: (i) achieve critical mass of staff to create a balanced and
 sustainable research cluster (ii) leverage the University’s developing infrastructure – as
 explained in REF5a – to increase the volume and range of external grant capture (iii) build a
 sustainable doctoral community to encourage the exchange of ideas and nurture the next
 generation of academic talent (iv) mobilise impact opportunities to tackle important societal
 challenges, and (v) nurture a culture within our cluster based on values of strict integrity, peer
 review, and career development.




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Against those aims, we claim the following achievements:

  Aim                                 Achievement
  Critical mass of staff              Growth from 4 to 11.4FTE staff returned with significant
                                      responsibility for research
  Volume/range of grant capture       Projects with DfMA-Innovate UK (£233k), Highways
                                      England, UK Government Agencies, (£175k). Significant
                                      KTP Income.
  Doctoral community                  Growth from 4 PhD completions for REF2014 to 13 for
                                      REF2021; growth in enrolled students from eight to 17.
  Impact opportunities                Case studies reflecting major national priorities in housing
                                      and sustainability, and a major project that steered HS2’s
                                      design policy towards careful integration with the
                                      landscape and initiated an urban National Park for the
                                      West Midlands (WMNP).
  Nurture research culture            New protocols for peer review, staff support, career
                                      planning

 Enablers

 Critical Mass. Our growth has been driven by targeted recruitment campaigns in 2015, 2017 and
 2019 for academics with high-quality research profiles, leading to the appointment of eight staff
 who qualified for SIGRES. They have joined existing staff consisting of three research
 professors (Boyd, Larkham and Edwards), a Reader (Carter), and seven Emerging
 Researchers (i.e. those awaiting qualification for SIGRES). Together, this balanced constituency
 forms the three Research Groups that create the quality, volume and impact of our research.
 Based on disciplinary coherence, each group allows a critical mass of researchers to work
 together on projects and via jointly supervised PhD projects, many of which are created in
 consultation with or in collaboration with companies or public sector organisations. Teams of
 researchers from within a single group, across Built Environment groups or from other
 departments both internal or external to the University, come together to bid for funded projects
 that develop and apply their research to achieve societal impacts within defined timescales.
 There are particularly close partnerships with other BCU research groups: in the Engineering
 Department with Computational Modelling, and Sensors and Control; in the School of
 Computing and Digital Technology with Data Analytics and AI, Cyber Physical Systems and
 Digital Media Technology (DMTLab); and in the Birmingham School of Architecture with Critical
 Artistic Thinking in Design (CATiD), which has a significant shared membership with the
 Planning, Governance and Communities subgroup. Research group activities include
 programming of the Department’s research seminar series, developing funding applications,
 formulating research equipment bids, hosting symposia and conferences, and providing a
 context for visiting scholars.

 Grant Capture. Measures to support income generation have included enhanced support from
 the University’s Research, Innovation, Enterprise and Employability (RIEE) professional service
 (as described in 5a), including bid development workshops; development of robust internal peer-
 reviewing process for significant research bids, involving an internal panel that meets regularly.
 These have helped the UoA in successful capturing of significant Research Income (with
 indicative projects such as: DfMA-Innovate UK with Cheung, £233K; Highways England, UK
 Government Agencies, with Edwards, £175K. There has also has been significant KTP Income
 (Excelsior Panelling with Edwards, £144K).

 Doctoral Community. PhD research is supported by Faculty fully sponsored PhD studentships
 (20 Faculty Sponsored studentships over a period of 3 years ,of which 6 are to students
 associated with this UoA) and 2 studentships awarded to this UoA by the University
 Scholarships scheme, and 2 studentships part-funded by industry. Provision has been made for
 a regularly scheduled supervision training programme including the SEDA-accredited

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Communities of Practice. These measures have helped to achieve 13 PhD completions within
 this REF period, so bringing on the next generation of academics and strengthening industrial
 partnerships.

 Impact. A number of initiatives have been introduced to support researchers in developing,
 identifying and capturing evidence of impact arising from their research. Workshops and training
 in impact to support staff in the UoA and across the wider faculty have been provided by external
 consultant Saskia Walcott (Walcott Comms) and Professor Mark Reed (Newcastle University).
 Staff mentoring is also provided on an ongoing basis from research group impact leads who also
 organise further industrial visits and specialist workshops. The Water sub-group, for example,
 has organised two day-long workshops (2018 and 2019) with regional organisations and
 stakeholders in the Water based industry and community to identify areas for collaboration and
 impact.

 Research Culture. As part of our research group meetings we have developed work-in-progress
 sessions to support the writing of publications. An Internal and External peer review system for
 outputs has fostered greater maturity in our research, as evidenced in the range of work and the
 number of journal publications produced. UoA submitted staff deposited 225 journal, 71
 conference and 36 other outputs (such as book chapters and technical reports) in the BCU Open
 Access repository during this REF period, including the 28 Outputs submitted for REF2021.

 Ensuring vitality and sustainability of impact supported by interdisciplinary working

 A major facilitator of interdisciplinary working for this UoA has been, and will continue to be, the
 STEAM (Science Technology Engineering Arts and Mathematics) programme which, as noted in
 REF5a, has since 2016 been developed to support work across disciplinary boundaries. Our
 cluster has been a leading participant engaging in STEAM initiatives such as the STEAM
 Conference, STEAM scholarships and STEAM Fellows schemes. This strand of activity will
 intensify when BCU STEAMhouse, a new £70M building, opens in December 2021 with parts of
 the CEBE Faculty being relocated there, sharing it with incubation spaces and other established
 corporate tenants. A further facility, STEAMhouse India, will yield significant opportunities for
 international collaboration.

 By its nature, much of our research is demand-led and involves interdisciplinary working with
 industry partners and research users. Thus impact most often arises from the co-creation of
 research carried out in those partnerships. As outlined in REF5a, partnership development is
 supported by the RIEE professional service department that co-ordinates cross-university
 support for Knowledge Transfer development and delivery, commercial support for IP,
 commercialisation and consultancy, and leads on public and community engagement, including
 events and outreach. They provide support to academic staff to facilitate pre-award collaborative
 funding and broker partnerships across local authorities, Local Enterprise Partnerships (LEPs),
 the West Midlands Combined Authority, stakeholder groups and private sector industry partners.
 RIEE provide 4 dedicated staff who support the impact development work of the CEBE Faculty:
 an Impact development support officer, a KTP development officer and two partnership
 managers, one of whom specialises in the sustainability sector.

 Further opportunities are engendered through our Industry Advisory Board. The Board consists
 of 17 Industrial members with representantion from Architecture, Planning and Construction
 Companies such as Konstrukshon Ltd, IG Masonry Support Ltd, Faithful+Gould, Highways
 England UK, Bouygues UK, Rider Levett Bucknall (RLB), Arcadis LLP, and MAC Construction
 Consultants.

 Interdisciplinary working with partners including end users is intrinsic to our strategy and the
 selected impact case studies demonstrate the success of these approaches to achieving impact.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ICS 1. Financial and efficiency improvements from socio-technical digitalisation of costing and
 procurement in the built environment: Industry-funded research highlighted the need for long-
 term supply chain partnership in the fragmented construction industry and proper represention of
 costs, such that Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are more secure and effectively
 managed. National contractor Willmott Dixon and its subcontractor NG Bailey have improved
 costing and procurement strategies, saving them hundreds of thousands of pounds since 2018.
 The research has also been disseminated by workshops to most large UK housebuilders and
 their supply chain. This work has been recognized in the Procuring for Value report from the UK
 Construction Leadership Council which has been adopted for value-based procurement by the
 Construction Innovation Hub and within UK government departments.

 ICS 2. Integrated Landscapes: Seeing the Bigger Picture: research into an holistic
 understanding of landscape as being based on the relationship between a community and its
 territory set a new cultural agenda to position landscape as a strategic mechanism for
 sustainable city region transformation. It steered HS2’s design policy towards careful integration
 with the landscape and initiated an urban National Park for the West Midlands (WMNP). The
 research influences the West Midlands Combined Authority’s current sustainability agenda, the
 direction of long-term social and economic regeneration in the Black Country and underpinned
 the course for the Black Country being awarded UNESCO Geopark status.

 Research Integrity

 Our strategy is supported by robust and rigorous processes across the Faculty to ensure our
 research endeavours and activity are held to the highest standards in terms of compliance with
 ethical obligations and standards whilst ensuring integrity with regard to legal and professional
 frameworks. CEBE has a well-established ethics committee that stipulates that ‘All those
 engaged with research have a duty to consider how the work they undertake, host or support,
 impacts on the research community and on wider society’. Every research project must receive
 ethical approval prior to commencement. Integrity is maintained in line with the Research
 Integrity Concordat and we follow all of the processes and governance structures at Faculty and
 University level as set out in the REF5a Institutional Statement. As noted in the REF5a, this UoA
 is fully compliant with the Concordat on Open Research Data, and receives support from the
 designated Open Access Officer.

 Future Faculty Strategic aims (2021-2027)

 As noted in REF5a, BCU’s future research strategy will (i) further improve research quality (ii)
 ensure research underpins core learning and teaching, and (iii) foster innovation, social/cultural
 benefit, and economic growth, geared to the needs of private, public and third sectors. During
 the last REF period this UoA has built a sustainable foundation of strong, discipline-based
 research groups supervising a significant number of PhD students and producing research
 outputs through highly valued outlets. For the next REF period we have defined four key
 strategic aims:

 •   Consolidate and continue to grow these groups via recruitment and development of our
     current emerging researchers (50% increase in staff with SIGRES to 18), PhD completions
     (to 20) and PhD students enrolled (to 26).
 •   Increase the vitality and quality of the research groups’ operation and activities by
     systematically taking on best practice from within the university and from the wider sector.
 •   Be recognised as partners of choice for interdisciplinary projects in Construction with more
     focus on Digital, and the evolving Green Economy with more focus on developing Resilience
     in Communities under the challenges of Climate Change; thus increasing research income
     by 50%.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Increase the reach and significance of our research and impact activities by greater
     engagement and leadership within BCU STEAMhouse to build multi-disciplinary projects and
     with STEAMhouse India (see section 4) for international activities.


     2. People

 In 2016, two of the four staff returned to REF2014 left, giving us the opportunity to restructure
 Built Environment research at BCU the better to support the strategically identified Construction
 and Environmental Sustainability domains. Thus we have recruited eight talented researchers to
 work alongside our existing researchers and industry-experienced emerging researchers to
 establish our three research groups.

 Through the successive rounds cited in Section 1, we made one strategic leadership
 appointment in Higgins, who came to us from RMIT University, Australia, with extensive
 industry and academia experience in the Pacific region. His remit was to provide leadership in
 the area of Real Estate. We also made three mid-career appointments. Cheung came from
 Oxford Brookes University to bring leadership to BIM; Gullino from Salford University to
 enhance our work in spatial planning; and Patlakas from Southampton Solent, bringing
 expertise in structural civil engineering and architecture. New early career researchers,
 distributed evenly between our research groups, are Lim, Mayouf, Matteo-Garcia, and Lee.

 These have joined our three existing Professors Larkham (urban planning), Edwards (safety
 aspects of plant/machinery) and Boyd (construction and environment), as well as Carter
 (environmental governance and interdisciplinarity) and seven emerging researchers, who are
 supported and mentored work by their more research-experienced colleagues. In summary, our
 UoA profile consists of four Research Professors, four mid-career and four early career
 researchers, seven emerging researchers, and 17 doctoral students: a proportionate balance of
 experience to which we intend to add during the next cycle.

 Staff development strategy

 The primary aims of our staff development strategy are to:

     •   maintain and expand a vibrant and supportive research community;
     •   make transparent allocation of workload and responsibilities;
     •   support academic staff at each stage of their research career, including clear progression
         pathways;
     •   provide the mechanism to support emerging researchers who are already recognised as
         practitioners/enterprise active to pursue PhD study and develop practice-based research.

 Led by the the UoA Research Directorate and reporting to the EBE Research Committee, this
 strategy has been operationalized through the research group structure that promotes the cross-
 fertilisation of ideas, via a variety of dissemination mechanisms including hosting biweekly
 seminars, research group meetings, attendance and active participation in symposia and
 conferences.

 Workshops are organised to support colleagues in peer review activity, practice-based research,
 producing research outputs, and applying for career progression. Staff benefit from a two-stage
 review process for both funding applications and publication submissions: firstly in a peer-to-
 peer process, both receiving and giving advice, and secondly gaining feedback from expert
 review by senior colleagues and external advisors.

 We actively encourage participation from staff at every career stage in all aspects of our
 research groups’ activities, and promote an open, transparent, collegiate atmosphere. Where
 possible, we seek to minimise the effects of hierarchy through co-location of group members in

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our open office accommodation. We provide transparent annual competitions for all researchers
 to apply for their projects to be awarded Faculty-funded PhD Studentships (typically 10 annually
 throughout CEBE) and for the Faculty Small Research Equipment scheme (typically £65k per
 annum). All researchers, including PGRs, can apply to our Conferences and Networking Mobility
 Scheme (typically £20k per annum) for consideration at monthly Research Committee meetings.

 Our research culture is maintained by a transparent allocation of research workloads and
 responsibilities. As outlined in the REF Institutional Code of Practice, all academic staff complete
 an annual Personal Research Review that is considered by the Research Directorate (all of
 whom have taken Avoidance of Unconscious Bias training). Judged against University defined
 criteria, staff qualifying as having Significant Responsibility for Research (SIGRES) are awarded
 0.25FTE, 0.35FTE or 0.5FTE of time to devote to research activities depending on
 demonstrated research productivity and career seniority. The total salary cost in 2019/20 of this
 allowance for the 12 staff with SIGRES was £334,158. Research time allocation is a ring-fenced
 entitlement recognised through BCU’s Workload Allocation Model (WAM) framework. Additional
 time is allocated to account for PhD supervisions, externally funded research, knowledge
 exchange projects, pilot project awarding funding, or sabbaticals. This model protects research
 time as a departmental priority.

 Additional specialist support is available to staff depending on the stage of their research career:

 New Staff. All the Department’s research active academic staff members are involved in
 recruitment, enabling newly recruited staff to be quickly inducted and aligned in appropriate
 research groups so that they are able to fully participate in the Department’s research culture. All
 new staff are assigned a mentor through the research group support activities, and supported to
 produce annual professional research development plans. New staff are given priority in the
 consideration of Faculty-funded PhD studentships and access to the university supervisor
 training programme.

 Emerging Researchers who do not have a PhD are mentored by senior research group
 colleagues to develop a proposal; currently, two Department academic staff members are
 undertaking a PhD with their fees covered by the Faculty and a 0.2FTE time allocation.
 Academic staff with a prior career in industry are mentored to help them build upon their
 industrial experience and evolve a research career, potentially via the PhD by publications route.

 Early Career Researchers are encouraged to present in Faculty Research Seminars and
 Workshops; they have access to a research group-based mentoring scheme and are offered co-
 authoring and funding opportunities, working with senior colleagues.

 Mid-Career Researchers /Associate Professor/Research Professors are supported through
 bespoke workshops (including for promotion and professorial confirmation application),
 underpinned by a mutually supportive faculty-wide mentoring scheme. A number of sub-groups
 have formed within the established research groups; the emerging leaders of each sub-group
 are coached to succeed the current group leads or develop the sub-group into an independent
 research group. During the census period, two colleagues in our cluster have been promoted to
 Reader or Associate Professor primarily for their research (on Readers and Associate
 Professors, see REF5a). There has been one promotion to Research Professor.

 Research Students

 As noted above, there has been an increase in the number of PGR students during this REF
 period from eight in 2014 to 17 in 2020. The number of awards has also increased greatly from 4
 during the REF2014 period to 13 in 2019/20. That improvement has been driven by substantial
 Faculty investment. Each year over this cycle, the Faculty has committed £530k to support full
 bursaries for 20 students, as well as a further 30 fee waivers or part-waivers.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These awards have been prioritised to support projects supervised by early career research
 staff, most of whom have been newly recruited.

 PGR recruitment is pursued through a variety of channels: publicising opportunities via
 academic mailing lists, publicity to current UG and Masters students (helped by strong growth of
 our taught Master’s programmes during this period); advertisements in official websites
 (findaphd.com and jobs.ac.uk) and via industrial partners). Postgraduate research students are
 recruited nationally and internationally, and are funded through a range of mechanisms including
 Faculty and University (STEAM) scholarships. Formal applications proceed from review by two
 academic members of staff, to interview by three academics.

 The PGR lifecycle is overseen by the Director of Research Degrees and managed by three
 Faculty based research administrators from the University’s Doctoral Research College (DRC).
 All students undergo a University-led induction that then divides into faculty and school levels.
 All new PGR students undergo formal research training as part of our career development
 support to them. Within the School, they are required to complete a PGCert in Research
 Methods which covers generic and built environment specific research skills. Additional generic
 training is provided via the DRC, which has a wide range of courses related to research and
 personal development. All PGR students are allocated a supervisory team comprising a first
 supervisor, one or more second supervisors and in some cases additional external (industrial)
 advisors. Beyond their supervisory team, students attend workshops with – and have regular
 contact with – the Director of PGR Studies, who is available to them for additional or alternative
 academic and pastoral support. Support is also available from the DRC and from the University’s
 Education Development Service (EDS).

 All PGR students are offered opportunities to develop their teaching skills and supplement their
 income through Visiting Lecturer and Demonstrator schemes. Training is provided through
 dedicated Teaching for PGRs modules and through training within the School (providing subject
 specific guidance, for example in running lab sessions).

 We view our PGR students as full members of our research community. All PGR students are
 provided with a desktop or laptop computer and a desk within the same open office area as the
 academic staff and leader of their research group. This ensures they are fully immersed in the
 workings and culture of their group, and facilitates opportunities for research discussions with
 fellow students and academic staff, including supervisors, further to those that take place in
 scheduled sessions. Doctoral researchers attached to our cluster regularly present their
 research at the monthly research seminars, and participate in Faculty open days, which gives
 them the opportunity to present their research to pupils from under-represented groups. Funds
 are made available on a competitive basis for students to attend conferences. Each student has
 been funded to attend at least one conference during their studies. PGRNet is a university wide
 network of PGR students and a student rep from this UoA is appointed to represent student
 issues to DRC staff, the Director of Research Strategy and most crucially at Faculty Research
 Environment and Degrees Committee.

 Progress monitoring: full time PGR students produce progress reports at 12 months, 24
 months and 30 months, with six-monthly reporting thereafter until completion. At the end of each
 academic year, FT PGR students undergo a formal assessment for progression, involving the
 latest written report, oral presentation and a viva voce examination by at least two independent
 assessors. Students who have difficulty at this stage are proactively supported in developing and
 delivering a research and study plan, overseen by the Director of Studies and the DRC.
 Arrangements for part-time students are similar but with appropriately longer timeframes.

 PhD supervisors are required to participate in the Faculty’s supervisor development programme
 before being eligible to supervise. This ranges from attending a supervisor development day,
 through to undertaking the University’s Communities of Practice supervisor training programme,
 which results in a SEDA qualification. Supervisors can also attend examination workshops in
 order to prepare them for examining PhDs internally and externally. PRES results over

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 successive years indicate strong levels of satisfaction with our various arrangements for
 supporting doctoral students.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 The School has a strong commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusion and is in full
 compliance with established EDI principles. The University’s EDI Committee was set up to
 establish good practice across all Faculties. For CEBE, it is chaired by the Associate Dean for
 Student Learning Experience & Academic Quality, and has representatives from all staff and
 student levels. The group meets monthly and leads on initiatives to address diversity issues
 locally and in the sector. The Faculty supports and implements EDI policies in Employment
 Policy, Trans Policy, the Equal Opportunities Policy, Maternity, Paternity, and Adoption Leaves
 for all staff, whether research or teaching focused. Alongside the EDI committee, School staff
 are encouraged and supported to engage with groups within the University such as the Black,
 Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) Steering group, the Disabled Steering group, the Mental
 Health and Well-being Network, and the LGBT+ Staff Network.

 In line with BCU’s code of practice, all academic staff may apply for SIGRES status, including
 WAM remission and resources to pursue a research career. Applications are assessed by
 colleagues who have undertaken Advance-HE EDI training (including Avoidance of Unconscious
 Bias). As noted above, the same training is provided to our internal REF peer-review panels,
 which include a balance of senior (professorial and reader level) and junior researchers, aiming
 for gender and ethnicity inclusion wherever possible.

 Among Cat-A staff in CEBE, 40% have identified as BAME, higher than the BCU average of
 around 25%; while 5.6% have declared a disability, which is close to the BCU average of 5.2%.
 Meanwhile 76% of Cat-A CEBE staff are male compared to the BCU average of 48%. Gender is
 a particular issue for our discipline, recognised nationally for STEM subjects, and steps are
 being taken to redress the balance. BCU was awarded the Athena SWAN Bronze Institutional
 award in recognition of its commitment to advancing gender equality through a four year Action
 Plan (2016-2020). CEBE is currently applying for a departmental Athena SWAN award. The
 School has encouraged and supported our female academics to participate in women leadership
 development programme such as the Aurora Leadership Program funded by Higher Education
 Academy. We also seek to ensure that our internal processes and culture are conducive to
 creating an environment in which female academics and practitioners can prosper and reach
 senior positions. We require that gender diversity issues are explicitly considered in all
 appointment and promotion panels. Flexible and part-time working is supported for
 parental/caring responsibilities. Research seminars are held within office hours for the benefit of
 colleagues with childcare responsibilities.
 BCU’s Programme for Women Achieving Excellence in Research (PoWER) provides a series of
 monthly sessions aiming to inspire and support female academics, building their skills,
 knowledge and confidence to increase research capacity and capability.

 From UoA13 staff submitted to REF2021, three out of 12 are women: a Reader (Carter), an
 Associate Professor (Gullino) and a Lecturer (Mateo-Garcia). Other female staff hold senior
 academic leadership roles CEBE: Professor Hanifa Shah is the Pro-Vice-Chancellor & Executive
 Dean and 3 of the 6 Heads of Department in the Faculty are women.


    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Strategies for research income generation

 As discussed in Section 1, our strategies for research and impact are very often intrinsically
 linked by co-creation of research with industry and end-users. That is reflected in our funding
 and income generation methods. The research groups provide centres of disciplinary


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 excellence, while our defined Impact Areas help interdisciplinary teams to coalesce to address
 major industrial and societal issues.

 CEBE has developed three cross-Faculty Impact Areas to provide co-ordination and
 development in addressing (i) Digital Productivity in Manufacturing and Construction (ii) Smart
 Cities and Sustainable Environments, and (iii) Smart Health. This UoA has provided leadership
 in the first two of those areas. Each Impact Area has at least two co-directors from across the
 Faculty, a designated business development support manager from the University’s Research,
 Innovation and Enterprise Service, and an impact representative from each Research Group in
 the Faculty.

 Each Impact Area has a responsibility to:

 •   Establish a strategy for funding and impact in the innovation area based on research groups’
     expertise
 •   Carry out business development activities such as engaging with regional, national and
     international networks with a focus on regional priorities through membership and
     partnerships with groups such as West Midlands Combined Authority, Birmingham City
     Council, Birmingham and Black Country LEPs and Chambers of Commerce, Highways
     England, and major construction companies such as Engineeria, Jacobs, WSP, Balfour
     Beatty, Kier, JCB.
 •   Create and maintain a pipeline of funded projects
 •   Monitor and run innovation projects

 The University’s RIEE provides the overall comprehensive organisational infrastructure to
 support research and impact, as outlined in REF5a.

 Our cluster’s Research and Impact Strategy relies upon and delivers applied research close to
 market needs, particularly those of the construction sector, as typified by the award of Innovate
 UK grants. One collaborative award and three KTP projects with a cumulative £734K of grant
 funding to BCU were awarded during the REF cycle to support research and development. For
 the companies involved, the results were improved products, processes and profitability.
 Principal funded projects have been as follows:

     •   Excelsior Panelling Systems, 2018-2020, Innovate UK-KTP grant funding of £144k to
         embed advanced digital technology into the supply chain, ‘downstream’ to manufacturing
         process and ‘upstream’ to seamlessly integrate rich geometric and semantic information
         into an architect’s digital building design (Edwards). Final report received an assessment
         from Innovate UK of outstanding.
     •   Morrison Utilities (MUS), 2019-2021, Innovate UK-KTP grant funding of £228k, to support
         MUS to develop and foster a radical cultural transformation in Health & Well Being within
         the utility sector, optimising employee work-life balance, and using big data and
         computational intelligence techniques to develop novel workplace initiatives (Edwards,
         but postponed during recruitment stage due to Covid considerations).
     •   Stenprop Limited, 2019-2021, Innovate UK-KTP grant funding of £176k, to introduce
         technological and cultural innovations that can lead to a paradigm shift in the relationship
         between tenant and landlord – to customer and service provider and thus transform the
         company into a leading service provider for the multi let industrial sector (Higgins, but
         not started due to IP considerations).
     •   DfMA Houses, 2019 to 2021, Innovate UK project no. 104798, £973k project value,
         £186k grant to BCU, Collaborative knowledge-based (Design for Manufacture and
         Assembly) DfMA approach to building cost-efficient, low-impact and high-performance
         houses. (Cheung / Patlakas)

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Highways England, 2020, have awarded a grant of £175k to recruit two fully funded PhD
         Studentships in the area of Safety in Highways Construction (Edwards).

 Engagement in these projects, with both small and large companies, serves to inform the
 research groups of key strategic needs in Built Environment/Construction related industries, and
 thus to drive topics and priorities in their research agenda, for example by directing the choice
 and definition of projects that are offered for PhD recruitment.

 Other projects, generally with smaller grants, have addressed the environmental sustainability
 agenda. Carried out with collaborators in other departments and universities, such projects were
 funded by sources including ESRC, EPSRC, British Counci/Newton Fund and Royal Institute of
 Charterd Surveyors. An example is ESRC Project Reference: ES/M006522/1, 2014-2016, grant
 value £59k: Maximising the Impact of Games as Effective Participative Tools: The Rufopoly
 Resource Kit (Carter).

 For the whole census period, UoA13 has earned £1,111,000 from a variety of externally funded
 sources.

 Facilities

 Funded projects and the many related PhD projects ongoing in our cluster are supported by
 excellent research facilities in the Millennium Point building. In 2017, a University-funded £6.5m re-
 furbishment saw the installation of a new maker area, engineering labs and associated equipment,
 including fully equipped Hydraulics and Geotechnical labs. Of particular relevance here is the
 Geotechnics and Soil Mechanics Laboratory Space, which is equipped with Plasticity Index
 equipment (Liquid Limit Test – Casagrande , 24-0425 Grooving tool and gauge B.S, 24-0410
 Liquid Limit device BS with Counter. C/W Metal Grooving Tool & Test Gauge, Liquid Limit Test –
 Cone penetrometer, Plastic Limit Set, Moisture Content apparatus, Unconfined compression test
 apparatus, Dry Compaction Testing). The Hydraulics Laboratory is equipped with specialised
 equipment to permit measurements of friction loss in pipes, 2.5 metre flow channel, Venturi
 meter, and a hydraulic bench.

 The Environmental Lab offers a wet lab/pilot facility and a microbiological lab offering state of the art
 analysis and testing of environmental samples, as well as scientific evaluation of lab scale and pilot
 scale technologies and processes using an analytical suite for measuring a range of physical,
 organic and inorganic parameters, featuring X-Ray Fluorescence, GCMS, Calorimetery,
 Spectrophotometer, Microscopy.

 Workshop facilities have further benefitted from £420k invested in seven new machines from XYZ
 Machine Tools. Our maker space is equipped with a laser cutter, 3D printers, and a variety of
 electronic components such as motion, proximity, and humidity sensors. Further labs provide
 access to electronic equipment for signal measurement and analysis, and a Scanning electron
 microscope.
 Cross-Faculty initiatives (synergies between School of Computing and School of Engineering
 and Built Environment) permitted the establishment of a high-performance Computing cluster
 (with an associated Faculty investment in excess of £100k), dedicated to computational
 research.

 Most recently (2020) our strategy has delivered funding to allow an expansion of the research
 facilities in the School of Engineering and Built Environment, through our partnership in the
 establishment of the Department of Education funded Greater Birmingham & Solihull Institute of
 Technology (with associated funded awarded in excess of £1.1M for capital equipment) that will
 permit the commissioning of further state of the art research facilities.




                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 External Collaboration

 We have implemented policies and mechanisms that facilitate the development and success of
 research collaborations, networks and partnerships:

    •   Dedicated partnership and engagement managers within RIEE who provide intelligence
        and support engagement with research partners on a regional, national, EU and now with
        an increased emphasis on wider international opportunities.
    •   Organisation of workshops and industrial visits with industry and other stakeholders in
        research group interest areas
    •   Regular opportunities for Faculty funding of conferences as well as international study
        and field visits.

 The result has been has growth in our UoA of collaborative research projects both with national
 and international relevance. 83% of the UoA research projects have national colloborations while
 17% of research have an international colloborator.

 As noted in Sections 1 and 3, a core feature of our research and impact strategies is to support
 the Construction and Environmental Sustainability sectors. We have done that by joining
 research collaborations with companies in all parts of the construction supply chains, and with
 governmental and community organisations. Two strong examples of how that has been
 achieved are given in our impact case studies. Other examples of how our staff have interacted
 with beneficiaries, made wider contributions to the economy and society nationally and
 internationally, and carried out interdisciplinary research, are as follows.

 The KTPs referred to in Section 3 demonstrate impact with individual companies whilst the
 Innovate UK Collaborative Transforming house construction using Design for Manufacture and
 Assembly(DfMA) project is being carried out in collaboration with Walsall Housing Group, Hadley
 Group, Northmill Associates, Qm Systems and Energy Systems Catapult. Cheung and
 Patlakas’s research in the Innovative Planning, Construction and Design Research sub-group
 has helped improve productivity and performance through a newly developed platform based
 design and production approach for offsite houses, optimised via a knowledge based software
 tool. Hadley Group have adopted this approach to develop new panelised, volumetric and hybrid
 offsite products and are currently building five modular houses. They have reported a 5-year
 production plan of 485 modular houses, which is predicted to save £14m in life cycle cost out of
 a forecast £66m contract value of their modular house product, and save 66 kilotonnes of CO2
 emissions.

 Edwards’s research has helped to enhance the health, safety and well-being of plant and
 machinery operators throughout industry internationally. His research on Hand Arm Vibration
 Syndrome has led to published vibration data and management guidance that are currently used
 by the UK Ministry of Defence and US Department of Defense when training staff exposed to
 vibration from power tool usage; and, in the UK, by Balfour Beatty Utilities Solutions (BBUSL)
 and A-Plant, Speedy Hire and GAP (who between them represent 80 percent of the UK plant
 and equipment hire market). Edwards has also researched plant machinery stability
 characteristics in partnership with major construction contractors (Costain), OEMs (JCB), utilities
 contractors (Morgan Est., Morrison Utility Solutions (MUS) and BBUSL), utility companies
 (Scottish and Southern Electricity) and hire companies within the supply chain (including
 Flannery Plant Hire and A-Plant). In a testimonial (2019) from Brand Safway (a major global
 supplier of safety equipment to the construction industry) on his machinery stability research,
 their Project Controls Director has commented that ‘since implementing these changes, we
 estimate that related safety breaches and associated costs have reduced by as much as 25%
 last year – perhaps totalling tens of millions of Euros in prevented costs.’



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mateo-Garcia and Boyd are supported by leading UK home builders, Barratt Developments
 Taylor Wimpey, Redrow; and Midland Heart Housing Association on two PhD projects tackling
 overheating mitigation and ndoor air quality improvement in new build residential developments
 in the UK.

 Examples of engaging with diverse communities and publics is provided by the work of Carter
 and Larkham. In the ESRC funded Rufology project (see Section 3), Carter and collaborators
 created the Participology set of resources (www.participology.com) that allow stakeholders in
 sustainability projects to engage communities and stakeholders in more lively and effective
 ways. The resource set has been used by the following partners: Royal Town Planning Institute;
 Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, DEFRA, Natural England, Natural Resources Wales,
 The Scottish Government, David Jarvis Associates Ltd, Northumbria University, Newcastle
 University, University of Salford, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, United States, Swedish
 University of Agricultural Sci, University of Adelaide, Australia and a number of UK local
 authorities and schools. Larkham’s work on the history of planning demonstrates the need for
 meaningful public engagement during the modernization of urban spaces and infrastructure, and
 the need to build capacity for participation among the public as a precursor to successful
 engagement. During this REF period Larkham has contributed to 9 books or book chapters, as
 well as a public lecture at Gresham College on Re-planning London that has garnered more
 than 20k views on Youtube.

 The UoA has an active policy of encouraging national and international collaborations, typified
 by study visits (Edwards in Australia, USA and South Africa; Higgins in Australia, New Zealand
 and China; Gullino in Italy). Other examples of International Collaborations include QR CGRF
 funded projects with a diverse community in South Africa, and Solar Irrigation Pumps work in
 India. In mid-2021 BCU is opening STEAMhouse India in partnership with the Indian
 conglomerate Hero, close to one of their manufacturing sites. This will provide a base for further
 engagement with construction and environmental sustainability sectors in India that can make
 enormous contributions to world CO2 reductions.

 Service to the Discipline

 Three academic staff members act as international peer reviewers for EU grant proposals, while
 two professors have visiting professor appointments with overseas Universities. In the census
 period the School has hosted two international workshops, while five members of academic staff
 have delivered keynote presentations in international congresses. 12 academic staff members
 are reviewers for peer reviewed high impact factor journals, while four members of staff act as
 members on advisory bodies.

 Specifically, Edwards has been Visiting Professor at Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and
 Technology, Ghana; University of Johannesburg, South Africa (currrently being considered for a
 Distinguished Professorship); Deakin University, Australia; recently offered Adjunct Professorship at
 University of Southern Australia, Adelaide, Australia. He has given keynotes at the Third
 International Workshop on Systems Thinking in Infrastructure Development, Huazhong
 University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, PR China (5-8th December 2018) and the CIDB
 Postgraduate Research Conference, Industry 4.0, University of Johannesburg, South Africa
 (28th-31st July 2019). His achievements have been recognised with the award of Outstanding
 Reviewer of the Year (2018) for services rendered for Journal of Construction, Engineering and
 Management, American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE), and with a rating as an
 ‘internationally leading academic’ by the National Research Foundation, South Africa (B1 rating).

 Higgins has served as RICS West Midlands Committee Member; Pacific Rim Property Journal
 Editorial Member; Property Management (Emerald Journal) Editorial Member. He has given
 keynotes at the ARBREX Conference May 2019 (‘Innovation and the Built Environment
 Professional: Can A Robot Do Your Job?’); and the RICS Stratford Forum Nov 2019 (‘The Rise
 and Rise of Multi Let Industrial Buildings’).


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Larkham is the Editor for Urban Morphology (Journal of the International Seminar on Urban
 Form), an ISUF Council member and Executive Committee member. He has served as Editorial
 Board member for each of Journal of Urban Design, Urban Design International, Planning
 Perspectives, and Sustainability, and been an Editorial Adviser for Revista de Morfologia Urbana
 (Portugal). He has delivered keynotes at conferences in Porto (September 2019) and Stockholm
 (October 2019) and been an invited contributor to the AHRC Heritage Policy workshop,
 Leicester (November 2018). He is a member of the External Advisory Board for the Swedish
 School of Planning, Karlskrona.
 Cheung has since 2007 acted as external assessor for proposals for Hong Kong Earmarked
 Research Grant (equivalent to EPSRC/ESRC grants in the UK) and peer reviewed for
 Automation in Construction, Construction Management and Economics, ASCE Journal of
 Management in Engineering, and ASCE Journal of Management in Engineering.
 Carter received the Chair’s Award, Royal Town Planning Institute (RTPI) West Midlands
 (October 2018), for the ‘Planning Game’ project which she led, using the Participology resource
 and additional research to develop the Place Makers board game. She played a major role in the
 development the National Ecosystem Approach Toolkit (NEAT;
 http://neat.ecosystemsknowledge.net/), which was shortlisted under the ‘Innovative Practice in
 Decision-Making’ category of the Royal Town Planning Institute (RTPI) Planning Excellence
 Awards. She has also served as Associate Editor (Socio-Economics) of the journal
 Environmental Values (since 2011), hosting the annual Board Meeting at BCU. She has been
 BCU’s representative on the Regional Activities Committee of the RTPI, West Midlands Region,
 since 2015, and is a member of the European Society for Ecological Economics (ESEE) and the
 International Society for Ecological Economics (ISEE) (since 2017).
 Gullino has delivered the following invited talks: (2017), Civic Crowdfunding and the Negotiation
 of New Urban Public Spaces. Stories of Citizen-led Micro-regeneration from London and Milan
 (Incubators Conference – Urban Living Labs for Public Space, KU Leuven 10-11 April). (2017),
 ‘How can mothers of preterm babies adapt to the big wide world?’ (St Thomas’ Hospital London,
 19 May). (2017), ‘New mothers’ experience of the urban environment with their preterm infants
 involve complex social, emotional and psychological processes’ (University College London
 Hospital, 9 March). (2017), ‘Urban conflicts: ‘sink’ estate regeneration plans in London’
 (Politecnico di Milano, 27 January). (2016), ‘The participatory spatialities of health care design’
 (Politecnico di Milano, 14 May). (2016), ‘First-time mothers of preterm babies; experiences of the
 transition from home to urban environments’ (King’s College London, Department of Perinatal
 Imaging and Health, 27 April). (2015), Re-imagining concepts of planning through the
 experience of people dying in cities (University College London, Bartlett Research Exchanges,
 23 March). (2014), ‘Implementing patient and public involvement (PPI) in paediatric research’
 (Biomedical Research Centre, Great Ormond Street Hospital and Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS
 Trust Foundation, 19 March). ‘At the crossroads: spatial planning, health and parent-led
 research’ (King’s College London, Centre for the Developing Brain, 7 March).
 Lim was on the Editorial board for the International Symposium on Civil and Environmental
 Engineering (Malaysia, 2018).




                                                                                             Page 14
