Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of the West of England, Bristol

Unit of assessment: 23 Education

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context and structure
This Unit sits primarily in the Department of Education and Childhood (E&C) within the Faculty of
Arts, Creative Industries and Education (ACE). The Unit has built upon strengths identified in
REF2014, with structural changes and strategic appointments during the current census period.
Higher Education (HE) research, a particular strength in 2014, has been further developed,
evidenced by the significant number of HE focussed outputs submitted in this exercise (61% of
total), and our two impact case studies, ICS#1 ‘University outreach’ and ICS#2 ‘Paired Peers’.

The Unit’s staff conduct social justice-driven interdisciplinary research across the breadth of
educational activity in both scholarly and applied contexts. The principal research structure is the
Bristol Inter-Disciplinary Group for Education Research (BRIDGE). BRIDGE is led by Bovill
(Associate Head of Department for Research and Scholarship) and a team of senior researchers
including Andrews, Burke, Maisuria and Waller (all Associate Professors), and Newbutt (Senior
Research Fellow).

BRIDGE has three inter-connected strands, representing established and emerging areas of
research, which respond to key challenges locally, nationally and internationally:

   Researching with children and young people (Andrews, Carter and Chicken). This strand
    focuses on children’s experiences, rights, voices, perspectives and practices using social
    science methodologies and methods, giving primacy to children’s voices. Research issues
    include early education and learning; teaching, early childhood pedagogy and curriculum;
    education policy; professional development and learning for educators; language
    development; researching multilingually; parental engagement in children’s learning;
    literacies, learning and identities; the sociology of childhood; and ethical and methodological
    challenges of research with children.
   Digital education (Newbutt and Last). This strand’s research focuses on digital inequalities;
    digital literacies and competences; digital cultures and practices; digital research methods;
    curriculum innovation; virtual reality technologies (VRTs); and the applied use of technologies
    for groups with special needs. This work has been brought into sharper focus by the COVID-
    19 pandemic.
   Research in global and sustainable education (Bovill, Jones and Knight). Our research on
    sustainable development addresses questions such as ‘how can society approach
    responsible and ethical consumption?’; ‘why are there inequalities in global education?’; ‘what
    educational approaches can counter sexual violence?’ Building upon the UN Sustainable
    Development Goals, this strand’s core purpose is advancing the economic, social and
    environmental knowledge to solve future challenges, create opportunities and shape our
    communities across the region and beyond as outlined in the UWE Bristol Strategy 2030 (see
    Institutional Statement).

BRIDGE’s 200+ membership encompasses the Unit’s large PGR community (see section 2) and
colleagues from across UWE, including those active in other research groups and centres.
BRIDGE’s membership also spans other regional universities, including Bath, Bath Spa, Bristol and
Cardiff, and local schools and colleges, particularly those with whom we enjoy formal partnership
arrangements. Other members include staff from local authorities and the Office for Students, and
third sector bodies seeking to expand educational opportunities for the socially and economically
disadvantaged including Future Quest, Into University and South Bristol Youth.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Overarching research and impact strategy, and objectives
Aligned to the University’s Research strategy, the broad spectrum of research conducted by Unit
staff is informed by a strategic focus on research-with-impact, and with four main aims:

  (1) To produce internationally excellent research that has real world impact and contributes to a
      sustainable economy and society, encouraging diversity and inclusivity.
  (2) To enable staff to undertake ambitious projects – developed through partnerships,
      collaboration and co-creation with regional industry and stakeholder networks – as the
      platform on which national and international research-with-impact is based.
  (3) To undertake interventionist research that engages with real world issues and policy as a
      locally embedded civic university with national and international reach.
  (4) To support and grow a diverse complement of PGRs and Research Fellows in order to
      broaden the Unit’s research base and ensure sustainability.

Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact 2014-2020

1) Internationally Excellent Research.

Early in the REF period, we identified the need to develop the Unit’s activities through building
education research capacity to undertake more high quality, high-impact research. For example,
the appointment of internationally acknowledged Technology Enhanced Learning (TEL) expert
Cook brought with him leadership of a strand of the EU funded cross-European Learning Layers
project (see section 3). Early career researcher (ECR) Santos Rodriguez was also appointed to
work on this project. Investment continued throughout the period through appointing Costa and
Newbutt, both with a record of high-quality research in digital education. This aim was further
advanced through strategic investment for colleagues conducting research, and through building
balanced teams, with seed-corn investment funding to undertake pilot projects to develop their
experience and enhance the Unit’s research base. Colleagues presented work locally and at
national and international conferences, publishing outputs and developing bids for external funding.
Recipients of this support included Edmonds, Lewis and Fogg-Rogers. In 2020/21 Andrews,
Burke, Jones and Wilkinson are also recipients of this internal investment.

2) Impact, Partnership, and Collaboration.

Another identified priority was increasing collaboration within the Faculty, across the University,
regionally, nationally and internationally to enhance the impact of our research. For instance, the
Paired Peers project (Bradley and Waller; see ICS#2 below and section 3) involved collaboration
between colleagues from two UWE faculties and four other universities, and with policy makers
including from the Office for Fair Access (OFFA). Local impact has been achieved by colleagues
from numerous collaborating partner organisations taking research back into their institutions,
notably our doctoral students’ partner organisations including the Cabot Learning Federation and
both City of Bristol and Weston Colleges. Specific support measures have facilitated this, including
seminar series featuring presentations from UWE colleagues and postgraduate students; larger
scale events involving national and international speakers; and showcases of our externally funded
project work. Unit staff also work closely with UWE’s Academic Practice Directorate (APD), for
instance Burke, whose keynote address to APD’s annual Festival of Learning event in 2020 drew
upon his research on graduate resilience, and Waller, who sits on APD’s University-wide
pedagogic research award panel. Research into HE pedagogy and other aspects of education
theory and practice is widespread within UWE, as evidenced by the Education Research Network
(ERNie), established by Waller and Rolfe in 2016. Unit members were central to ERNie’s work, for
instance leading research activities and events designed to appeal to staff across the institution,
including guest lectures and seminars (e.g. Bradley and Waller), workshops on subjects like
‘getting published’ (Harrison) and particular research methods (Newbutt), and hosting events
promoting opportunities for research collaboration (Bovill). ERNie ran until early 2020, when the
APD built upon the network’s success, scaling it up to establishing Higher Education Pedagogies,
Policy & Practice research network (HEPPP). Several Unit members (Bovill, Burke, Maisuria and
Waller) sit on HEPPP’s advisory board, offering strategic leadership regarding its policy, direction
                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and activities, enhancing the network’s impact.

The Unit’s two impact case studies hinge on long-established collaborations, working relationships
with key individuals, and co-production with academic colleagues and research users.
ICS#1 University Outreach coalesces around the work of Harrison, drawing upon four projects
where he was the PI, in collaboration with colleagues within UWE and other universities. The
principal vector for impact was a close working relationship with OFFA (now Office for Students,
OfS) built over many years, including engagement with the Director and Deputy Director and other
staff focusing on evidence and policy. Following delivery of workshops at OFFA events since 2014
focussing on the evaluation of university outreach activities designed to widen HE participation
amongst ‘non-traditional students’, and on student bursaries, Unit staff were invited to tender for
two projects on bursary and outreach activity evaluation described in the ICS. These fed directly
into national policymaking on university outreach activities and student retention, and into practice
among numerous English universities.

ICS#2 Paired Peers (Bradley and Waller) draws upon a longitudinal project on the impact of social
class backgrounds on student experiences and outcomes covering 2010-2017, and began as a
collaboration between UWE and the University of Bristol. In a similar manner to ICS#1, close
working relationships with policy makers including OFFA ensured the project had a direct line to
impact. For example, a key member of OFFA’s staff sat on the project’s advisory board, and their
Director spoke at the project report’s launch, as did opinion leaders such as the Chair of
Universities UK, a Bristol MP and high-profile journalists and commentators including Laurie Taylor,
Melissa Benn and Polly Toynbee. The launch events attracted practitioners and academics, and
members of key bodies including the government’s Social Mobility Commission and third sector
bodies promoting equality of access to universities and to graduate professions.

3) Real World Research

BRIDGE’s central cross-cutting organising principle is social justice, that is, how can education
research contribute to producing a more inclusive, diverse, equitable and just society? Recent world
events highlighting these issues include climate emergency, #Metoo, Black Lives Matter, those ‘left
behind’ communities revealed by Brexit, and issues of digital poverty further thrown into sharper
relief by COVID-19. Major projects drawing on this principle include Inclusive Campus
#SpeakUp@UWE Bristol, an anti-sexual violence social norms campaign (Bovill and Waller, 2017-
2019) which was shortlisted for the Times Higher Education 2020 Awards in the category
‘Outstanding Support for Students’. Other projects include Paired Peers on higher education, social
class and social mobility – see above and ICS#2), and the research activity run under Project Zulu
(Carter, Edmonds, Knight, Lewis, Vickers-Hulse, Whitehouse and Witt, 2016 to date – see
section 3)

4) Supporting and Growing Research

The BRIDGE research group established a Research Associate position to help realise its
expanded potential regarding bidding, maintaining a lively research culture and community,
organising research dissemination (particularly through social media), impact activities and other
related events. This post was initially filled by Almohammad (2018-2019), then Podpadec (from
2020).

Key initiatives have continued to build research capacity and enhance our wider research
environment. For example, funding to support ECR staff to attend BERA’s 2014 and 2018
conferences to present research and build networks, and the establishment of bodies such as the
Bristol hub of the transnational Open Network for Mobile Learning Scenarios (ONMLS) (see section
4). The inclusion of outputs by staff from other departments across the University (e.g. Babayigit,
Bradley and Fogg-Rogers) reflects the Unit’s aim to cross institutional boundaries, promoting
synergies and co-working between colleagues. Babayigit is a child psychologist whose work
explores language acquisition processes, Bradley is a sociologist of work and gender who led the
Paired Peers project, and Fogg-Rogers is a key figure in UWE’s Science Communication team
                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
who has worked with E&C staff on a number of projects involving the learning and teaching of
science (see section 3).

Building upon Costa’s successful 2019/20 project bid, Unit staff have won three further prestigious
Vice-Chancellor’s Inter-disciplinary Research Challenge Fund Awards of £10,000-£25,000 each for
2020/21, designed to encourage cross-disciplinary research between faculties. Newbutt is on a
team looking at ‘Integrating Social Robots into School Settings: Co-designing robot-enhanced
classrooms for children with autism’. Newbutt also has a cross-faculty research award with a
colleague in Health for a project ‘Mental wellbeing and exposure to restorative environments:
Comparing flat-screen viewing and immersive virtual reality’. Bovill is working on two projects with
colleagues from elsewhere in UWE, to explore ‘the impact of language and culture on gender
salience’ and ‘what and how do young people want to learn about consent and pornography in
school and how can this inform resource development?’ These awards are designed to pump-prime
external funding bids, seeking to further increase the quantity, reach and impact of our externally
funded research.

Research and impact strategy 2020 onwards
The strategic aims across the Unit going forward are to:

  (i) Increase the breadth, international reach and impact of our research collaborations,
      partnerships and knowledge exchange activities.

  (ii) Extend research activism impact, intervening in major debates and cross-cutting issues
       including: the impact of digital poverty on educational opportunities and outcomes; climate
       change; education and sustainability; education, social reproduction and social mobility in
       pandemic and post-pandemic Britain.

  (iii) Further integrate E&C colleagues, PGRs and Fellows into the Unit’s research culture to
        ensure continuity and sustainability across our research activities and increase the diversity
        of our research base.

  (iv) Establish a departmental peer review group for mid-career researchers to build their research
       bidding and publication profiles, complementing similar Faculty and University level
       initiatives.

BRIDGE has a clear target over the next period to build upon its firm foundations and become a
national leader in research focussed on HE institutional intelligence data, looking to lead
collaborations with colleagues from other HEIs. We will also work with colleagues outside academe
and seek external funding to undertake significant impact-focussed research, building upon our
extensive theoretical and practical expertise, as highlighted in ICS#1.

BRIDGE’s three areas of focus - researching with children and young people; digital education;
research in global and sustainable education - align with the four strategic priorities of UWE’s
Research Strategy 2030 (see Institutional Statement); digital futures; creative industries and
technologies; health and well-being; and sustainability and climate change resilience. We will
continue collaborating on the cross-cutting theme of social justice, with an enhanced focus on
sustainability and resilience (including post-pandemic recovery). Specifically, we aim to:

  (i) Increase the number, size and scope of externally funded projects, strengthening their reach
        and impact, e.g. through grant writing retreats, utilising the data and research work of
        BRIDGEBid (the bid cluster of BRIDGE) and through recruitment of a permanent RA to
        support bids and tenders.
  (ii) Enhance the scale, range and influence of collaborations and partnerships within UWE and
        with external partners including other HEIs, particularly in areas of existing strength locally
        and nationally, for instance through both sector leadership and research network events.
  (iii) Continue to develop BRIDGEBid through mining data on existing and new areas identified as
        priorities, such as BAME student data.
                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  (iv) Strengthen further our PGR provision and numbers through recruitment and closer
       partnership working. We are currently developing a range of PG options, including with
       overseas partners in China and elsewhere to align with our UG partnership provision. These
       include developing an online Professional Doctorate in Education (EdD) programme for
       international markets. PGR culture is being enhanced to embed our doctoral researchers
       more deeply into research activities, for example through attendance at seminars and guest
       lectures, and participation in academic reading groups and writing retreats.
  (v) Embed PGRs and ECRs into the Unit’s research programmes and culture to help ensure
       continuity and sustainability across its research activities (e.g. co-authoring outputs with
       supervisors, and incorporating ECRs into established research teams for bidding) with a
       particular focus on increasing diversity of its research base through targeted research
       collaboration and project focus.
  (vi) Establish a research pipeline enabling currently non-research active staff to develop early
       research work, ECRs to move into mid-career phases, and mid-career researchers into
       senior phases through strategic use of internal and external funding opportunities.

BRIDGE, whose raison d’être is inter-disciplinary research, is well equipped to work across
traditional academic disciplines to understand the challenges posed by an increasingly complicated
world and develop education research programmes to tackle the ‘wicked problems’ faced locally,
nationally and globally.

Research integrity
UWE is committed to promoting excellent research observing the highest standards of integrity. A
central Research Governance team supports researchers in meeting the requirements of the
Concordat to Support Research Integrity and UWE’s Code of Good Research Conduct. Our HR
Excellence award, first bestowed in 2012 and renewed biennially since, recognises success in
implementing the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.

The Unit’s researchers create and maintain a Research Governance Record (RGR) for all projects.
The RGR’s completion requires a risk assessment considering, for example, levels of psychological
harm participating in a study might cause, and risk arising from issues including lone working
practice and safeguarding. All researchers must undertake safeguarding training if collecting data
with children or vulnerable adults, and possess current DBS clearance if so.

The ethical integrity of research within the Unit is overseen by a Faculty Research Ethics
Committee which Andrews chaired 2015-2020. The Chair also sits on the University Research
Ethics Committee. Andrews used her extensive expertise in advising on ethical aspects of
research within the Unit, including specialist support for our PGR cohort.

Researchers are also required to generate a Data Management Plan (DMP) for all projects to
include how data is handled from inception to disposal which takes a ‘life course’ approach
documenting the data journey. The DMP offers a rationale for data collection, access, restrictions,
storage, and back-up; clarifying how data is documented, described, maintained and preserved.
The DMP must follow UWE protocols and be compliant with the Data Protection Act 2018.
Research directors including doctoral supervisors undergo Research Governance training to
facilitate this. A detailed checklist of all requirements of the RGR has been constructed to support
researchers in maintaining data security compliance.

Open research
UWE has had an open access repository for research outputs since 2010 and established an open
access data archive in 2015. Staff must deposit publications within three months of acceptance,
copyright permitting. Since 2019 all research students must make their data open access through
the data archive. Research staff are also encouraged to use the data archive. We implement data
management software as recommended good research practice.

Our staff can make use of a centrally administered fund to pay open access costs for UKRI funded
projects, and a growing number of open access agreements with publishers to facilitate gold open
                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
access. All doctoral theses are digitised and downloadable from the UWE repository, except where
sensitive or confidential data is included.

Section 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development
The Unit’s overall strategy is to recruit, develop and retain high-achieving researchers at all career
stages whose work complements and extends core aims defined in Section 1. To achieve a vibrant
research culture, researchers are assisted at each stage of their career, and many colleagues
joining the department have been supported through from their PGR studies onto ECR status (e.g.
Bowden-Clissold, Chicken, Edmonds and Whitehouse), and for some, subsequently to mid-
career researchers (e.g. Harrison and Waller).

This ‘train and retain’ status is reflected in the enhanced research status of staff with significant
responsibility for research included in this submission, with 90% of submitted staff holding primarily
research-focused positions (up from 64% in 2014).

Through a variety of cross-university and faculty-level development funds, UWE enhances support
for ECRs, including a £3m investment in the Vice Chancellor’s Early Career Researcher (VCECR)
Awards. These prestigious grants support emerging researchers in priority areas to undertake
preliminary research with a view to generating high quality outputs, forging collaborations with
relevant external partners and making a substantial bid for external funding to develop the work.
VCECR award holders are allocated a senior researcher to oversee their project and receive
dedicated support in bidding for external funds. This Unit’s previous VCECR recipients include
Andrews, Babayigit and Harrison. Subsequently, all have gained significant external funding, for
example Andrews was part of a cross-disciplinary and cross-institution team awarded a £1.5m
AHRC grant to research multi-lingualism through an exploration of processes and practices of
researching in contexts where more than one language is involved. Other Unit staff not yet
considered to have significant responsibility for research, including Butcher, Chicken, Edmonds,
Lewis and Witt, have also received VCECR support previously, as will Carter and Jones in
2020/21.

Several ‘mid-career’ researchers (e.g. Andrews, Costa, Harrison and Waller) enjoyed Faculty
and/or Department funded periods of research time during this REF period, facilitating completion
of specific projects, some of which are represented in this submission’s outputs. The Faculty
provides support for researchers attending conferences and for staff to study for higher degrees,
particularly the EdD. Twelve E&C staff over the REF period have either completed or are currently
undertaking doctoral study. Over 20 staff from other UWE faculties and UWE professional services
are currently on the EdD programme, significantly contributing to development of research
capability beyond the Department and across the wider UWE community.

Support to develop individual and collaborative projects and high-quality outputs is provided
through systematic mentoring and peer review. The importance of impact is fully embedded in the
research culture in staff recruitment, at induction, during probation, in personal development
reviews and in career progression and promotion evaluations. Staff are trained to build impact into
research activity at every level, beginning with the conception and design of the research. They are
encouraged to work with a variety of educational and civic stakeholders as active partners,
responding to their interests, needs and priorities whilst undertaking rigorous conceptual enquiries
addressing significant issues for the education sector.

During the reporting period, Andrews, Harrison and Ryan were promoted to Associate Professor,
and Newbutt to Senior Research Fellow. These promotions reflect strategic investment to
strengthen areas of excellence and increase research capacity, augmented by additional external
appointments: Burke and Maisuria enhance our social justice work, and Costa our digital
education research.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Bovill and Newbutt participated in the Research Accelerator Programme designed to enhance
research careers, developing strategic bidding skills and fostering new collaborations. Senior
research staff (Andrews, Burke, Cook, Costa, Harnett, Harrison, Maisuria, Newbutt, Ryan and
Waller) have had dedicated research time and a brief to develop other staff as part of their
research leadership roles.

Our leadership model offers development opportunities to less experienced colleagues. Two of the
Unit’s Associate Professors (Andrews and Waller) benefitted from a mid-career mentoring scheme
where an experienced Professor from the wider Faculty supported them in securing successful
external bids. Recently appointed Burke and Maisuria are currently being mentored similarly, as is
Bovill.

The Unit makes good use of Visiting Fellows and Professors whose expertise complements and
extends our work. For instance, Dr John Selby, previously HEFCE’s Director of Widening
Participation and Admissions, has been a Visiting Fellow and an active participant in our research
seminars, and advisor to a number of projects involving the Unit’s staff (notably Paired Peers).
Selby’s connections to high level policy makers and third sector bodies exploring issues of widening
participation to HE and access to the professions has further enhanced our work’s impact.
Harrison retains Visiting Research Fellow status since leaving the University, and Carol Fox
(previously a graduate student) is a Visiting Fellow working on a project with Waller exploring the
progress of mature students in the city. Bradley (whose pre-retirement outputs feature in our
submission), Brine and Harnett each retain Emerita Professor status.

Other examples of support for staff include enabling ECRs to co-author articles and books under
the guidance and mentorship of more experienced researchers – Andrews, Harrison and Waller
for instance. The EdD programme team are currently discussing with a publisher an edited
collection of research undertaken by the programme’s students and recent graduates exploring the
impact of education policy upon professional identities in a range of education contexts. Building on
a successful venture with Routledge published in 2010 (which contributed outputs to REF2014), the
proposed new collection features Unit staff whose work has been developed and supported from
conception through to publication.

At Faculty level, we have proactively sought research collaborations with colleagues across the
University. In addition to winning one Vice-Chancellor’s Inter-disciplinary Research Challenge Fund
Award in 2019/20 and three in 2020/21 as mentioned above, we initiated exploratory collaboration
events with colleagues in the faculties of Health and Applied Sciences (February 2020) and
Business and Law (March 2020). Potential collaborations arising from these events are currently
being developed into proposals.

Postgraduate Research
The Unit seeks to provide an exemplary training, support and learning environment for its PGR
students, drawing upon UWE’s Graduate School (GS) and its Code of Practice for PGR Study. We
recruited strongly throughout the REF period, building upon the growing base reported previously –
from a PGR student population of 25 on the RAE2008 census date, rising to 31 by REF2014, to 52
in July 2020 (3 PhD and 49 EdD). There were also 29 students on the taught phase of the EdD,
scheduled to become PGRs in either 2021/22 or 2022/23. A new cohort of 16 EdD students were
recruited during summer 2020 despite additional challenges posed by COVID-19.

Most of our PGRs follow the EdD route, being either employer-funded or self-funded practitioners
working between academic and professional contexts. Consequently, they bring valuable skills,
knowledge and expertise informing the Unit’s research culture, and help maintain a strong
research/practice link. PGR students often come from organisations with whom we have
partnership arrangements, delivering on our strategic objective of impacting positively on learning
and teaching regionally.

Andrews and Waller lead the EdD, working closely with Smart as PGR student lead, overseeing
progression of PhD candidates and EdD research phase students. The EdD also helps address
                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development needs of our own staff; with significant numbers delivering the taught phase and
progressing to supervise research phase students.

In REF2014 we reported 18 PGR completions, which has risen sharply to 33 now, broken down
thus:

 Year            PhD            EdD          All Completions
 2013/14          2              2                  4
 2014/15          4              2                  6
 2015/16          1              2                  3
 2016/17          4              3                  7
 2017/18          0              0                  0
 2018/19          1              5                  6
 2019/20          3              4                  7
 Totals           15             18                33

Research students are supported in a range of ways:

   All have a Director of Studies and supervisory team who undergo compulsory training in
    supervisory practice;
   The EdD taught phase includes intensive research training, and PhD students must pass 60
    credits of PG research courses;
   Students attend regular training and support days, and other activities at Faculty and
    Department level, including BRIDGE research seminars, the annual Faculty Research
    Celebration event and Faculty PGR conference;
   Through internal events, PGRs are provided with opportunities to present their research in
    supportive environments, and receive feedback from peers and doctoral supervisors;
   The Graduate School provides general and personalised advice on training needs, funding,
    careers and other issues and offers networking events and access to national and regional
    networks. PhD students in particular benefit from the GS skills development programme
    focussing on employability skills, including residential personal and career development
    courses;
   A Student Study Fund (usually £350) enables attendance at UK or overseas conferences or
    workshops;
   UWE Wellbeing Services, augmented by dedicated PGR support through the GS, assists
    students with mental health and/or wellbeing concerns;
   Students are represented throughout University PGR governance structures, including
    Graduate School Committee and Faculty Research Degrees Committee.

The 2020 Postgraduate Taught Experience Survey showed 100% satisfaction for phase one of the
EdD programme, illustrating how well it prepares candidates for their research phase. The most
recent (2019) Postgraduate Research Experience Survey showed overall student satisfaction with
our research degree programmes is 93%, compared with 81% nationally.

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

As highlighted in section 1, the Unit’s research is driven by social justice concerns, and is fully
engaged with equality and diversity issues, especially social class, ‘race’/ethnicity, gender and
sexuality, and disability. Examples include Waller’s work on class and higher education, Andrews’
on multilingualism, Bovill’s on sexual harassment on campus, and Newbutt’s on the use of VR to
tackle learning disabilities. Our research promotes intersectional analysis of equality and diversity
issues.



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UWE has signed up to the Athena SWAN principles and currently holds bronze institutional status
(since 2013, renewed under the scheme’s wider scope in 2017). Athena SWAN at University level
includes a priority action to raise aspirations of women to have research careers at a senior level.
As a result, the University’s Women in Research Mentoring Scheme (WRMS), run throughout the
REF period, has helped promote the careers of women researchers and increase their number
among senior staff. Several Unit members have been mentees (Bovill, Carter, Vickers-Hulse,
Whitehouse, and Woodbury) while others have acted as mentors (Andrews, Costa, Harrison
and Waller). Andrews has been the scheme’s longest serving mentor, mentoring six participants
since it started, and currently sits on the Steering Group and Matching Panel responsible for pairing
mentees and mentors.

Of the staff whose outputs are submitted to the REF in this Unit, 50% identify as female and 50%
as male, whilst 20% are of BAME heritage. Senior staff are responsible for EDI initiatives including
decolonising the curriculum at University, Faculty and departmental levels, and research in this
area includes Vafadari and Whitehouse’s work through ITE partnerships and BAME networks to
empower practitioners in a diverse range of Bristol schools to decolonise their curriculum.
Within the Unit, staff have been identified as having significant responsibility for research and
outputs have been selected, according to the University’s Code of Practice. This includes selecting
outputs according to their quality as determined through a thorough peer review process involving
an internal peer review panel comprising eight senior researchers, and three external reviewers
towards its latter stages. There was no expectation about the number of outputs any one individual
contributed to the submission. Where it was necessary to choose between a small number of
outputs with the same quality score to reach the required total, account was taken of the distribution
of outputs between individuals and across the subject areas of the submission.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

To ensure sustainability, the Unit’s work is supported by a mixed economy of core and competitive
internal funding and various external sources. Major income sources across the REF period, which
totals c.£1.2m include two European Framework 7 Integrating Projects totalling £273k (£27k to
UWE), two from AHRC totalling £546k (£77k to UWE), and one from Leverhulme Trust, totalling
£262k (£234k to UWE). The Unit has also undertaken work commissioned by bodies including
OFFA and OfS, as outlined in ICS#1.

The Unit won competitive Faculty funding for activities that led to resources being deployed to build
research capacity, for example pump-priming several small projects by supporting staff with
dedicated research time and mentoring from senior research staff. More recently the Faculty has
invested in BRIDGE activities including collaborative networking events and by providing resourcing
to administer the group, develop its digital and media presence and provide for various activities:
seminars (external and internal speakers); mentoring of ECRs; writing retreats focussed towards
research publication work; and an academic reading group (particularly encouraging PGR
involvement).

2014-2018
Early in this REF period, external funding was received for projects under three themes, examples
of which are:

Design for Digital Learning
Work continued on the Learning Layers project (2012-2016), a major cross-European project with
funding totalling c.€9.9m (UWE received c.€0.5m) comprising seventeen partners across seven
nations, to explore the ‘scaling-up’ of Lifelong Learning using Technology Enhanced Learning
across Europe. The project investigated how workplace informal learning could be supported by
new technologies like mobile phone and tablet apps. UWE’s work, led by Cook and involving
Santos Rodriguez and Last, trialled the project in two sectors traditionally hesitant to adopt
learning technologies: healthcare in North East England and building/construction in Northern
Germany.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Researching Children and Young People
Work also continued on the BrEaking New Ground IN the SciencE Education Realm (ENGINEER)
project (2013-2015) with European funding totalling c.€2.8m, (UWE received c.€127k). This trans-
European project involved ten nations, all of whom linked a science museum with a primary school
and used inquiry-based pedagogical methods in science education to develop greater awareness of
and interest in engineering. Harnett led the UWE team of Knight and Lewis. The project provided
extensive teacher training on inquiry-based methods, and used inexpensive materials for student-
led design problem solving. Science museums led the outreach effort targeting schools, teachers
and science museums, with activities involving some 27,000 students across ten nation sites.

Post-Compulsory Education, Social Justice and the Student Experience
Paired Peers (2010-2013) and (2014-2017), funded by the Leverhulme Trust, was undertaken in
collaboration with the University of Bristol, where phase one was initially based, with phase two
based at UWE. The Principal Investigator was Bradley, other UWE staff involved include Co-
Investigators Bathmaker and Waller, Bentley (also a PhD student on the project), Papafilippou
and Ward. Phase one followed a cohort of 90 students studying similar undergraduate degree
subjects in Bristol’s two universities. The primarily qualitative project compared student experiences
of, and transitions into, through and out of university, examining how class background impacted
upon those transitions and experiences. Phase 2 followed 56 of the original cohort for three further
years, examining career progression and their wider lives following graduation. Phase one funding
was returned in the previous census period, but total funding for phase 2 was c.£262k, with UWE
receiving c.£235k. Several project outputs feature in the submission, and it is the focus of ICS#2.

2018-2020
Since 2018, BRIDGE projects under its key themes include:

Researching with Children and Young People
Children as Engineers was a four-year HEFCE-funded project (£10k) led by Lewis, Edmonds and
Fogg-Rogers, pairing Initial Teacher Education students with undergraduate engineering students,
training them to use engineering challenge materials which they delivered in upper key stage two
classrooms. The impact of participation in the project was evaluated and it was established that for
pre-service teachers there were significant benefits for their science and engineering subject
knowledge and their confidence to teach these subjects (a key factor in ensuring positive outcomes
for children). This pedagogical practice is now embedded within UWE’s engineering and
educational undergraduate programmes, ensuring all students benefit from the research.

Digital Education
Several recent projects on Autism and Virtual Reality led by Newbutt involved development and
application of technologies (specifically virtual reality (VR) and head-mounted displays (HMDs)) to
autistic groups (including EC funding of c.£25k). This cutting-edge work brought together
practitioners, parents, young people, researchers and technology companies to collaborate on
using VR in schools, increasing its impact markedly. The project facilitated collaboration with
Faculty colleagues in UWE’s Digital Cultures Research Centre and Bristol VR, and built on
Newbutt’s previous EPSRC-funded work with Michigan State University which uncovered findings
related to acceptability, presence, immersion and possible issues with VR and HMDs for autistic
adults. Newbutt has previously investigated how virtual world platforms such as Second Life™ help
people with autism navigate social situations such as visiting a coffee shop, going to the cinema or
attending a job interview. His current work involves an interdisciplinary team of UWE researchers
(education, robotics and architecture) investigating how socially intelligent robots can be used in
schools to support young autistic people.

Global and Sustainable Education Research
Project Zulu (PZ) is a UWE-run charitable educational initiative supporting ten township schools in
Kwazulu-Natal, South Africa, including several research-informed educational projects on learning
and teaching, ICT development, physical infrastructure and sports coaching. Projects involve
student volunteers and academic staff (Carter, Edmonds, Knight, Lewis, Vickers-Hulse
Whitehouse and Witt) working jointly with pupils, teachers and school leaders to improve facilities,
                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
share innovative practice and develop resources and strategies to enhance educational
opportunities. The project’s research arm evaluates the impact of these initiatives, eliciting
stakeholders’ views, including the local South African education department, and evaluates the
strengths and weaknesses, benefits and drawbacks for partners in both countries. Carter has
recently won a British Academy award of £30k to extend this work around the use of reading apps.

Infrastructure and Research Support
The Faculty’s Associate Dean for Research, supported by its Director of Research and Associate
Heads of Department for Research and Scholarship, ensure applications for internal research
funding (see below) are evaluated in terms of research excellence, career progression and
alignment with research strategy; ECR applications are considered separately to ensure parity.
Research leaders liaise with department heads over workloads, and monitor progress and
outcomes against agreed targets that are sensitive to career positioning, progression, track record,
wellbeing and equality and diversity issues. Researchers are encouraged to make full use of the
University’s Personal Development Reviews where line managers ensure clear development goals
and KPIs are identified for individual researchers.

All research-active staff are allocated up to £1,500 per person per year for attending conferences
and conducting empirical research. In addition, Unit researchers have benefitted significantly from
awards made through the Faculty’s 5 competitive funding schemes:

  (i) Research Support Time (RST) provides dedicated research time to complete internationally
        excellent outputs;
  (ii) Research Collaboration Fund (RCF) provides up to £12,000 to support staff working with
        colleagues across UWE, other HEIs and industry;
  (iii) Research Impact Fund (RIF) provides money to further impact activities and evidence
        gathering;
  (iv) Research Publicity and Dissemination Fund (RPDF) enables staff to promote their research
        inside and outside the academy;
  (v) Research Group Scheme encourages the creation of new research groups around
        strategically significant themes and supports the ongoing work of established groups
        including BRIDGE.

In addition, selected staff participate in annual intensive bid-preparation Summer Schools for
emerging researchers, including previously Bovill, Carter, Newbutt and Lewis from within this
Unit.

UWE’s Research, Business and Innovation unit provides a programme of research skills and
development training and ensures staff are aware of opportunities for external funding, bids for
which are encouraged though workshops, individual mentoring and UWE’s Peer Review College
that also supports staff in bidding. To complement this, BRIDGE established a peer review system
for bids and academic outputs as part of its core mission. ECRs benefitting from this include Carter
who recently published in British Educational Research Journal, and Jones, whose work appeared
in Children’s Geographies.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research collaborations

Internal collaborations:
Unit members collaborate with colleagues from other University research centres and groups.
Waller spoke at Social Science Research Group (SSRG) 2015 launch event and has addressed
meetings of several SSRG thematic strands (e.g. the Identities, subjectivities and inequalities sub-
group). Such research collaborations resulted in co-authored publications, including on the impact
on undergraduates of participating in an A-Level student tutor/mentor scheme with local schools
and colleges.

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Harrison and Waller worked with UWE’s student finance team in evaluating the effectiveness of
student bursaries (see ICS#1), and Bovill led an interdisciplinary team of UWE researchers and
practitioners in the HEFCE funded (£50k) project on the role of education in tackling sexual
harassment on campus.

The Unit enjoys strategically important links with the Faculty’s Digital Cultures Research Centre
(e.g. Newbutt’s work on VR), and other UWE centres and groups, notably the Centre for
Appearance Research (e.g. the continuation of Bovill’s work educating to prevent sexual violence
mentioned above, which also involved colleagues from various professional services roles and
other academic departments).

External collaborations:
As well as leading on national and international projects, Cook’s role within the University and local
community until his 2018 retirement included coordinating the Bristol hub of the transnational Open
Network for Mobile Learning Scenarios (ONMLS). Further support for this initiative came from SRF
Santos Rodriguez, and Research Fellow Last, to assist the hub part-time.

Specific projects involving collaboration with both policy makers and colleagues in other universities
included those behind both Impact Case Studies. Harrison’s projects outlined in ICS#1 on
improving university outreach and broadening access to HE resulted in the development of a
financial support evaluation tool (2015-2017, with Sheffield Hallam, King’s College London and
Oxford - £57k total) and an evaluation self-assessment tool (2017-2018, with Sheffield, Sheffield
Hallam and Derby - £30k total) for the OfS. Both have been widely adopted across the university
sector. High impact outcomes of this included workshops for c.100 university-based practitioners on
using financial support evaluation tools; Harrison’s methodology led to a better evaluation of the
effectiveness of financial support facilitating better targeting of access funding.

Harrison’s collaborative work on care-experienced students within HE resulted in extensive
collaboration with university-based practitioners and local authority practitioners nationally (e.g.
National Leaving Care Benchmarking Forum), whilst his sole-authored 2017 Moving On Up report
informed policy development for both the OfS and DfE. Work with various local authorities helped
embed this into practices regarding support for student care leavers, further enhancing this
research’s impact.

We also collaborate with regional bodies including Bristol Cultural Education Partnerships,
partnership schools and multi-academy trusts, colleges and other organisations such as the
Western Region Widening Participation Research Cluster and Future Quest, a locally-based
organisation with national reach, promoting outreach into schools and colleges encouraging
participation in HE amongst socially disadvantaged communities. Future Quest is currently leading
work with the new Social Mobility Pledge initiative of Rt Hon Justine Greening (e.g. Waller is
speaking at their first national event in November 2020). UWE’s annual Schools and Colleges
conference has included presentations from members of this Unit (e.g. Burke, Harrison and
Waller).

Other collaborative work includes Carter’s research into phonics screening checks in primary
schools; she worked with 63 schools in South Gloucestershire who adopted the audit for effective
early reading practice. Similarly, Carter’s Boosting Reading at Primary (BRP) work has been used
widely by Bristol LA schools. A cross-city cohort of 724 pupils made an average of 3.67 months
progress in reading age following interventions, and teaching assistants in the city are now trained
using this approach. Carter’s work has also involved international collaborations including the
Erasmus Plus funded: Open the Door to Reading project which developed guidance for
practitioners working with young families in five European cities: Bristol, Gothenburg, Brussels,
Turku and Milan. Carter has also recently won a BERA small grant to study the impact of
Coronavirus on supporting one-to-one reading for children in need of additional support.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Contributions to the discipline

Academic editorship
Unit members collectively sit on sixteen journals’ editorial boards, including high-profile examples
such as Journal of Education Policy (Maisuria), British Journal of Sociology of Education (Waller);
Teaching in Higher Education (both Harrison and Waller) and Educational Psychology
(Babayigit). They have guest edited four journal special issues across the period, and edited a total
of ten books. Waller is a Publications Director of the British Sociological Association (BSA).

Participation on research and grants committees, and learned societies
Newbutt has served on the advisory board of projects funded by the German Research Ministry
and the FP7 COFUND EU Marie Curie fund. He is a Research Associate and Member of the
Center for Avatar Research and Immersive Social Media Applications (CARISMA), Michigan State
University, USA.
Newbutt, Harrison and Babayigit have all reviewed large research proposals for the ESRC, and
Waller for its Belgian equivalent, the FWO. Babayigit has also been a reviewer for Biotechnology
and Biological Sciences Research Council and the British Council Newton Fund, for whom
Maisuria also reviews. Bradley has served on panels for the ESRC, the Irish Research Council for
the Humanities and Social Sciences, the Swedish Research Council and the Academy of Finland.
Harrison has reviewed research funding applications for the SRHE, and Maisuria for the British
Education Studies Association (BESA).
Harrison is an elected member of the SRHE’s Governing Council, Maisuria is an Executive
Committee Member of BESA, Babayigit was a Committee Member of the British Psychological
Association, and Waller is an elected Trustee of the British Sociological Association.

Fellowships
Newbutt has held visiting fellowships at University College Dublin and Michigan State University;
Jones is an honorary research fellow at Exeter University; Maisuria at Sweden’s Uppsala and
Goteborg universities); Whitehouse at universities in Lund (Sweden) and Timisoara (Romania).
Bradley is a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences, and holds an Honorary Professorship from
Karlstad University (Sweden).

Prizes
Jones and Whitehouse won a silver publisher’s award from the Geographical Association for their
co-authored 2020 book DRY: The diary of a water superhero, whilst Bradley and Waller won
second prize in the Society for Education Studies ‘book of the year’ award for their co-authored
2016 monograph book from the Paired Peers project. Waller was also runner-up in UWE’s
‘Research with Impact’ award 2019 for this work.
Harrison and Waller won the British Education Research Journal’s Editor’s Choice annual award
for their much-cited 2018 article on the discourse of aspirations, and were shortlisted in 2019 for
their WONKHE higher education policy website blog on a similar topic.
Edmonds, Fogg-Rogers and Lewis were shortlisted and highly commended for a 2018 House of
Lords STEM Inspiration Award for their research project on getting children interested in
engineering, and were national winners of the 2018 Teacher Education Advancement Network
‘Commendation for Effective Practice in Teaching’ award for the same work.

Membership of Research Council or similar national and international committees
Harrison is an Advisory Group Member for the OfS project on standards of evaluation, and Burke
a network convenor for SRHE and a BSA Study Group convenor. Maisuria is an advisor to the
Private Schools Policy Reform group, and member of London Educational Research Network
Scholars. Smart has served as an advisor to the Council of Europe’s History Education unit, and to
EUROCLIO (European Association of History Education), and represented them across Asia and
Europe.

Invited keynotes and lectures
In addition to many contributions within the four UK nations, Unit members have given keynote
lectures or similar invited contributions in 24 other countries during the census period: Armenia;
                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Brazil; Canada; China; Croatia; Cyprus; Denmark; Estonia; France; Germany; Greece; India;
Ireland; Italy; Latvia; Netherlands; Norway; Poland; Portugal; Russia; Serbia; South Korea; Sweden
and USA.
In the UK context, Unit members contribute to events across a wide range of topic areas. Examples
include Jones being a keynote or invited speaker at ESRC’s Communicate conference and Royal
Entomological Society’s annual conference (both on sustainable food) and Expert Discussant at
PURE: London 2018 (on ethical fashion). Costa made keynote contributions on topics including
using social theory in research, digital scholarship and estranged students in HE, Waller gave
keynotes to several PGR conferences externally, and Newbutt’s contributions included addresses
on virtual reality and autism. To enhance their research’s impact with practitioners, Unit members
frequently address teachers’ conferences, for instance Witt on maths anxiety, Foley on the
teaching of both classics and Shakespeare in a secondary school environment, and Andrews on
‘Achieving success in linguistically and culturally diverse schools and settings’. Burke has both
given several keynote addresses on using Bourdieu’s theories in educational research (as has
Waller), and addressed the Association of Graduate Careers Advisors on graduate employability, a
topic Waller has also spoken to various professional bodies about, including the Scottish Law
Society. Harrison gave a keynote to the National Network for the Education of Care Leavers
annual conference on his research on care leavers and HE.

Conference chair roles
Maisuria has organised and chaired the International Conference on Critical Education and the
Marxism and Education: Renewing Dialogues (MERD) seminar series for several years and is on
the organising committee for BESA 2021 Annual Conference. Bovill, Burke, Harrison and Waller
have each convened and chaired symposia at SRHE annual conference, as Harrison has at the
European Conference on Education Research, and in 2018 was included in BERA’s showcase of
UK-based research for the American Educational Research Association. Waller has chaired
several symposia at BERA and BSA annual conferences, and, along with Harrison convened and
chaired several Western Region Widening Participation Research Cluster symposia throughout the
period. Bovill organised a conference on ‘Gender, Sexuality, Bodies and Identities’ in a BRIDGE
collaboration with UWE’s SSRG and Centre for Appearance Research, with keynote speakers from
the US. Burke has co-organised the bi-annual BSA Bourdieu Study Group Conference in Bristol
(2016); Lancaster (2018) and Barcelona (2020), although the latter was victim of the COVID
pandemic.

Refereeing academic publications
Unit members have further contributed to the research base by reviewing book proposals for
publishers including Continuum; Emerald; Open University Press; Palgrave; Policy Press;
Routledge and Sage.
Unit members have also peer-reviewed article manuscripts for c.40 different academic journals
including: British Educational Research Journal; British Journal of Sociology of Education; British
Journal of Educational Studies; Cambridge Review of Education; Discourse: Studies in the Cultural
Politics of Education; Higher Education; Journal of Education Policy; Oxford Review of Education
and Sociology.
Babayigit, Burke, Harrison, Maisuria and Waller have all been keynote contributors or invited
panel members at UK and international event sessions focussed on getting ECRs published.

External Doctoral Examinations
Throughout the census period, Unit members have examined doctoral theses at some 30 UK and
international universities, including Bahauddin Zakariya (Pakistan); Birmingham; Cardiff; Institute of
Education (UoL); Kings College, London; La Trobe (Australia); Liverpool; Nottingham; Queen’s
Belfast; Sheffield; University College, Dublin and York.

Members have also been external examiners for PGR degree programmes during the period e.g.
Waller for University of Bristol’s MSc Educational Research, University of Leicester’s MA Social
Research and the joint Roehampton and Kingston University EdD.



                                                                                             Page 14
