Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Nottingham Trent University (NTU)

 Unit of Assessment: B11 - Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The Computer Science and Informatics Unit of Assessment (UoA) at NTU is a highly
 interdisciplinary UoA that delivers theoretically grounded and determinedly impactful research
 that enables us to bring multiple computer science approaches to bear on issues of societal
 concern. Our research coalesces under the theme of ‘Enabling Digital Technology’ and extends
 to the following areas: health and wellbeing; physical rehabilitation; care of the elderly; education
 through personalised learning systems; and intelligent transportation systems. Our
 collaborations involve industrial partners across 18 countries, sharing our vision of bringing
 together advanced technologies and digital systems to create smart innovative services and
 intelligent business models for our end-user communities.

 Building on the strengths documented in RAE2001/2008 and REF2014, we have created a vital
 and sustainable research environment with significant levels of growth. Notable achievements
 for this UoA include:

       grant income spend has increased to £3.06M in REF2021 from £1.26M in REF2014;
       PhD completions have more than doubled to 34 in REF2021 compared to 14 in
        REF2014; and
       414 outputs have been published with 84.8% in Q1 journals by SNIP and 62% with
        international co-authorship (Scopus/SciVal, 2014-2020).

 1.1 The UoA’s research structures
 Professor David Brown is the Director of the UoA’s Computing and Informatics Research Centre
 (CIRC), which is based within NTU’s School of Science and Technology (SST). Alongside
 Brown are Dr Colin Wilmott as Research Coordinator and Deputy Director and Professor
 Ahmad Lotfi as Head of the Department of Computer Science. Research leadership is provided
 by the Centre’s Research Advisory Group, which is responsible for developing and implementing
 our research strategy. CIRC comprises 14 research academics, 2 independent research fellows,
 35 post-doctoral and PhD researchers across four Research Groups: Interactive Systems (IS);
 Computational Neuroscience and Cognitive Robotics (CNCR); Computational Intelligence and
 Applications (CIA); and, Network Infrastructures, Computing and Cyber Security (NICCS). Each
 Research Group is led by two senior researchers (e.g., a professor and an associate professor)
 to ensure expertise and sustainability. Since 2014, NTU has invested in an Associate Dean for
 Research (ADR) in every academic school who mentors group leads. As a member of both the
 University Research Committee and the University Leadership Team, this role links the UoA
 directly to the strategic decision making of the University. SST provides a Postgraduate
 Researcher Tutor who supports PhD student recruitment, selection, and training, as well as
 supervisor training. CIRC also engages with NTU’s five strategic research themes (see REF5a)
 which bring together researchers from across disciplines to address key societal challenges as
 outlined in Section 1.3 on interdisciplinarity.




                         Figure 1: Research Group structure within the UoA

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Research and Impact strategy

 1.2.1 Achievement of REF2014 research strategy
 The UoA reviewed its research objectives at the start of this REF period before embarking on an
 ambitious strategy to realise our Enabling Digital Technology vision. Highlight metrics include:
      £3.06M in grant income spend, representing a 155% increase over REF 2014;
      34 PhD completions, representing a 143% growth;
      414 scholarly outputs co-authored by UoA members, with 84.8% in Q1 journals by SNIP
        and the majority having at least one international co-author (Scopus/SciVal 2014-2020);
        and
      15 keynote speeches, 4 visiting professorships, participation on 20 journal editorial
        boards, 5 conference prizes, hosting of 6 international conferences and membership of
        16 research funding panels.

 Our strategy was to enhance the quality of colleagues’ contributions in world class facilities, thus
 growing our portfolio of grant income from high-quality sources. Strategic investments in people,
 buildings and equipment, and utilisation of enlarged key University teams (Section 3.2), including
 Research Operations (RO) and Research and Strategic Partnership Development (RSPD), have
 driven a step-change in the UoA’s research environment since REF2014. In REF2014 (REF5),
 we undertook:

    1.   To address societal needs with ubiquitous computing research, increase user
         engagement, diversify our funding portfolio, and grow our research base

   This REF period has seen the formation of CIRC where our Enabling Digital Technology vision
   has focused on applying computational research to areas of societal concern (Sections 1.2.2
   and 1.2.3).This has inspired a virtuous circle from innovation through to implementation, user
   engagement and impact, leading directly to high levels of grant capture from prestigious
   sources.

              Table 1: Data on income and PhD completions
                                                    REF2014             2014-2021
                Grant Income Spend                   £1.2M               £3.06M
                PhD Completions                        14                  34
    2.   To conduct interdisciplinary research and partnerships

  Investments in state-of the-art, interdisciplinary research facilities have pioneered new research
  areas and facilitated interdisciplinary research. These include: the £11M Interdisciplinary
  Science and Technology (ISTeC) facility for integrating computational techniques with cognate
  disciplines for applications to the real-world; and the £0.5M SmartNTU House facility (Section
  3.3). Examples of consequent interdisciplinary research encompass CNCR’s SiElegans project
  and NICCS’s REMOURBAN project involving 21 partners (Section 3.1). More recent
  investments, such as with Medical Technology Innovation Facility (MTIF) and Smart Wireless
  Innovation Facility (SWIFt) continue this trend of interdisciplinary research into the next REF
  cycle (Section 3.3).

    3.   To recruit and nurture excellent research staff and students

  Investment has strengthened senior leadership in CIRC with new professors and associate
  professors. Given sector challenges in recruitment, the development of early career
  researchers has been supported through two appointments under the SST Early Career
  Independent Research Fellowship (IRF) Scheme and through four academic associates who
  conduct PhD studies alongside a part-time teaching position (Section 2).




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    4.   To increase our national and international profile for research excellence

  Our external collaboration evidences our increased profile with nearly three quarters of our
  outputs having external collaborators. Staff in CIRC are now involved in a range of high-profile
  activities beyond NTU, from H2020 grant panel memberships to visiting professorships and
  delivering international summer schools in quantum computing (Section 4).

  5.     To improve our external standing in research strength and quality

  CIRC staff have maintained a record of publication in high-quality journals and the highest
  profile academic conferences, including IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, IEEE Internet of
  Things Journal, and IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics.

 1.2.2 Achievement of REF2014 impact strategy
 In REF2014 (REF3a), we aimed to: target wider engagement with end user communities;
 influence government via our Research Centres, conferences, KTNs and equivalent networks;
 embed the value and importance of impact into the foundations of our work; and engage in
 consultancy and partnerships. These aims have been achieved across a range of initiatives set
 out below.

 We have developed impact with a range of end-user communities across all our research
 activities (Section 4.2). This is exemplified by service users from Nottinghamshire MIND being
 central to Brown’s EPSRC project to enable improved perceptions of mental wellbeing by
 networked smart textile objects. Brown also engaged stakeholders across Europe, through two
 H2020 funded projects (No One Left Behind and MaTHSiS), to improve the inclusion of students
 with learning disabilities through accessible and adaptive learning technologies (REF3). As a
 consequence, he has influenced government through giving oral evidence to the House of
 Commons Education Select Committee in 2019 on the future of AI in the classroom (Section
 4.3). We have developed new end-user engagement through the award of three Innovate UK
 projects; of particular note is Kanjo’s eNurture Project (TangToys) in partnership with the
 Nottingham Schools’ Trust and the Ann Craft Trust.

 In recognising the value and importance of impact, we have developed an extensive network of
 partnerships within financial services, transportation, energy and education sectors with which
 we have facilitated sustained knowledge transfer through explorations of new products and
 services. Examples include Kanjo’s match-funded studentship with The Manufacturing
 Technology Centre (Section 2.2.1), Peytchev’s REMOURBAN project involving 21 partners,
 including local authorities and companies, and Wilmott’s quantum computing work with UK-
 based banking institutions (Section 4.4).

 Through our commitment to developing and strengthening partnerships with industry, we have
 secured £0.8M competitive D2N2 Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) Local Growth Fund co-
 funding to support the establishment of NTU’s new £1.6M Smart Wireless Innovation Facility
 (SWIFt, Section 3.3). This will enable senior academics from CIRC to work ever more closely
 with local businesses on the development and implementation of innovative 5G technology.

 1.2.3 Enabling, facilitating, and achieving impact
 Building on the REF2014 strategy, CIRC has generated a range of sustainable mechanisms to
 help incubate the best impact of our research at all stages. We have targeted resources,
 including funds, studentships and sabbaticals, towards prioritising projects with planned impact
 routes. This has included: practice-sharing workshops with RAND Europe; a ‘Fast Track Impact’
 workshop by Prof Mark Reed; IP exploitation training by NTU’s Knowledge Exchange team; and,
 funding for collaborative travel for all CIRC staff.

 Examples of where investment has enabled impact include:



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       The realisation of the impact of Peytchev’s ‘Connected and Autonomous Vehicles i-
        Motors’ project with Control F1 was underpinned by a six-month research assistant (RA).
        This CIRC-funded RA provided critical stability of skills and expertise for impact
        development. The i-Motors project enabled a communication framework capable of
        improving autonomous vehicles’ awareness of surrounding traffic. It was described as
        ‘instrumental for development and economic impact’ (Dale Reed, Control F1) and has
        since generated £5M of economic impacts for Control F1 (see our Mobile Networking
        Case Study);
       The realisation of the impact of Brown’s co-creation project with Fujitsu and the
        subsequent co-development of the mobile app to improve the mental wellbeing of
        workers with autism, called ‘My-State’, was supported by a one-year RA. It was also
        underpinned by a formal strategic partnership between NTU and Fujitsu (see our
        Inclusive AI Learning Systems Case Study);
       Two NTU-funded RAs underpinned Lotfi’s research to assist regional companies to
        explore the use of emerging technologies within their business environment products.
        JustChecking Ltd deployed the group’s expertise in activity recognition and machine-
        learning for future product lines. Alcuris Ltd made use of our insight into activity
        recognition and abnormality detection for their elderly monitoring product ‘memo’; and
       Funding from the ‘Enabling Innovation’ project, jointly funded by European Regional
        Development Fund (ERDF) through the LEP and NTU, allowed CIRC to work on product
        and process innovation within SMEs in the D2N2 area. We supported over 150 local
        SMEs and companies, such as Digital Affinity, through design workshops, prototype
        building, and continuing support.

 1.2.4 Future research and impact objectives
 Our future strategy synergises further our approach to research and impact and will continue our
 Enabling Digital Technology vision:

    1. Exploit our interdisciplinary strength to explore ‘Smart Technologies’ for future living and
       working spaces.
       The University’s new £1.6M Smart Wireless Innovation Facility (SWIFt, Section 3.3) will
       allow CIRC, especially our CIA and NICCS groups, to introduce innovative technology
       onto the Clifton campus, allowing us to explore ‘Smart Places’ for the future. The £280K
       5G Connected Forest project, newly-awarded to Kanjo, will explore the potential for 5G
       applications to preserve forests and their environment. Similarly, our NICCS Research
       Group will work towards a smart cloud-based activity recognition system as a service for
       real-time monitoring and recognition. Our SmartNTU House facility will also provide a
       living lab facility to explore further research in improving people’s lives through the
       application of smart technologies.

    2. Address grand societal challenges, such as human health and an ageing society,
       through digital technologies, such as AI and data science.
       In terms of health and AI, our IS Research Group will explore the relationship between
       interaction and wellbeing of students with learning disabilities using tangible interfaces.
       For example, a €449K Erasmus+ project newly awarded to Brown will develop an AI tool
       to predict engagement and 'Meltdown' events in individuals with autism. Our CIA
       Research Group will pursue further algorithms for human activity recognition in multi-
       occupant environments using new sensors, such as Infrared Thermal Sensor Array,
       alongside the application of entropy measures in activity recognition.

    3. Develop innovative and intelligent technologies for future medical devices and industrial
       practice.
       CIRC, through IS, CIA and CNCR Research Groups, is a collaborative partner in NTU’s
       LEP co-funded £23M new Medical Technology Innovation Facility, MTIF, that will
       specialise in healthcare-related commercial product development (Section 3.3).
       Furthermore, our Research Groups have expertise in cognitive and assistive robotics
       which will be explored for human-robot co-working scenarios in industrial digitalisation.

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    4. Recruit and support excellent researchers, embedding diversity, inclusion, and innovation
       in our ways of working.
       CIRC aims to build on our successes since 2014, enhancing sustainability and increasing
       research capacity. Our objective is to recruit and support the highest quality staff aligned
       to our Research Groups and further develop EDI policies and practices. We will also
       continue our drive to attract high-quality research awards and exploit new investments in
       research facilities (SWIFt and MTIF, Section 3.3). We are also committed to recruiting
       excellent and diverse PhD students and enabling their full research potential.

 1.3 Approach to Interdisciplinary Research
 The structure of CIRC was designed deliberately to cultivate interdisciplinary and
 multidisciplinary research within the UoA and across SST and NTU. This is further achieved by:

       Our shared research infrastructure (Section 3.3) supports excellent research with impact
        across all areas.
       CIRC groups coordinate weekly meetings where all members meet alongside our
        departmental seminar sessions allowing for frequent interactions and enabling cross-
        disciplinary work.
       CIRC encourages multi-disciplinary collaborations across NTU, which have led to joint
        publications including: Brown with Pockley and others in UoA A03; Shahtahmassebi
        with Liang in UoA B12; and Kanjo with Kuss in UoA A04.
       CIRC staff are involved in NTU’s five strategic research themes (REF5a), in particular
        with the Medical Technologies and Advanced Materials theme through work with the
        John van Geest Cancer Research Centre and with Liang on Global Heritage: Science,
        Management and Development. The latter has now been selected as NTU’s first
        Research Peak (REF5a), with £500k pa of investment to further development, it
        exemplifies NTU’s excellence in research and societal impact; CIRC is involved through
        Pourabdollah’s work on digital humanities.
       To encourage cross-disciplinary discussions, SST’s Annual Research (STAR)
        conference brings together speakers from across all the STEM disciplines.

 1.4 Strategy for an open research environment
 NTU’s Publication Policy mandates the deposit of full text journal articles in our institutional
 repository; this enables the sharing of research outputs and underlying data. A centrally-
 managed open access fund was established in 2014 to increase our ability to provide immediate
 open access to outputs via the gold route; within the UoA, funding of some £40k has supported
 publications since 2014.

 1.5 Supporting a culture of research integrity
 Matters relating to research integrity, including research ethics, are overseen centrally (REF5a)
 and managed locally. The University Research Committee, chaired by the Deputy Vice-
 Chancellor – Research and Enterprise, and reporting to Academic Board, is responsible for the
 development and monitoring of research integrity policies and procedures. The Research
 Integrity Committee provides support and advice to Research Centres, including CIRC. Robust
 systems are in place to ensure research projects requiring ethical enquiry are thoroughly
 scrutinised.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 CIRC has an inclusive staffing strategy focused on strategic recruitment and supportive
 retention. The UoA has targeted growth through strong research teams, with senior
 appointments and internal promotions providing credible leadership and succession planning.
 Key external appointments have been made at senior levels including 2 new professors
 (McGinnity, Sanei) and 2 new associate professors (Cang, He). Through the SST Early Career


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 IRF Scheme (Section 2.1.3), launched in January 2016, we have appointed two individuals on
 ascending research trajectories and provided them with time to get their research portfolio
 established whilst building their teaching experience.

 2.1.1 Staffing and Recruitment policy
 Staff retention. CIRC has actively facilitated existing researchers fulfilling their potential. As
 already mentioned, the UoA has also recently piloted a doctoral fellow scheme (academic
 associate), which has seen four new part-time lectureship/research associate posts leading to a
 PhD award.

 External recruitment. Recruitment has focused on the establishment of new robotics research in
 addition to significant investments in our three existing Research Groups. CIRC has attracted
 and promoted two internationally leading professors in robotic systems research, ambient
 assistive technologies (McGinnity) and networking technologies (Sanei). The UoA has
 benefitted from the SST IRF Scheme that supports increasing research capacity whilst providing
 areas of research strength with succession planning. Two high achieving researchers (Shen
 and Zhong) with outstanding potential were appointed in 2019 to 5-year positions with tenure
 track routes to lectureships (Section 2.1.3).

 In making new appointments, we ensure that each of our four Research Groups enjoy a mixture
 of staff seniorities to allow for succession planning, mentoring and exchanges of ideas. Each
 Centre has benefitted from new appointments and promotions as set out below:

       The CIA Research Group has benefitted from a promotion to professor for group lead
        (Lotfi), the external appointment of two associate professor posts (Cang and He) and
        the external appointment of a senior lecturer (Pourabdollah). The group has also
        received additional investment in an IRF (Zhong) in assistive robotics who is being
        supported to progress to permanent status.
       The NICCS Research Group’s strengths have been complemented by the recruitment at
        professorial level of an expert (Sanei) in signal processing with application to analysis of
        brain signals and images (particularly brain-computer interfacing). Additionally, the group
        has benefitted from an internal promotion to associate professor (Peytchev), and the
        recruitment of two senior lecturers (Sculthorpe and Kaiwartya).
       The CNCR Research Group was established in 2014 with the external appointment of a
        professor (McGinnity) in robotics research. It has been strengthened further by an
        external appointment at senior lecturer level (Ferreira) and the appointment of the UoA’s
        second IRF (Shen).
       The IS Research Group has been strengthened by an internal promotion to associate
        professor (Kanjo) and through the recruitment of a senior lecturer (Mahmud) with
        expertise in machine-learning that has led to the further development of the group
        around its commitment to user-centred approaches of enabling technologies.

 This approach to ensuring mentorship and new ideas is underpinned by a programme of
 international exchanges and visiting researchers, including Professor Muñoz-Organero
 (Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, Spain) and Professor Jose Maria Sarabia (University of
 Cantabria, Spain) who contribute to and enrich the research culture (Section 4.1).

 2.1.2 Staff Development Strategy
 Staff development is coordinated by the Director of the UoA’s Computing and Informatics
 Research Centre (Brown) in concert with the Head of the Department of Computer Sciences
 (Lotfi). In line with the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, a
 range of opportunities are offered, tailored to career stage. Our mentorship programmes provide
 all staff below professorial level with a senior research mentor (professors or associate
 professors), who has relevant research experience, to complement support through the
 Department-run annual appraisal system that encompasses Individual Research Plans to
 identify short-term goals and longer-term career objectives. Developing funding applications


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through individual peer-review and sandpits aids colleagues to transform new ideas into stronger
 project proposals.
 CIRC invests in a portfolio of staff development initiatives that build strategic research capacity
 in areas aligned to our Enabling Digital Technologies vision, including: staff research
 sabbaticals; incoming and outgoing international researcher mobility; match-funded PhD
 studentship scheme (Section 2.2.1); and financial support leading to grant capture (Section 3.2).
 Sabbatical leave has been provided to allow concentration on research, impact and building
 collaborations via the UoA's funded study leave programme. Two types of sabbatical have been
 funded based on research accomplishment and leadership and research career stage. During
 the period, Wilmott and Shahtahmassebi have received periods of research leave.

 2.1.3 Early Career Researcher Support
 ECR support is particularly important to our long-term strategy and the sustainability of the UoA.
 A wide range of support for ECRs is available, including: the Winning Grant Funding Programme
 (Section 3.2); new ECRs pairing with a research mentor; and ECRs being prioritised with NTU-
 funded studentships. They have also benefitted from reduced teaching and administrative loads for
 ECRs, typically, a reduction of 60% in Year 1, 30% in Year 2 and 10% in Year 3.
 An exemplary case of our ECR strategy is the SST IRF programme: five year roles with reduced
 teaching (initially 50 rising to 100 contact hours/year) and dedicated research support
 (£10k/year) are intended as ‘tenure-track’ routes to permanent lectureships.

 The UoA benefits from a vibrant community of research assistants and research fellows.
 Postdoctoral staff are actively supported in their transition to academic or non-academic posts
 by the School’s Staff Development Programme and via the University’s appraisal framework,
 involving regular career development meetings with senior CIRC staff. Staff undertake a
 bespoke programme, offered through NTU’s Researcher Development Gateway, to assist
 career planning and grant writing. There are also opportunities to gain teaching experience and
 qualifications.

 2.2 Postgraduate Researchers
 Postgraduate researchers (PGRs) are an integral part of our research culture. The total number
 of PhDs completed in the UoA has increased to 34 (4.9 p.a.) in REF2021 from 14 (2.8 p.a.) in
 REF2014. CIRC has developed a research environment involving academic staff, research
 fellows, PhD students, Erasmus students and summer interns in discussions that are inclusive
 with the aim of promoting the sharing and exchange of research ideas with and through the use
 of computing environments and facilities. CIRC also enjoys a number of cross-institutional
 supervision collaborations, including McGinnity’s supervision of 7 doctoral candidates from
 Ulster University (Professor Coleman), Pourabdollah’s supervision of 2 doctoral candidates with
 the University of Nottingham (Professor Jon Garibaldi), and Shahtahmassebi’s co-supervision
 of PhD research with University of Plymouth (Peninsula College of Medicine, Mr David Stell).

 2.2.1 PhD Funding and Recruitment
 CIRC’s PhD student cohort: Support for, and the development of, the UoA’s expanded
 postgraduate student community is core to the success of our research environment. Our current
 cohort of 26 PhD students (31 July 2020) includes 50% Home/EU and 50% international students,
 the latter from Libya, Nepal, Argentina, Iran, Nigeria and India. Our current PhD cohort includes 7
 funded by overseas Governments, 6 that are self-funded, and 2 part-time PhD students who study
 as academic associates with a concurrent 0.5 FTE 5-year Lectureship, promoting career
 development. NTU’s PhD Studentship Scheme has provided competitive, fully-funded
 scholarships that cover tuition and stipends to 13 CIRC PhD students since 2014. Collaborative
 PhD research is promoted via NTU’s match-funded scheme (launched 2016) which covers half of
 tuition fees and stipend, where an external sponsor contributes the other half. An example is
 Kanjo’s project with The Manufacturing Technology Centre (Section 4.2).

 Recruitment. Fair and consistent admission is ensured by the School Postgraduate Research
 Tutors who chair PhD interviews. PhD applicants are required to have a Master’s degree (with

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Merit) or a first-class or 2:1 BSc Honours degree. EDI data on enrolled PhD students is available
 at School of Science and Technology level; our gender balance is the same as the sector
 (HESA) whilst our PhD population is considerably more ethnically diverse than the sector
 (HESA).

 Supervision. Supervisory teams include at least two NTU staff with experience of at least two
 PhD completions between them. All supervisors attend a two-day training course and are invited
 to meetings of SST’s Supervisors’ Forum, which supports best practice in supervision.

 Monitoring. Students typically meet their supervisors weekly. Progress is formally monitored via
 a supervisory panel and independent assessor, with annual monitoring as well as key
 deliverables around Month 6 (Project Approval) and Month 18 (Transfer from MPhil to PhD).

 Training and support. Training opportunities are covered during induction with the SST PGR
 tutor and postgraduate representative and reviewed as part of annual monitoring. The NTU
 Doctorate Plus Programme (see REF5a) maps PGR training to the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework and the requirements of the UK Research Councils and Quality
 Assurance Agency.

 SST-specific training supplements NTU-wide opportunities such that PGRs can create bespoke
 packages of activities to support their development. There are workshops on research methods,
 report writing, project management, research data management, equality and diversity
 awareness, and additional English classes for researchers with English as a second language.
 Our PGRs receive an annual research budget of £1K. In Year 1, this is expected to help fund
 any additional specialist training requirements, equipment, or conference attendance, and in
 Years 2 and 3, the funds are expected to contribute to conference attendance.

 Throughout their degrees, PGRs also have opportunities to share their research and develop
 presentation skills, including:

       In our annual SST STAR Research Conference PGRs typically present a poster in their
        first year and a talk in their second. In 2020, presentations were adapted to an
        online/virtual setting, incorporating a 3-minute thesis competition.
       The Department of Computer Science runs a weekly seminar series, with a mixture of
        invited external and internal speakers from Computer Science and related disciplines.
        PGRs are invited to present their work as a full seminar in their third year.
       CIRC groups coordinate their own research meetings, with informal opportunities for
        PGR presentations, such as practice talks for conferences.
       In 2019, SST established a biannual joint networking series with University of
        Nottingham for PGRs to share research ideas and grow sustainable collaborations.
       CIRC has hosted 6 international conferences this REF period which have provided an
        excellent platform for our PGRs to share their research (Section 4.4).

 The success of our PGR strategy can be seen in our high level of on-time thesis submission
 rates; 89% in 2017/18. The overall satisfaction for PhD students in the School of Science and
 Technology in PRES 2019 was 84%, 3% higher than the sector as a whole. It is reflected also in
 PGRs from CIRC winning awards at major conferences, including the recent best paper award
 at ICACII 2020: XIV. We have appointed a number of our PhD community into postdoctoral
 positions (Taheri, Sarsfield and Ortega).

 2.3 Equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI)
 The University was awarded the bronze Athena Swan charter mark in April 2019 (see REF5a)
 and targets a silver submission in 2023. Supporting this, our School strategy aims at
 departmental Athena Swan submissions from 2022; the Deputy Head of the Computer Science
 Department (Hartley) is leading on the delivery of an action plan towards a departmental Athena
 Swan submission, which embeds staff and student mentoring, and includes initiatives such as
 involvement by female members of academic staff in the creation of the "Women in Tech"

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 network for East Midlands, and encouraging students (of all genders) to volunteer for Code First
 Girls. Our School Athena Swan champion supports this initiative and coordinates School-level
 EDI activities, including participation of six School staff in the Advance HE Aurora programme,
 events for International Women’s week, international women in engineering day, Black History
 month, LGBT History month, the installation of an on-campus nursing room for nursing mothers,
 and maintenance of an EDI intranet with links to staff networks, policies and resources.

 Recruitment across SST has transitioned through gender decoding of recruitment materials and
 mixed-gender interview panels, to attract a more diverse staff pool. Specific training improves
 understanding of equality and diversity within the workplace, including unconscious bias training
 for all staff. Across all academic and research staff in SST in 2019: 32% identified as women;
 16% as being Black Asian and Minority Ethnic; and 4% declared a disability. Within CIRC, 19%
 are women and over 45% of staff in the Department of Computer Science are from a BAME
 background. CIRC supports NTU’s institutional target to increase the representation of women
 within the professoriate to 35% by 2022. Presently, 50% of our associate professors are female.
 Furthermore, we encourage a flexible and inclusive approach for staff working from home or
 remotely. For example, the Support of Academic Returners (SOAR) scheme funds up to £5k
 following a period of caring-related leave to support career pathway development.

 Staff perception of EDI issues is very positive. The 2018 staff survey (run by an external
 company) collected responses at departmental level. In the Department of Computer Science, of
 which the majority of UoA staff are members, there was an aggregate average 92% positive
 response to EDI questions on equality of opportunity, including EDI awareness and the
 University’s approaches to respect and equality of opportunity.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our target for this REF period was to develop a portfolio of significant new grant income from
 diverse, high-quality sources. This has been delivered with an income-spend of £3.06M,
 compared to £1.26M in REF2014, and major grants from prestigious sources, including EPSRC,
 BBSRC Innovate UK, The Royal Society, EU H2020, EU Erasmus+, and Leverhulme.

 3.1 Research income and funding strategy
 The CIRC Advisory Group has consistently offered high levels of support to members to ensure
 that all Centre-supported proposals are as competitive as possible through detailed grant
 proposal assessments on a one-to-one basis, and multiple iterations of refinement from
 conceptualisation to submission. We encourage all members to attend annual Research
 Operations and Research and Strategic Partnership Development grant writing events (Section
 3.2) that focus on building a competitive bid, different types of research calls, and specific
 funders. CIRC has also utilised direct University investment (approx. £80K p.a.) to pump-prime
 research and grant submissions through 6-month research assistance, sabbatical cover, and
 short-term research exchanges. We maintain a specific fund with a light-touch and responsive
 application process so that we can react to immediate funding opportunities. Our €449K
 Erasmus+ ‘An AI Tool to Predict Engagement and Meltdown Events in Students with Autism’
 and £280K 2020 UK Government (Media, Culture and Sport) ‘5G Connected Forrest’ projects
 are recent examples of how our strategy, research structures, support via studentships and
 internal investment have led to major grant capture.

 CIRC’s research funding portfolio consists of 11 projects, comprising funding from UK research
 councils (EPSRC and Innovate UK) and EU research bodies (FP7, Horizon 2020 and
 Erasmus+). There are significant awards in all Research Groups throughout our scope. For
 instance:

       Within CNCR, Si–Elegans is a £1.2M EU FP7 project investigating performance
        discrepancies between artificial computational systems and brains.
       Within IS, No One Left Behind is a £457K EU Horizon 2020 project involves gaming
        toolkits that enhance student abilities across all academic subjects, MaTHiSiS is a £467K

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        EU H2020 on multimodal affect recognition for students with learning disabilities, and An
        AI Tool to Predict Engagement and 'Meltdown' Events is a £430K EU Erasmus + project
        that focuses on helping individuals with autism.
       Within NICCS, REMOURBAN is a £300K EU Horizon 2020 multidisciplinary project
        centred on accelerating smart urban transformations.
       Within CIA, iCarer is a £250K EPSRC project offering adaptive platforms to carers
        support through a range of monitoring activities.

 3.2 Organisational infrastructure
 Since 2014, CIRC has engaged with significantly expanded University teams, including our
 Research Operations (Pre-Award, REF, Governance and Research Information Management)
 (RO) and Research and Strategic Partnership Development (RSPD) teams. The RO team
 provides bespoke advice and guidance to researchers with regard to external research grant
 applications, including the Winning Grant Funding Programme. This team also ensures
 compliance with terms of national and international research funders and provides support for
 research integrity and research ethics policies. The RSPD team provides up-to-date knowledge
 of funding bodies and supports academics to develop external partnerships, build research
 consortia, and create high quality research and innovation funding proposals. CIRC engages
 actively with NTU’s Knowledge Exchange Directorate (KED) for commercialisation support
 where it is well practised in developing close partnerships with businesses to maximise
 commercial potential. Working closely with KED, we have been able to identify, protect and
 develop intellectual property assets arising from research with a clear and constant focus on
 potential applications and markets. Other grant support infrastructure includes the £1.1m NTU
 investment in ‘Worktribe’, a holistic research management system that is designed to support the
 whole project proposal life cycle from proposal development to post-award management and
 publication. Worktribe has been designed as a series of interconnecting modules: Pre-award;
 Post-award; Contracts; Output Deposit; Staff Profiles; and Impact Recording.

 3.3 Infrastructure and facilities
 Infrastructure. We have seen very major investment in state-of the-art, interdisciplinary research
 facilities, including:

       The Interdisciplinary Science and Technology Facility (ISTeC, £11m including £5m from
        HEFCE/Research England, 800m2 research wing, completed 2017) that brings STEM
        subjects together to support collaboration between different subject areas, outreach
        activities, and industry engagement. This brings high specification spaces for
        collaborative and multidisciplinary research within one building, including, for example,
        our robotics research (CNCR).
       The £0.5M SmartNTU House facility (CIA Research Group) which takes the form of a
        typical home and is fitted with a wide-ranging collection of smart sensors (see detail
        below).
       CIRC is a collaborative partner in NTU’s Medical Technologies and Innovation Facility
        (MTIF, £23m including £9.7m from D2N2 Local Growth Fund, 3318m2 on two sites;
        completed 2020) which aims to enable early stage research and development in medical
        technology and medical devices. The Boots Enterprise Zone component supports our
        CNCR and IS research activities in medical design and research, providing an
        unprecedented new product development facility in the Midlands for partners. The MTIF
        building on the NTU Clifton campus enables early-stage innovation and impact-
        generation activities from our researchers.

 The provision of significant and innovative new facilities is continuing into this REF cycle. The
 University’s £1.6M Smart Wireless Innovation Facility (SWIFt), again co-funded by the LEP, will
 turn Clifton Campus into a smart and sustainable ‘living laboratory’ for businesses, academics,
 and policy makers. The project heralds a range of innovations, such as intelligent wayfinding and
 virtual assistants, smart parking and building controls. SWIFt will also examine the application of
 5G and other smart technologies in industry, logistics and agriculture and explore how to create
 ‘Smart Places’ for the future.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Lab facilities. All our UoA members are located on the Clifton Campus. Our doctoral community
 is co-located with research staff and supervisors. Every PhD researcher is allocated a desk and
 computer workstation. The UoA has dedicated research labs within ISTeC, the Engineering
 Building, and the SmartNTU house facility. The main facilities include:

       a 75m2 robot arena that has a VICON tracking system and state-of-the-art humanoid
        robots engaging human-robot/robot-human object handovers where we utilise a range of
        high specification robots, including iCUB, Sawyer and Robotniq robots, equipped with
        robot hands and the best tactile robotic sensors currently available (BioTac sensors from
        Syntouch). Other sensor systems include an AR10 hand and a DAVIS spiking neuron
        camera;
       a VR Interaction lab equipped with a range of sensors connected to sensing the affective
        state of learners (Tobi eye gaze, EEG – Open BCI);
       a 300 core HPC cluster;
       a 400 board FPGA computing cluster based on Altera (Intel) Stratix 5 devices. This
        system is one of the largest FPGA clusters in the country and each FPGA processing
        board incorporates an Intel/Altera Stratix 5 FPGA device, and is complemented by a
        separate embedded CPU processor board, memory, and high-speed interconnect. The
        overall system was developed with a budget of approximately £1M. Recent purchases of
        Stratix 10 devices from Terasic maintain the currency of the system;
       a 3Brain multi-electrode array system and a BioBot 3D bioprinter which enhances
        multidisciplinary computational neuroscience projects; and
       SmartNTU house, which is a living lab facility equipped with a range of ambient sensors
        including PIR motion sensors, thermal cameras, depth sensors, pressure and presence
        sensors. The facility is also equipped with assistive robotic platforms including a Pepper
        robot and several NAO robots. As part of the research facilities available to CIA
        Research Group, a Baxter robot and UR5 robots are also available for research in the
        development of transfer learning algorithms.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 CIRC is inherently interdisciplinary, with members of the UoA having backgrounds in
 mathematics, physics, engineering, and bioscience. We have worked with more than 30
 organisations across 18 countries such that that over 70% of the outputs submitted by this UoA
 involve co-authors from other institutions, and over 50% of the outputs submitted by this UoA
 involve international institutions. This has been enabled by: internal funding for research
 visits/exchanges; match-funded PhDs (Section 2.2.1); supporting conference attendance
 particularly for ECRs; support for pump-prime projects with strategically important collaborators;
 and organising series of conferences (Section 4.4) in areas of strength and priority.

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships
 The Computational Intelligence and Applications group enjoys a number of ongoing national and
 international collaborations. Examples include Lotfi’s fruitful collaborations with Prof Mario
 Muñoz-Organero (Universidad Carlos III de Madrid) on the topic of applied machine learning for
 wearable and mobile sensor data, and Prof Naoyuki Kubota (Tokyo Metropolitan University) on
 assistive robotic and community-centric system for elderly care. Members are collaborating with
 the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology in Tokyo, Japan on
 assistive robotics, and, through Cang, we have ongoing links with Chiang Mai University
 (Thailand) through our involvement in the €3M EU Erasmus Modus ‘FUSION’ project. In terms of
 other international projects, the group enjoys on-going strong links with the Chinese Academy of
 Science (China) through three other major projects (the €900K H2020-MSCA-RISE ‘SMart
 rObOTs for fire-figHting’, the €310K H2020 ‘RABOT - Real-Time Adaptive Networked Control of
 Rescue Robots’ project, and the £152K Royal Society and National Natural Science Foundation
 of China funded project entitled ‘Adaptive Learning Control of a Cardiovascular Robot using
 Expert Surgeon Techniques’). Pourabdollah is engaged on a major international collaborative
 endeavour, ‘AI-FML International Academy’, whose aim is to promote the IEEE 1855-2016

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 standard (Fuzzy Markup Language) through real-world applications, including organising
 educational activities, workshops and competitions for different audiences. The work of the AI-
 FML International Academy has led to the establishment of the IEEE CIS Content Curation
 Subcommittee in collaboration with 7 international institutions, including Tainan, Tokyo
 Metropolitan, Naples, and Santiago de Compostela. Jun He has international collaborations with
 researchers from Sun Yat-sen University, China (Professor Yuren Zhou) on optimization and
 evolutionary computation, and the University of Nottingham Malaysia (Dr Siang Yew Chong) on
 co-evolution systems and computational intelligence. Both collaborations have produced journal
 outputs in leading journals, including IEEE transactions on Cybernetics, Evolutionary
 Computation, and Artificial Intelligence.

 The Computational Neuroscience and Cognitive Robotics group has engaged in an innovative
 collaboration with the international SiElegans project consortia to deliver an enhanced
 understanding of retinal ganglion cell visual processing. In particular, McGinnity collaborates
 with the Istituto Italiano di Technologia (Neuroscience), University of Ulster (Intelligent Systems),
 Vicomtech-IK4 (eHealth and Biomedical Applications), and the National University of Ireland.
 Ferreria has been engaged in two Portuguese National Innovation Agency projects (ANI
 Portugal 2020) with the University of Coimbre, Portugal: SEMFIRE provides for the development
 of a robotic system designed to reduce the accumulation of combustible material in forests for
 wildfire prevention, and CORE which centres on fundamental robotics research. More locally,
 the group has ongoing collaborations with researchers from the University of Birmingham on
 topics including machine-learning and data science.

 The Network Infrastructures, Computing and Cyber Security group and Peytchev have
 collaborated with 21 partners across 7 countries in the €25M Horizon2020 REMOURBAN project
 which aims to showcase sustainability and future cities. Shahtahmassebi is engaged on 2
 multinational projects (DigiLab and Swarm-VIP), and was responsible for the delivery of
 intensive summer training courses on the R Software Package over the period 2016-2018
 (attended by 50 researchers from 7 universities (including Nottingham, Imperial and Bristol) and
 professionals from the NHS, Boots, PepsiCo and E.ON.

 The Interactive Systems group has engaged with an extensive range of academic partners and
 SMEs. On the group’s research in Digital Game Making through their EU H2020 No One Left
 Behind grant, Brown collaborated with 7 partners from the game industry and the education
 sector from 4 European countries - Austria, Germany, Spain and United Kingdom, including
 Graz University of Technology, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, Stuttgart Media University,
 INMARK Europa (ES), and Grupo ZED Pyro Studios (ES). This work has led to internationally
 co-authored papers in Sensors and in Computers and Education. The group’s research in
 Robotics and through their EU Lifelong Learning Programme grant has engaged 7 partners from
 third sector, industry and education sectors from 6 European countries, including the
 Pedagogical University of Crakow Department of Psychology, and Aias Bologna Onlus (IT). This
 partnership has led to internationally co-authored work in British Journal of Educational
 Technology. The group’s Research in AI approaches to personalisation through EU H2020
 MaTHiSiS engaged 18 partners from 9 EU countries, compromising European leaders in
 business, technology, research and ethics including University of East London, Maastricht
 University, and Vrije Universiteit Brussel. The project has led to internationally co-authored work
 in British Journal of Educational Technology. A second strand to the group’s Research in AI
 approaches to personalisation has, through EU Erasmus Pathway+, seen partnerships with 7
 partners from 5 EU countries, representing education, local authority, third sector and industry,
 and led to an ICACII 2020 best paper award (International Conference on Affective Computing
 and Intelligent Interaction 2020) for ‘Modelling Engagement with Multimodal Multisensor Data
 Using the Continuous Performance Test as an Objective Tool to Track Flow’.

 During this REF period, members of the UoA were supported in visits to over 50 overseas
 institutions. CIRC funds have been used for research visits to and from NTU, nationally and
 internationally: examples include exchanges with Masaryk University, Czech Republic to build
 an EU consortium, and collaborations with van Binsbergen (Royal Holloway, London), Moses

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Delft University of Technology, the Netherlands), the University of Cantabria, Spain (Professor
 Jose Maria Sarabia) and the University of Waterloo, Canada (Professor Mu Zhu).

 These research exchanges have helped to expand the international collaboration links within the
 UoA, including visiting professorships. Professor Mario Muñoz-Organero (Universidad Carlos III
 de Madrid) was a visiting professor leading to journal outputs with our CIA group, and Professor
 Jose Maria Sarabia (University of Cantabria, Spain) who was a visiting professor in 2014, also
 leading to a number of journal outputs. The UoA supports staff to attend international
 conferences and staff were also active in organising over 20 international conferences, including
 3 international conferences hosted by the UoA (see Section 4.3).

 4.2 Collaborative creation of research impact
 Our Enabling Digital Technology vision has involved extensive engagement with research users
 from diverse sectors including financial services, transportation, energy, healthcare, education
 and security with whom we have facilitated sustained knowledge transfer through explorations of
 new products and services. Specific examples include:
      Our IS group (Brown) has developed AI-based algorithms which can infer users’
        affective states (Horizon 2020 MaTHiSiS and Erasmus Pathway+ projects) that have
        been adopted by Fujitsu.
      The EPSRC ‘An Internet of Soft Things’ (Brown) project investigated how networked
        smart textile objects could improve perceptions of mental wellbeing in partnership with
        service users from Nottinghamshire MIND.
      Our NICCS group (Peytchev) is part of the €25M Horizon2020 REMOURBAN project
        (REF3 case study), which is a large-scale, international collaborative venture involving
        hundreds of research users across three lighthouse cities (Valladolid in Spain,
        Nottingham in United Kingdom and Tepebasi/Eskisehir in Turkey).
      Wilmott has engaged with UK-based banking institutions on quantum computing and
        associated security implications such as Deutsche Bank UK (Andrew Wray COO),
        Deutsche Bank Labs, Palo Alto (Aleksandr Oysgelt, Director for Technology and
        Innovation), and Santander UK (Ceri Godwin CIO). Wilmott’s ‘Quantum Readiness
        Programme’ which assesses robustness levels of current banking security against
        quantum technology, is due to be delivered at Refinitiv’s three Gravitate Global Summits
        (NY, Singapore, London in 2021/2).
      Our collaborations with research users extend to engaging the public as the ultimate
        users of our research. We hold annual conferences at NTU to engage teaching staff and
        Special Educational Needs Coordinators from the Nottingham Schools’ Trust to involve
        them in research on enabling technologies that support education.
      Our match-funded PhD programme (Section 2.2.1) also prioritises collaboration,
        industrial sponsorship, and networking opportunities. Partners include The Manufacturing
        Technology Centre that is part of the High Value Manufacturing Catapult, supported by
        Innovate UK.

 4.3 Contributions to the economy and society
 Our REMOURBAN project in sustainable energy solutions improves the quality of life for
 residents and smart energy usage initiatives have reduced energy costs. The energy monitoring
 systems developed through REMOURBAN have impacted on the supply chain for SMEs
 involved in the production of sustainable energy products, leading to the development of more
 cost-efficient methods of housing retrofit, thus increasing the size of the potential market for
 these products. Further, this increased quality of life and reduced fuel poverty for over 460
 households in a deprived area.

 Interactions with research users through our collaborative projects have led to economic and
 societal impacts. Specific examples are reflected in our UKRI eNurture Project (TangToys) in
 partnership with the Nottingham Schools’ Trust and the Ann Craft Trust. TangToys examines
 how the digital world is changing the way young people with learning disabilities interact with
 family, school and peers and what these changes mean for their mental health.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our IS research in multimodal affect recognition has informed UK policy debates. In May 2018,
 the House of Commons Education Select Committee launched its inquiry into the Fourth
 Industrial Revolution. Based on his published research, Brown gave oral evidence to the
 Committee in January 2019. Brown’s appearance in front of the Committee led to an invitation
 from David Davis MP to meet in Westminster to discuss how his research would enable changes
 in the role of the teachers in the classroom and help to increase the effectiveness of education.

 Other contributions to society delivered by the UoA include: our work on improving the
 accessibility of Digital Game Making for students with disabilities involving 6 key European
 partners; and our AI research to create personalised learning pathways for students with
 learning disabilities and autism (EU H2020 MaTHiSiS and Erasmus+ Pathway+) involving 18
 international partners from industry and academia including the aerospace and gaming sectors,
 education, local authorities, and disability charities. The MaTHiSiS project focused on the real
 issue of teachers not having enough capacity to attend to individual learning needs. Our
 engagement detection algorithms addressed this issue and have been adopted by Nottingham
 City Council’s Educational Psychology Service in its wider toolkit developed to support children
 with social, emotional and mental health needs across 66 schools.

 4.4 Contributions to the research base
 Our members have delivered 15 keynotes at international conferences and have chaired 21
 conferences, secured 4 visiting professorships, acted on 20 journal editorial boards, and
 assisted 16 research funders through peer reviews. Over the REF period, our UoA hosted 6
 international conferences: iTAG 2014-2016 which was attended by 100 participants each year;
 the 18th UK Workshop on Computational Intelligence (UKCI 2018) which was attended by 108
 participants and led to the publication of 32 peer reviewed research papers as part of the
 Workshop’s edited book (Advances in Computational Intelligence Systems: 18th UKCI,
 Nottingham UK 2018, Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, 840 Cham, Switzerland:
 Springer); and Recent Advances in Industrial Digitalisation, Robotics and Automation (Smart
 Industry) Workshop 2019 comprising 13 keynote lectures. Recently, CIA group members with
 researchers from Tokyo Metropolitan University have co-hosted the international conference on
 community-centric systems.

 In terms of peer review three of our staff are current members of the EPSRC peer review
 college; one is on the ESRC review college; four sit on the European Science Foundation peer
 review college; and a further three sit on other international peer review colleges (including,
 EURAMET and Marie Curie Fellowships). We are active in journal editing with eight staff holding
 23 editorships, including Brain Informatics; Soft Computing; IET Intelligent Transport System;
 EURASIP Journal of Computational Intelligence and Neuroscience; IEEE Signal Processing
 Magazine. Eight staff have organised or chaired 21 conferences. Sanei had several visiting
 professorships during the REF cycle (Imperial College London since 2016, King’s College
 London 2016–2018, University of Surrey 2016-2018 and Shahid Beheshti University, Iran since
 2014. A further five staff have delivered 15 keynote lectures.

 CIRC members have secured best paper awards. For example, Brown at JAT 2014 and ICACII
 2020: XIV, Cang at 10th Int. Conf. Software Knowledge Information Management and
 Applications Chengdu China 2016, and Mahmud at ICEEICT2014 and IEEEHealthCom2018.
 Other recognition awards include Peytchev’s Best Reviewer award at EURASIP 2014, Diploma
 of Honour from the Romanian Biomedical Engineering Council and EPSRC (Recognition of
 Major Contribution) award in 2018.

 In addition to contributions to academic publishing as members of editorial boards, CIRC
 members have acted as guest editors on 8 Special Issues including: Brain Informatics (Machine
 Learning Techniques for Neuroscience Big Data); Cognitive Computation (Advances in Brain-
 Inspired Cognitive Systems) 2016; and Virtual Reality (Virtual Reality for Therapy, Psychological
 Interventions, and Physical and Cognitive Rehabilitation).



                                                                                           Page 14
