Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 King’s College London
 Unit of Assessment:
 Modern Languages (26)
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Structure and context
At the core of our research community are three modern language departments in the Faculty of Arts
& Humanities (A&H): French, German, and Spanish, Portuguese & Latin American Studies (SPLAS).
Since 2014, they have operated as one unit in terms of research policy, procedures and
administration, in a structure designed to support both the specificities of our respective historical,
cultural and linguistic fields, and our shared commitment to Modern Languages (ML) as a discipline.
They have close links with other departments, both structurally – via joint appointments within A&H
(Comparative Literature, Film, History) and with the Department of European & International Studies
in the Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy – and via research interests and activities shared
with other disciplines, including Digital Humanities, English and Philosophy. Our distinctive strengths
include chronological, geographical and linguistic range, and the interdisciplinary quality of our
research.

Historically, the separate language-based disciplines have been not only Eurocentric but entangled
with nationalisms and imperialism. Responding to this legacy, and fostering a more holistic, diverse
and inclusive version of our disciplines, our research and impact activities engage not only with
several ‘national’ languages of modern nation states (French, German, Portuguese and Spanish,
plus Italian), but also so-called regional languages (for example, Occitan and Catalan), with further
expertise in Amharic, Arabic, Hebrew and Latin. We interrogate the link between language and
modern nation states, and research our languages as transnational phenomena in a global context.
This means, inter alia, examining the cultures of languages’ global contact zones, including the wider
Hispanic world, Lusophone Africa and Brazil, the transnational cultures of German, and the
Francophone world. Besides expertise in literary cultures stretching from the Middle Ages to the
present, we have particular strengths in politics and history, film and visual culture, postcolonialism
and critical theory, gender studies and performance.

                                                  *****

Research and our pursuit of impact are facilitated and supported by interlocking organisational
structures designed at once to secure and enrich disciplinary foundations and to promote
interdisciplinarity – as do cross-appointments (see 2.1), and large, externally funded collaborative
projects (3.2). Such projects have been an increasingly prominent aspect of our strategy and profile.

We see expertise in particular languages and their associated cultures and societies as integral
not only to our research-led teaching but to transhistorical interactions and interdisciplinarity across
language areas. Departmental research seminars (meeting 8–16 times a year) integrate PGRs,
ECRs and academics into an intellectual community, showcasing projects and current
developments. They constitute a major node in our research networks, locally, nationally and
internationally; they are wide-ranging historically and intellectually, and involve external and internal
speakers, including PGRs and ECRs. Integrated into these series are joint ML sessions, often with
eminent external speakers, which draw together the ML community through interdisciplinary, cross-
language perspectives. The Comparative Literature seminar, often organised by Elmarsafy,
likewise draws together colleagues from across the UoA.

Interdisciplinary research is also stimulated and sustained by the substantial involvement of ML
staff in the leadership and activities of the research centres of the Arts & Humanities Research
Institute (AHRI). The UoA has supplied co-directors and three steering committee members of the
Centre for Early Modern Studies, new in this period; provides the co-director and two committee
members for the Centre for Modern Literature & Culture; the co-director of the Centre for
Enlightenment Studies and another committee member; one member of Queer@King’s; three

Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
committee members for the Camões Centre for Portuguese Language and Culture, thriving
thanks to the 2014 renewal of KCL’s agreement with the Camões Institute; and four committee
members for the Centre for Late Antique & Medieval Studies, plus the General Editor of its
publication series. That series, and the centre’s average attendances of 290 per year, attest to the
vitality of this area, notable in our national context. The new Centre for Language Acts and
Worldmaking, for which we provide the director and several members, sustains the legacy of our
flagship AHRC-funded project (see 1.2.2 and 4.1). ML research is also structurally embedded in
KCL’s Global Institutes and research groups in European and International Studies: three UOA
members (including one ECR) belong to the Institute of Middle Eastern Studies; five to the Brazil
Institute, one (Carvalho) as director since 2016; and we provide five of the seven members of the
Critical European Studies Research Group. Others belong to Faculty-wide groupings, such as the
Postcolonial Studies Network, the Disability & Intersectionality reading group, and recent decolonial
initiatives. All in all, ML staff play a vital role in cross-disciplinary research activity throughout the
Faculty and beyond.

A joint ML Research Committee meets twice a term and enhances coordination within the UoA, as
does a joint committee for PGRs. The Research Committee includes the ML Impact Lead and ECR
representation, has dedicated administrative and budgetary support, and is chaired by the ML
Research Lead, who sits on the A&H Research Committee. Standing items include diversity and
inclusion, research integrity, open research, research funding and pathways to impact. It has been
responsible for a series of ‘cluster’ meetings, research away days and a Work in Progress reading
group; all staff are encouraged to submit drafts of work in progress, whether outputs or funding
applications. Feedback comes from a pool of senior colleagues. That system has been kept strictly
separate from internal assessment of REF outputs (see 2.2).

Research integrity is central to our research culture, and has increasingly become a matter of
formal scrutiny. At UOA level Research Integrity Adviser is among the roles of the newly appointed
Research Manager (2020), and the Research Committee and Work in Progress group promote good
practice, including around GDPR and ethical clearance for research involving human participants.
Our approach has been supported by the development at institutional level of the Research
Governance, Integrity and Ethics Office (see REF5a), which fosters best practice. Cases of research
misconduct are dealt with by the College Ethics Committee. In A&H, a Research Integrity Champion
and Research Integrity Advisers have been appointed, under ffrench’s leadership as Vice-Dean for
Research, to provide Faculty-level advice, advocacy and a point of contact for queries. Future plans
include a new training programme in research integrity for staff and PGR students across A&H.

1.2 Research and impact strategy
1.2.1 Strategy up to 2020
Our REF2014 submission emphasised key aspects of our research and impact strategy from 2008
to be sustained through to 2020:

   the consolidation of the core research profile in each language area, including a shared
    commitment to represent the full chronological range in our respective literary and cultural-
    historical fields;

   the fostering of interdisciplinary research between these areas and with other subject areas;

   a commitment to intellectually ambitious, long-term, large-scale projects, individual and
    collaborative, leading to substantial, influential outputs and activities;

   the aim of raising awareness of the broader social and cultural value and impact of our work, and
    increasing its impact, particularly by consolidating and expanding impact activities through large-
    scale research grants. This also means deeper integration of impact strategies into the
    research culture of this UoA and ML research more generally, promoting the vitality of ML
    research, and pushing ML methodologies and materials into research areas outside ML


Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   departments, across national and disciplinary boundaries, and into wider realms of educational
   and cultural activity.

Specific subsidiary aspirations in pursuit of these goals included: benefiting from the London Arts
and Humanities Partnership (LAHP; see 2.3), an AHRC-funded Doctoral Training Partnership; taking
advantage of co-location in new purpose-designed spaces (see 3.1); and securing impact through
projects targeting school-age MFL pupils, as well as the broader arts and literary public (see 4.1).

1.2.2 Outcomes and developments 2014–2020
The evidence of the success of our REF2014 strategic objectives lies primarily in two areas.

(i) Our outputs
The work in our submission stretches from the Middle Ages to the present, with a concentration of
work around literary cultures, and encompassing visual arts, film, critical theory, popular and material
cultures, politics, and intellectual and cultural history. Much of our work is interdisciplinary and/or
comparative. Reflecting our intellectual range and core commitments, it includes publications in
several languages. Submitted outputs include 18 monographs and numerous other large-scale
projects, including print and digital critical editions, translations, edited volumes, performances and
a website.

As well as engaging in traditional forms of publication, we are committed to diverse realms of wider
dissemination and open research. Performances, screenings and translations are all important
from that point of view, and so too, increasingly, are digital methodologies and open-access
outlets – themselves often digital. Open research is vigorously supported at College level (see
REF5a), and we have a strong record of collaboration with King's Digital Lab (KDL, part of the
developing infrastructure described in 3.1), notably around the large research projects behind our
impact case studies (see below). Two of the projects highlighted regularly on KDL’s homepage over
the last few years, Medieval Francophone Literary Culture Outside France (MFLCOF) and the
German Screen Studies Network (GSSN), are ML projects. Innovation in digital approaches was
especially central to the research and impact of MFLCOF and The Values of French Language and
Literature in the European Middle Ages (TVOF), as described in ICS2, and made visible on their own
websites, themselves substantial outputs and resources. TVOF is setting a new international
standard for open research across the humanities, through making (via Figshare) not only its
research but also the underpinning datasets and coding publicly accessible and downloadable for
others.

In the realm of more conventional outputs, too, we have moved more deeply into open-access
publishing. Several colleagues are editors for open-access journals: for example, Carvalho for
Diálogos Latinoamericanos; ffrench for Barthes Studies; and Schofield for Modern Languages Open,
where Spence, who is from outside the UOA, in the Department of Digital Humanities, but involved
in our work as leader of the digital research strand of Language Acts and Worldmaking (see below),
is editor for Digital Modern Languages. Other projects have also been designed to benefit from digital
formats, with their flexible word lengths and ready accessibility – for example, Modern Languages
Open, a long essay by Moyes, and the ‘Translation as Research’ manifesto (see 4.1). Other
examples include Brady’s work on sensesofcinema.com, Linton’s work (in Studia Aurea, 2016) on
stage adaptations of John Barclay’s Argenis, and Schreiter’s Designing One Nation (OUP, 2020),
whose open-access publication was supported by the Mellon Sustainable History Monograph
project.

(ii) A substantial advance in using large externally funded research projects to convert the UoA’s
long history of public engagement into effective impact

Two interlinked areas identified as strengths in 2014 have become increasingly central to our work:
first, the transnational; second, the translational, both in its primary sense and as a cultural
practice underpinning the impact of our research. All the large grant-funded projects underpinning
our impact case studies are fundamentally transnational in conception and have far-reaching

Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
translational aspects. (See section 4 for further examples.) In these respects, as in others, our work
involves sustained critical and productive interrogation of, and recommitment to, the very concept
of Modern Languages as a distinct academic (inter)discipline, in its educational, institutional
and socio-political contexts. We link this with the intellectual and practical pursuit of issues of
equality and diversity; that the latter lie at the heart of our research and impact agenda is seen in
a variety of work around gender and sexuality, racism, Islamophobia, anti-Semitism, enslaved and
diasporic peoples, post- and decolonial studies, and education, as well as state policy and radical
politics. Such concerns link colleagues across the UoA. We embrace the fact that ML research in
the UK is inherently internationalist in conception, involving movement and mediation between
languages and cultures; and we seek to use our research as the basis for dialogue with new
audiences and diverse communities.

Collectively, the major projects behind our impact case studies, all involving wide-ranging
collaboration as well as significant external funding, represent the full chronological range of our
research, from the Middle Ages to the present. They were designed as ambitious, long-term, large-
scale projects involving a variety of cultural forms and media (including theatre, film and song),
interlocutors and audiences. Together the ICSs reflect the core research profile in each language
area (French, German, Portuguese and Spanish); they work to decentre these languages from their
European homelands and from what one ICS terms ‘the container logic of national culture’; and they
are interdisciplinary – as well as intermedial – in numerous respects. These projects, and other
impact activities, have:

   created communication channels and sustainable networks, nationally and transnationally, for
    the mediation of ML research, enhancing public access and understanding across national
    boundaries, creating new audiences in diverse areas of visual and literary culture;

   shaped publishing, programming, creative and critical practice, in areas including theatre, music,
    film and literature;

   shaped policy in areas including cultural, political and educational practice.

Most prominent among the large-scale collaborative enterprises that encapsulate our ambitions is
Language Acts and Worldmaking (LAWM), a flagship project (2016–20) funded by the AHRC Open
World Research Initiative (OWRI; PI Boyle). Its primary focus is the Iberian world, its global empires
and contact zones, in Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas; and from that chronologically and
geographically broad example, it draws general lessons for ML and the wider world: examining
language(s) as a material and historical force at work in the construction and representation of
human difference, historically and in the present, and demonstrating the value of language learning
in empowering culturally aware and self-reflective citizens. It involved KCL researchers from SPLAS,
French, German, Digital Humanities, King’s Digital Lab, and teams from the Modern Language
Centre, QMUL, Westminster and the Open University, plus many partners internationally and
nationally (including Routes into Languages). By its nature, the project was designed to generate
multiple forms of impact (see ICS1 and 4.1 for a partial account) and to make long-term contributions
to the continuing evolution and vitality not only of this UoA but of ML more widely. The eponymous
centre (see 1.1) will help to ensure this.

The research underpinning ICS2, The Medieval Francophone World: Europe’s Multicultural Past,
emerged from two projects already mentioned: MFLCOF, funded by the AHRC (2011–15; PI Gaunt),
with a team working across King’s, UCL and Cambridge; and TVOF, funded by the ERC (2015–20)
and led entirely from King’s (PI Gaunt). These projects integrated scholarship and digital
methodologies to make visible premodern multilingualism and multiculturalism; aims included
‘decentring’ French literary history and reaching beyond universities in challenging a nationalist view
of literary and linguistic traditions and their relationship to identities. They made little-known material
publicly accessible, brought our research to new audiences, changed curatorial practices and
shaped pedagogy.



Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Challenging the limitations of nation-state frameworks and reaching new audiences has also been
central to the work of GSSN: an Anglo-German media public (PI Carter; CI Brady), the basis of ICS3.
The research explored the transnational archive as a resource for the retrieval, curation and
dissemination of Anglo-German cinema, shaping programming, and has traced German connections
across colonial and postcolonial Anglophone cinemas, in locations including India and West Africa.
GSSN was shaped into a cross-cultural public engagement platform, funded by DAAD and King’s,
linking film researchers with cultural institutions and audiences nationally and internationally.

Translating for Performance (ICS4) involves the distinct but allied disciplines of theatre and song
performance and reflects our longer-term engagement in impact activities, as well our new teaching
and research policy of strengthening links between Hispanic and Lusophone studies, with a view
both to promoting interdisciplinary work and to sustaining Portuguese studies. In this case, too, the
impact strategy has involved making material accessible to new publics and working with extra-
academic interlocutors and communities; and our research has underpinned new repertoires, and
new forms of artistic collaboration and practice. These activities have, in turn, stimulated further
projects, notably Treece’s Music and Anti-racism in Contemporary Brazil, supported by a major
Leverhulme Research Fellowship from 2019. We will report on its outcomes in the next REF.

A newer three-year project, launched in September 2019, the AHRC-funded Radical Translations:
The Transfer of Revolutionary Culture between Britain, France and Italy (1789–1815), also results
from our strategy around large-scale interdisciplinary projects. This, too, involves KDL substantially,
carrying our commitment to digital research into the next REF period, and enhancing the
sustainability of the UoA. Perovic is PI, collaborating with Mucignat (CI) and historian Professor Erica
Mannucci (Milan). Employing two ECR historians as postdoctoral researchers, it examines the
circulation of radical texts between Britain, France and Italy during the revolutionary period, exploring
translation as an essential element in the transmission of radical thought. It brings together students,
translators, theatre practitioners and activists to translate and perform a selection of radical texts in
contemporary language, and to ask if (and how) the language of political radicalism, as a shared
European heritage, might still be capable of generating new understandings and meanings. Again,
we anticipate reporting in future on its outcomes in research and impact.

1.2.3 Strategy beyond 2020
We are committed to these objectives:

   bringing to fruition substantial and long-term projects, both individual and collaborative; examples
    include outcomes from the Radical Translations project, from Treece’s Leverhulme Fellowship
    on music and anti-racism in Brazil, further outcomes from LAWM, and future major funding
    applications by ffrench and Schofield (both AHRC);

   sustaining and enhancing our disciplinary foundations, including scholarship based on deep
    knowledge of specific languages and the cultures, societies and histories associated with them,
    across a wide chronological range; the UoA’s chronological range is increasingly distinctive in
    and beyond the UK, and remains an integral part of our vision of ML’s fundamental engagement
    with issues of alterity and cultural transmission;

   facilitating interdisciplinary research, especially where that contributes to the vitality and
    sustainability of ML disciplines; this includes developing further synergies between the ML and
    Comparative Literature departments, so as to extend the linguistic and global range of the UoA’s
    research and expertise, notably towards the Global South;

   contributing to ML’s future vitality and evolution by recruiting and training innovative PGRs and
    ECRs, from a pool as diverse as possible, academically, ethnically and otherwise;

   ensuring that our research evolves in, engages with, and has an impact in the broadest possible
    contexts – national and international, within and beyond the institutional structures of the


Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      university; we will therefore continue to engage with developments in open access and the digital
      humanities, and to pursue external funding.


 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy
The number of permanent research-active staff has not changed significantly since 2014. Our UoA
comprises 53 colleagues (48.9 FTE), concentrated in the three language departments, but also,
reflecting our interdisciplinarity, based in Comparative Literature (Elmarsafy, Mucignat, Marzagora),
or cross-appointed between ML and Comparative Literature (Kent), Film Studies (Carter), European
and International Studies (Calvo, Clarkson, Kouvelakis, Nicholls, Schreiter, Wolfreys), and History
(Vakil; plus, attached to the History UOA, Green). We sustain and develop an inclusive and
supportive research culture, characterised by intellectual freedom and collegiality, offering full and
equal research opportunities to researchers at all levels (starting with PGRs) and in diverse
professional and personal circumstances.


                                 Staff headcount (census date)
 34
 32
 30
 28
 26
 24
 22
 20
 18
 16
 14
 12
 10
  8
  6
  4
  2
  0

           Permanent full-time   Permanent part-time   Fixed-term full-time   Fixed-term part-time


Our staffing strategy remains the consolidation of core areas of chronological, linguistic and
cultural expertise; capturing and strengthening synergies across departments and disciplines
within and beyond ML; and expanding our research into emergent specialisms. The German
Department benefited from renewed investment and succession planning, with three junior
appointments just before the current REF period; evidence of staff development includes the
promotion of all three to Senior Lecturer, among 15 promotions in total (10 women, 5 men). We aim
to replace retirements with early-career staff on permanent contracts: Murray (2016) enhanced
existing expertise in feminist and queer theory and film, adding specialisms in documentary and
experimental/activist video. Bielecki (2018) maintains expertise in the long 19th century and material
culture, adding new expertise in popular culture. Nicholls (2020) maintains expertise in French and
European social and political thought, extending existing 19th-century expertise into history and
politics. This intersects with the research of Schreiter (permanent from 2016), whose work now
stretches back into the 19th century, examining the transnational development of class identity
across Germany, Britain, Italy and France. Marzagora, newly appointed in Comparative Literature,
whose research interests include the Horn of Africa and conceptions of the global, extends our
engagement with transnational and extra-European cultures and literatures. Stewart was appointed
to our first ML cross-departmental post (2017); her research on theatre consolidates transnational
ML research in performance (linking with the research cluster behind ICS4), while her work around


Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
cultures of migration and Islam extends existing UOA expertise in Muslim Europe and Islamophobia
into contemporary German culture.

Beyond that core of permanent staff, our strategy is to increase our research capacity to support the
vitality and sustainability of ML disciplines by recruiting and supporting externally funded ECRs;
and we are proud to have integrated 16 into our research culture across this period. These
appointments have notably stretched across our full historical and linguistic range, enhancing core
research areas, including translation and transnationalism. Five ECRs have been funded by the
Leverhulme Trust: in French, Morton (medieval), O’Sullivan (early modern) and Elsner (modern);
Evri, working on 20th-century Palestinian Hebrew/Arabic translations; and Melek Delgado, working
on the transatlantic slave trade in relation to Lusophone Africa. A Marie Sklodowska-Curie Individual
Fellowship funded Vecchiato (German). Torollo’s project on Arabic, Hebrew and Castilian
translations in the medieval Mediterranean is funded by the Rothschild Foundation and SPLAS’s
Marjorie Von Schlippenbach bequest. A British Academy Fellow, Menegalle (French), adds to our
strengths in critical theory, as does Kolkenbrock (German), supported by a Swiss Branco Weiss
Fellowship – rarely awarded in arts and humanities. Other ECRs have been funded by our large
collaborative projects: Ventura, Morcos and Rachetta (plus two six-month postdoctoral Research
Assistants) by TVOF; Deseure and Valmori by Radical Translations; and Scott and Stevens by
LAWM.

Visiting international ECRs and other researchers also attest to the vitality and international profile
of our research; over a hundred have visited and formed connections during this period, including,
for example: 12 postdoctoral researchers from nine different universities in Brazil; and three – from
Denmark, France and Italy – hosted by TVOF, each for three months, and trained in Digital
Humanities. Numerous postdocs and other ECRs have progressed to further postdoctoral positions
(e.g. at Zurich; Bern; Trinity, Dublin; and Oxford) or permanent/tenure-track positions at institutions
including RHUL, Aberdeen, Brussels, Padua, St Gallen, CU Boulder, Wesleyan and Tulane.

2.2 Staff development strategy, including ECR colleagues
Career progression and performance expectations are set out in an Academic Performance
Framework (APF) for all academic grades. Promoting equality and inclusion is central to Faculty and
College policies, and supported by dedicated funds. Diversity Matters training is embedded in
university culture, not least as a prerequisite for applications for promotion. Activity in innovation,
impact and knowledge dissemination, and actual impact, are fully established as criteria considered
by promotion and probation panels. To promote diversity and equality, the expectations detailed in
the APF are adjusted to recognise where colleagues work part time; have taken periods of
maternity/paternity leave; have taken a career break; hold significant caring responsibilities; have a
disability; or have experienced a period of sustained ill health. Allowance is being made for the
pandemic’s effect on a wide range of research and impact activities during and beyond this REF
period.

New academic staff, including ECRs, are assigned a mentor who meets them regularly and takes a
proactive interest in their career development and wellbeing. A Faculty research induction covers
research allowances, funding opportunities, the use of KCL’s research database and repository
PURE, research integrity, open access, and KCL’s Code of Practice for the REF. All new academic
staff begin a period of probation (usually three years) on appointment, and receive support with their
research through structured meetings with their Head of Department (HoD) as well as their mentor,
establishing research ‘milestones’ (and benefiting from internal research funding, see 3.2). This
includes colleagues on fixed-term contracts created to cover research-led teaching for PIs on
externally funded projects; thus their research development is supported, and their probation under
way if they subsequently gain a permanent contract. All staff participate in annual Performance
Development Reviews, led by senior colleagues who receive training with due emphasis on diversity
and inclusion. Reviews cover research activities and achievements, short- and long-term goals,
career development, and different forms of training and support offered by the Organisation
Development team and the King’s Centre for Research Staff Development. These include workshops


Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and one-to-one advice sessions about building networks; grant applications; and creating outputs
and impact from research projects.

KCL is a signatory to the Concordat on Early Career Researchers, and has recently confirmed its
policy of translating into permanent posts fixed-term contracts that have been renewed or extended
for four years or more. Since 2018, the interests of ECR colleagues across the Faculty have been
further supported by an Early Career Committee, formalising the processes of the previous Early
Career Network. O’Sullivan served on the committee in its first two years, providing a direct link with
the ML research committee. That committee also represents the interests of ECRs at higher levels
of the College; sends monthly email communications highlighting funding and career development
opportunities; and sponsors events such as Art of Impact workshops.

Research leave policies have been harmonised for all UOA members (part- as well as full-time):
entitlement now accrues at the rate of one semester in every seven, and supports projects at all
stages of development and completion, including those focusing on impact and grant applications.
To incentivise applications, the first year of grant-funded leave counts towards leave entitlement.

Leave for maternity, adoption, surrogacy and IVF is generous and includes the possibility of shared
leave. Staff have access to the College Parents’ and Carers’ Fund, partly supported by the Wellcome
Trust, which provides up to £10,000 funding to support research on return from parental leave. The
Carers’ Career Development Fund provides additional support, helping with care costs incurred
when attending conferences or important networking events. These funds are designed to mitigate
any negative effect on research and career progression that parenthood or caring might otherwise
have. Paid paternity/partner’s leave is also offered. Staff may request flexible working on varied
grounds including parenting, caring and disability. Parental, compassionate and sickness leave all
count towards research leave entitlement. Shifts in policy have also enhanced support for
ECRs/probationers, who during probation do not usually take research leave but now accrue
entitlement at the usual rate. Accordingly, Murray, for example, appointed in 2016 and whose
completion of probation was delayed by two periods of maternity leave, is taking 12 months’ research
leave in 2020–21.

The UoA’s submission was overseen by the ML Research Committee (see section 1), for which, as
noted earlier, diversity and inclusion is a standing item; its members are selected with attention to
considerations of diversity and inclusion; and its Chair/REF lead attended diversity and inclusion
training run by an external consultant. Following KCL’s Code of Practice for REF, UOA staff have
been encouraged to register, via a rigorously confidential form, circumstances hindering their
research, and a significant number have done so. Internal assessments of outputs were carried out
anonymously by a panel consisting of HoDs, Readers and Professors; double independent
assessments were standard, with the possibility of further assessment in the event of disagreement.

All assessors went through calibration exercises, repeated and made available to all staff in the
interests of inclusion and transparency. Midway through our assessments we requested expert
statistical analysis of our grading in relation to: (i) authors’ gender and seniority; (ii) gender of
assessors. (Factors including sample size and the need for anonymity excluded consideration of
other protected characteristics.) Among authors, there was some correlation between greater
seniority and higher grades for outputs, as might be expected; but average grades for male and
female authors were nearly identical; and the analysis indicated that assessors’ gender had no
impact on grading.

2.3 Support and training for PGRs
Our PhD programmes are thriving in a demanding national and international context. This reflects
positively on our research culture: we recruit and support excellent PGRs – in varied areas from the
Middle Ages to the present – and incorporate them into a well-supported and lively community.
Across the period, we have supervised a total of 131 students, of whom 33% have been externally
funded – 33 students by LAHP/AHRC, 10 from other sources including the ERC. REF4a shows
79.25 PhD awards for REF2021, compared to 37 for REF2014. 54 PGRs are currently registered.

Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                                  Total PGR student body
 70

 60

 50

 40

 30

 20

 10

  0
         2013/14     2014/15      2015/16      2016/17       2017/18    2018/19      2019/20

                                  French    German   SPLAS    Other


Our recruitment policies are selective in terms of achievement and potential, and aim to enhance
student diversity. (Although we have a student body that is diverse in all senses, statistical evidence
is available only in relation to gender: current cohort 18 male, 34 female, 2 non-binary.) An interview
procedure introduced in 2019 ensures that applicants are assessed in accordance with College
policy on good practice. Panels are constituted with due attention to gender balance, and
interviewers have completed training on equality, diversity and unconscious bias.

New PGRs have an induction with PGR leads, administrators and HoDs, covering issues including
the student–supervisor agreement, research ethics and funding opportunities. They attend an
induction programme run by the Centre for Doctoral Studies at King’s (CDS). Research integrity,
already part of that induction, will be a larger part of training in future (see 1.1). CDS also provides
professional development for supervisors, including refresher courses for experienced supervisors,
online and in person; 25 from the UoA attended during the assessment period. These courses outline
KCL’s Regulations for Research Degrees, as well as support services available to students and
supervisors; and the Faculty’s complementary refresher course outlines A&H-specific structures and
procedures. Participants have benefited from Q&A sessions with previous Faculty recipients of
Supervisory Excellence Awards. Numerous UOA members have been nominated for those awards;
previous recipients include Boyle, Carvalho, Gaunt, McIlvanney and Schofield.

The creation of new, dedicated spaces for our PGR students has been highly successful (see 3.1).
So, too, has our position as a founder member of LAHP, established in 2014, which has expanded
to encompass numerous other partners, among them other universities and diverse organisations
including the Wellcome Trust, the V&A and Google. We encourage our students to work across
institutions and disciplines. Many have benefited from our interdisciplinary environment by working
under a supervisory team straddling ML and another department at King’s – including Comparative
Literature, English, Film and History – or other LAHP institutions including the Institute of Modern
Languages Research (IMLR). One student, for example, whose project includes an art practice
element, is co-supervised with the Slade School of Fine Art. Others have been joint-supervised by
academics based in, for example, Brazil, France, Germany or the Netherlands. Our Joint PhD with
the Humboldt University continues to be a flagship programme in the UK context (10 students in this
period), and we have recently re-activated our Joint PhD with Stuttgart (three students in the period).
One index of success is that our students have won the Women in German Studies Book Prize in
each of the last three years. Our externally funded projects have also created PhD studentships and
integrated students into their research clusters. As with ECRs, our research culture has been
enriched by visiting PhD students; besides those associated with our German exchanges, students

Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have come to us from countries including Italy, Switzerland, the USA, Spain, Brazil, Mexico, South
Africa and Malaysia.

Regardless of funding, all students avail themselves of LAHP’s wide-ranging annual training
programme, offered since 2016–17. The LAHP and CDS programmes develop skills including
communication both within and beyond academia, and offer one-to-one careers advice. Activities
are staff-led: colleagues who have delivered sessions include Smale on Gender Studies, and
Schofield on Pathways to Public Policy Engagement, run in collaboration with a representative from
the European House for Culture, Brussels. Since 2017, LAHP has used the King’s Modern Language
Centre, which has close links with the UoA including LAWM, to provide intensive language training
for PGRs across the partnership. Training is also offered at the IMLR, where staff members from
King’s have regularly led sessions. The Library’s Research Support team and Careers Office also
deliver training – for example, on developing online research profiles. The GSSN, at the heart of
ICS3, has also provided a formal training platform and supervised work experience for eight PGRs,
who have run sub-projects in Circulating Cinema, including data collection and management, event
organisation, impact evidence gathering/evaluation, and archival and translation work, stretching
across the Deutsche Kinemathek, Cinémathèque française and BFI. Carter has organised,
individually and in collaboration with colleagues from King’s (German and English Departments), the
BFI and the Humboldt, numerous interdisciplinary PGR training workshops, with participants from
Germany and the UK.

As well as studentships, LAHP offers a ‘Student-led activities fund’, which has funded two
interdisciplinary conferences initiated and run by UOA students, and supports research development
through various other means: a Language Fund (supporting the acquisition of languages for
research); the opportunity for six months’ extra funding to support periods with an international or
external partner; and an Impact, Engagement & Entrepreneurship Fund, new in 2019–20. Under its
auspices, one student, for example, recently completed a three-month UKRI Policy Internship in the
Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport, working on the government’s loneliness strategy.
King’s also funds PGR students in adventurous collaborations and impact activities – for example,
through the King’s Cultural Community’s Collaborative Scheme for ECRs, which supported one
PGR’s project on Plasticity, based on his research on contemporary French thought and bringing
together a team of neuroscientists and a ceramicist in a series of workshops that culminated in an
exhibition in KCL’s Inigo Rooms. The Faculty’s own competitive funding scheme for PGRs offers: (i)
grants of up to £1,000 to support attendance at UK or International conferences, fieldwork, and
research skills training (including non-European languages); (ii) group events grants of up to £3,000.
The latter support innovative student-organised activities benefiting the research community at
King’s and further afield. Among those organised by our students are a two-day
symposium/exhibition on Mexican visual identity (2015), co-funded by the Mexican Embassy, and a
careers-focused workshop on knowledge exchange (2020), featuring speakers from the National
Trust, Tate Exchange and The Culture Capital Exchange. Across the two A&H schemes our PGRs
have won 79 grants, to a total value of £33,660.

Further forms of support and opportunities exist at UOA level: all PGRs have a research allowance
of £250–300p.a., partly funded from endowments including the Crompton Scholarship (see 3.2),
which also allows one student annually to spend a year undertaking research in a French-speaking
country, with a stipend at AHRC rates; an exchange programme to Université Paris-Nanterre, to
which we send a language assistant, usually a PGR gaining teaching experience and involvement
with Paris-based research institutions and activities; and an exchange arrangement with ENS Lyon,
whereby PGRs take up a position as auditeur/trice libre.

PGRs get plenty of hands-on experience as part of their training. They play a full part in departmental
and joint research seminars. They are given opportunities to organise seminars and encouraged to
participate regularly and deliver papers. They are also given paid opportunities to teach, and trained
through ‘shadowing’ activities as well as formal pedagogical training. They benefit from our funded
projects (three, after tailored training, curated an exhibition case at the British Library) and our deep
involvement in the AHRI interdisciplinary research centres. When the Centre for Early Modern
Studies (co-directors Butterworth and Linton) was created in 2015, a core aim was to create a vibrant

Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
graduate community; like other centres, it provides platforms for PGRs (including the student-led
Early Modern Forum), and sponsors projects (for example, the Beginners’ Guide series, or biannual
graduate conference), providing research experience both for graduate organisers and speakers
drawn from an international community, including KCL’s linked institution the University of North
Carolina.

All PGR students are involved in structures of monitoring and support as well as training. All meet
regularly with a personal tutor, who takes an active interest in their wellbeing as well as their
academic progress. Tutors also direct students towards support services including: the Counselling
Service; the varied forms of assistance and community-building, as well as training, offered by the
CDS, e.g. Resilience & Wellbeing; and the sessions offered by LAHP on mental and physical
strategies for coping with stress. Academic progress is monitored across ML by the Postgraduate
Research Students Committee, which at Faculty level works under the Associate Dean for Doctoral
Studies and fits within a College-wide reporting framework. The online reporting system involves
formal reporting every six months, with an annual full progress review with a panel comprising the
first and second supervisors and a third academic staff member; here, too, panels are constituted
with due attention to issues of diversity. Each report provides an opportunity to reflect on progress,
goals for the period ahead, and areas where the student would benefit from further training. Students
are initially registered for an MPhil, upgrading to PhD status after successful completion of a review
based on a substantial plan, timeline and writing sample, which usually takes place 9–12 months (or
equivalent) after registration. All in all, the environment for PGRs is at once rigorous, open-minded
and supportive.

A significant number of our students have gone on to further research and academic posts in this
assessment period: some to postdoctoral positions at institutions including Cork, the IMLR, the
Sorbonne (on a Marie Curie Fellowship), Oxford and Cambridge, funded by bodies including the
Leverhulme Trust and the Irish Research Council; others to fixed-term lectureships at universities
including Oxford, QMUL, Flensburg and the National Autonomous University of Mexico; others again
to established lectureships at institutions including the Universities of Stuttgart, Bristol, Birmingham,
Tyumen (Russia) and Utrecht.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

This period has seen considerable enhancements of our physical (3.1) and operational (3.2)
infrastructure. These have facilitated a significant increase in research income and the expansion of
our research and impact activity (3.3), including many research activities not captured in our
submitted outputs or ICSs (4.1).

3.1 Physical infrastructure
Soon after REF2014, as announced in our submission, the ML departments, including UOA staff
cross-appointed with other departments, were brought together in a newly refurbished building,
alongside other departments including Comparative Literature. This has made interdisciplinary
and collaborative work easier, thanks to: co-location; a shared, integrated administrative hub;
display spaces for our research; and shared spaces including common rooms. Perhaps the biggest
gains have centred on PGRs and ECRs, many of whom find it congenial and productive to base
themselves in the building’s dedicated PGR and ECR spaces, including individual workstations.
Conversely, the highly visible presence of junior researchers contributes significantly to a sense that
our place of work centres on a research community. PGRs also benefit from the Maughan Library’s
provision of further postgraduate-only study space with access to PCs and printing, and casual
breakout space for group discussion. Along with staff, they benefit from the wider infrastructure of
King’s, including its cultural spaces in Somerset House (see Plasticity project, 2.3), and of the
University of London, including: Senate House library; the IMLR, host to a Graduate Forum and ML
graduate conferences habitually led by KCL students, and site of many conferences and seminars
where UOA members are active; and other institutes in the School of Advanced Study, including the
Warburg and the German Historical Institute.


Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The AHRI has been reconfigured to focus more centrally on pathways to innovation and impact,
training in creative methods, collaboration, partnership development and incubation workshops. In
2018–19, the AHRI invested £20,000 in creating the REACH space for socially engaged research –
also an investment in future impact. It offers a creative, neurodiverse-friendly environment with open
and bookable rooms, workshop spaces and a kitchen; and it provides an inclusive interdisciplinary
research environment for Visiting Research Fellows. The new Organisational Residency Scheme
supports researchers and NGOs, museums and galleries in forging sustainable and lasting
partnerships beyond six-month residencies at King’s. In 2018–19, it became the first university
research unit in the UK to become a partner to Citizen UK, providing researchers with access to over
200 NGOs for collaborative, socially engaged research.

KDL, established in 2015, provides specialised infrastructure and has become an increasingly
prominent part of our research environment (see 1.2.2). During this cycle, we collaborated on
£3,335,171 worth of grant applications, and five projects. Two earlier projects are still hosted by KDL.
Its permanent team of 13 project managers, analysts, UI/UX designers and engineers use industry
standard software engineering methods, and pay close attention to system lifecycle management.
The digital elements of the TVOF and MFLCOF projects have pioneered new policy on Service Level
Agreements, whereby sustainability of online project data beyond the externally funded period is
ensured through internal Faculty funds. The TVOF website, for example, will be maintained for 10
years, rather than the usual five.

3.2 Operational infrastructure and internal funding
This assessment period has witnessed increased operational support and internal funding for
research. Our Work in Progress group (see 1.1) offers feedback, notably from current and former
grant holders, on grant proposals at early stages, as well as draft outputs. We have Business and
Research support staff coordinating across the UoA, working hand in hand with HoDs and Research
and PGR leads to develop and harmonise research and funding strategies and our preparation for
the REF. At College and Faculty level, there is an enhanced team of Research Development
Managers and Coordinators, including a Research Development Manager in A&H dedicated to
fostering funding applications and research strategies. From September 2020, applications for larger
grants also benefit from feedback from an A&H Peer Review College. Since January 2018, we have
had the support of a Research Support Coordinator, streamlining processes for research grant
submissions and providing expert pre-award costings. Another significant improvement to research
governance and support since 2014 has been the appointment of a Pro-Vice Dean for Impact &
Innovation. S/he is assisted by a full-time specialist administrator and chairs the Impact and
Innovation Committee, consisting of UOA Impact Leads, early career researchers (including PGR
representation), and representatives of AHRI, King’s Cultural Community and KDL.

Internal funding opportunities support research and impact at all levels. College initiatives include
the King’s Together Seed Fund for multi- and interdisciplinary projects; three from this UoA –
including ffrench’s The Person in Medicine collaboration with colleagues from Medical Humanities
at King’s and from the University of Paris, and Boyle’s Worldmaking in the Time of Covid-19 – have
won a total of £60,496. The Faculty offers six annual funding schemes: Seed Fund (for major funding
bids, including pathways to impact), Conference Support (organisation of conferences), Small
Grants (e.g. research assistance, fieldwork, visits to archives), Publication Subventions, International
Collaborations, and Innovation. Since 2014, the annual budget for these schemes has increased by
100%, from £40,000 to £80,000, and the budget has been fully used each year. 32 UOA members
have benefited from a total of 46 grants, across all six headings, including staff on fixed-term
contracts, with up to £3,000 per award.

To reward and incentivise research grant activity, the Faculty awards PIs of major grants the
equivalent of 10% of overheads as a supplementary research allowance. PIs use this to develop
further projects or pool it to seed-fund project development by other UOA members. The LAWM PI’s
allowance, for example, has been used to involve numerous PGR students and ECRs in developing
projects, including Worldmaking in the Time of Covid-19, and The Poor Connection Festival and


Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
bilingual book (see ICS1), and to fund student ambassadors to work on practice- and research-
based community engagement.

The Faculty has also established a Postdoctoral Projects Fellowship scheme, allowing postdoctoral
researchers to work with a PI on developing and writing grant applications. The scheme offers
excellent experience for the ECR and indispensable assistance for the PI. Both ffrench (a project on
institutional psychotherapy) and Perovic have benefited from the scheme, which led towards major
external funding for the Radical Translations project. The College also funds Undergraduate
Research Fellowships, creating opportunities for undergraduates to take part in research, and for
researchers to benefit from their assistance; UOA members have applied successfully for six in the
period, including Schreiter for the Things We Keep project (see 4.1).

Staff and PGRs across the UoA also benefit from a dedicated annual research budget at
departmental level, currently £12,500 across the ML departments. Some support takes the form of
individual research allowances of £1,000 p.a., increased from £700 in 2014, available to all academic
staff (other than research staff whose expenses are covered by external grants). An ML Initiatives
Fund promotes our strategic goals through collaboration, major grant applications and impact
activities. For example, it supported the early stages of Bowden’s Oswald Project, an interdisciplinary
research and outreach/impact project around the cult of St Oswald, in collaboration with
Peterborough Cathedral. Moyes’s suite of Expo67 activities (see 4.1) was also supported from this
fund, helping him build a large project winning £13,500 total KCL funding, £27,000 from sources
including Canadian governmental funding, and in-kind support to a value of c.£19,000 from
businesses, the BFI and the Cinémathèque Québécoise, notably film equipment and camera
operators producing material for a follow-up documentary. Individual departments also draw on
bequests; besides two already mentioned – the Crompton fund (endowment standing at £1,058,598)
and Von Schlippenbach bequest (£1,697,515) – the Thérèse Zadora fund (£139,938) supports PGRs
in French with research and conference trips. (For more on funding for PGRs, see 2.3.)

3.3 External funding and outcomes
As noted, our research and impact strategy, along with improved infrastructure, has led to
considerably increased success in winning external research funding. Funded projects have
embedded our strategic priorities and activities more deeply in our research culture, constantly
revitalised throughout this period through the recruitment and nurturing of postdoctoral researchers
(2.1) and PGRs (2.3).


                                                Research income

 £1,200,000


 £1,000,000


  £800,000


  £600,000


  £400,000


  £200,000


        £0
                                                              1

        Previous REF period average   2013/14    2014/15   2015/16   2016/17   2017/18   2018/19   2019/20



Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


As this shows, there has been a 1,094% increase in income within this period, in accordance with
our 2014 strategic aims. Average income, comparing the last REF period with this one, has
increased by 318%, from £150,000 a year to £626,957. The range of funders has also expanded; in
2018–19, for example, it included the AHRC, Leverhulme Trust, ERC, British Academy and DAAD.

Numerous major outputs in our submission are associated with the large research and impact
projects already mentioned: these include books by Evri (Leverhulme-funded) and Scott (AHRC-
funded), postdoctoral fellows linked with LAWM (see also ICS1 and ICS4), and the book by Carter,
closely linked with GSSN. The performances submitted by Boyle build on the work of the AHRC-
funded Out of the Wings project on Spanish and Spanish American theatre in translation 2008–13,
as well as belonging to the continuing work of LAWM; Treece’s book too has arisen from research
projects straddling the last and current REFs; the same goes for MFLCOF, which led to the co-
authored book by Gaunt, and TVOF, represented in our submission by the joint work of two ECRs
on the website, and articles by Gaunt and Ventura. Further outputs and impacts associated with
these projects will appear in the next period.

Our continuing commitment to forms of research that sit outside structured research teams, but
which remain collaborative in multiple respects, has also been supported by external funding, notably
through the postdoctoral fellowships mentioned in 2.1. The Leverhulme Trust has also funded
research by Bell, Counter, Harrison and Treece during this period and, from September 2020,
Elmarsafy and Weiss, with these prestigious fellowships leading to books and other outputs in this
REF and more in the next.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
UOA staff have participated in a wide range of research collaborations, networks and partnerships;
and several have been at the forefront of initiatives bringing our research to wider audiences and
beneficiaries. Indeed, this assessment period has seen an increase in our collaborative ventures as
a direct consequence of the research and impact strategies outlined above. We have raised
awareness of the value of ML research for critical understanding of how we represent and engage
with the world, past and present. We harness the creative thinking of staff and PGRs at all stages in
their careers, entering into mutually beneficial dialogue and collaboration with diverse partners.

LAWM is representative of our broader goals, and our responsiveness to wider socio-political
priorities and initiatives, including but not limited to OWRI. Its numerous international, national and
local events (some detailed in ICS1) have engaged with multiple communities. Through its innovative
Small Grants scheme, which awarded 109 grants, totalling £112,000, of between £500 and £1,500,
LAWM developed a community of co-researchers beyond the academy and from a wide range of
sectors, attracting projects from, and fostering links with, people who normally have little access to
funding, or to university research cultures. Thus, its Languages Memory conference (May 2018)
explored how languages – including community languages – are experienced, practised, taught and
researched, and included expert education policy panels and collaborations with artists, performers,
teachers, and activists working in languages in crisis and endangered languages. LAWM’s mentoring
scheme in collaboration with SOAS and Routes into Languages was recognised for excellence in
the Social Mobility Awards 2020. International collaborations have been fostered by team members
co-organising events in Istanbul (a project promoting cultural exchange between Islam, Judaism and
Christianity), Jerusalem (exploring Arabic/Hebrew translation as a challenge to inequality in Israel),
Barcelona, Oxford, Lisbon and Bucharest. The new LAWM research centre embeds ML research
more prominently at King’s, and aspires to provide inspiration and leadership nationally and
internationally in ML, and so to contribute to the sustainability and development of our disciplines.

The LAWM centre creates synergy with other work in transnational literary and cultural studies.
Schofield, for example, is part of the Transnational Modern Languages project, a collaboration
across multiple universities producing seven interlinked volumes on teaching and research; he co-

Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
edited the German volume and contributed to the core volume Transnational Modern Languages: A
Handbook. A similar cross-national agenda underwrites research collaborations, such as Muñoz
Sempere’s participation in two international networks: 1) Grupo de Estudios del Siglo XVIII, an
interdisciplinary group linking Hispanists, historians and art historians, funded by the Spanish
Ministry of Education; 2) Anglo-Hispanic Horizons, a collaboration between romanticists from UK,
Portugal, Spain, Italy and the USA, whose numerous international conferences and panels have led
to volumes such as Spain in British Romanticism (2018). Gaunt’s ERC-funded project TVOF has
hosted at King’s an international seminar with members from seven European countries and the
USA, which has met three times a year 2015–20. These are just three examples from the fields of
Iberian, German and French studies, centred in different chronological eras, that illustrate one of the
main contributions of the UOA to enriching the research base with a more fluid and polycentric
conception of cultural history. It signals a concrete agenda for expanding and enriching diverse
perspectives within ML research.

Diversity of perspectives and cultural critique underpin our leadership of, or contributions to,
numerous other national and international research partnerships and networks. The many
research centres at King’s for which we provide leadership (1.1), and which help sustain the ML
disciplines, all organise activities involving collaborators from outside the UoA, outside King’s, and
outside the UK. Our participation in other international and interdisciplinary networks stretching
beyond King’s and beyond Europe is too extensive to detail here, but examples include active
involvement in Red internacional de estudios latinoamericanos del siglo XIX (Sampson Vera
Tudela), the AHRC-funded international network Early Modern Soundscapes (Butterworth), the
Centre for Quebec and French-Canadian Studies at the IMLR (directed by Moyes), Seminario de
poética Europea del Renacimiento (Weiss, Fouto, Scott), the Netherlands-based Terra Critica
network (ffrench), the Popular Cultures Research Network based at Leeds (Bielecki), and ‘Violence
Elsewhere’: Imagining Violence Outside Germany since 1945 (Stewart), a cross-institutional DAAD-
funded project involving researchers from York, UCL, Nottingham, Warwick, Utrecht and Goettingen.
Within feminist scholarship and activism, McIlvanney is an active member of Women in French UK
and Women in French North America; and Murray co-founded (with Fatehrad, Kingston), the
research network Herstoriographies: The Feminist Media Archive. Numerous colleagues have been
involved in multiple joint projects with the Humboldt, Berlin (HUB), attracting funding from sources
including HUB, the KCL Global Engagement fund and its Partnership fund; Cultures of Work, for
example, co-organised by Carter and Stewart, involved several UOA members as well as HUB
participants, leading to a forthcoming book.

As noted, translation as critical practice and performance is another important strand of our
collective work, putting us in touch with a wide range of research users, beneficiaries and
interlocutors. ICS4 showcases this work, arising from long-established networks and partnerships
that have:

(i) raised the academic status of translation as critical/research practice in the humanities –
    another contribution is Harrison’s open-access Translation as Research: A Manifesto and the
    associated campaign launched in 2015, which has gathered support from many sides including
    translators’ professional associations and subject associations across ML, Classics,
    Comparative Literature, Religious Studies, Translation Studies, Theatre/Performance and
    Philosophy, from the UK, Australia, Canada and France; its strategy is to enhance the REF’s
    role as catalyst for a longer-term, deeper shift in perceptions of the value of translation as
    research, a shift with wider impact across the academic sector and benefits for the translation
    industry;

(ii) fostered major collaborations with the cultural sector – McMurtry, for example, has
     organised/worked on numerous events, as translator, dramaturg and presenter, with institutions
     including the ICA, the South Bank Centre, the Austrian Cultural Forum, Welsh National Opera,
     the Free Word Centre and Ulrich Seidl Filmproduktion.

As in that last example, many of our partnerships involve collaborations at the intersection between
academic research and the cultural sector, including performing and visual arts, creating links

Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with diverse communities and publics. Our ICSs show the transformative impact of central strands
of our research on the creative practice and repertoire of artists, reflecting a much broader feature
of our research. For example, Perovic, co-director of the Centre for Enlightenment Studies, brought
creative writer Tony White to King’s on the Entrepreneur in Residence scheme supported by
Creativeworks London. The collaboration involved a series of three-way conversations on the topic
of ‘Revolutionary Time’ between Perovic, White and influential performance artist Stuart Brisley.
These led to: new fiction by White (a trilogy published by Faber); new performances by Brisley in
response to Perovic’s previous research; and essays and talks by Perovic, in many cases
accompanying exhibitions/installations by Brisley, in the Netherlands, Northern Ireland and various
locations in England. Subsequently, Perovic organised a panel on ‘World Time’ for the AHRI festival
2017 with curators from the British Museum and the London Horological Society. Moyes’ project
Staging Canada at Expo67: Nationalism in the Crucible of Globalization (see 3.2) involved not only
a four-day international symposium but an original dance performance in the converted Anatomy
Theatre at King’s, a film event at the BFI, and a musical performance at the Institute of Light.

These and other projects made good use of our London location, collaborating on research-related
events including exhibitions, talks and concerts with major institutions. To those already mentioned
can be added the British Library, Tate Britain and Tate Modern, the Courtauld Institute, Barbican
Centre and Royal College of Music. At the Freud Museum, Kent co-curated the 2017 exhibition Play
and Psychoanalysis, which was supported by £17,000 of grant funding. It attracted a diverse,
international audience (5,176 visitors from four continents), with a 400% increase in child visitors,
contributing to a 70% increase in museum sales compared with 2016. This led Kent to further work
with the museum, including research into Anna Freud’s refugee experience, told through objects
from the museum’s collections, and with the Baobab Centre for Young Survivors in Exile, mentoring
forced migrants in London applying to universities. London’s ongoing history of migration is also
central to the Things We Keep project, led by Schreiter in collaboration with the artist Rolf Sachs,
which curated objects – and stories – brought to London by members of London’s German migrant
community when they moved here. The project was reported in German media, including two radio
interviews with Schreiter. More than 3,000 people visited the website and more than 400 the
interactive exhibition at the German Historical Institute.

Other projects reflecting our practical as well as intellectual interest in the mediation of cultures
include Rebaza-Soraluz’s collaboration with the Museo de Arte de Lima, where he led visits and a
multidisciplinary four-day series of discussions around contemporary Peruvian cultural practices;
and collaborations between ECRs Torollo and Scott (in partnership with London’s P21 Gallery,
devoted to arts of the Arabic-speaking world) with artists and poets on the reception of Islamic and
Jewish literature in the medieval and early modern worlds. This sort of attention to the porous yet
contentious borders between what we now construct as ‘East’ and ‘West’, and between Europe and
its ‘others’, has also had impact in the realm of policy, exemplified by Vakil’s contribution to a working
party set up to advise the government on the definition of Islamophobia (see ICS1).

The sustainability of ML research is significantly enhanced by research-led projects that strengthen
connections with secondary education, simultaneously benefiting society more widely. Such work,
central to the strategy outlined for REF2014 (see 1.2.1), has been pursued under LAWM and in other
ways. Harrison was one of nine members of the Department for Education-funded ML A-level
Content Advisory Board, whose 2014 report to the government led to the redesign of A-levels; one
aim was to enrich and diversify A-levels’ intellectual content, facilitating a smoother transition towards
research-led teaching in universities. He and ffrench were subsequently employed by commercial
A-level-awarding organisations Pearson and WJEC to advise on new A-levels. Schofield’s
contribution to the ERC-funded project Beyond Enemy Lines: Literature and Film in the British and
American Zones of Occupied Germany (PI, Feigel, KCL English; 2013–19) included outreach videos
for schools and the general public; and Bowden won £4,000 from KCL for a Widening Participation
summer school, World Cultures, Global Futures (2017). UOA staff have also been instrumental in
research-led CPD offerings for secondary school teachers – for example, through a conference co-
funded by ISMLA and organised at King’s by Smale, which involved 75 teachers; and through work
with the Prince’s Teaching Institute. The link of our research to university education in ML is crucial


Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
too, of course; and McIlvanney belongs to an international network of scholars from three continents
who meet at Sciences Po (Paris) to explore innovative ways of integrating research and pedagogy.

4.2 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
The UoA’s wider influence and contribution to the research base covers all areas identified in REF
guidelines.

We contribute significantly to PGR training beyond King’s. As noted, we contribute regularly to the
IMLR’s training programme, and have fostered international collaboration in postgraduate training
and research, co-organising international PGR events at HUB, UMass, Amherst, Michigan (Ann
Arbor), Michigan State, Berkeley and Stanford.

Through extensive commitments to editorial work we have contributed significantly to the
research base. The journal Brasiliana has been run from King’s since 2014, with Correa current
Editor-in-Chief, and Carvalho is also General Editor of the book series Anthem Brazilian Studies.
UOA members have served as editors of many other book series including: Gallica (Boydell and
Brewer); Legenda (both French and Moving Image); Literatura española, Siglos XVIII-XIX
(Athenaica); Ediciones Alfar; Studies in Modern German and Austrian Literature (Peter Lang); and
Modernist Constellations (Clemson). We are actively involved in the editing of major journals too
numerous to list here, including those sustaining core ML disciplines (for example, French Studies,
Journal of Romance Studies, Austrian Studies); more specialised journals from the medieval
(Floriliegium) to the present, including cinema (Screen, Cinéma&Cie) and critical theory (Paragraph);
and journals with an interdisciplinary, comparative and/or extra-European focus, including Literature
and Theology, Alif: Journal of Comparative Poetics, Journal of Commonwealth Literature and
Comparative Literature. We thereby promote a multi- and interdisciplinary, diverse and multilingual
version of our disciplines.

UOA members are referees for numerous journals across a wider intellectual area still, including
history and visual culture, for many presses (for example, the University presses of Alberta, the
American University in Cairo, Cambridge, Cornell, Duke, Edinburgh, Liverpool, Manchester, Oxford,
Pennsylvania, Yale), and for commercial publishers including Bloomsbury, Palgrave Macmillan,
Reaktion and Routledge. We have served on ML’s major UK professional associations SFS,
AHGBI, ABIL, AGS and also the BCLA; on steering committees for initiatives such as Coran 12-21:
Traductions du Coran en Europe, and the Centre de recherches interdisciplinaires sur le politique;
and as assessors for major funding bodies, such as the AHRC, Belgian National Research
Foundation, British Academy, DFG (Germany), ERC, Irish Research Council, Leverhulme Trust and
Swiss National Research Foundation.

We have organised and co-organised many international conferences and workshops at King’s
and elsewhere. To take just one further example of how we bring together researchers and a wide
range of interlocutors, in partnership with Université Paris Diderot, the Institut Français du Royaume-
Uni, the Embassy of France, and the National Archives, UOA staff organised several days exploring
May 1968 and its legacies, including speakers such as Tariq Ali, Kathleen Cleaver, Jochen Gerz,
Bernadette Devlin McAliskey, Juliet Mitchell, Antonio Negri and Helke Sander.

The distinction of our work receives significant external recognition. In addition to the Leverhulme
fellowships already mentioned, examples include Linton’s British Academy mid-career fellowship,
Bowden’s 12-month Humboldt foundation fellowship, and several visiting professorships across
several countries (Carter, Carvalho, Gaunt). Gaunt was elected Fellow of the British Academy and
appointed REF sub-panellist. Prizes include the AHGBI Publication Prize (Scott), the Paragraph
Essay Prize (McMurtry), and the Goethe Society’s PEGS prize (Bell). UOA members have been
invited to participate in numerous tenure and promotion reviews for major US universities; to examine
PhDs in numerous countries; and to deliver keynotes, plenaries, memorial lectures and other major
papers throughout the UK, at prestigious universities across the USA (including Ann Arbor, Berkeley,
Brown, Chicago, Dartmouth College, UF Gainesville, Northwestern, Notre Dame, NYU, Pittsburgh
and Stanford) and other countries across the world, including Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China,

Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Egypt, France, Germany, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, Nigeria, Peru, Portugal,
Spain and Switzerland.




Page 18
