Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Manchester
 Unit of Assessment: 14 (Geography and Environmental Studies)

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 The Geography Department at the University of Manchester (UoM) is now the largest, most
 vibrant and most cohesive it has ever been. Our primary mission is to: (i) understand the
 drivers of environmental and urban change; (ii) shape related academic debate and
 methodological innovation; and (iii) drive action. Research foci bring together perspectives on
 key global challenges including: energy; carbon; infrastructure; sustainability; and nature-
 society relations. Our fundamental and applied research is manifestly influential and
 stimulates real change through deep and lasting partnerships with research users. Since
 REF2014 we have exceeded our strategic aims to grow our research base, develop early-
 career staff, and improve research structures. We have attracted a new generation of talented
 researchers from across the globe so that in 2020 we have 36.3 FTE academic staff,
 supported by the strongest, most diverse and best-resourced research environment in the
 Department’s history.

 Key achievements since REF2014 include:

    Producing highly influential scholarly publications, the 2020 QS Geography World
     Rankings place us =3rd and 6th in the world for Scopus h-index and citations/papers
     respectively (4th and =11th in 2019).

    Gaining external recognition for exceptional research impact, e.g. the inaugural Jo
     Cox Prize for Public Service and Active Citizenship for innovative, early-career public
     engagement work on everyday austerity (2018), and the EU ‘Ordinary Hero’ award for
     influencing international energy poverty policy (2019).

    Transforming the size, diversity and achievements of our PGR community, with PhD
     completions growing from 23 to 57. Our award-winning PGRs (e.g. Manchester Doctoral
     College PGR-of-the-Year, 2017, 2018) publish in top-rated journals, e.g. Nature
     Geoscience, attract prestigious external funding (e.g. IPCC, Commonwealth) and take up
     influential roles (e.g. Minister for Energy, Burkina Faso).

    Receiving the most prestigious commendations for our research, e.g. Fellow of the
     British Society for Geomorphology (BSG), 2017; Honorary Doctorates (Roskilde,
     Denmark, 2018; Malmö, Sweden, 2018); and UoM-Humanities Researcher of the Year,
     2017.

    Enabling a major step-change in grant income capture, HESA research income
     expenditure has quadrupled from £1.5m to £6.1m, greatly exceeding the target set out in
     our REF2014 statement. We have also diversified funding streams to >30 different
     sources.

 1.2 Unit context and structure

 Structurally, the Geography Department is a single UoA14 entity based in the School of

                                                                                          Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Environment, Education and Development (SEED) within the Faculty of Humanities (FoH).
 We organize our departmental research activities across five inter-linked Research Groups
 (RGs):

    Two in physical geography (Environmental Processes (EPRG) and Quaternary
     Environments and Geoarchaeology (QEG)).

    Two in human geography (Society and Environment (SERG) and Cities, Politics and
     Economies (CPEG)).

    One explicitly working across human and physical geography (Mapping: Culture and
     Geographical Information Science (MCGIS)). MCGIS was established as a dedicated
     hub to build on distinctive strengths in critical/digital cartography highlighted in REF2014
     Panel feedback, to develop methodological innovation, and to accelerate impacts. MCGIS
     benefits from strategic staffing investment and membership from across the University,
     including from the Humanitarian and Conflict Response Institute (HCRI) and Digital
     Humanities (DH).

 We have grown our capacity through leading involvement in UoM’s Research Institutes
 (RIs). Manchester’s RIs represent major infrastructural support investments for
 interdisciplinary working. They are large-scale hubs working across Schools and Faculties
 and are designed to co-develop and deliver leading-edge research, often through academic-
 practice partnerships. RIs provide a second tier to how we structure our research activity,
 adding sustainable capacity. Geography staff members bring leadership to the Manchester
 Urban Institute (MUI) and Manchester Environmental Research Institute (MERI) with
 contributions to many others, e.g. the Manchester Institute for Collaborative Research on
 Ageing (MICRA). We also benefit from an active role in UoM’s over-arching Digital Futures
 Research Platform via its Cities & Environment Steering Group.

 The MUI builds on research strengths highlighted in REF2014 Panel feedback, i.e. ‘work on
 the city’, ‘capital and politics’ and ‘nature-society relations’. MUI’s Director (Ward) also co-
 leads CPEG, and MUI’s Smart and Sustainable Cities and Energy themes are led by J.Evans
 and Bouzarovski respectively (CPEG/SERG). Through its strategic aims, MUI is committed
 to supporting the next generation of urban scholars, activists and decision-makers. Its
 members produce >150 publications/year on the global urban condition. MERI’s strategic
 aims emphasize solutions-orientated research to complex environmental challenges by
 combining insights from the natural, health and social sciences. Clay (EPRG) leads the Our
 Changing Earth System theme, and Stone, Fletcher (QEG) and Bellamy (SERG) are
 discipline champions within the Earth theme. MUI and MERI are also inter-connected, e.g.
 through MUI’s Green and Resilient Futures strand. The RIs bring access to wider supporting
 frameworks and cognate disciplines, help stimulate and nurture new ideas, enhance working
 practices and support the realization of major new funding streams on urban and
 environmental research and impact agendas.

 Sitting between our departmental research structures and those of the wider institution, SEED
 (headed by M.Evans) provides the principal management body for our research activity.
 Operationally, UoA14 has a single Research Coordinator (Lindley) reporting to the
 Department Head (HoD) (J.Evans) and School Research Committee (chaired by Castree).
 This structure facilitates progress monitoring of Geography’s strategic research activity and
 supports reciprocal engagement on wider strategy. We contribute to all of SEED’s priority
 research themes (environmental change; governance, policy and practice; poverty and

                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 social justice; and urbanism) and two of UoM’s five research beacons (energy and global
 inequalities). We have used wider UoM structures and platforms to collaborate on the
 EPSRC Power Networks, Data Analytics and Society and 4IR Data Intensive Science CDTs
 to further grow and support Geography’s PGR community.

 RGs and RIs are the primary routes to achieving our research aims. Annual departmental
 research away-days enable further cross-fertilization of ideas, expertise and skills. They
 provide the means of ensuring that Geography’s collective research vision also embodies the
 wider aspirations of UoM’s institutional research framework, objectives and opportunities
 (embodied in the Manchester 2020 Vision; UoM’s Research Strategy and Statement of
 Research Expectations). We hold a ‘Talking Research’ seminar series exploring a range of
 research themes beyond our usual invited research seminars, e.g. good practice in
 Knowledge-Exchange.

 RGs sustain Geography’s active and stimulating research life. Groups provide fora for
 intellectual debate, mentoring for ECRs, PGRs and mid-career staff, and peer-review of
 proposals and outputs. Our RGs hold regular meetings as part of a varied programme of
 annual activities, e.g. specific sessions to bring learning from AAG, RGS-IBG, EGU
 conferences to the wider group and conference-preparation sessions where PGRs and ECRs
 can trial presentations. All groups receive an annual £2,000 budget to run away-days and
 cover day-to-day expenses, such as travel to UKRI ‘Town Meetings’ or visits to discuss
 collaboration. RG away-days take different forms, including spin-off meetings at major
 conferences (QEG/CPEG), writing retreats (CPEG/SERG/EPRG), research proposal
 generation (EPRG/MCGIS) and off-campus team-building activities (MCGIS/SERG).
 Additional PGR-focused –and frequently PGR-led– RG activities also take place, e.g. writing
 workshops.

 Within Geography, we are proud of our innovative RG co-leadership model. The model works
 by pairing an experienced research leader (usually from the Professoriate) with a more junior
 one. The model has many benefits. It allows specific mentorship on research and associated
 strategy development for the junior staff member while increasing capacity, catalysing
 innovation and breaking down barriers to meaningful PGR engagement. It also formalises
 succession planning, laying the foundations for successful long-term realisation of RG
 aspirations.

 These structures and mechanisms enabled us to exceed the strategic aims set out at
 REF2014 (Section 1.3) for instance through:

    Developing a supportive, diverse and inclusive research environment. Success is
     reflected in internal promotions, progression to UoM and external academic posts, hosting
     an international Council for At-Risk Academics (CARA) fellow and receiving our Bronze
     Athena Swan Award (Section 2).

    Leveraging internal strategic research investment. UoM made a £750k investment in
     Geography’s research laboratories and we attracted three University Presidential Fellows.
     We have been able to translate even relatively modest internal investments into major
     areas of activity, for instance using £94k from the UoM-Humanities Strategic Investment
     Fund (HSIF) to stimulate nine different initiatives.




                                                                                        Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Ensuring existing investments and research excellence convert into major new
        interdisciplinary research and impact collaborations. For instance, EPRG’s NERC-funded
        urban ecosystem research underpins EU projects worth £14.5m overall (Rothwell,
        Lindley) and the EU-Triangulum and Innovate UK-CityVerve ‘smart-city’ projects underpin
        UoM’s UKCRIC Urban Observatory and an Impact Case (J.Evans).


 1.3 Strategic aims for research and impact since REF2014

 Our strategy is aligned with UoM’s core goals, but with specific aims reflecting UoA14’s
 particular context. RGs develop intellectual objectives and priorities supported by additional
 departmental and RI activities. Groups embed our ambitions for (1) delivery of intellectual
 objectives through fostering an inclusive, balanced and thriving research environment, and (2)
 significant and positive impacts on the wider society and environment. Our REF2014
 statement set out our initial aims. They were to:

 i)       Develop our cohort of ECR staff into world-class scholars.

 ii)      Improve structures for multi-disciplinary collaboration and associated research activity.

 iii)     Enhance the impact of our research on contemporary environmental and societal
          challenges.

 iv)      Increase research grant activity by doubling grant expenditure compared to 2008-13.

 Following internal review of REF2014 feedback, we approved (i)-(iv), developed detailed
 strategies for each, and introduced a further aim (v), to increase PGR numbers. We have now
 made root-and-branch changes in underachieving aspects of our research activity. There has
 been a conscious, collective effort to improve RG performance and cross-fertilise good
 practice. Although now adopting more standardised working practices, groups retain sufficient
 autonomy and flexibility to allow distinctive agendas and innovations to emerge.

 Grant income has been a particular focus and we also responded to emerging external
 political contexts by extending aim (iv) to include diversifying income sources, while
 continuing to secure EU funds, in line with University guidance. We improved RG mentorship
 across all areas, building on identified thematic strengths, long-standing experience in
 Knowledge-Exchange, and high-profile international leadership (iii). We made strategic
 investments in staff and supporting structures for multi-disciplinary collaboration, e.g. via RIs
 (ii).

 Impact is integral to our research activities, strategies and investments and thus appears
 throughout this statement. From our wealth of impactful activities, we selected Cases that
 showcase prize-winning impacts and the culmination of some of our long-term collaborations.
 We now summarise RG achievements since REF2014 and set out their future ambitions.

 1.4 Research Groups

 1.4.1 Environmental Processes (EPRG)

 EPRG focuses on understanding fundamental environmental processes and how they
 relate to contemporary environmental challenges through strong and collaborative policy-

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 practice partnerships and working models. Led by Allott and Shuttleworth, EPRG has: ten
 CatA staff members comprising Allott, M.Evans, Harris, Huck, Lindley, Rothwell,
 REF2014-ECR Clay and REF2021-ECRs Bispo, Dennis and Shuttleworth; five PDRAs and
 14 PGRs. Since REF2014, EPRG has developed a ~£3.6m portfolio of competitive grants
 (UoA14 application revenue) supported by strong intra-group mentoring. The group produced
 >100 academic journal articles, one monograph and two edited books (including policy-
 practice co-authors). EPRG’s most significant achievements cover three areas:

 1. Peatlands and ecological resilience multi-partner research has: (i) evolved
    understanding of pollutant ‘hotspots’ and geochemical transformations in peatland
    catchments (e.g. on organoarsenical formation and persistence (Rothwell - 2016 Editors’
    Choice in Environmental Science and Technology)); (ii) evaluated photosynthesis
    processes and geochemical determinants, including ecophysiology; (iii) revealed the fate
    of eroded particulate carbon in floodplains; and (iv) uncovered how upland management
    impacts hydrological processes. Strand (iv) provided the first experimental evidence of the
    hydrological benefits of UK blanket peat restoration, leading to further research on flood
    mitigation via upland management (e.g. £1.2m NERC-NE/R004560/1(M.Evans,
    Shuttleworth, Allott)).

 2. Wildfire and biomass-burning research has deepened understanding of (i) drivers,
    processes and impacts from UK wildfire and (ii) impacts from and responses to tropical
    peatland biomass burning (Clay, Lindley’s NERC-Newton projects). EPRG leads the UK
    wildfire research agenda through: NERC-funded research on impacts from the 2018
    Saddleworth Moor wildfire; Clay helping shape NERC’s 5th round of Highlight Topics
    (resulting in £2.5m NERC-NE/T003553/1); and Clay and McMorrow’s membership of the
    England and Wales Wildfire Forum. McMorrow’s NERC-Knowledge-Exchange fellowship
    was instrumental in wildfire being recognized in the UK’s National Risk Register.

 3. Urban green infrastructure and nature-based solutions (developed from REF2014
    urban ecosystems work). Lindley’s Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on
    Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) role led to a 2018 Science paper that
    reshapes the ‘ecosystem services’ concept. Other achievements include (i) producing
    novel, replicable real-world evidence and tools for understanding how nature-based
    solutions influence urban water and climate regimes (£10.3m Horizon 2020-GrowGreen
    (Rothwell, Lindley)); (ii) linking urban physical geography to green infrastructure
    decision-making and innovative financing models (NERC-GreenGrowth £98k and EU-
    H2020-IGNITION £4.2m (Rothwell)); and (iii) developing interdisciplinary knowledge on
    urban green infrastructure and health (NERC-GHIA, £641k revenue (Lindley), NERC-
    EcoPoor, £448k (Rothwell)).

 EPRG’s 5-10 year ambitions are to: (i) produce a robust evidence base on trajectories of
 environmental change in upland ecosystems to inform sustainable management; (ii) catalyse
 a step-change in fire forecasting tools for risk management; and (iii) develop, evaluate and
 implement innovative models for green infrastructure decision-making. EPRG is developing a
 new theme on emerging pollutants, drawing on NERC-funded ultra-fine particle research and
 cross-RG work on micro-plastics in fluvial and marine systems published in Nature
 Geoscience and Science respectively.

 1.4.2 Quaternary Environments and Geoarchaeology (QEG)

 QEG combines expertise in reconstructing and connecting cryospheric, lithospheric,

                                                                                         Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 hydrospheric and biospheric responses and their links with human populations to understand
 the nature and drivers of past climatic change. For instance, QEG researchers used
 cryospheric response to understand hydroclimatic change and the impacts of resultant water
 supply fluctuations on ecology and human activity in Morocco. They also linked hydrospheric
 fluctuations in dryland regions with Palaeolithic archaeological records. Led by P.Hughes and
 Stone, QEG has: six CatA staff members comprising P.Hughes, Stone, Woodward,
 REF2014-ECR Fletcher and REF2021-ECRs A.Hughes and Darvill; one PDRA, and seven
 PGRs. Former members include Lane (to 2016) and Dortch (to 2017).

 QEG has a diverse funding portfolio of £345k as projects (UoA14 application revenue, e.g.
 Leverhulme, National Geographic) and ~£273k as competitively won grant-in-kind facilities
 (e.g. NERC laboratories, the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation
 (ANSTO)). QEG is highly active in public engagement, including through exhibitions (e.g.
 Manchester Museum), festivals (e.g. Blue Dot, with EPRG) and social media (e.g.
 @Jamie_Woodward_’s ~80k Twitter followers).

 QEG’s >100 publications showcase five complementary research themes:

 1. Glacial dynamics: global-scale 100,000-year pacing; palaeoglaciology for data-modelling
    comparison; glacial trends in the British Isles, Mediterranean mountains, Eurasia,
    Canada, Greenland and Patagonia (Darvill, A.Hughes, P.Hughes, Woodward, Dortch,
    Lane).

 2. Dryland dynamics: southern Africa, River Nile, High and Middle Atlas (Stone,
    Woodward, P.Hughes, Fletcher).

 3. Paleoecology: especially in the Mediterranean region (Fletcher; Allott (EPRG)).

 4. Geoarchaeology: Palaeolithic Sahara-Arabian belt and Holocene Nile settlements
    (Stone, Woodward, Lane).

 5. Fluvial dynamics, including impacts of humans and micro-plastics in fluvial systems
    (Woodward, Rothwell (EPRG) collaborating with Manchester City Council).

 Since REF2014 QEG has compiled state-of-science syntheses of Quaternary Mediterranean
 (P.Hughes, Woodward), Northern European (A.Hughes), American (Darvill) and global
 (P.Hughes) glaciations. The group has also innovated methods, e.g. developing the field-
 portable luminescence reader (Stone) and novel climate proxies from pollen geochemistry
 (Fletcher) and sand-dune moisture chemistry (Stone).

 QEG’s 5-10 year ambitions are to develop research agendas and public engagement around:
 (i) providing the highest-quality reconstruction data for validating numerical climate models,
 e.g. glacial reconstructions for sea-level projections, and Holocene moisture variability in the
 High Atlas; (ii) unravelling the structure and spatial variability of long-term glacial-interglacial
 cycles to better contextualise modern climate change and that of our hominin ancestors; and
 (iii) improving techniques, such as novel pollen geochemistry using species with a wide
 bioclimatic envelope, and field-portable geochronology tools.

 1.4.3   Cities, Politics, Economies (CPEG)

 CPEG consolidates and integrates insights from Geography’s strengths in economic, urban,

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 political and social & cultural geography. Led by Ward and Doucette, the group has: nine
 CatA staff members comprising J.Evans, Hess, Lucas, Temenos, Ward, Warren, REF2014-
 ECRs Doucette and Hall and REF2021-ECR Henry; two PDRAs; and16 PGRs. Former
 members include Darling (to 2018), Jayne (to 2015) and Wilson (to 2017). CPEG has strong
 links with MUI and SERG, e.g. through J.Evans and cross-group activity with Bouzarovski,
 Browne, Ernstson, Fredriksen, Millington, Petrova and Swyngedouw. Application
 revenue of £2.5m comes from UKRI, EU-H2020, ISRF, Leverhulme, SSHRC, SSRC, NRFK,
 and USF. This includes fellowships (Doucette (Leverhulme), Hall (ISRF), Warren (AHRC
 Leadership Fellow (£172k revenue) and partnerships (e.g. with cultural organisations and the
 Women's Budget Group).

 Since REF2014, CPEG has produced >100 articles and book chapters, and several
 monographs, edited anthologies, and policy reports. Its members also hold public
 engagement awards (Warren’s UoM Outstanding Public and Community Engagement Award
 2020, Hall’s Jo Cox Award (Impact Case)). Successes stem from: ECR mentoring and
 collaboration through affiliated reading groups (e.g. The Political; Feminist geographies);
 internal peer-review; and annual writing-retreats. These activities have enabled CPEG to
 advance three interlocking research themes:

 1. Enacting Urban Transformations: CPEG expanded its existing expertise on policy
    mobilities (Ward) to include new regions and challenges (e.g. sustainable transitions
    Lucas, J.Evans (Impact Case), healthy cities and everyday urban activism, Temenos,
    Henry). The group developed new understandings of emergent issues (devolution and
    austerity (Hall) and East Asian urban ‘developmentalism’ (Doucette)) and agents of
    change (including cultural producers, financial instruments and urban technologies
    (Warren, Hess, Usher, Ward)).

 2. Interrogating Economic Practice: CPEG advanced its geographical political economy
    expertise and set new global production research agendas on emerging areas of labour
    governance, ethical consumption, and international development cooperation (Doucette,
    Hall, Henry, Hess, Warren). CPEG has broken new ground by connecting across
    political and cultural geographies to explore topics such as the nexus between territory
    and production, everyday financial struggles within austerity, creative communities and
    religious identity, and gendered labour geographies.

 3. Placing the Political: CPEG leads debate on the geographical variation and variegation
    of political institutions and practices by interrogating the nature of the state and territory,
    emergent forms of migrant, labour, and city governance, and the nexus between protest,
    policy and political change. CPEG also challenged how the very meaning of ‘the political’
    has been understood and researched within geography (Temenos, Doucette, Hall,
    Ward).

 Themes have been explored primarily through qualitative methods with group members being
 particularly active in methodological innovation and debate (e.g. Warren, Hall on walking
 interviews and family ethnography, J.Evans on mobile methods to understand Kampala’s
 motorcycle-taxi sector).

 CPEG’s 5-10 year ambitions are to: (i) deepen conceptual and methodological inquiry on
 global production, including more intense scrutiny of labour geographies and dynamics (e.g.
 in manufacturing, care, and creative work); (ii) expand contemporary urbanism and
 sustainable transition research partly through MUI leadership; and (iii) extend austerity,

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 democratization, and policy impacts through external collaborations.

 1.4.4 Society and Environment (SERG)

 SERG’s shared focus is on challenging dominant analytical approaches on climate,
 energy, water, waste and biodiversity and transforming them to promote socially just,
 democratically inclusive, and sustainable transitions. Led by Swyngedouw and Browne
 SERG has:12 CatA staff members comprising Browne, Bouzarovski; Castree, Ernstson,
 J.Evans, Fredriksen, Swyngedouw, REF2014-ECR Petrova and Fellows Usher,
 Millington, Bellamy, Scott; five PDRAs and 20 PGRs. Kaika was a former member.

 Within a nurturing and supportive intellectual environment, SERG members produce agenda-
 setting and policy-informing socio-ecological research that is international in its coverage.
 Research significance is evidenced by prominent keynotes, major editorial roles and awards
 (e.g. Castree, Swyngedouw) (Section 4.3), sustained policy influence (Browne,
 Bouzarovski, J.Evans, Petrova, Scott) and substantial grant income (£5.1m application
 revenue; from ESRC, DFID, EPSRC, COST, Horizon 2020, ERC, AXA). Research is
 developed systematically through a combination of empirical, theoretical and applied inquiry.
 SERG researchers develop innovative public partnerships (e.g. Bouzarovski's energy policy
 work with the EU (Impact Case) and public outreach (e.g. Ernstson’s cinematic ethnography
 ‘One Table Two Elephants’ (2018) (Section 4.2).

 Two key research foci demonstrate the group’s contributions:

 1. Power, participation, and inclusive environmental governance: SERG researchers
    have identified how: (i) society-environment relations express multi-scalar injustices; and
    (ii) institutions and processes block as well as facilitate democratic engagements with
    designing and using built and natural environments. SERG provides key evidence and
    arguments for how and why more inclusive and egalitarian forms of environmental
    consultation, policy and practice can be achieved, including via: new geo-technologies
    and infrastructure (Bellamy, Ernstson, J.Evans, Swyngedouw, Usher); changing
    registers of expertise and knowledge co-production (Browne, Castree, J.Evans,
    Fredriksen); tackling environmental injustice and exclusion (Bouzarovski, Petrova) and
    harnessing citizen protest, government authority, and political legitimacy (Ernstson,
    Swyngedouw, Usher).

 2. Sustainable and just socio-ecological transitions. SERG research illuminates the
    sites, actors, reasons and mechanisms involved in 21st century practices and fostering
    ‘green’ and equitable cities. Research ranges from urban sustainability experimentation
    (Browne, J.Evans) to urban exclusions (Millington, Petrova) and development of the
    analytical tool-kit of urban political ecology (Ernstson, Swyngedouw). It also considers
    how to change key elements of socio-ecological regimes, such as energy (Bouzarovski,
    Fredriksen, Petrova, Scott), water demand (Browne) and the disposal and re-use of
    commodities (Ernstson, Millington).

 Over the next 5-10 years SERG aims to: (i) transform global theoretical debates on
 vulnerability, democratization, the non-human and the possibilities for emancipatory
 transformations; (ii) enhance strategic analytical tools, methodologies and observatories by
 building on SERG’s leadership of water, waste, energy, and urban and environmental change
 research agendas; (iii) support Knowledge- Exchange and policy co-production in order to
 help shape ecologically-, and socially-just transitions in the pressing contexts of climate and

                                                                                          Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 environmental change.

 1.4.5 Mapping, Culture and Geographical Information Science (MCGIS)

 MCGIS was established to focus upon interdisciplinary approaches to mapping,
 cartography and GIS, placing impact at the forefront of its intellectual agenda. Led by
 Harris and Huck, MCGIS has: seven CatA staff members comprising Dodge, Harris, Huck
 Lindley and REF2021-ECRs Bispo, Dennis and A.Hughes; one PDRA and nine PGRs.
 Perkins was a former member (to 2019). MCGIS brings creative, cultural and critical scholars
 together with geographical information scientists and bridges human and physical geography.
 ECRs from HCRI and a DH Presidential Fellow (spatial history) also actively contribute with
 wider collaborations drawn in from scholars based in Media, Design and Management (via
 Perkins) and the Institute for Cultural Practices (via Lindley). MCGIS was launched in 2017
 as part of its hosting of the largest-ever in-person Geographical Information Science
 Research UK (GISRUK) conference (Huck). Application revenue totals £1.0m.

 Methodological innovation drives much of MCGIS’s core intellectual agenda. The group’s
 diverse foundations stimulate novel and creative approaches that are informed by varied
 geographical theories and critical sensibilities. MCGIS’s contributions cover participatory GIS,
 volunteered geographical information, ecosystem analysis and spatial ecology, cartography,
 and historical and literary mapping. Achievements include:

 1. Understanding nuanced patterns of segregation and inequality: Perspectives from
    geography, psychology and anthropology were combined to find new ways to investigate
    segregation and sectarianism in Northern Ireland, going beyond traditional spatial
    primitives (Huck). State-of-the-art techniques (e.g. geographically-weighted-PCA) have
    also revealed new geographies of energy poverty (PGR-Robinson, Lindley with SERG).

 2. Creating new spatial data resources: Collaborations with medical researchers,
    practitioners and the wider public (via ‘mapathons’) led to the first-ever detailed map of the
    Northern Ugandan Gulu region and supported post-conflict healthcare delivery. New map
    products are also assisting urban green infrastructure (Dennis, Lindley) and tropical
    forest (Bispo) research and practice.

 3. Co-producing tools for transforming sustainable decision-making: For example
    working with: engineers and NGOs on the Water Stewardship Portal to improve water
    management in developing countries (Harris); and philosophers and planners on web-
    resources supporting socially-just climate action (Lindley) (Impact Case).

 MCGIS has successfully placed impact at the forefront of its vision for research delivery. Its
 ‘mapathons’ attracted a UoM Outstanding Contribution to Social Innovation award (2018)
 (Huck). Huck was also awarded Honorary Chair in Geographical Information Science at Gulu
 University (2019) and opened a GIS-lab there to accelerate mapping efforts. Commended
 critical cartography research has been translated into a series of public exhibitions, online
 tools and the Manchester: Mapping the City popular book (2018) (Dodge) (Section 4.2).

 MCGIS’s 5-10 year aims are to: (i) extend volunteered and participatory geographical
 information research for humanitarian and wider decision-making; (ii) deploy remote and in
 situ mapping technologies, e.g. for healthcare in the Global South; (iii) develop multi-scale
 geospatial analyses for understanding sustainable human-environment interactions; and (iv)
 innovate Earth Observation and remote-sensing techniques for ecological, agricultural,

                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 geomorphometric and socio-demographic applications, including through Bispo’s South
 American networks.

 1.5 Cross-RG activities

 In addition to individual RG achievements, we can point to successes from collaborative
 cross-RG working supported by Institutes, away-days and University seed-corn awards, for
 instance:

    Understanding micro-plastics in fluvial (Woodward (QEG), PGR-Hurley, Rothwell
     (EPRG) and later in marine systems (Rothwell with UoM’s UoA7).

    Identifying the social benefits of ‘daylighting’ urban waterways (EPRG (Clay,
     Shuttleworth) and MCGIS (Huck) working with SERG (Usher) (HSIF-funded). Usher
     now holds a Simon Fellowship researching green infrastructure governance, landscape
     urbanism and the affective politics of place-making. This complements and extends wider
     EPRG green infrastructure research.

 1.6 Forward Strategy

 We will support the post-REF2021 delivery of the five RG agendas by:

     (i)     Using internal investments and resources to build larger grant applications,
             including securing an externally-funded Research Centre.

     (ii)    Maintaining strong levels of grant-seeking activity and further diversifying our
             funding base through international networking, visits and opportunities flowing
             from our grant portfolio.

     (iii)   Boosting physical geography PGR numbers by seeking PGR block grants, building
             on our recent UKRI successes.

     (iv)    Extending beneficial societal and economic impacts by increasing our portfolio of
             follow-on impact funding for key research achievements, growth areas and
             nascent impact cases.

     (v)     Developing further interdisciplinary collaborations by leveraging our leading role in
             UoM RIs and related cross-cutting initiatives.

     (vi)    Responding to COVID-19 impacts on our research environment, and continuing
             Equality and Diversity actions, including securing Athena Swan Silver.


 Section 2: People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Meeting strategic aim (i) from our REF2014 statement has been supported by our RG,
 departmental, School and wider UoM structures, investments and activities. REF2014-ECRs
 Clay, Doucette, Fletcher, Hall, and Petrova feature prominently in our research and impact
 achievements. They have secured large and prestigious grants in physical (e.g. Clay) and

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 human (e.g. Hall) geography, and by 2018 all had been promoted to at least Senior Lecturer.
 REF2014-ECRs who continue their careers elsewhere have gone to other leading
 Universities (e.g. Darling (2018) and Wilson (2017) to U.Durham).

 We have similarly developed our subsequent ECR cohort. For example:
    Warren won a prestigious AHRC Leadership Fellow award.
    Browne has held two ESRC-Nexus-Network awards and is now SEED’s Associate-
       Director of Business Engagement and Internationalisation.
    Huck now chairs GISRUK and has been commended for his social responsibility work
    Lane was appointed to a Chair at U.Cambridge (2016).

 Our ECRs make distinctive and varied contributions across the breadth of the Geography
 discipline. Together with internally promoted staff (11 to SL, one to Reader and four to Chair),
 this new generation of scholars are ensuring the vibrancy and sustainability of our department
 as others retire (e.g. Agnew, Perkins, McMorrow), or take up promotions elsewhere (e.g.
 Jayne, U.Cardiff).

 We maintain strong and mutually beneficial connections with many retired colleagues through
 Emeritus and honorary roles. Retired staff members remain a valued part of our departmental
 community. They attend Research Seminars and bringing their experience to projects (e.g.
 McMorrow with Clay) and publications (e.g. Braithwaite with P.Hughes).

 Geography’s CatA staff membership of 37 (36.3 FTE) is well balanced across career stages
 (Figure 2.1). Around 40% of our REF2021 staff were submitted to REF2014, including five
 REF2014-ECRs. Since REF2014 we have expanded significantly to appoint a Chair, four
 Fellows, and 10 lecturers. We have eight REF2021-ECRs (six lecturers and two Fellows). Of
 our REF2021 staff, 92% are on permanent contracts.




                             Figure 2.1: Changing FTE staff profile

 Geography’s research and related staffing strategies are overseen by the Head of
 Department (HoD) (J.Evans), informed by input from the departmental research coordinator
 (Lindley) and RGs. The School Research Committee directs wider research strategy and
 investment funds and liaises with Faculty, RIs and the University. It comprises administrative,
 impact and business and external engagement leads (Browne), departmental research
 coordinators, RI leads, communications specialists, library officers, and ECR representation.

                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The School runs dedicated initiatives, such as mid-career mentoring (Allott), impact
 showcases and engagement workshops to complement departmental, Faculty and wider
 University activities.

 UoM is committed to the personal, professional and career development of all staff and
 PGRs. Our growing PDRA community benefits from UoM’s award-winning implementation of
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (EC HR-Excellence-in-
 Research Award). The FoH Researcher Development Team funds researcher-led initiatives
 and uses the Vitae Researcher Development Framework to plan and design its annual
 programme of activities. Annual UoM Research Staff Conferences provide funding
 information, publication support and networking opportunities. More widely, the Staff Learning
 and Development team offers personal and professional development opportunities, e.g.
 project management workshops, and one-to-one developmental support. UoM also runs
 annual leadership training for mid-career and more senior staff and supports attendance at
 external training, where required (e.g. Heritage Lottery Fund’s Aurora programme). In addition
 to developmental activities, UoM has a long-standing commitment to staff wellbeing and
 invests £227k/year in associated initiatives. The Department actively encourages
 engagement with these initiatives, especially UoM’s extensive online offering in 2020.

 Locally, all of our CatA researchers, 17 PDRAs and 41 PGRs, receive informal development
 support through RGs and RIs. Membership is not restrictive; staff and PGRs commonly
 belong to two entities and benefit from their different perspectives and varied personal career
 development opportunities. More formally, Geography runs an annual appraisal system for
 CatA staff and PDRAs. The system has separate research and confidential personal
 development elements. Led by senior staff, the annual process provides:
      A structure to manage staff performance against discipline norms and University
         expectations in a sensitive and supportive way.
      A means to identify personal skills and career development needs and match them to
         training opportunities.
      A vehicle to nurture the development of personal research visions and strategies, and
         to support their realisation, e.g. planning and positioning publications, realising impact,
         seeking funding and planning research sabbaticals.

 All CatA staff members are eligible to apply for one semester of sabbatical leave after six
 semesters of normal duties. Applicants submit an initial planned programme of research and
 report afterwards on their achievements. This system ensures maximum benefit for
 participants and helps justify the ongoing retention of this important part of our research
 culture. Staff members also have access to the FoH-sponsored Professorial Enhanced
 Research Leave scheme (Swyngedouw 2018-19).

 Further mechanisms support the career development of probationary and ECR staff. All new
 starters receive mandatory training (e.g. health and safety, data protection, information
 governance, diversity) with a formal induction by the HoD. Following School and UoM policy,
 we appoint dedicated academic mentors and operate a reduced workload system for new
 starters. The longstanding FoH New Academics Programme, accredited by the HEA, plays an
 important role in fostering the development of research careers. RGs also offer additional
 support, e.g. SERG’s ECR ‘Chats’ (career development discussion groups) led from within
 the ECR community and supported by academic staff. Our well-established probation system
 normally lasts three years with the possibility of a fourth year extension.

 Internal financial support is available through the annual School Research Stimulation Fund

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (RSF) and FoH pump-prime investment (HSIF) schemes. They support small-scale projects
 up to £5,000 and larger interdisciplinary collaborative research applications, respectively. For
 both awards, special consideration is given to new starters to help with first grant applications,
 including through pairing with experienced researchers. Since 2013, Geography had six ECR-
 HSIF recipients. Their usefulness is illustrated by Doucette’s 2014-15 award which
 developed research capacity on Asian GPNs, emerging donors and labour rights (with Hess).
 Doucette later secured funding from the National Research Foundation of Korea and
 produced two related 2018-9 publications on Urban ‘Developmentalism’.

 A Research and Conference Fund is allocated from the School Research Committee’s annual
 budget, with priority given to ECRs. For example, in 2018 and 2019, Geography allocated
 £2,000 each to all new lecturers and £1,500 to established senior staff. We also allocated
 £1,000 to teaching-focussed staff since many on fixed-term contracts may aspire to T&R
 posts in the future (e.g. Wilmott was appointed to a tenure-track position at UC.Berkley).

 Our staffing strategy remains to seek and attract the best global talent and support colleagues
 to realize their potential, both for UoM and the wider discipline. As a department running
 major teaching programmes (~150 new UGs per annum; 3 PGT programmes ~60 per annum)
 staffing decisions inevitably balance teaching with research requirements. However, research
 excellence is always the primary criterion for CatA academic appointments. Indeed, we are
 long-standing proponents of research-led teaching and this remains the keystone of our
 highly-respected teaching portfolio. We also seek to attract staff members with the potential
 to: grow and enhance our current research and impact activity (Huck, Shuttleworth);
 leverage overseas funding sources (Bispo, Ernstson); and help foster further strategic
 collaborations (A.Hughes, Bispo, Ernstson). RG members contribute to writing job
 specifications, short-listing and interviewing as well as using networks to reach the very best
 prospective candidates. Many new REF2021-ECRs have been attracted from overseas
 (including Europe, South Africa and the Americas). Our four new independent academic
 fellows include three UoM Presidential Fellows (Scott, Bellamy, Millington) who benefit from
 additional UoM networking, resources and training support. Scott also brings a £276k NERC-
 Industrial-Innovation award.

 2.2 PGR support, training and supervision

 We have grown our departmental PGR community in terms of completions, from 23 to 57
 (aim (v)). As of 2019-20, we had a departmental PGR community of 41 students and the
 majority are active participants in RGs and departmental activities. Success has stemmed
 from actions associated with: recruitment; application support; training; supervision; PhD
 formats; and advice on publication strategies and career destinations. Wider UoM PGR
 wellbeing initiatives via ‘PGR Life’ also help to ensure a healthy PGR experience, something
 which has been particularly emphasised during 2020.

 Departmental PGR completions were supervised by 32 different staff members, including
 some former staff for continuity. All PGRs belong to at least one RG, where they are very
 much considered to be integral research colleagues. For instance, Usher’s work on
 daylighting hidden urban rivers involved ECRs and PGRs from four different RGs. Reading
 groups are inclusive with open membership, e.g. Hall and PGR-Larrington-Spencer selected
 a paper on glaciers for their inaugural reading for the Feminist Reading group. PGR
 representatives contribute to the School PGR Committee and departmental staff meetings,
 helping to influence institutional decision-making.


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our departmental PGR processes are co-directed by Hall and Clay, each with particular
 responsibilities for Human and Physical Geography programmes respectively. They have
 overseen a fundamental reshaping of application processes so that all applicants receive
 feedback on proposals and are interviewed prior to any short-listing for funding or issuing of
 offers. No PGR now arrives without having met their supervisors (even if only online) or
 benefitting from early recommendations for pre-sessional training. Two supervisors per
 student is the norm, but we allow wider teams, where appropriate, e.g. to cover specialist
 skills, cross-disciplinary research, and probationary ECR career development.

 All PGRs undertake mandatory training in Year 1 and use UoM’s online ‘e-Prog’ system
 throughout their studies. E-Prog helps structure activities, monitor attendance, report
 progress and record milestone achievements. This is always in addition to funder-specific
 requirements. Annual reviews are rigorous, but supportive. They are designed to give PGRs
 opportunity to have an early ‘viva-lite’ experience with an independent academic assessor.
 The Year 1 review is a major milestone which establishes that students have the foundation
 for successful completion of their studies within four years. We allow three years for the main
 PGR research period with an optional submission pending period for writing up (subject to
 approval).

 PGRs may apply for interruptions, P-T status (if UK/EU) and paternity/maternity leave and we
 have clear procedures for dealing with any difficulties in the supervision process. PGRs can
 access a dedicated fund for fieldwork and conference support, in addition to funds and
 activities supported through the department, RGs and RIs. At School level, a PGR steering
 committee organizes annual PGR conference themes, chairs and speakers. PGRs can
 participate in a wide range of external as well as internal activities, providing fertile ground for
 peer-support and knowledge-sharing. The Faculty and University offer ongoing PGR training
 opportunities (e.g. social research methods summer schools) as standard.

 We have a diverse student body, with a higher number of female PGRs compared to national
 benchmarks. Of our ‘home’ completions to date, around 80% studied FT. PGR funding has
 come from the IPCC, Commonwealth, Government studentships (e.g. Chile), NERC, ESRC
 and ESRC-CASE (through the NWSSDTC, where we have high success rates), EPSRC and
 dedicated CDTs, e.g. EPSRC Power Networks). We also attracted the first-ever MERI-PGR
 scholarship. The richness of our PGR funding sources and contexts feeds a vibrant PGR
 research environment by bringing in diverse perspectives, stakeholders, networks and
 collaborations. In addition, internal School scholarships allow us to support PGRs in research
 areas with limited access to external funds and attract the very best international talent. CatA
 staff probationary status precludes leading a supervisory team so we also use internal funds
 to help ECR development by facilitating opportunities for new supervisors to work alongside
 more experienced ones.

 The supervisory skills of our staff are very highly regarded, e.g. Browne (2018) and Hall
 (2020) hold Manchester Doctoral College (MDC) awards. Our PGRs are high achievers, for
 instance:
      Attracting awards, e.g. poster (RGS-IBG, 2019), video (N8AgriFood, 2018) and MDC
        PGR of the Year awards (PGR-Wilmott (2017), PGR-Alda-Vidal (2018)).
      Engaging with external organisations, e.g. via the ESRC-NPIF Accelerating
        Business Collaboration scheme (PGR-Alda-Vidal).
      Publishing PhD results in top journals, e.g. Nature Geoscience (PGR-Hurley),
        AAAG (PGR-Robinson).


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.3 Equality and diversity (E&D)

 In 2018, SEED was awarded Athena Swan Bronze for its thorough assessment of diversity
 challenges and its strategy for improving gender balance, representation and inclusion. The
 School was commended on its honest acknowledgement of gender diversity challenges and
 associated actions, including the lack of senior women in Geography (AP2.1). The awarding
 committee highlighted several existing strengths including SEED’s promotion of E&D through
 standing items on departmental agendas, and its establishment of a Women-into-Leadership
 programme (WLP). The WLP programme was subsequently adopted across UoM.

 Geography played a leading role in calling for the WLP programme, drawing inspiration from
 the HLF’s Aurora programme in which Lindley participated (2015). Recognising the particular
 challenges in Geography, Lindley and Shuttleworth (then a PDRA) established a
 departmental female Physical Geography network in 2015 to provide informal peer-mentoring
 and a space to discuss relevant challenges. In enacting AP2.1, this scheme was formalised
 and extended to include all-female academic staff in the department. Meetings are held
 approximately quarterly and often feature invited contributions from senior female leaders
 from across UoM. This is complemented by:
      Visits from senior female human geographers e.g. Sofoulis’ Simon and Hallsworth
        Professorial Fellowship and her two visits in 2017-2018.
      SERG’s Gender in the Academy discussion group which connects academic interests
        in CPEG, e.g. through its Feminist Geographies reading group.

 We have seen positive change in gender diversity at senior levels. Six female lecturers
 (Browne, Hall, Harris, Petrova, Stone and Warren) were all promoted to SL (one to Reader)
 and two female staff to Chair (Lindley as the department’s first female Chair from Physical
 Geography and Smyth (Teaching-Focused)). We appointed a new female Chair in Human
 Geography in 2020 (Lucas), and Lindley is replacing Castree as School Research Director.
 We actively monitor the visibility of female staff in our research activities, e.g. invited research
 seminar speakers and award/recognition nominations. We will continue to improve gender
 inclusion as we progress SEED’s Athena Swan Silver application, including further enhancing
 support for colleagues taking maternity leave (five during 2014-20).

 As recognised by the Royal Geographical Society, UK Geography has very low proportions of
 BAME staff. Since 2019, we have appointed three BAME colleagues (a lecturer, a CARA
 fellow and a PDRA) but our CatA staff is still largely White (two-thirds White-British). A range
 of initiatives is helping with our aspirations to address the spectrum of diversity issues in
 staffing and leadership:
       UoM’s mandatory diversity training, including unconscious bias in recruitment,
          promotion and PGR supervision.
       UoM’s guaranteed interview scheme for disabled applicants meeting the minimum
          requirements for a post.
       SEED’s annual promotion workshop, to demystify promotion processes and criteria
          (including impact) and ensure the availability of appropriate mentoring.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 In recognition of the fundamental role of research grant income for maintaining a vital and
 sustainable research base, strategic aim (iv) from our REF2014 statement was to double
 grant expenditure compared to 2008-13. Since 2013 we have achieved a dramatic culture
 shift, increasing HESA-recorded expenditure from £1.455m (REF2014) to £6.081m
 (REF2021), and tripling revenue per FTE (Figure 3.1).

 More of our staff members are writing funding applications, and with greater success rates,
 than ever before. The number of funded investigators has increased from an average of 5-6
 individual investigators per year before 2013, to 20-24 thereafter. By 2018 some 60% of our
 CatA roster (n=22) held at least one externally-won grant. Eleven major grants (>£200k) have
 been secured from six different funders. They were won by ten different individuals with at
 least one per RG. Avoiding over-reliance on particular individuals is important; especially
 given our UG and PG teaching commitments and major administrative contributions (e.g.
 Allott and M.Evans as the former and current Head of School, and our other major research
 leadership roles (Sections 1 and 2)).

 Our research income culture is now one in which applying for and winning external grant
 income is the norm in all RGs (Section 1). Since 2013 we have enhanced our ability to
 identify opportunities, built the foundations to enable a rapid response, and established robust
 but supportive peer-support mechanisms. We have created a culture of ‘leading by doing’,
 where learning is shared and success celebrated. Colleagues at all career stages are
 encouraged to cross-fertilize and co-produce ideas, both internally and by drawing on our
 well-developed academic and practitioner networks (Section 4). We have used our
 membership of these networks, especially interdisciplinary ones, to allow us to respond to
 responsive-mode funding opportunities as well as to make applications to standard
 RCUK/UKRI calls. We frequently embed ECRs and -where possible- PGRs within the bidding
 teams, as well as encouraging the development of new hubs, both geographically and
 thematically. There are further complementary RG and ‘Talking Research’ activities which
 help to demystify grant preparation, including grant administration processes throughout the
 project lifecycle.

 Importantly, we have responded to external threats to funding availability and have been able
 to diversify our income portfolio while also growing it (Figure 3.2). Funding types include:
 Open; Directed; fellowship; in-kind analytical support; and Knowledge Exchange/KTP drawing
 on 31 different sources, thereby reducing the risks of over-reliance on single funders. Overall,
 no single funder contributed more than 30% of our total funds and no REF-category funding
 group contributed more than 45% (Figure 3.2). Notably, within the RCUK/UKRI group, our
 grants come from AHRC, ESRC, EPSRC and NERC. This portfolio reflects: our strategic
 targeting of funders; the breadth of our research activity and its audiences; the partners we
 work with (including business); and the growing diversity of our researchers.

 Significant post-REF2021 investment has already been secured, including:
     £1.5m UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship on Austerity and Altered Life-Courses (Hall).
     £7.5m NERC Digital Solutions programme (Lindley, J.Evans).
     £32.8m GCRF African Cities programme (Ernstson).


                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                     Figure 3.1: Change in HESA-REF4b income (£)




           Figure 3.2: HESA-REF4b income by source (top) and period (bottom)

                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 We receive administrative support through SEED’s Research Support Services Hub, staffed
 by a Research Support Manager, four Research Officers (covering pre- and post-award), an
 Impact Officer, two Finance Officers and a Communications Officer. The team supports bid
 preparation, project management, dissemination and impact. Our Communications Officer
 has a specific remit to assist with research dissemination. The Hub liaises with further internal
 teams for additional strategic support, e.g. outreach campaigns, grant-writing advice and
 mock interviews.

 More widely, we benefit from extensive UoM investment, including research-dedicated
 support from the UoM Library (a National Research Library). The Library supports publication
 and dissemination, training for research information management, plus access to research
 databases and >40,000 e-journals. The Library ensures Open-Access compliance (classing
 our submitted REF2021 publications as 100% compliant) and offers funding for Gold Open-
 Access publications, while helping academics to develop dissemination plans, e.g. using
 social media.

 Locally, Geography researchers have access to a range of more specific infrastructure and
 facilities supporting individual, RG and wider collective research activities. Infrastructure
 covers dedicated physical laboratories, fieldwork equipment, substantial holdings of literary
 and archive materials, and access to digital infrastructure (e.g. high-performance servers).
 We also have a local library within one of SEED’s two co-located buildings on campus.

 The Geography laboratories offer a state-of-the-art facility directly supporting EPRG and
 QEG. A four-strong team of specialist support staff (two of whom have PhDs) and a field-
 support officer run six dedicated laboratories working with primary academic lead P.Hughes.
 Laboratories cover microscopy, X-ray, spectroscopy, and a range of other sediment and
 environmental analyses. Infrastructure ranges from preparation facilities for geochronological
 analyses (OSL and cosmogenic dating) to geochemical capabilities in peat and sediment
 analyses. The laboratories and their staff underpin successes in micro-plastics, C-cycling and
 wildfire research.

 Since 2013 the laboratories have received >£750k in overall investment. Cutting-edge
 laboratory and field equipment includes an ITRAX™ Core Scanner able to scan at 200-
 micron resolution for high-definition imagery, X-Ray radiography and fluorescence
 spectroscopy. One of only three currently available in the UK, the £350k ITRAX™ allows
 unrivalled analysis of the physical and elemental composition of peat, river, floodplain, and
 lake sediments. In 2019 we secured £250k from UoM capital funds for laboratory investment.
 Subsequent building works improved facilities, increased capacity and created dedicated
 spaces to separate field sample processing from our high-end analytical equipment, thus
 ensuring the sustainability and reliability of our research data. We also created a new
 Sediments laboratory and darkroom for luminescence dating. Through the laboratories, we
 hold a DEFRA Foreign Soils Importation Licence (e.g. supporting REF2014-ECRs Stone and
 Clay) and a UoM Gold Green-Impact award.

 In addition to laboratories, we also:
  Maintain dedicated field instrumentation in the Peak District including EPRG’s long-
     standing research catchment (Upper North Grain); and
  Strategically invest in field equipment and training, including through an annual equipment
     grant. This secured: Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (e.g. a QuestUAV™Q-PodQ-200) with

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    computer-controlled flight-pathing (Harris); UFP monitors (Lindley); a portable XRF unit;
    and equipment for coring, surveying, meteorological, pollutant and water analysis.

 The School’s specialist support staff members include a dedicated GIS and Remote Sensing
 Officer (GIS Officer) with cartography, desktop-publishing, graphics and illustration support
 also available. Our GIS Officer leads the management and administration of GIS and remote
 sensing (including software licenses, installing and testing upgrades, and overseeing
 equipment and rooms). Our software portfolio includes: ESRI products, Exelis-ENVI 5.1, Clark
 Labs TerrSet, Intergraph ERDAS-IMAGINE, DNRGarmin and the Terrain Analysis System.
 The GIS Officer:
      Provides technical support (e.g. blogs and consultations).
      Assists with access to geospatial data-delivery channels (e.g. EDINA-Digimap).
      Supports outreach and impact (e.g. Manchester Museum’s ‘Climate Exchange’ public
         engagement initiative and ECoS Open Labs).
      Liaises with external organisations, e.g. software and data providers. In 2016,
         activities included attending GeoBusiness & PolicyUK events securing industry
         sponsorship for our hosting of the 2017 GISRUK conference.

 With the increasing pervasiveness of geospatial and digital approaches in Geography, access
 to highly-skilled support staff is vital. Our current GIS Officer (Dr Millin-Chalabi, 2016-date) is
 a former Geography PGR, and SEED supports her continued engagement in research, e.g.
 on NE/T003553/1. Millin-Chalabi also leads technical infrastructure innovations, e.g. a pilot
 Spatial Data Infrastructure building on the award-winning http://www.envirosar.com/
 (Copernicus Masters Sustainable Living Challenge, 2016). Our strong infrastructure in this
 area underpins a range of research-related activities.

 Aligned with wider UKRI/UoM policies, Geography is also committed to furthering data- and
 software-related aspects of Open Research, by:
      Increasing our use of existing Open Source software, e.g. QGIS.
      Developing new Open Source software e.g. Huck’s GitHub resources.
      Providing Open Data via publications, local servers and UKRI repositories (e.g. Bispo,
        Dennis, Fletcher, Harris).
      Sharing geospatial data management expertise, e.g. NERC-UDARA helped pilot ITB’s
        (Indonesia) adoption of Open Science Framework practices.
      Delivering publicly-available decision-support resources, e.g. http://map-me.org/
        (Huck) and http://www.climatejust.org.uk (Lindley) (Impact Case).

 All research follows standard institutional level procedures and regulations, e.g. risk and
 ethics, research data management, research integrity, and Open-Access output management
 (via the PURE repository). In research ethics, we have led SEED’s Ethics Committee (Hall)
 overseeing a streamlined, online system. We remain fully committed to research Health and
 Safety, with extremely rigorous laboratory and fieldwork procedures.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the discipline or research base

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Research collaborations are central to Geography’s research and impact portfolio, with
 interdisciplinary working, policy-practice partnerships and knowledge-exchange being long-
 standing hallmarks of our work. Many of our achievements are directly attributable to this

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 working model whether formed locally, nationally or internationally. They reflect our
 commitment to research which yields positive environmental, social and economic benefits at
 each of these scales (Section 4.2). Example collaborations include:

    Locally, M.Evans’ and Allott’s work on moorland restoration and nature-based solutions
     is founded on an association with the Moors-for-the-Future Partnership, from its
     conception. Lindley’s urban green infrastructure research joined 12 academic disciplines
     from across UoM, U.Salford and MMU with seven local non-academic organisations.
     Rothwell’s H2020 projects benefit from Manchester City Council acting as lead City-
     Partner. Funders recognise the special relationships generated through our partnerships,
     the inclusivity of our working practices and the opportunities to generate positive change
     through Greater Manchester’s devolution agenda. MUI and MERI networks also yield
     fruitful local collaborations, e.g. J.Evans’ UKCRIC Urban Observatory.

    Nationally, Browne’s investigation of the food-water-energy-environment interface uses
     collaborations from two ESRC-Nexus-Network Awards. For instance, the ‘Reshaping the
     Domestic nexus’ unites Defra, BEIS, the Food Standards Agency and Waterwise. Clay’s
     UK wildfire research involves a long-term science-policy partnership that has yielded joint
     publications, forum memberships and advisory roles (with McMorrow). Geography is well
     connected to disciplinary networks, e.g. via RGS-IBG, with prominent roles in multiple
     conference networks (Section 4.3)

    Internationally, Bouzarovski’s €600k EU-COST European Energy Poverty network and
     EU-Poverty Observatory cover both energy research and its translation into practice. In
     the latter, UoM is the core academic partner working with IT companies, consultancies
     think-tanks and charities to co-develop innovative policy-practice initiatives to combat
     energy poverty. Rothwell’s and J.Evans’ EU-H2020 projects have strong Manchester
     foundations while also forging partnerships across Europe and China. Recent appointees
     bring further networks. Lucas leads the 20-partner academic-practice International
     Network for Transport and Accessibility in Low Income Communities and Co-Chairs the
     EU-NECTAR-Cluster 7 scientific research network on transportation impacts, and Bispo
     and Ernstson strengthen research connections with South America and Africa
     respectively. Lindley’s involvement in IPBES widens existing collaborations, and helps
     bring prospective partners to funding bids led by MERI and MUI. This is a reciprocal
     arrangement, with new international networks forming through RI membership (e.g.
     Huck’s Northern Uganda work). Collaborations frequently result in joint publications and
     attract PGRs. We bring PGRs to our international networks, e.g. through CPEG/MUI’s
     regular Urban Studies Summer Institute, which in 2018 was held at NUS (Singapore and
     for which CPEG offered bursaries to participants from low-income countries. The UoM
     Simon and Hallsworth endowments also facilitate international collaboration for
     SERG/CPEG, and we regularly host prominent speakers (e.g. CPEG hosting Glassman,
     Keil, Katz, Lehrer).

 4.2 Relationships with non-academic audiences and wider contribution to economy
 and society

 We have been able to develop strong and meaningful relationships with research users
 because we are pioneers and long-standing advocates of ‘impactful’ research, i.e. well before
 it was a formal means of assessing research quality. The late Emeritus-Professor Robson’s
 Centre for Urban Policy shaped UK government policy and practice, and Honorary Senior


                                                                                         Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Knowledge-Exchange Fellow McMorrow’s 30-years’ work on wildfire are key examples. We
 carry this tradition with us today, e.g. via Browne’s School-level Business Engagement role.

 We have established internal funds of ~£6,000/year to support impact-related activities and
 won two NERC-Knowledge-Exchange fellowships, eight UoM ESRC-IAA awards and two
 Simon Industrial Fellowships. We make use of further UoM structures, such as
 Policy@Manchester which attracted an ESRC-Impact award in 2016. The quality and
 importance of our impact work is recognised through awards and prizes, including:
      PDRA-Thomson’s ESRC-Early-Career-Impact award (2017).
      Hall’s Jo Cox Prize for Public Service and Active Citizenship (2018).
      Bouzarovski’s EU-Protects campaign ‘Ordinary Hero’ award (2019).
      Multiple UoM ‘Making a Difference’ Awards (e.g. Hall, Huck, Warren).

 Our activities fit well with UoM’s Strategic Vision for social responsibility including:

    Engaging public audiences – We delivered numerous local, national and international
     media contributions (e.g. Doucette to Korea Now’s Extra-Territoriality podcast with nine
     media outlets covering Rothwell and Woodward’s microplastics research in March 2018)
     and we maintain an active social media presence (e.g. @Jamie_Woodward_,
     @GeographyUoM and dedicated RG accounts). We have held honorary curatorships at
     Manchester Museum and worked closely with Whitworth Art Gallery (Lindley and
     Warren). Warren’s 2019 co-curated research-based exhibition at The Whitworth was
     extended twice and attracted 200,000 visitors. Our interactive science stand at the
     BlueDot festival led to a programme feature piece, and we regularly write for The
     Conversation (e.g. Bellamy, Browne, Petrova). Section 1.4 highlights further public-
     facing activities:
         o Ernstson’s 2018 film was screened at multiple European and African film festivals
             and attracted several award nominations at those events.
         o Dodge’s historical map archival research was disseminated through exhibitions
             and his 2018 popular book. This engaging visualisation of untold urban histories
             attracted extensive local media coverage.

    Taking up advisory roles – for example, Allott and M.Evans are science advisors to EU-
     MoorLIFE and two IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) commissions.
     We have presented to UK, European and Asian policy audiences and submitted evidence
     to statutory and government bodies, e.g. the Climate Change Committee (Scott) and the
     Department for Work and Pensions (Hall) (Impact Case). Our student alumni also provide
     opportunities to reach out to beneficiaries globally, e.g. Ouedraogo, Minister for Energy,
     Burkina Faso.

 4.3 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline and research base

 Intellectual contributions to the research base are underscored by major esteem indicators,
 such as: Woodward’s election as Fellow of the BSG (2017); and Swyngedouw’s two
 Honorary Doctorates in Scandinavia and UoM-Humanities Researcher of the Year award
 (2017). Publications also feature as Editor’s highlights (e.g. Hall, Rothwell) and attract
 awards, e.g. Jim Lewis Prize (Bouzarovski, 2018, Petrova, 2019).

 Academic services contributing to the wider sustainability of the discipline comprise:



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Supporting Journals, including:
        o Castree Progress in Human Geography Managing Editor (2003-date).
        o Hall Area Co-Editor (2020-date).
        o Ward Urban Geography Editor-in-Chief (2018-date) and Editor (2015-17).
        o Woodward Geoarchaeology Editor (2007-2018).
        o Editorial and Advisory Board roles, e.g. Local Environment and Frontiers in
          Sustainable Cities (J.Evans), The Holocene (Fletcher), Geology (P.Hughes),
          Computers, Environment and Urban Systems (Lindley), Journal of Transport
          Geography (Lucas), Environment and Planning C and Geography Compass
          (Temenos), Palaeogeography, Palaeoclimatology, Palaeoecology (Stone), and
          Antipode (Ward). Bouzarovski sits on six Editorial Boards, including the
          interdisciplinary Energy and Buildings illustrating how we bring Geography to other
          disciplinary debates.
        o Guest-editing and leading Special Issues, e.g. Woodward (Quaternary Science
          Reviews) Lindley (Landscape and Urban Planning) and Swyngedouw via highly-
          cited editorials and symposium introductions (2016, 2017).

    Supporting professional bodies and learned societies, including:
        o Castree AAAG Board and Publications Committee.
        o QEG International Union for Quaternary Research and societies in Norway
          (A.Hughes) and South Africa (Stone).
        o Harris Remote Sensing and Photogrammetry Society Trustee (2012-18).
        o RGS-IBG Research and Working Groups (e.g. Hall, Scott).

    Organising conferences. Staff and PGRs regularly organise and convene conference
     sessions, including:
        o Four sessions at the 4-yearly 20th INQUA Congress (QEG).
        o Sessions at AAG, AAS, DSA, RGS-IBG, NGM and RC21 (SERG/CPEG).
        o Hosting conferences at UoM: Healthy Cities 2019 (Browne); GISRUK 2017
            (Huck) and BSG 2014 (M.Evans, Shuttleworth).

    Winning and hosting academic fellowships. Fellowships across all RGs provide
     additional research capacity as well as indicators of esteem. For instance, CPEG has won
     fellowships from the Korea Foundation and Leverhulme Trust (Doucette); ISRF (Hall);
     and the Urban Studies Foundation (Temenos).




           Figure 4.1: Reach of invited overseas presentations and visits 2014-2020

                                                                                      Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    Delivering invited speeches. We have an exceptional record of delivering keynotes and
     invited presentations in the UK and overseas (Figure 4.1).
          o SERG: Castree delivered a keynote to the 2019 German Geography annual
             conference and gave both the 2015 Stockholm Archipelago Lecture and 2015
             Transactions of the IBG Lecture. SERG’s >100 invited speaking engagements
             2017-19 include:
                  Browne Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, CUFE, Geneva,
                    Wageningen.
                  Bouzarovski Bergen, Berlin, Brisbane, Bruges, Erkner, Gdansk, Prague,
                    Stockholm, Turin.
                  Ernstson African Centre for Cities.
                  J.Evans Graz, Kampala, Leuven, Prague.
                  Hess as panellist at the 2018 Global Conference on Economic Geography.
          o CPEG’s invited presentations cover Antwerp, Brussels, Kentucky, Los Angeles,
             Melbourne, Munster, Mumbai, Paris, Seoul, Singapore and Taipei, with national
             seminars at Cambridge, LSE, Nottingham, Oxford, Sussex, UEA and York.
          o EPRG and QEG regularly deliver keynotes, e.g. Lindley’s 2017 European
             Conference on Biodiversity and Climate Change keynote and QEG’s 12 invited
             EGU keynotes in 2016 alone.

    Hosting academic visitors. Academic visits and honorary appointees continue to be an
     important part of academic life in Manchester. Indeed, we increasingly attract visitors,
     hosting 47 visitors (2013-2018) compared with 32 (2004-2013). Our global reach is shown
     by 91% of visitors coming from overseas (~53% Europe, ~13% North America, ~9% Asia,
     ~4% Africa and ~13% Australia). We mobilize internal (e.g. Simon/Hallsworth endowment)
     and external (e.g. China Scholarship Council) funding to support visits from talented
     researchers at all career stages. Senior visitors (e.g. Sofoulis, Prudham, Sultana,
     Christopherson, Agyeman) often provide group and one-to-one mentoring sessions for
     PGRs/ECRs alongside the usual research-exchange activities. Visits also yield follow-on
     activities, e.g. Hallsworth Visiting Professor Ibert’s (IRS-Berlin) visit to CPEG led to a
     subsequent Spring Academy. In turn, collaborators benefit from institutional infrastructure
     investments, e.g. in our laboratories.

    Making long-term academic visits. Many staff members receive visitor invitations and
     have established overseas relationships that sustain their research. For example, Clay
     was Ida Pfeiffer Visiting Professor, Vienna (2018), J.Evans was Visiting Professor, Lund
     (2014-17) and Castree’s links with U.Wollongong remain strong.

    Delivering wider services to the discipline:
        o M.Evans chairs the Heads of Geography in Higher Education group (2016-date)
            and led a major Geography A-Level review. M.Evans, Castree and Woodward
            co-edit the leading A-level magazine, Geography Review. Castree co-edits the
            AAG International Encyclopaedia of Geography and Routledge’s Key Ideas in
            Geography book series.
        o We bring expertise to AHRC, ESRC, NERC and cross-disciplinary UKRI peer-
            review colleges in addition to scientific advisory and evaluation committees
            overseas, e.g. in Canada (Harris) and France (Fletcher).
        o National and international PhD examining, and grant and publication reviewing
            form part of our everyday activities. Quality indicators include: P.Hughes’


                                                                                        Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

           Outstanding Reviewer acknowledgement, Quaternary Science Reviews (2015);
           Hess’ Best Referee Award, Journal of Economic Geography (2016); and
           Castree’s Taylor and Francis Lifetime Achievement Award (2019).

 In sum, we have evidenced how Geography at the UoM has grown and thrived since
 REF2014. Our collegial environment supports people at all career stages, respects both
 tradition and innovation, and provides fertile ground to realise our future ambitions.




                                                                                     Page 24
