Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Liverpool Hope University
 Unit of Assessment: History
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Introduction


History at Hope is located in the Subject Area (previously Department) of History and Politics within
the School of Humanities, one of nine schools in the university, which each comprise a number of
allied subject areas.


As a subject in itself, History is half of History and Politics and thus one of the UK’s smallest
History submissions to REF: with just 6.2 FTE eligible staff. It is a small and dedicated subject
team comprising modernists Bryce Evans, Stephen Kelly, Danny Evans, and Jody Crutchley and
early modernists Fiona Pogson (0.8), John Appleby (0.4), and Ruth Canning.


The study of history and historical topics spans multiple areas of interest at the University,
including in Theology, Politics, International Relations, Education Studies, and Media and
Communication, which are included in other units of assessment. This means that History, as a
subject area, works with many ‘outlying’ historians from different subject areas and schools on an
interdisciplinary basis including the organisation of conferences, mentoring, and supervision.
History, therefore, is at the heart of research activity within the university.


Research Focus


The foci of historical research at Hope are, broadly, the themes of:


    1) nationalism, and
    2) transnationalism


As part of the REF 2014 exercise - in which History at Liverpool Hope made its first submission -
we identified our core strategic goal as: developing an international reputation for History
appropriate to a developing liberal arts institution. In pursuing this goal, the following strategic
areas for development were identified: Maximising public engagement; Developing a postgraduate
research culture; and Generating greater external research income.


In the assessment period, these research goals have evolved as the context and makeup of the
unit have shifted, leading to the development of the following evolved research objectives:



                                                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Objectives


    1) An integrated and inclusive research culture
    2) The enabling of excellent research in specific areas


These objectives were formulated after the 2014 exercise through a series of focused and inclusive
meetings which addressed how to better develop research culture and areas of expertise against a
backdrop of considerable teaching and administrative loads. These twin objectives are now
discussed in greater detail.


   1) An integrated and inclusive research culture


The first objective was undertaken - in line with the design of impact strategy - to widen
engagement with non-academic actors. It also sought to develop a research culture inclusive of
those outside the immediate History teaching team, including PhD students, postdoctoral scholars,
colleagues researching history in other departments, non-academic partners, and members of the
public. In terms of the 6.2 members of the History team itself, this objective sought to bring
together early career researchers and more senior, or longer established, academics.


This has been pursued through several new measures focused on professional development. First,
the introduction of an interdisciplinary mentoring system has seen historians work with early career
researchers in the university’s Education faculty; for example, Stephen Kelly’s mentorship of one
ECR, Jody Crutchley, has led to her providing research-informed teaching on core History modules
where, alongside another ECR, Danny Evans, she has spearheaded a ‘decolonising’ /
transnational approach.


Next, PhD students – whose recruitment was integral to the unit’s previous goals – have presented
their research at a regular History seminar series at which newly recruited non-academics from the
Museums sector (for example David Fleming, former Director of National Museums Liverpool)
have also presented. Due to his public-facing role in leading public history provision across eight
different venues in the city region, Fleming was integrated into the History team in 2018 in line with
the pursuit of a more integrated and inclusive research culture, in this case with the goal of helping
staff communicate research beyond the academy.


In line with this broad objective, there has also been a marked expansion in public lectures and
events and public engagement with the media (for example Bryce Evans’ lectures on food history
across the country to those at risk of food poverty and his national and international exposure via
media organs such as BBC News, NBC, The Guardian, Telemundo, and The Washington Post).


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


In pursuit of a research culture inclusive of diverse social groups, Sonja Tiernan’s research around
LGBTQ+ and women’s history has led to recognition from the President of Ireland who called her
‘perhaps one of our most valuable historians’ for her work in this field.


In terms of inclusivity within the university, our early career researchers have been supported in
founding and shaping an interdisciplinary ‘Transnational History Research Group’ (THRG), which
meets fortnightly. In pursuing a research culture better integrated with other disciplines in the
university, Hope’s historians have been active participants in events and research initiatives hosted
by the university-wide Archbishop Desmond Tutu Centre for Peace and Conflict.


   2) The enabling of excellent research in specific areas


The second objective reflects the changing nature of the History team at Hope and the evolution of
research strengths based on new strands of the two main specialisms: national history and
transnational history.


Irish national history remains a key specialism, as reflected in the research interests of Stephen
Kelly, Sonja Tiernan, Fiona Pogson, Bryce Evans and Ruth Canning. Kelly’s expertise is Northern
Ireland, Evans’s twentieth century Ireland, and Tiernan’s Irish women’s history, while Canning and
Pogson research early modern Ireland. Since the last submission, the unit has been characterised
by the retirement of more senior colleagues and the elevation – through the university’s inclusive
promotions policy – of newer colleagues. Recruitment strategy is based upon attracting
researchers whose ethos fits that of the unit and in growing the research specialisms therein.
Modern Irish history, then, remains an overall unit strength, and the census period has witnessed
the growth of excellent research in key areas of this subject, for example Stephen Kelly’s
publications on British-Irish relations during Margaret Thatcher’s premiership and Ruth Canning’s
publications on the ‘Old English’ in early modern Ireland as well as Bryce Evans’ publications on
Ireland during the Second World War and Irish diplomacy.


This national focus, in this case Irish national history, has been enabled through the university’s
facilitation and financial support of newer and more specialised ‘bottom-up’ research groups given
vitality by early career researchers such as the Early Modern Research Group (created by Fiona
Pogson and Ruth Canning as an interdisciplinary endeavour in 2018) which function alongside
more well-established research groups housed within the department such as the Irish Studies
Research Group. Similarly, Kelly and Evans’ jointly co-edited biography of Irish statesman Frank
Aiken (2014) was the fruit of a conference funded and hosted by the university at which chapter
contributors’ travel and accommodation expenses were covered in full.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Such initiatives are supported within an atmosphere of collegiality and community. A measure of
this is the trust placed in newer colleagues to develop their own collaborative research initiatives,
and these have coalesced around transnational approaches to the discipline. In this vein, Danny
Evans (recruited 2019) formed an interdisciplinary ‘Transnational History Research Group’
(THRG), stemming from his research interest in the international anarchist movement and the
Spanish Civil War.


The THRG now thrives as a cross-disciplinary platform for discussing common research interests,
reflecting on teaching practice, and drawing in researchers from other institutions and reflects the
emerging specialism in transnational history within History at Hope. In 2019 the teaching
commitments of Jody Crutchley (a specialist in the transnational history of empire and education)
were rearranged so that she was co-situated between History and Education.


Similarly, Bryce Evans’ research focus has evolved from Irish political history to the transnational
history of food and (exemplified in his 2020 transnational history of food and aviation); although a
more senior colleague than Jody Crutchley or Danny Evans, his new research focus has been
informed and enriched by exposure to the weekly THRG reading groups hosted by them. In this
way, the first objective of achieving a more integrated research culture has bled into the second
objective of honing research in specific areas.


Impact Strategy


This changing complexion of the small body of research and researchers at Hope has also led to
an enhanced impact strategy.


Strategy at the time of the last exercise was based around the development two areas of impact
reflected in the case studies: maritime history and Irish history. In bringing these specialisms to a
wider audience, the unit sought to strategically target: hard-to-reach social groups, and the wider
public around policy themes. This focus on public engagement particularly looked to build on the
important work of former colleague Suzanne Schwartz (a specialist on the slave trade) around the
role of museums in informing people about modern slavery in collaboration with Liverpool’s
International Slavery Museum, and the work of Sonja Tiernan in bringing LGBTQ+ history to a
wider audience.


As overall strategy has evolved around staffing changes, a new impact strategy has emerged,
informed by the last exercise but based around fulfilling the following new strategic goals:



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   1) Reaching the wider public and the hard-to-reach through ‘outreach’ initiatives
   2) Using research to inform opinion around contemporary policy issues


In addressing the first of these goals, the anniversary of significant events has proved a spur to
reaching the wider public. For instance, Bryce Evans’ Wellcome Trust and AHRC-funded project
‘Egalitarian Eating in the First World War’ – shortlisted for the Royal Historical Society’s Public
History Prize 2018 - went ‘beyond the museum’ by feeding the general public and selected elderly
groups nationwide and en masse in recreation of British communal dining schemes 1917-1919, in
doing so exhibiting history through displays, film, lectures, music, dancing and eating itself. In the
process, the project shone a light on contemporary food poverty issues and was featured across
radio, television and digital media as well as earning Evans two invitations to the UK Parliament to
discuss how past approaches to food poverty could illuminate current policy around healthy eating
and emergency food provision (both 2015). Bryce Evans also documented the progress of the
project through a research blog, providing photos, videos and historical commentary on events.


Other public engagement media activities were undertaken by team members around the First
World War anniversary, notably Jody Crutchley, who acted as a historical consultant for the BBC
Radio 4 historical drama Home Front, a twelve-minute, daily programme that is set exactly 100
years before the date of broadcast and based on events that occurred during the First World War
from the perspective of those who lived in Britain during the time.


In keeping with the second strategic goal (on contemporary policy) was the relevance of Stephen
Kelly’s and Sonja Tiernan’s research to policy questions arising from Brexit and recent referenda in
Ireland. In 2018 Tiernan addressed the British Irish Parliamentary Assembly on the role of women
in British and Irish democracy and was commissioned to write the history of the ‘Repeal the Eighth’
campaign which culminated in Ireland’s decision to remove its constitutional ban on abortion. Kelly
has likewise contributed several opinion pieces to Irish media (Irish Times, RTE) on the question of
the Irish border and Brexit. Evans’ research, too, speaks directly to contemporary policy issues,
specifically UK food poverty / food insecurity.


Future Goals


The future strategy will retain our commitment to integration and inclusivity, and to the spirit of
reciprocity mentioned above. Mindful of our limitations as a small team but bold in our aspirations,
it will build on the team’s core strengths and the progress made in this census period.


In line with this, future strategy aims to continue an ‘outreach’ and policy focused deliberately
towards early career researchers. We will continue to trust our ECRs to ‘organically’ develop their


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research, but at the same time we will support and prioritise this growth. We are also conscious of
the wider societal context within which History functions as an academic endeavour and some of
the broader changes in direction evident within the discipline over the course of the last census
period. Therefore, we will strategically focus support towards the development of our early career
colleagues’ Transnational History Research Group (THRG) by the following approaches:


   1) Dedicated assistance to writing THRG research bids around ‘outreach’
   2) Fostering links between THRG members and non-academic actors
   3) Linking THRG members to dissemination channels such as ‘History and Policy’


 2. People


During the census period, History at Hope has undergone major staffing transitions and the period
since the 2014 REF has been one of significant personnel change. Four senior staff have retired,
which has had especially serious effects considering the smallness of the subject team. Given this
context, our approach to appointments and the allocation of responsibilities has reflected a need to
create synergies of research, thus lessening dependence on single staff members. Rather than a
reactive approach of ‘plugging gaps’ where they appear, the objective has been to embed
sustainability and coherence when it comes to both teaching and research, while further seeking to
enhance equal opportunities within the team.


Strategy has thus been geared towards the promotion of existing colleagues. Despite natural staff
turnover, the unit maintains its commitment to a dynamic body of research active colleagues. For
example, Bryce Evans and Sonja Tiernan were recruited in 2011 as Lecturer and Postdoctoral
Research Fellow, respectively; by 2017 both had achieved the rank of Associate Professor. In line
with the university’s work towards increasing the number of women in positions of leadership,
Tiernan assumed the headship of the subject area in 2017. Similarly illustrating the capacity for
junior colleagues to ‘rise through the ranks’ relatively swiftly, Stephen Kelly, recruited in 2012 as a
Postdoctoral Research Fellow, was in 2019 appointed Head of the History and Politics subject
area. Inclusivity and dialogue are integral to our research culture.


Social backgrounds differ widely and diversity is important, but the majority of Hope’s historians are
first-generation university goers in our family. Every member of staff is research active and make
crucial contributions to the unit’s research strategy and none has been excluded from the REF
submission. Similarly, subject seminars are deliberately inclusive of all staff research. All members
of the team participate in equality training, and decision-making structures are devolved to the
team level as much as possible to ensure a plurality of voices. The development of research



                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
strategy and the REF submission have reflected the inclusivity and plurality of our approach: an
area in which our small size, enabling fuller communication, has proven beneficial.


The unit adheres to the University’s REF Code of Practice, which sets out clear processes to
identify staff who are ineligible for submission to REF. On this occasion our developmental
processes have ensured that no one has been excluded from the REF submission. There is
enough flexibility in working patterns to accommodate staff with significant caring responsibilities or
those absent through illness. On this note, mental health issues are addressed with the same
seriousness as physical health problems, with structured routes back in place where staff have
been forced to experience long term sick leave. Such planning for the reallocation of teaching
actively supported the statutory right for maternity leave for one member of staff within the census
period.


In light of the context outlined above, two areas of progress around people are worth highlighting:
1) fostering of early career researchers and 2) enhancing PGR.


   1) Early Career Researchers


The period has included the recruitment of Danny Evans and Ruth Canning, both of whom were
awarded their first tenured academic appointments as part of the History subject team. Danny
Evans’ research specialism is the Spanish Civil War, and Ruth Canning’s early modern Ireland.
Jody Crutchley, another ECR previously based in Education Studies, has joined the team on a
permanent basis, bringing with her research expertise around education and the British empire.


ECRs are supported through the university’s induction procedures including bid-writing workshops.
At a more local collegial level, ECRs are supported through a mentoring system designed to help
and support new colleagues and those aiming at first time publication. This interdisciplinary
scheme has also witnessed team members mentoring colleagues in different departments and
faculties who are researching historical themes but lack a publication record, and vice versa,
supporting History’s limited capacity; for example, Bryce Evans’ long term mentoring of a colleague
in the Education faculty of the university led to that individual publishing their first academic article
and a monograph.


The unit also supports research groups predominately composed of early career researchers, such
as the afore-mentioned Transnational History Research Group and the Early Modern Research
Group. Several members of the unit are also active within the interdisciplinary Archbishop
Desmond Tutu Centre for War and Peace Studies, and have played leading roles in organising its
seminars and conferences. To ensure parity in terms of administrative burdens, committee work


                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
relevant to research (research ethics committee, school research committee, and university
research committee) is allotted on a rotational basis.


Moreover, ECRs are prioritised in terms of the allocation of university research funding. The
university’s ‘consolidated research time’ (CRT) mechanism allows staff to apply for up to six weeks
leave from teaching when undertaking periods of research and ECRs are prioritised in this
allocation. CRT functions alongside funds apportioned by the School’s Research Committee, which
similarly target ECRs; for example Ruth Canning (recruited 2017) has received £5,000 to support
research and publication in early modern Irish history over two years.


   2) PGR


We place great value on research students and since the last REF cycle have invested in them in
an effort to boost our PhD numbers and thereby create a self-sustaining research culture. A priority
during this period has been developing sustainable routes from UG to PGT and to PGR within the
existing research strengths of the Subject, seeking to attract students originally part of our own UG
pool as well as externally.


Previously, the unit had zero PhD completions; it now has supported three PhD students to
completion within the census period and two more who are nearing the completion of their studies.
Two of these students were recruited via university research scholarships. All staff have
undertaken PGR supervision, whether as part of supervisory teams led within the subject area or
led by colleagues in other disciplines. University training in PGR supervision must first be
undertaken, and renewed annually, and the allocation of staff onto supervisory teams is
undertaken as per specialism and workload. This allows for the majority of staff to undertake
supervisory responsibility, offering a way of building up reciprocal experience and development
through mentoring.


Mentorship has continued post-submission in some cases, with Rick Blackman (PhD 2019)
availing of Evans and Kelly’s continuing informal supervision in producing two books based on his
PhD research: Forty Miles of Bad Road: Stars Campaign for Interracial Friendship & the 1958
Notting Hill Riots (2018) and Babylon's Burning: Musical Subcultures and Anti-Fascism 1958 to
2020 (2021), with the former publication featuring on a specially compiled list of key works on black
British history published by the Institute of Historical Research. Funds have been made available
for doctoral students to present at leading subject conferences and, in the context of Covid-19,
supervisors have ensured that research monies previously allocated to PGR students for travel
have been redirected to enable students to use them in alternative ways, for example the purchase
of books or access to digital repositories.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


In line with the strategic goals of the unit following the last exercise, the number of History research
students has increased, many recruited following the completion of the subject’s newly
redeveloped MA programme. Whereas many MA programmes across the School of Humanities
have run only periodically, the History MA has been a ‘success story’ in the School’s PGT provision
and has run every year during the census period. That programme now incorporates MRes
students, two of whom were recruited following a competitive process for two scholarships around
the History of Everton FC, funded externally by the football club. The development of the MA
programme has been aided through infrastructure such as the university’s ‘Learning Lab’, a
teaching space with the latest wireless technology which has proved effective for intensive small-
group teaching (the History MA cohort, which has been developed from scratch, has averaged at
twelve students per year); MA archives ‘master-classes’ have also been held in the university’s
new archives and special collections building, which is explored in greater detail in Section 3
below.


The strategy of growing the MA has led to a small but significant boost to PhD numbers: two of
those three students have come through the MA. Our small community of PhD students has also
availed of institutional support of PGR, through the award of a Vice Chancellor’s PhD Scholarship
and Hope-Lille PhD Scholarship. PGR culture has been significantly enhanced through the
involvement of PhD researchers in the History and seminar series and in speaking at and helping
organise externally-funded conferences, for instance Bryce Evans’ Royal Historical Society /
Economic History Society funded ‘Food and the First World War’ conference (2014) and partaking
in the university’s annual Liverpool Hope Postgraduate Conference, which is co-organised by
Stephen Kelly. In addition to dual supervision, each PhD student is overseen by a Director of
Studies (a senior colleague with at least three PhD supervisions) who ensures that training logs,
progress reports, and supervisory logs are in order and chairs progression boards as well as
ensuring that teaching responsibilities undertaken by PhD students are apportioned fairly and
openly. Any PhD students undertaking teaching and marking duties first go through a university
training course.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Introduction


The unit’s research strategy shapes the way in which we support our staff in availing of income and
infrastructure. As the following demonstrates, this is most clearly exemplified via internal support.
Nonetheless, in line with strategic priorities, external grants have also been sought and obtained
and the unit has also been successful in attracting outside funding to support our strategic agenda.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Internal Support


As well as innovative public engagement projects seeking to go ‘beyond’ the academy to engage
the public, History at Hope has sought to expand the notion of the campus through maximising its
location in the historic city of Liverpool. For example, and as mentioned above, the unit’s strategic
partnership with the National Museums Liverpool (NML) network of six local museums and
galleries was copper-fastened in 2018 with the recruitment of David Fleming, former Director of
NML, as visiting professor. NML has been used to fulfil our strategic public engagement and
impact ambitions, comprising the facility of a collective of museums; its range of sites has been
used by Hope historians for PGT teaching and lectures, with the effect of communicating research
to the public at large. The infrastructure of NML has been utilised by our historians giving public
lectures, for example Sonja Tiernan’s public lecture on the first woman elected to the UK House of
Commons, Constance Markiewicz, which took place in the Museum of Liverpool in October 2018.


The University has made provided resources for an expansion in the deposit, cataloguing and care
of a number of special library collections specifically related to History. Since the last REF
exercise, historians at Hope have also been instrumental in helping to develop the university
library’s archives and special collections department, a repository of over 75,000 books,
manuscripts, journals, newsletters, magazines, and pamphlets which has been established within
the current cycle, opening in late 2013. Developments such as a purpose-built environmentally
controlled reading room have taken place following consultation with Hope’s historians. December
2017 saw the official launch of the Talbot Library, deposited with archives and special collections
from the Diocese of Lancaster, which includes some 50,000 books, most notably a section on Irish
history and Irish Studies reflecting the significant – and continuing – contribution to the life and
culture of the North West by Irish émigrés and their descendants. Hope’s historians are using their
research specialisms to assist in the ongoing cataloguing of the Talbot Library and Fiona Pogson
has acted as an intermediary in the acquisition of a substantial new collection of uncatalogued
historical material donated by her former doctoral supervisor, Brian Quintrell.


Having these collections in a usable form has meant that historians have been able to undertake
primary research, and the collections have attracted other researchers, generating collaborative
work. Other notable acquisitions during the census period directly related to History include the
Gradwell collection (formerly at the Roman Catholic seminary at Upholland), which covers
theology, philosophy and ecclesiastical history as well as a significant John Henry Newman
section, including first editions of his own publications. Stephen Kelly (who authored a monograph
on Newman and Irish nationalism in 2012) has worked with librarians and archivists around the
Newman section. Also of note is the Radcliffe collection, an extensive holding of texts in liturgy


                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(formerly held by Liverpool Anglican cathedral and St Aidan’s Theological College), including early
printed books, incunabula and manuscripts dating back to the 15th century, which are of use to our
early modern historians in both delivering research-informed teaching and formulating their own
research.


As indicated briefly above, historians at Hope play an active role in the major research centre
located within the Department of History and Politics: the Desmond Tutu Centre for War and Peace
Studies, a large ‘umbrella’ centre operating a regular working paper series, to which historians
have contributed, as well as manifold other research activities. However - and in line with revised
objectives since the last REF around enabling research in key specific areas – more emphasis has
been placed on fostering smaller, organic research groups and events. These groups do not have
the status of university research centres and thus exercise a greater ‘bottom up’ autonomy. They
meet informally, usually over a ‘brown bag lunch’, to share research ideas or debate topics, often
around a specific publication, position paper, topical event or research proposal.


Having said that, there is no great dichotomy between a research centre and a research group.
The university, through the faculty research committee, is committed to enabling clusters of
sufficient critical mass to evolve into new groups and, if appropriate, centres. Accordingly, it has
funded a number of external speakers for conferences organised by team members such as the
History seminar series; the early modern research group; and even discrete commemorative
events. Such assistance has also enabled projects with important strategic outward-facing and
networking dimensions. Examples include new team member Danny Evans’ conference coinciding
with the fortieth anniversary of the return to democracy in Spain (2019); Stephen Kelly’s
conference The Idea of a University Revisited (2014), which marked the anniversary of the
publication of John Henry Newman’s The Idea of a University, which was accompanied by a public
exhibition; and Sonja Tiernan’s public exhibition showcasing her research into women’s suffrage
campaigns, which marked International Women’s Day (2015), was named by American
broadcaster CNN as one of its ‘top ten international women’s day events you’d be crazy to miss’.


Every member of the History unit has availed of consolidated research time (CRT), the university’s
research leave programme, many taking advantage of CRT in consecutive years, with fourteen
separate awards to Hope historians in the census period. For example, Stephen Kelly has been
twice awarded CRT 2014-2020, including one award covering seven weeks of teaching while he
undertook a research fellowship at Churchill College from January to March 2016; in 2020 Ruth
Canning was awarded $6,000 as part of a collaborative research grant from the US National
Endowment for the Humanities for a ‘Castle to Classroom’ research initiative geared towards the
imaginative rediscovery of the world of the early modern castle. CRT provided the ‘teaching relief’
so that she could deliver this funded work. CRT is allocated by department heads and heads of


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
school in line with equality and diversity policies, to ensure that the leave is fairly distributed across
the team.


In support of impact activity, team members have also utilised the university’s ‘REFresh’ and
‘REFine’ financial support mechanisms. For example, in 2015 Bryce Evans received funds to
produce a mini-series entitled ‘Hidden Histories’ on local television station ‘Bay TV’ which focused
on the Irish diaspora in Liverpool; in 2019, to boot, he received further monies to hone his
‘egalitarian eating’ impact case study, enabling him to target the project towards non-academic
beneficiaries of research, specifically elderly people in Merseyside at risk of being underweight /
malnutrition. All team members have also benefited from the university’s generous conference
attendance funding, which is administered by the faculty research committee. Financial support for
archival visits and grant-writing workshops is also provided by this body.


External Support


Seeking external funds was identified in the last exercise as a key strategic priority in order to aid
publication, outreach and impact (see above). Previously, the level of external funds attracted was
very small. This time around, there has been a modest but significant improvement. In line with the
strategic goal of attracting greater external research funding, greater effort has been directed
towards collegial support in bid-writing, with a bid-writing mentorship programme operating
amongst subject members. The bid-writing programme operates as part of each individual’s
research plan, a new initiative implemented during this REF cycle. The research plan is a short to
medium term (1 to 4 year) plan overseen by the Head of Department and REF Coordinator, which
seeks to manage and support each person’s output strategy and income generation prospects,
with a view to enhancing their impact and by utilising the expert advice from experienced staff
outside of the unit.


Building on these individual research plans, a number of projects have received external funding,
contributing towards this priority in the overall research strategy. In doing so, History staff have
benefited from the bid-writing assistance of the University’s Research Facilitator, who offers review
and detailed advice, especially on costings and the overall financial aspects of bids, and who
complements the support provided by colleagues as part of the collegial support system identified
above.


Team members have been successful in attracting a number of small but prestigious research
funding awards. Once again, this represents a significant achievement relative to the last REF. For
example, Bryce Evans has been awarded monies from a variety of sources – notably including
non-conventional funding sources - including funds for public-facing outreach and impact activity


                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
around social eating and food poverty from Greggs (the high street baker), the Guinness Trust, and
Cooperative Food. Bryce Evans has also been awarded four-figure research grants from the
Economic History Society (2020), the Science History Institute Philadelphia (2018), the Pasold
Research Fund (2017), the Scouloudi Trust (2016), the Wellcome Trust (2016) along with £15,000
from the AHRC’s ‘Gateways to the First World War’ fund (2017).
Other colleagues have received external grants to aid publication. In 2018, Ruth Canning – who
had previously held a Marie Curie International Outgoing Research Fellowship from the European
Research Commission - received a Marie Curie Alumni Association Micro Media Grant to support
the publication of her monograph The Old English in Early Modern Ireland: The Palesmen and the
Nine Years’ War, 1594-1603 and in 2017 was awarded a Moore Institute Visiting Research
Fellowship by the National University of Ireland. Fiona Pogson (2019) and Chris Williams (2015)
were both Scouloudi Trust small grant awardees. After presenting his research at the History
seminar series John Wallis, an ‘outlying’ historian of early modern crime and punishment located in
the School of Social Science, was encouraged to apply for small grants from the Lancashire and
Cheshire Historical Society towards his 2018 monograph The Bloody Code in England and
Wales, 1760–1830, and was subsequently successful in receiving funding from that
association in 2015 and 2016.

External funding may support teaching replacement, but due to staffing resources and economies
of scale, cover has been supplemented by existing staff where necessary. In line with the priorities
identified above, external funding is therefore not only enabling the growth of individual staff
research specialisms but also enabling networking through Hope, a key component of a more
inclusive and integrated research culture and, crucially, contributing to developing the impact
agenda around the case studies submitted for the current REF and beyond. For example, Bryce
Evans’ external funding awards – mostly concerning approaches to food poverty – speak to the
afore-mentioned impact strategy goals of widening outreach and addressing matters of policy.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Introduction


The above three sections have provided a glimpse of some of the unit’s significant research
collaborations. Some of that information will be repeated and elaborated on here, alongside
mention of other initiatives. Rather than merely listing specific initiatives, this section demonstrates
how our networks are integral to our strategic considerations, strengthening them and helping to
shape them. This serves as an indication of how our commitment to broadening outreach and
speaking to policy, as part of a more integrated and inclusive research culture, underlies our
collaborations, evidencing the fact that they are targeted rather than merely accidental. This



                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
section concludes by listing Hope historians’ overall service to historical studies in this country and
beyond.


Outreach to the public and the hard-to-reach


In line with the strategic goal of reaching the wider public and the hard-to-reach through innovative
open research initiatives, the unit has developed a number of initiatives with diverse communities
throughout the census period. Bryce Evans’ research into historical approaches to food poverty
saw him working in a voluntary capacity as part of the efforts to reduce food poverty in the UK
spearheaded by the Right Honourable Frank Field MP, focused locally in Liverpool and
Birkenhead. This involved providing a number of public lectures at social eating events at which
those at risk of food poverty were informed about historical approaches to the problem while
cooking, eating and talking together.


Although mentioned above, the flagging of such events here highlights the way that such
collaborations engage diverse audiences through large public events attracting up to 200 people.
These involve research-informed performances (musical and culinary) and offer a chance for
dialogue between non-specialists, practitioners and academics.


A number of these events targeted diverse and hard-to-reach public groups. For example, in 2015
as part of Frank Field’s ‘Feeding Birkenhead’ initiative, Bryce Evans spoke at breakfast clubs
targeting school children experiencing school holiday hunger in impoverished parts of Birkenhead;
in 2017 he lectured at Nottingham’s Pakistani Community Centre, and in the same year at
Preston’s ‘Festival for Peace’, a cross-community and local government sponsored event in that
city’s Harris Museum designed to use intercommunal cooking as a counterweight to the rise of the
radical right in the city; and in 2018 he lectured at Sheffield’s ‘Festival of the Mind’ in that city’s
‘Foodhall’, a student-run initiative fostering urban communal gardening and public dining between
university students and members of the public. Since 2018, and in reaction to the growth in
podcast listenership among the UK public, Bryce Evans’ freely accessible food studies podcast has
attracted tens of thousands of listens and regularly features in the upper echelons of the UK
podcast charts for the subject of food.


Inclusivity


In line with the strategic objective of enhancing the inclusivity of research culture, Hope’s historians
have undertaken projects which aim to enhance the accessibility of historical resources through
openly accessible digital resources. For example, Ruth Canning added to the corpus of electronic
texts on early modern history by contributing to her publisher Boydell and Brewer’s online research


                                                                                                   Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
blog. In 2018 Ireland’s national broadcaster, Raidió Teilifís Éireann (RTÉ) launched ‘Brainstorm’,
an online open research platform through which ‘the academic and research community will
contribute to public debate, reflect on what’s happening in the world around us and communicate
fresh thinking on a broad range of issues’. Among the first contributors was Stephen Kelly, who
offered two pieces (both 2019) on the assassination of Airey Neave and nationalist political
frameworks in Northern Ireland. Stephen Kelly has also been active on online open research blogs,
offering articles to high impact historical / political blogs such as ‘Slugger O’Toole’ (Irish affairs) and
the ‘Thatchernet’ (international network of Thatcher scholars) blog.


Sonja Tiernan delivered a number of plenary addresses outside the academy, addressing the
Trade Union Congress (TUC) Race Relations Committee on the history of Irish workers in Britain in
May 2017 and the Irish Parliament’s (Houses of the Oireachtas) Commission to commemorate the
passage of the Representation of the People Act in February 2018. Sonja Tiernan’s standing as a
proponent of public-facing history was confirmed by her 2019 appointment as Eamon Cleary Chair
in Irish Studies at Otago University, New Zealand.


Following his well-publicised work on social eating in the First World War, Bryce Evans was
contacted by the UK’s official public record, The Gazette, to provide an open access overview of
the National Kitchens of World War One with citations from The Gazettes of the time; this open
research article was accessible from September 2015. In the same year, Bryce Evans was
commissioned to write the food history of the Guinness Trust: the result was an open access online
history of one of England’s largest providers of affordable care and housing, Food Sense: 125
Years of Food History at Guinness, which was later presented as a lecture to Guinness Trust call
centre workers in Oldham.


Service to the discipline and indicators of esteem


Unsurprisingly, as research-active academics individual unit members enjoy several markers of
esteem, such as membership on committees of academic organisations, editorial boards. As
publicly engaged actors, some also bring their expertise to civil society organisations where they sit
as board members or on boards of advisors. There is neither space nor purpose to listing all of
these positions, but a few examples are below selected for their significance in serving the
discipline.


In terms of service to the discipline, historians at Hope have served on numerous editorial and
association boards and have received a number of prestigious awards and accolades. Notable
examples include John Appleby, who regularly reviews for the International Journal of Maritime
History and Fiona Pogson, who has acted as long-time Treasurer and council member of the


                                                                                                  Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Record Society of Lancashire and Cheshire and who brought the North West Early Modern
Seminar to Hope in 2015. Both Stephen Kelly and Sonja Tiernan were invited to address the
Conference of Irish Historians in Britain in 2016 and Tiernan joined the Association of Irish
Historians in Britain as an advisory council member in the same year, adding to her notable roles
as Government of Ireland Postgraduate Scholarship evaluator and her role as Peter O’Brien
Visiting Professor in Irish Studies at Concordia University in 2015-2016. Bryce Evans was invited
to address the Institute of Historical Research’s Voluntary History Society (2016) and Food History
Seminar (2019).


Colleagues conduct peer reviews for leading journals and academic publishers and half of the
subject team have acted as editors for book series and peer-reviewed journals. Just one example
is John Wallis, since 2018 a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society, who is book reviews editor
of the Law, Crime and History journal.


As well as addressing the strategic priority of maximising external income, the award of prestigious
small external grants has brought Hope’s historians broader recognition within the discipline.
Stephen Kelly’s research into former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher’s Northern Ireland policy
led to the award of the Political Studies Association’s Conservative Studies Group’s best article
award (2017) and a by-fellowship of Churchill College Cambridge in 2016, along with the college’s
John Antcliffe Memorial Fund Grant. Bryce Evans is a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society; his
research into food history across various projects has been recognised through several funding
awards from universities and research bodies in the United States of America, including a Hagley
Fellowship (2015); a Winterthur / University of Delaware Fellowship (2016); a University of Miami
Abrams/Banning Fellowship (2018); a Harry S. Truman Presidential Library Fellowship (2018); a
University of West Virginia research scholarship (2019); Georgia State University Reed-Fink
research scholarship (2019); Herbert Hoover Presidential Library Fellowship (2020); and College of
Physicians of Philadelphia short term research fellowship (2019).




                                                                                                Page 16
