Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Nottingham (UoN)

 Unit of Assessment: Communications, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information
 Management, D34

 1: Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy

 1.1: UNIT CONTEXT

 UOA34 comprises 23 academic staff (including two postdoctoral Fellows), based in the
 Department of Cultural, Media and Visual Studies’ (CMVS). The UoA is one of three
 departments within the School of Cultures, Language and Area Studies (CLAS), one of three
 Schools within UoN’s Faculty of Arts. The Head of Department oversees research and KE in
 collaboration with the Director of Research (DoR), deputy DoR, Impact Officer (IO), Director of
 Postgraduate Research (DPGR), Directors of the research centres and Impact Case Study (ICS)
 leads. The DoR, DPGR and IO sit on key School committees, the Chairs of which sit on the
 equivalent Faculty committees, ensuring that research and impact strategies are fully aligned
 with the School, Faculty and University. Our inclusive research culture values and supports all
 researchers and is reflected in the UoA’s staffing composition: 52% women, 22% LGBT, 13%
 BAME, 17% ECR and 9% disabled. Of those staff with direct responsibility for the research and
 impact strategy, 50% are women and 17% BAME.

 The Department’s broad, interdisciplinary research culture results from the successful 2018
 merger of the Departments of Culture, Film and Media and Art History. The merger has
 deepened and diversified expertise across cultural, media and visual research. CMVS staff have
 internationally recognised expertise in critical theory and cultural studies; the creative industries
 (particularly screen industries and museums); cultural history and cultural policy; media and
 software studies; media audiences; journalism studies; film and television cultures; digital
 cultures; art history and visual culture; and criticism and curatorial practice. Manifest across all
 expertises are critical issues of equality and diversity, including ethnicity, race, gender, sexuality,
 disability and attendant concerns with ethics, ecology and mental health.


 1.2 RESEARCH CENTRES

 CMVS’s research centres form the organisational driver for research development, funding
 applications, external engagement and impact maximisation, leading to transdisciplinary,
 international and collaborative research. This template references centre achievements and
 throughout. Here we summarise their foci and strengths.

 The Centre for Contemporary East Asian Cultural Studies (CEACS) fosters innovative
 research on cultural practices in China, Japan, Taiwan and South Korea, and the diasporic
 communities associated with those regions. It has significant strengths in East Asian film and
 film festivals, contemporary Chinese art, museums and galleries, and East Asian media cultures.
 CEACS harnesses UoN’s tri-campus structure by building collaborative relationships with
 academic and cultural institutions and practitioners in and around the Malaysian and Chinese
 campuses (REF5a1).

 The Centre for Critical Theory (CCT) conducts cutting-edge research into the application of
 critical theory to contemporary social, political and cultural phenomena, developing novel
 methodologies in the overlaps between new technologies and subjectivity, neoliberalism and the
 politics of health, sensory studies, news media and social movements and memory studies. CCT
 has strong ties with UoN’s Improving Health and Wellbeing Interdisciplinary Research Cluster
 (IRC, REF5a 2.1(a)).

 The Institute for Screen Industries Research (ISIR) applies a media industries perspective to
 screen culture with expertise in media promotion, film festivals, immersive screen experience

                                                                                                Page       1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 design, sound, games and TV audiences. ISIR researchers work with external partners in the
 UK, Canada, China, the US and elsewhere to address emerging challenges in screen industries,
 including responding quickly to the impact of the global pandemic on the creative sector
 (Kennedy, Martindale, Sergi). ISIR has strong ties with UoN’s Creative and Digital IRC, co-led by
 Martindale.

 The Centre for Research in Visual Culture (CRVC) catalyses interdisciplinary research in art
 history, visual culture studies and curatorial practice, with established research strengths in
 Italian, French, American and Asian art. It has links with national/regional museums and
 galleries and strong ties with the ‘Culture Matters’ IRC co-led by Bradnock.

 1.3 ACHIEVEMENT OF STRATEGIC AIMS FOR RESEARCH AND IMPACT DURING
    ASSESSMENT PERIOD

 1.3.1 Research
 The UoA has achieved its REF2014 goals and laid strategic foundations for continued success
 in research and KE/impact. Industry funding has increased to £129K (£20K REF2014) and UKRI
 funding to £760k (£757k of combined UoA34 and 36 income REF2014). The recent
 development and submission of successful bids for strategic new projects has enhanced
 research and KE sustainability; e.g. Martindale’s (Co-I) Horizon Digital Economy Hub (£5m,
 2020-25) and Kennedy’s (PI) major £1.6m European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)
 project (2021-23).

 Since REF2014 we have:

 i) Strengthened core areas of expertise by supporting individual researchers to sustain delivery
 of internationally excellent publications. Achieved through staff development, research leave,
 research infrastructure (2.2, 2.5, 3.2) and strategic appointments enhancing our research
 centres (Elstob, CRVC; Mutibwa, CEACS and ISIR; Hadas, Kennedy, Martindale and
 Newsinger, ISIR).

 ii) Widened international academic research partnerships. Engagement with UoN’s international
 campuses has enabled the extension of in-region research collaborations to Shanghai Jiao Tong
 University and Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. The award of a Fellowship
 (Mutibwa) to Taiwan’s University of Science and Technology initiated a collaboration to develop
 a large transnational bid around digital fabrication cultures in East Asia. We have attracted
 Fulbright Fellows from the University of Iowa and ECR Fellows from the Universities of North
 Carolina and Auburn. We have participated in funded collaborations with the Getty Research
 Institute (Los Angeles), Wyeth Foundation (Delaware) and Terra Foundation (Chicago)
 (Bradnock). Our 2018 formal agreement with Lund University, Sweden, has enhanced CCTs
 sensory studies network and led to two international workshops and a publication with Lund
 University Press (Mansell).

 iii) Promoted impactful research by building on existing links with external partners and
 beneficiaries. We have achieved our ambition to promote research with impact amongst extra-
 academic beneficiaries, consolidating and extending our networks to include collaboration and
 engagement with >100 external partner organisations in Britain, Canada, China, Taiwan, and the
 US.

 iv) Expanded and diversified research income. We have maintained our UKRI research income
 while successfully diversifying research funding through interdisciplinary collaborations and
 direct industry funding. The UoA secured awards of £1.2m across 68 grants (income £760k in
 period) from a total award value of £5M. Funding from industry partners includes Disney, Sony,
 and the Academy of Motion Pictures (Sergi: £110k) and Youku Tudou (Stringer: £10k).

 v) Grown our PGR recruitment and vi) advanced the professional development of PGRs. A total
 of 62 PhDs have been awarded since 2013, a 61% increase on REF2014 (2.6.1 details the

                                                                                           Page      2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 significant achievements against this objective). CMVS has secured 24 awards in open
 competition, 2 Collaborative Doctoral Award and 2 Creative Economy Engagement Fellowships
 from the AHRC Midlands4Cities Doctoral Training Partnership (M4C DTP).

 vii) Extended contributions to the international research community. Since 2014, 44 conferences
 and numerous workshops and symposia have set new research agendas, developed pathways
 to publication for established and junior colleagues, and attracted significant international
 participation (e.g. Transnational Radical Film involved c.100 scholars from five continents).
 These activities have extended the reach and influence of our research (see 4.1). Evans and
 Kennedy have both been involved in international research funded by the Social Science and
 Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRCC).

 1.3.2 Impact
 CMVS collaborates extensively with external partners in the cultural and creative sector through
 a practice-aligned approach to research based on a unifying concept of practice understood
 broadly as the creative, critical, technical and organisational practices of creators, producers and
 consumers of culture. The following principles guide our impact strategy.
 i) Engaging actively with cultural businesses, institutions and practitioners to develop a critical
 understanding of professional, commercial and/or public roles that respond to changing cultural,
 social and economic circumstances.

 ii) Developing empirical and theoretical understanding of the behaviours and outlooks of
 audiences, consumers, users and cultural groups to inform organizational practices and
 business models in the cultural sector (including the enhancement of cultural life for cultural
 consumers).

 iii) Facilitating cultural forums and critical debates in ways that catalyse issues, actions and
 practices with wider benefits for society and its constituent communities.

 Our robust strategy is supported by a dedicated CMVS Impact Research Fellow (Senior) and the
 Faculty Research Impact Officer, who co-ordinates impact strategy across the Faculty. The
 Department’s Impact Officer (Mansell), working with the DoR and HoD, co-ordinates impact
 activity. The Department has benefitted from new internal funding opportunities for impact
 activities created via the Arts Impact Accelerator award and UoN’s Research Priority Areas
 (RPAs) and IRCs (REF5a 2.1a). For example, Mansell was awarded an impact fellowship by the
 Creative and Cultural Industries RPA and a Faculty Pro-Vice-Chancellor’s Award for Impact to
 support a semester’s secondment to the National Science and Media Museum. Staff have
 benefitted from £20k of RPA impact-related funding, with the impact activity of early and mid-
 career researchers’ further developed by the Faculty’s Arts Research Leaders Programme
 (Bradnock, Chang, Evans, Goffey, Mansell, Martindale, Pucci). This strategic framework has
 underpinned an increased number of applications for external funding to support impact. For
 example, Mansell’s impact work was supported through grants from the Being Human Festival
 (2016) and AHRC (Follow-On Funding for Engagement and Impact, 2020).
 Since 2014 CMVS has significantly extended its range of partners/collaborators, including: the
 Academy of Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences (Sergi); Lucasfilm/Disney (Sergi); the National
 Games Institute/National Videogame Museum (Kennedy and Pearson); the National Science
 and Media Museum (Mansell); Nottingham City Council (Sergi); Nottingham City Museums and
 Galleries (Mansell, Neher), Nottingham Contemporary (Goffey, Potts, Wright); Science Museum
 (Mansell, Mutibwa). Mansell and Sergi have written industry reports for the Academy of Motion
 Pictures Arts and Sciences, Kambeckfilm, Lucasfilm/Disney, Science Museum, and National
 Science and Media Museum. The strength of these collaborations has enabled CMVS to
 respond rapidly to the Covid-19 pandemic, realigning key activities to support our partners and
 the creative sector more widely. Examples include Martindale’s reports for the Oxjam Music
 Festival and touring film ‘The Moment’; Kennedy’s Live Cinema event; Mansell’s online
 engagement activities with the Science and Media Museum.


                                                                                               Page     3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department’s impact case studies arose directly from the above principles and from the
 impact strategy implemented since 2014. Our research centres played a pivotal role in driving
 impact. CCT’s sensory studies strand provided funding and support in the development of
 Mansell’s impact case study on sound and museums; ISIR funded Sergi’s impact case study
 collaboration with film and television industry partners; and CRVC was a partner in the creation
 of the China Cultural Visiting Hub whose work forms the basis of Neher’s impact case study on
 professional development and cultural exchange in UK and Chinese museums.
 1.3.3 Interdisciplinarity
 The Department’s broad range of expertise (1.1) has fostered an embedded approach to
 interdisciplinarity. This is enhanced through the close alignment of our four research centres and
 UoN’s IRCs to support collaborative research and impact bid development. The UoA’s
 commitment to interdisciplinarity is evidenced by two of the 19 IRCs being co-led by CMVS staff:
 Creative and Digital (Martindale) and Culture Matters (Bradnock). Pearson previously served as
 co-director of the Research Priority Area (RPA) in Creative and Cultural Industries.

 1.4) STRATEGIC AIMS FOR RESEARCH AND IMPACT, 2020-25

 The Department will build on its 2013-20 successes to advance its research and impact agenda,
 with particular attention to the following strategic aims:

 i) Sustain and augment the international visibility of research centres: CMVS will enhance the
 reputational, collaborative, publication and networking potential of the centres’ established
 networks through international events and research grant collaborations, cross-pollinating
 activities and opportunities.

 ii) Further support interdisciplinary collaboration to maximise research bid development and
 impact: We have already begun the process of significant enhancement through the £1.6m
 ERDF programme begins the process of significant enhancement, drawing on departmental
 expertise around immersive technologies supported through the Creative and Digital IRC
 (Kennedy, PI, Martindale, Co-I, with Evans, Mansell, Mutibwa and Newsinger named
 researchers). Expertise is further drawn from Business, English, Music, Archaeology, Computer
 Science and Engineering, and from collaboration with external partners, including Nottingham’s
 Broadway Cinema, Creative Quarter, Castle Museum Trust and City Council.

 iii) Increase staff participation in external collaborations leading to impact: research mentors will
 help identify opportunities to embed impact through CMVS’s Personal Research and Impact
 Development (PRID) system, a mentoring mechanism that encourages knowledge exchange
 (KE) planning (see 2.2). A comprehensive mapping of the KE pipeline and formation of a new
 Impact Group will provide our researchers with targeted support, linking them to potential
 external partners. The severe impact of Covid-19 on our partnerships has inspired a new strand
 of activity comprised of a seminar series to engage artists, curators, exhibitors and producers
 across the museum, film, dance and performance sectors in conversations (e.g. Museums and
 Digital Culture December 2020) that will influence internal, local and national funding strategies.

 iv) Sustain the professional development of PGRs: CMVS is committed to: 1) providing PGRs
 with the skills, experience and expertise to prepare them for employment within and beyond
 academia; 2) catalysing PGR research culture through cohort building activities (e.g.
 departmental work-in-progress sessions, student-run reading groups and symposia), allied with
 the research centres, and regional PGR network opportunities through the Midlands4Cities DTP;
 3) supporting CDAs and professional placements to encourage diversity in recruitment.

 v) Enhance the links between research support and staff development: CMVS is committed to
 giving researchers the time, resources and mentoring needed to produce high-quality research
 and to achieve promotion, with a particular focus on ECRs. It will support staff to assume
 positions of research leadership through mechanisms that include research training offered by
 UoN’s Leadership and Management Academy and Researcher Academy (REF5a 3). (2.2, 2.5)

                                                                                              Page       4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.5) OPEN RESEARCH
 The unit supports the open research agenda, with the School’s Research Committee overseeing
 implementation of institutional policies on open access and research data management (REF5a
 2.3). Support for UKRI grant applicants’ data management plans is provided by the Library and
 Digital Transformations Hub. PGRs are also supported to complete data management plans. All
 CMVS research papers, where copyright allows, are made available in an open access form on
 the University repository. Staff have published Open Access articles in 31 journals (16 Gold).
 1.6) RESEARCH ETHICS AND INTEGRITY
 Institutional policies on research ethics, including the Concordat to Support Research Integrity,
 govern all our work, with oversight at School and Faculty level. As Faculty Ethics Officer and
 member of UoN’s Research Ethics Committee, Birks led on the development and
 implementation of new institutional policy in response to GDPR (REF5a 2.4). Birks’ expertise in
 this area has ensured best practice regarding research integrity in individual and collaborative
 activity.
 2: People

 2.1) STAFFING STRATEGY

 At the REF census date, CMVS had 23 FTE Category A Staff: three full Professors (13%),
 eleven Associate Professors (48%), seven Assistant Professors (30%) and two postdoctoral
 Fellows (9%). Four meet the criteria for ECR (17%). Six new staff joined CMVS during the REF
 cycle (one Professor, one Associate Professor and four Assistant Professors); all have
 permanent contracts. These staff contribute to existing and develop new research areas
 (including EDI related), align with research centres, and enhance the potential for external
 funding and impact.

 The Department’s recruitment strategy is designed around three core principles that build on
 UoN’s Building a Culture for Success framework (REF5a 3.1): i) recruiting, retaining and
 developing high-calibre staff, regardless of their personal circumstances; ii) strengthening the
 Department’s research specialisms and iii) expanding provision in areas targeted for future
 development, with particular attention to EDI. The strategic appointment of a new Professor
 (Kennedy) strengthens the unit’s expertise in the games and immersive screen experiences, and
 her international track record in diversity and inclusion related research in these areas (e.g. the
 SSHRC funded partnership Refiguring Innovation in Games) further extends the impact potential
 for ISIR.

 Meyer’s expertise in German cultural studies and literary theory brings a memory studies
 perspective to CCT’s ‘Theory and Modernity’ strand. Elstob enhances CRVC expertise in
 contemporary art, criticism, and historiography and adds expertise in critical race studies. Her
 research on the politics of art institutions and exhibitions supports CMVS’ impact strategy.
 Hadas’ research on promotional screen cultures complements Grainge’s and aligns with ISIR,
 whilst her research interests in media and the environment have impact potential. Mutibwa
 similarly expands ISIR’s research and impact remit, bringing expertise in digital media, cultural
 heritage curation and public engagement. His research on Chinese maker culture, supported by
 an AHRC/British Council Grant, aligns with CEACS. Newsinger’s expertise enhances and
 expands CMVS’s focus on creative industries and collaborative impact activities. His research
 on diversity in the screen industries aligns with ISIR, whilst his BA and Arts Council funded
 research on freelance practitioners and cultural engagement brings a new cultural policy
 perspective.

 Elstob, Kennedy and Newsinger’s appointments have enhanced existing research strengths in
 equality and diversity (Bao, Birks, Bradnock, Wright) and the unit’s EDI profile, with 67% of new
 staff being women, 17% BAME and 50% LGBT. Compared to two promotions in 2014, the ten
 during this REF cycle demonstrate the effectiveness of CMVS’s staff mentoring and support


                                                                                            Page       5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mechanisms. There have been two to professorial level (Gladston, Grainge) and seven to
 Associate Professor status (Bao, Birks, Bradnock, Evans, Gallagher, Mansell, Thon and Wright).

 2.2) STAFF DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY

 CMVS’s research staff development strategy supports maximisation of individual’s research
 activities and career advancement. The strategy is delivered through School, Faculty and
 University policies, infrastructure and funding, underwritten by the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers (REF5a 3.1). Individual research is supported through
 annual Appraisal and Development Conversations (ADCs) (REF5a 3.1) and through the
 research and impact mentoring and planning structure: Personal Research and Impact
 Development (PRID). Staff outline five-year plans for publications, conferences, grants,
 research-related professional service, and impact activities, and discuss these in annual and,
 where appropriate, bi-annual interviews with the HoD and DoR. The PRID provides mentoring,
 advises on promotion preparation, and facilitates early embedding of impact, partnership
 development and funding opportunities. The PRID identifies the need for additional mentoring
 and guidance and is attentive to emergent EDI challenges, e.g seeking approval for paid
 coaching to support the development of a woman colleague. 230 research interviews have
 provided mentoring and guidance over this period. Where colleagues’ ability to undertake
 research has been affected by COVID-19, mentoring is intensified, and colleagues are given the
 opportunity to describe the impact of COVID in all promotion, study leave and internal funding
 applications; these circumstances will be considered in decision-making.

 2.3) SUPPORTING, DEVELOPING AND INTEGRATING EARLY CAREER RESEARCHERS

 CMVS has four ECRs: two assistant professors (Hadas, Elstob) and two postdoctoral
 researchers (Atkin, Leverhulme Early Career Postdoctoral Fellowship; Martindale, Nottingham
 Research Fellow, leading to permanent appointment). CMVS complies with UoN policies with
 regard to ECRs (REF5a 3.2), all of whom are supported by University, Faculty and School
 infrastructure. UoN and Birmingham jointly run an annual ECR leadership programme, for which
 CMVS ECRs are eligible. The CLAS-Humanities Mentoring Scheme pairs them with senior
 mentors who assist integration into the University. The Centre for Advanced Studies (CAS, 3.2)
 provides ECR-specific training, including in bid writing (e.g. Atkin, Martindale).

 Within CMVS, ECRs benefit from an annual 100-hour reduction to the standard workload hours
 during their first three years in post, enabling institutional integration and the maintenance of
 research time. The DoR ensures that ECRs are made aware of relevant funding schemes;
 applications are encouraged and supported via the ADC and PRID mechanisms. Our research
 centres provide opportunities for ECRs to develop and disseminate their research, receive peer-
 support, and draw on existing networks to co-develop funding bids. ECRs are invited to deliver
 papers as part of CMVS’s visiting speaker series, and are paired with experienced doctoral
 supervisors to learn UoN’s policies and procedures and good practice in PGR supervision.

 2.4) RESEARCH LEAVE POLICY

 All unit staff can apply for a semester’s research leave every seventh semester (REF5a 3.1).
 The Faculty PVC Fund awards successful applicants an additional semester’s leave to complete
 research and impact activities. Staff have benefitted from combining these two sources: Bao,
 Goffey, Mansell, Pearson and Pucci all enjoyed two consecutive semesters of leave to complete
 significant projects (e.g., Bao’s Queer China, Mansell’s successful AHRC bid for ‘Sonic
 Futures’). With the exception of Grainge who has been seconded, all eligible Category A staff
 have had at least one, often two, semesters of research leave during this REF cycle. CMVS has
 supported staff to secure additional leave via external fellowships, including Leverhulme
 (Chang), The Henry Moore Foundation and the British School in Rome (Pucci). In 2013-20 there
 have been 42 semesters of research leave, including seven funded by Pro-Vice-Chancellor
 awards, three by Leverhulme and one by the Getty Institute, with nine staff enjoying two
 consecutive semesters of leave. The research and impact leave infrastructure has supported the

                                                                                          Page       6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 completion of 13 monographs, 101 articles, and 64 funding bids, and enabled the advancement
 of work towards the ICSs and impact more generally. These awards have been accompanied by
 further internal research funding (£615,401) that has supported conference, international travel,
 networking, impact and other dissemination activities. Section 3.2 elaborates upon internal
 investment supporting staff research.

 2.5) RESEARCH LEADERSHIP

 CMVS has supported staff development through both promotion and engagement with
 competitive leadership Programmes at Faculty and University level. Grainge completed the
 University Research and Strategic Leadership Programmes (REF5a 3.1) in 2014, Kennedy in
 2019. Grainge subsequently took on senior roles as Site Director (2014-16) of the
 Midlands3Cities DTP (M3C: 2014-19), and Director (2016-20) of M3C and then Midlands4Cities
 DTP (M4C: 2019-25). He co-chaired the national AHRC Doctoral Training Partnerships Directors
 and Manager’s Group (2017-18). Eight staff completed the Faculty’s Arts Research Leadership
 programme: Evans (2016); Bradnock, Chang and Mansell (2017); Pucci (2018); and Goffey,
 Martindale and Newsinger (2019). Evans and Bradnock were subsequently promoted. CMVS
 supports active membership of the AHRC Peer Review college, with Goffey, Grainge, Mansell,
 Martindale, Newsinger and Stringer members (2013-20).

 2.6) RESEARCH STUDENTS

 2.6.1 Recruitment and Studentships
 PGR recruitment has been consistently strong with a total intake of 89 doctoral students over the
 assessment period, a 118% increase on REF2014. Of these students an average of 10%
 reported a registered disability, 40% were non-white, and across the census period the gender
 balance has been 50/50. An impressive 51% secured funding: 64% from the AHRC, mostly via
 M3C DTP and its successor M4C (54%); 18% received CLAS or the Vice-Chancellor’s
 studentships and bursaries, with other funding coming from foreign governments (Taiwan,
 China, Brazil). New specialisations around curatorial and digital practice have been pursued via
 AHRC and Collaborative Doctoral Awards (CDAs). Reflecting our commitment to
 interdisciplinarity, 10 students have been co-supervised with Horizon, UoN’s institute
 specialising in Digital Economy research. A total of 62 doctoral degrees have been awarded
 since 2013, an average of over 8 per annum. The current PGR cohort comprises 44 students.


 2.6.2 Integration into CMVS Research Culture
 Upon joining CMVS, PGRs benefit from a ‘buddying scheme’ linking them to peers at a more
 advanced stage of their studies. All PGRs present their work annually at our weekly Work-in-
 Progress seminars designed to encourage cohort-building, peer-support and scholarly rigour.
 PGRs are invited to all visiting speaker events and supported by CMVS’s research centres to
 undertake initiatives of their own. For example, CCT has facilitated student-led reading groups
 and PGRs have formed research clusters which serve as sites of skill-sharing and peer-
 development for incoming PGRs. PGR-led initiatives have been supported by CLAS funding
 (e.g. CEACS PGR conference, £1,000; Three Ecologies project, £750; public-facing Summer
 School at Nottingham Contemporary, £400). PGR-organised events also include ‘Political
 Reversals and Renewals’ and ‘Toxic Positivity in the University’. Our PGRs have led events
 funded by the external M3C Cohort Development Fund, including three international
 Digital⇌Culture conferences (£6k) that have built major cross-university PGR networks.

 2.6.3 Research Skills Training (see REF5a 3.4)
 CMVS PGRs are developed through two routes. The first involves the Arts Faculty Researcher
 Skills Programme, which conforms both with national standards set out in Vitae’s ‘Researcher
 Development Framework’ and the AHRC’s ‘Research Training Framework’. It combines core
 and optional training courses delivered by the Researcher Academy. These cover a range of
 topics from managing research projects to research governance and ethics, and from


                                                                                          Page       7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 methodologies such as archival and digital research to writing, networking and communication
 skills.

 The second route involves the Midlands Arts Programme available to PGRs in receipt of
 M3C/M4C funding. This programme combines access to training across all eight Midlands-
 based universities within the partnership and includes a customised programme of research and
 employability training that enables students to gain arts and humanities skills, explore
 interdisciplinary methods, discover research networks, and path-find professional careers.
 Ayesha Taylor-Camara won a prestigious place in the national AHRC competition to attend the
 2018 Edinburgh International Television Festival and developed this into an 18-month M4C
 placement with the BBC’s audience research department. M4C-funded placements have been
 secured at the Castello di Rivoli, Tate Modern, the Icon Gallery and the Library of Congress.
 Two students were awarded library grants from the Getty Research Institute. M4C students
 benefit from a Student Development Fund for overseas study visits with a training dimension.
 International field trips have been supported to, for example, Italy, Brazil, India and Portugal.

 2.6.4 Supervision and annual review (REF5a 3.3)
 Two or more supervisors are assigned according to relevant expertise, usually on a 50:50
 weighting to ensure even input. Students receive regular supervisions (a minimum of 10 per year
 for full-time, six for part-time students). Annual Review is conducted in February, with students
 submitting a progress report that details written work completed, research training undertaken,
 conferences attended, and includes a thesis structure and completion schedule. All first year
 (second year part-time) students submit a research statement and 5,000-word writing sample
 that is evaluated at interview by two CMVS staff outside the supervisory team.
 To take account of COVID-19 impacts, PGRs receive a six-month fee-free extension if
 they entered ‘Thesis Pending’ after 29 September 2019, would have originally concluded
 registered study between 1 March 2020 and 1 October 2021, or were registered prior to 1
 March 2020 with end dates between 2 October 2021 and 30 September 2023.

 2.6.5 Conference Travel Support
 PGRs are supported by CLAS’s PGR Fund to attend conferences (£500), CLAS’s Student
 Experience Fund (£200), and Graduate School Travel Prizes. Recipients of M4C funding can
 apply to the Student Development Fund and Cohort Development Fund. These have enabled
 CMVS PGRs to: present their research at international conferences, including the Media,
 Communications and Cultural Studies Association Conference; undertake research trips, for
 example, to the V&A; undertake 6-month work placements with cultural partners, including
 Nottingham Contemporary; and organise PGR conferences across the M4C network (e.g.
 Movements: Protest, Politics and Activism in the 21st Century (2018)).

 2.6.6 Professional Development
 The Faculty of Arts’ Teaching and Learning Development programme (delivered by the
 Researcher Academy, REF5a 3.3) provides our PGRs with training in line with UK Professional
 Standards Framework and supports them in gaining Advanced HE accreditation through
 applications to HEA Associate Fellowship. The UOA facilitates postgraduate exchange with
 communities outside of academia via placements with a range of partners, including Nottingham
 Contemporary, Ofcom, and Digital Catapult.

 Demonstrating the success of our approach, PGRs have published 82 articles in peer-reviewed
 journals, including the British Journal of Art, Cultural Politics, Journal of Popular Television,
 Cultural Politics and Senses and Society. Upon completion, many have secured academic jobs
 in the UK and abroad (e.g. Coventry, Warwick, Sussex, Brunel, Nottingham, Yang-Tze). Two
 PhD graduates secured Leverhulme Early Career awards and two others were awarded
 prestigious postdoctoral fellowships at Fudan University and at the Microsoft Research labs
 (New York). Several are now curators at national museums and galleries: Tate Britain; National
 Gallery (x3); National Portrait Gallery; National Science and Media Museum. PGRs’ theses have
 been turned into monographs published by Routledge, Palgrave and Lexington, amongst others.


                                                                                          Page       8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.7 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY

 All UoN researchers are supported by best practice in EDI (REF5a 3.5.). CMVS has achieved a
 fairly even gender balance with 52 % women and 48 % men (see 2.1 for role levels at REF
 census date). CMVS staff are internationally diverse (American, Canadian, Chinese, German,
 Italian, Israeli, Jamaican, Ugandan) and 13% have BAME status. 9% of CMVS staff are
 registered disabled, with adjustments being made in accordance with the University’s disability
 policy. 22% identify as LGBT. The mean staff age is 46 (25-30 = 4%; 30-35 = 7%; 35-40 = 19%;
 40-45 = 26%; 45-50 = 11%; 50-55 = 11%; 55-60 = 19%; 60+ = 4%).

 The School holds an Athena Swan Bronze award. Women are well represented in senior
 positions (Pearson as HoD, Meyer as Director of PGR, Chang as director of CRVC, Bradnock
 and Martindale as co-leads of UoN IRCs). Evans received a year’s maternity leave in 2018. The
 Department has extended a core hours policy to research seminars to ensure the widest
 possible participation particularly from those with any caring responsibilities.

 For staff and PGRs with disabilities, UoN’s disability team works with individuals to ensure needs
 are met, general wellbeing monitored and special equipment recommended by Occupational
 Health purchased; supervisors regularly review the situation with the student. Support for staff
 and PGR wellbeing is guided by University wellbeing and HR policies. PGRs experiencing
 difficulties may interrupt their studies and extend their thesis-pending period.

 The selection of our outputs portfolio followed the University’s Code of Practice. Individuals were
 invited to declare personal circumstances. Other EDI considerations included: all reviewers
 undertaking Unconscious Bias training; outputs being read by two internal reviewers using a
 proforma based on Guidance on Submissions; calibration achieved by the REF coordinator
 meeting with reviewers or asking a third to adjudicate; a statistical analysis to check the
 proposed submission against all protected characteristics, followed by appropriate re-reading.
 Allowing for double weighting and reserves, submitted outputs represent all age ranges: 26‒
 35 (10%); 36‒45 (52%); 46‒55 (24%); 56‒65 (10%); 65+ (6%); and levels of seniority: L7 (20%),
 L6 (49%) and L5 (31%). 55% of the output submission is from staff 45 or under. Besides what is
 required by the rubrics, the UoA’s only criterion for including research outputs is their scholarly
 merit.

 3: Income, Infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 RESEARCH INCOME

 CMVS’s research centres are the critical driver for our income generation strategy. Income
 across the unit now exceeds £760k, reflecting a diversification of bidding activity, with staff
 awarded more than £1.2m from successful bids (many interdisciplinary) totalling £5.2m.
 Successful bids were made to the AHRC, British Academy, British Council, ESRC, Leverhulme
 Trust and Wellcome Trust among others.

 Our strategy for successful income generation has allowed CMVS to expand its expertise in
 digital media, cultures and economies. Kennedy brought with her the final completion funds from
 a five year SSHRCC partnership grant (£17k) to support the production of industry facing
 reports. An internal business engagement grant (£3k) will further disseminate these project
 outputs to SMEs working with immersive technologies. The strategic appointment of Martindale
 has further consolidated expertise in digital research. Martindale is Co-I on a successful Horizon
 bid for £5,094,381 (2020-25) which brings together STEM expertise with arts and cultural
 practices; this embeds Martindale within a collaboration across several disciplines and offers
 opportunities for unit colleagues to develop their digital research.

 External income generation by CMVS’s research centres developed key strategic areas. For
 instance, CCT’s Sensory Studies Network, led by Potts and Mansell, has facilitated the latter’s
 research on auditory cultures and the curation of sound. Mansell’s collaborations with the

                                                                                            Page       9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 National Science Museum, Royal College of Music and National Science and Media Museum,
 was enabled by a total of £170.5k of external funding from the AHRC (since 2014). Potts’ project
 on the material cultures of clutter, which deploys sensory studies methodologies developed
 within the network, was aided by a £20k Leverhulme Research Fellow grant (2013-14). Goffey
 was Co-I on a £100k project funded by the ESRC and Google Analytics (2014).

 CEACS has attracted AHRC/British Council funding for Mutibwa’s project on ‘digital fabrication
 communities in Shenzhen’ (£34.7k, 2017) as well as non-UKRI funding from groups such as
 Shanghai Art Gallery (£25k), Rockbund Art Museum (£22k), British Council, and the collection of
 Contemporary Chinese Art (£10k).

 CRVC has attracted funding from a number of sources, including the Terra Foundation for
 American Art, Getty Research Institute, Henry Moore Foundation, The British School in Rome,
 Leverhulme Trust, and Paul Mellon Centre for British Art. Chang secured a Leverhulme
 Research Fellowship (£50.5k) for her project ‘Playing Empire in the 19th Century: Games,
 Spectacles and Colonial Subjects’ (2018-19). Chang further secured short-term research
 fellowships at UCLA-Clark Memorial Library and the Yale Centre for British Art in 2020. Atkins
 was awarded a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (£32k) for his project on Surrealism and
 Romanticism.

 ISIR has attracted industry funding, including £110k derived from industrial consultative work
 with Disney, Skywalker Sound/Lucasfilm, Kambeckfilm (Germany) (Sergi), and £10k from the
 leading Chinese online media platform Youku Tudou (Stringer). This work has been pivotal in
 underpinning Sergi’s impact case-study and contributed to the development of key research
 collaborations (e.g. Sergi’s co-authored monograph with leading sound designer and director
 Gary Rydstrom). ISIR has received recognition from the research funding councils. The AHRC’s
 UK-China Industries Partnership Development Grant scheme awarded Stringer £21k, which was
 matched by funding from industry partners, for a £42k project on Shanghai’s Performing Arts
 and Screen Industries (2019). ISIR staff have secured two CDAs: Evans for a project with
 Ofcom, and Kennedy and Martindale for one with the British Games Institute.

 3.2 INFRASTRUCTURE

 UoN’s research priorities, infrastructure, internal investment and commitment to interdisciplinarity
 (REF5a 2.1) underpin the vitality and sustainability of CMVS’s research and impact. Unit staff
 have provided leadership for IRCs and RPAs (REF5a 2.1(a)), and staff involvement in these
 networks has generated seed funding for CMVS research and impact. For example, Wright
 received £5k from the Health Humanities RPA to fund the two-day conference Health
 Humanities Today. Mansell received £1880 from UoN’s International Collaboration Fund (REF5a
 4.1(c)) to work with the Sound Environment Centre at Lund University on two interdisciplinary
 workshops on noise, held in Lund and Kuala Lumpur. UoN’s internationalisation strategy and
 international campuses facilitated Stringer’s AHRC-supported project and support grant capture
 activity across the Department; Neher worked closely with UNNC on her ICS.

 Our research and impact has been enabled by significant internal investment, including: a
 Nottingham Research Fellowship: £280k, (ECR Martindale; REF5a 3.2) to enhance expertise in
 digital research and impact. International Collaboration/Mobility Funds: £8k to support
 international conferences, which has, for instance, led to Evans’ strategic position within the key
 discipline association SCMS. RPAs/IRCs: £27k to pump-prime new projects and to support
 collaboration with external partners in the staging of events, exhibitions and performances.
 Horizon: £89k to support collaboration with external partners. Pro-Vice-Chancellor’s Fund for
 research leave: £41.9k, leading directly to monographs (e.g. Grainge’s Promotional Screen
 Industries) and successful funding bids (e.g. Mansell’s ‘Sonic Futures’ AHRC project). Arts
 Impact Accelerator Award: £14k supporting Kennedy’s Live Cinema project. Publication Support
 Funds £2,438 (e.g., Bao and Bradnock, for book indexing). CLAS: over £40k for research
 centres; £37k, for conference organization and attendance (staff received funding to attend


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 prestigious international conferences such as the Society for Cinema and Media Studies and
 American Association of Geographers).

 CLAS’s Research Committee provides funding for conference travel, research trips, impact-
 related activities and symposia. CMVS’s research centres receive annual funding to support
 visiting speakers and symposia, and individual staff impact and research activities. Category A
 staff are supported by a personal research budget of £600 (e.g. for conference travel, research
 trips). CMVS supplements CLAS funding to support impact, public engagement and related
 activities.

 Administrative infrastructure is overseen by the Research and Innovation team and Researcher
 Academy. The Faculty’s Centre for Advanced Studies provides Arts-based training, bid-writing
 workshops, and practical support with finances, and ensures all grant applications are mentored
 and peer reviewed before submission. A full-time Faculty Impact Support Officer and a
 dedicated Research Associate work closely with the School Impact Officer and provide
 enhanced impact support. The M3C/M4C Doctoral Training Partnership supports staff and PGRs
 (2.6) via funding and infrastructure for research collaboration and training.

 Physical infrastructure and facilities have also enhanced our research and impact activities. In
 particular, the Faculty’s Digital Transformations Hub (DTH), trains staff and PGRs in applying
 digital techniques to Arts research using the Gale Digital Scholar Lab, providing crucial material
 and technical support. Mansell’s AHRC-funded ‘Sonic Futures’ project (see ICS2) drew on
 resources and expertise of the DTH: digital cameras and audio recorders documented activities
 at the National Science and Media Museum, and the expertise of DTH Director facilitated the
 project’s transition to online delivery following the closure of the museum due to Covid-19. This
 fed directly into an online exhibition evidencing the dissemination and impact of Mansell’s
 research. Martindale has also benefitted from the DTH Director’s membership of the Creative
 and Digital IRC (co-led by Martindale) through the delivery of workshops on archiving and digital
 research. Martindale’s research into immersive experiences has also been facilitated by the
 Mixed Reality Lab, enabling publications around ‘brain-controlled cinema’.

 CMVS staff are all located in the Trent Building and have their own offices while PGRs hot-desk.
 Staff have UK standard digital and IT resources while PGRs access workstations in shared PG
 space (50 desks for c.80 CLAS PGRs), located within easy reach of CLAS’s administrative hub
 and their supervisors’ offices.

 4. Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 Our research and impact collaborations with external partners regionally, nationally and
 internationally are facilitated by the University’s interdisciplinary research infrastructure (See
 REF5a 2.1) , and by the Department’s research centres, and School and Faculty support (3.2);
 they underpin all our impact case studies. The unit’s distinctive expertise in creative and cultural
 practice has underpinned significant international disciplinary leadership as evidenced by
 publication dissemination, speaker invitations, network participation, engagement in international
 research exercises and funding body reviews, as well as the hosting of and attendance at
 international conferences, symposia and seminars. The diversity of collaborative, industry and
 sector-based partnership activity and the range of public and or industry-based speaking
 engagements (87 nationally and internationally) provide strong evidence for our commitment to
 the dissemination of our research to non-academic stakeholders. The unit supports research
 with and for the creative and cultural industries, with collaborations ranging from individuals and
 groups of artists/practitioners (Bao, Martindale, Kennedy), to leading national cultural and
 creative organisations such as the BFI, BBC, National Science and Media Museum, Live
 Cinema UK, British Games Institute (Newsinger, Evans, Mansell, Kennedy), to international
 collaborations such as Sergi’s with the Hollywood and German film industries, or Kennedy’s with
 US and Canadian based games companies tackling diversity challenges (e.g., East Side
 Games).


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1 RESEARCH BASE

 4.1.1 Outputs:
 Staff have written 13 monographs, edited 11 scholarly volumes, written 73 chapters in edited
 collections and 101 articles for peer reviewed journals in more than 30 journals,

 4.1.2 Conference Participation and Organisation
 Staff have delivered 33 Keynotes (Bao, Bradnock, Evans, Grainge, Kennedy, Mansell,
 Newsinger, Pearson and Wright) in 16 countries, including the UK, Ireland, USA, Italy, Hong
 Kong, Australia, and Canada. They have been invited contributors to 87 seminars, colloquia and
 symposia in diverse disciplinary and geographical contexts (Europe, Asia, USA, Canada,
 Australia). Colleagues play leading roles in organising key, annual international subject
 conferences, including the Society for Cinema and Media Studies conference (Evans,
 Gallagher), the industry-facing Develop Games Conference (Kennedy), and the Digital Games
 Research Association Conference (Kennedy). Evans collaborates with colleagues at King’s
 College, London in planning and selection for the biannual Media Industries Conference.

 4.1.3 Developing the Discipline
 Birks is on the convening board of the Political Studies Association. Goffey, Mansell, Martindale
 and Newsinger are current members of the AHRC Peer Review College, and Grainge, Pearson
 and Kennedy regularly review for UKRI grant award schemes. Grainge, Pearson and Kennedy
 have served on Professorial selection committees in the UK. Staff have assessed funding
 applications for Portugal’s Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia, (Pearson: 2017, 2019,
 2020), the European Science Foundation (Pearson, 2020), the Italian Ministry for Education,
 University and Research, (Pearson, 2014), and the Social Science and Humanities Research
 Council of Canada Doctoral Award Peer Review College (Kennedy, 2018, 2019, 2020). Bao
 served on the review committee for the Research Grant Council, Hong Kong (2019, 2020) and
 Gallagher has reviewed applications for the Israel Science Foundation’s Individual Research
 Grants (2017) and German Academic Exchange Service Postdoctoral Researchers International
 Mobility Experience fellowships (2016). Staff have externally examined 42 national and
 international PhD theses.

 4.1.4 Research Networks, Collaborations and Partnerships
 Grainge’s work as Director of the M3C and M4C DTPs (incorporating eight universities),
 contributes to the research base of the entire Midlands region. Grainge has been involved in the
 awarding and administration of >500 doctoral studentships. As Co-Chair of the AHRC Doctoral
 Training Partnerships Directors and Manager’s Group (2017-18), he contributed directly to the
 research base at the national level. Grainge is now a member of the AHRC Advisory Board.

 As indicated above (1.1), our research centres are crucial in developing and supporting research
 networks, collaborations and partnerships. Within CCT the Nottingham Sensory Studies Network
 links 18 local scholars to national and global research clusters, as evidenced by collaborative
 events with the École Française de Rome, Institut Universitaire de France, and University of
 Toulouse (2017). The Institutional Analysis and Anti-Psychiatry strand of work has also formed
 an international network, linking academics, activists and clinicians in Brazil, France and the UK
 and formed the basis of an AHRC Research Network bid. CCT is a member of the wider
 International Consortium of Critical Theory based at the University of California, Berkeley, linking
 it to >300 critical theory centres, institutes, programmes and archives world-wide.

 ISIR has supported Stringer’s involvement in the AHRC Chinese Film Festival Studies research
 network, enabling him to co-design a chapter for the network’s key output (Berry and Robinson
 (eds.), Chinese Film Festivals: Sites of Translation (2017)). Kennedy’s collaboration with King’s
 College in the formation and development of the Live Cinema Network has fed into 4 key events
 since its 2016 launch and forms a partnership with key organisations in the field of live and
 immersive cinema (NT Live, Blast Theory, Live Cinema UK). This collaboration underpinned the
 production of a research film Walking the Tightrope Between Stage and Screen, shortlisted for a
 Learning on Screen Award 2020.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CRVC hosted a Fulbright Fellow (Joni Kinsey, University of Iowa) and two international ECR
 Fellows (Corey Dzenko, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, and Emily C Burns,
 Auburn). All three worked on projects connected to art and the American Midwest, enabling the
 development of a research cluster in this field. A Terra Foundation for American Art Academic
 Program Grant (US$25,734) funded an international workshop and conference on the topic.
 Bradnock co-directed the Lawrence Alloway: Critic and Curator international research project
 collaboration with the Getty Research Institute and Tate (2011-15), which produced an award-
 winning edited volume.

 CEACS supported Bao’s participation in the Film and the Chinese Medical Humanities Network,
 funded by the Wellcome Trust, University College London. Bao was also a member of the
 AHRC-funded Chinese Film Festival Studies Research Network and contributed to the Berry and
 Robinson book. CEACS benefits from the research networks of its many members from UoN’s
 international campuses.

 4.1.5 Symposia, Conferences, Workshops
 Our research centres play a pivotal role in the organisation of conferences, symposia and
 seminars. These support the research of all staff, but are particularly critical in the professional
 development of our ECRs and PGR community.

 CCT held numerous events related to its Ecology and Aesthetics, Institutional Analysis and Anti-
 Psychiatry and Critical and the Clinical strands. CCT organised summer schools, study sessions
 and public talks from international speakers that involved the participation of Nottingham
 Contemporary’s diverse audience as well as three solely academic conferences and workshops.
 The Nottingham-Dublin Lacanian Studies Programme (2017-ongoing) has been recognised as
 part of clinical training by the Parisian Université Populaire de Psychanalyse Jacques Lacan.

 ISIR, as part of Nottingham Screen Partnership (NSP), has played a leading role in organising
 the International Microfilm Festival and held an annual speaker series attracting participants
 from Hollywood, China and the UK (4.2).

 CRVC has organised numerous international conferences and symposia, such as: Museum
 Metaphors (2014), Cultures of the Copy (2015), Graphic Satire and the UK in the Long
 Nineteenth Century (2017), From Ruin to Museums: The Creation of Nottingham Castle
 Museum in Regional, National and International Context (2018), and Modernist Art Writing:
 Writing Modernist Art, (2019).

 CEACS has funded conferences at the overseas campuses such as The ‘Korean Wave’ in
 Southeast Asia: Consumption and Cultural Production (Kuala Lumpur), leading to the publication
 of an edited collection of the same name. Bao organised a research symposium on Chinese
 Cinema: Identity, Space and Politics (2015) and a conference entitled Transnational Radical
 Film Cultures (2019), attracting c.100 scholars from five continents.


 4.1.6 Editorial and Peer Review Activities
 CMVS staff have contributed to the research base through their editorial and peer reviewing
 activities for leading journals and book publishers. They sit on 14 editorial boards, (Kennedy is
 co-editor of Convergence), have reviewed for >100 journals, and served as manuscript
 reviewers for 20 monographs (e.g. for Ashgate, Berghaus, Bloomsbury, Edinburgh, Goldsmiths,
 NYU, OUP, Palgrave, Polity, Manchester University Press, University of California Press). They
 have reviewed for 17 special series and edited five special issues of journals, including New
 Formations (Goffey), Convergence (Kennedy) and Subjectivity (Wright). The scope of their
 editorial activities reflects CMVS’s interdisciplinary breadth, from the history of art and visual
 culture (Bradnock, Art History) to film and television (Pearson, The Velvet Light Trap, Grainge,
 Cinema Journal, Screen, Stringer, Screen), to media and game studies (Evans and Gallagher,
 Media Industries; Kennedy and Pearson, Feminist Media Studies; Kennedy, Games and Culture

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Games Studies), and critical theory and cultural studies (Wright, Culture, Theory & Critique;
 Goffey, Subjectivity; Pearson, International Journal of Cultural Studies).

 4.1.7 Fellowships and Prizes
 Stringer was a member of the Nottingham team that won ‘International Strategy of the Year’ at
 the 2017 Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Awards. Bradnock won the
 Historians of British Art Book prize (2016) and the Wyeth Foundation for American Art
 Publication Grant (2019). Martindale’s VR exhibition, Thresholds, received two EPSRC Telling
 Tales of Engagement Awards (2017 and 2019 competitions). Her awards (£20k) funded the
 commissioning of a bespoke cinema caravan for screening and development of a ‘live score’
 international tour shortlisted for the Sky Southbank Award for Visual Arts. Kennedy’s research
 film has been shortlisted for a Learning on Screen Award (2020). Potts was awarded a visiting
 scholar residency at Wolfson College, Oxford (2014) for her project on the materiality of clutter.
 In 2018, Kennedy was nominated a ‘distinguished scholar’ of the Digital Games Research
 Association. Martindale was awarded an AHRC Creative Economy Engagement Fellowship
 funded by the National Portfolio Investment Fund through M3C (2018). Mutibwa secured a
 fellowship, funded by the Taiwanese government, to undertake a three-month period of research
 at the National Taiwan University of Science and Technology (2020).

 4.2) ECONOMY AND SOCIETY

 Colleagues have strong, mutually beneficial relationships with external non-academic partners
 and collaborators beyond those already mentioned. Mansell sits on the ‘Sound and Vision’
 Advisory Board for the National Science and Media Museum. From 2014-17, Bradnock sat on
 the advisory board for the Tate’s research initiative, Refiguring American Art 1945-1980.
 Bradnock, Goffey, Martindale and Pucci all serve on Nottingham Contemporary’s academic
 working group. Kennedy is a Trustee at the British Games Institute, which has established a new
 partnership with UoN to further collaborative research and knowledge exchange. This
 relationship has already resulted in a CDA, secured in April 2020. CMVS’s centres facilitate
 other key activities that bring together research and public engagement activity both nationally
 and internationally. CEACS has worked with local partners: curating the New China/New Art
 Djanogly Art Gallery exhibition and organising the Nottingham Chinese Independent Film
 Festival for the Broadway Cinema (2014, 2015). Bao collaborated with Nottingham
 Contemporary and Five Leaves Bookshop on the Transnational Radical Film Cultures
 conference (2019) which attracted a number of film makers. Bao worked with Nottingham
 Lakeside Arts and Broadway Cinema to organise a series of public screenings, Q&As and panel
 discussions (2014, 2018, 2019), bringing Chinese film industry professionals into dialogue with
 academics and diverse audiences concerning changing transnational contexts around
 censorship and LGBTQ rights.

 CCT collaborated with Nottingham Contemporary, Mansell’s work on sound curation has
 involved local and national partnerships with the Brewhouse Yard Museum (Nottingham),
 National Science and Media Museum (Bradford), and Science Museum (London). His industry
 report, ‘Sound and Place: Digital Mapping and Community Listening Practice’, was distributed
 nationally via the National Science and Media Museum network. Google Analytics funded
 Goffey’s project on ‘Meta-Communities of Practice’, which generated new data on software
 programming practices with relevance to software developers and the IT-industry. Goffey’s role
 as Co-I on ‘Information as Regulatory Device’ (2013) informed the organisational strategy of the
 West Sussex PCT who funded it. His co-authored book Evil Media (2012) has led to industrial
 consultancy on social media and cultural trends.

 ISIR has developed key relationships with a range of industry partners. The annual visiting
 speaker series, ‘Behind The Scenes: Bringing Leading Screen Industry Figures to the University
 of Nottingham’, has attracted participants from Hollywood, China and the UK. Lectures and
 workshops have been delivered by: Walter Murch (winner of three Oscars); Gary Rydstrom
 (winner of seven Oscars, sound designer and director with Lucasfilm and Pixar); Peter Rice
 (President of 21st Century Fox/Disney); and Mabel Cheung (leading Chinese director, winner of

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Best Director of the Hong Kong Film Awards). ISIR is a founding member of NSP, launched
 2014, which brings together regional governmental, academic and industry actors in the film and
 TV sectors (Nottingham City Council, Creative England, Creative Quarter, Confetti Media Group,
 GameCity and Broadway Cinema). As part of NSP, ISIR has played a leading role in organising
 the International Microfilm Festival that gathers filmmakers, scholars and policy makers from
 around the world to share and promote short films. The first of its kind in the UK, the festival ran
 from 2014-17 and in 2018 became the Nottingham International Media Festival, screening works
 from Spain, Germany, Canada, Australia, America, India and the UK. Stringer designed and
 delivered a ‘Creative Challenge’ at the 2014 Shanghai Tudou Video Festival following a signed
 agreement between UoN and Youku Tudou. In 2017, ISIR organised CPD training in
 screenwriting for the Ningbo and Broadcast Group to upskill local talent, co-designed and
 delivered with leading Hollywood screenwriters Ed Solomon and Ryan Rowe.

 CRVC has collaborative links with leading cultural organisations, not only locally (Nottingham
 Contemporary, Nottingham Castle Museums and Galleries Service) but also nationally and
 internationally (e.g. the V&A Museum and Tate, London; Metropolitan Museum of Art , New
 York: and Ningbo Bang Museum, Ningbo). Members have curated exhibitions and contributed to
 the public programmes at galleries that include the National Gallery (London), Royal
 Photographic Society (Bristol), and Reykjavik Museum (Iceland).

 CMVS had made further contributions to non-academic partners. The BFI have benefitted from
 Newsinger’s research on workforce diversity in the film industry; SMEs in the games, VR and
 immersive sector have benefitted from Kennedy’s SSHRCC funded research and knowledge
 mobilisation project (REFIG.ca). The latter seeks to promote diversity in recruitment and
 workplace culture. For instance, the Vision for Women in VR (VWVR.org) strand of activity
 included collaboration with Immerse UK in securing influential stakeholder engagement in its
 diversity and inclusion ambitions. Artists and institutions working in live and experiential cinema
 have benefitted from Kennedy’s Arts Council, AHRC and Creative Europe supported partnership
 activity with Live Cinema UK in commissioning, producing and exhibiting innovative experiences
 including pioneering work funded by Innovate UK using portable (exhibition at Glasgow Film
 Festival, 2019) and fixed (current collaboration with Cardiff-based CultVR) 360 dome spaces.
 SME’s, including Verve Garden Design, have benefitted from Grainge and Johnson’s research
 on ‘spreadable marketing’, work highlighted by the National Centre for Universities and Business
 (2018); and the Tate has benefitted from Bradnock’s work on American art. Grainge, Evans,
 Bradnock and Sergi have delivered ‘Ingenuity Breakfasts’ run by UoN’s Ingenuity Business
 Network, benefitting c.70 local SME business leaders at each meeting.

 In an assessment period that concluded with the Covid-19 pandemic, the Department has
 shown itself to be both resilient and relevant as a place of knowledge creation and
 dissemination, as well as responsive to local, national, and international priorities. Colleagues
 with funding (internal and external) have pivoted these projects to support external partners and
 collaborations during the lockdown. Mansell worked with the National Science and Media
 Museum to re-design the ‘Sonic Futures’ project for online delivery following its closure.
 Martindale has continued to fund work with artists adapting their immersive projects for an online
 context. Evans, Newsinger, and Bao have all worked with external partners in the development
 of Covid-response funding applications. Bao, for example, has contributed to three projects
 aimed at the BAME experience of Covid and the circulation of Chinese-language pandemic
 literature, in collaboration from performance artists and UK academics as well as scholars from
 the City University of Hong Kong. Although the May 2020 Live Cinema Festival was cancelled,
 Kennedy developed an online programme of industry talks and workshops – taking place in
 September 2020 and including contributions from academics, artists, programmers,
 commissioners and producers from the emerging immersive film sector. All sessions were sold
 out and included attendees from UK and Europe. Kennedy’s collaborative Live Cinema
 Associate Artists programme also transitioned to a series of online workshop events which will
 culminate in public performances in Spring 21.



                                                                                             Page 15
