Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Royal Holloway, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview and Structure
 Founded in 1990, Royal Holloway’s School of Business and Management is a medium-sized
 research-intensive institution consisting of 71.13 FTE research-active academics. As a School, we
 continue to build on our legacy of social science-based research, with a focus on critical, ethical,
 political-economic and international/comparative approaches to management and organisation.
 We have methodological excellence in qualitative research. Our research vision is to be:
                      “Renowned internationally for agenda-setting research
                    on management and organisation theory, policy and practice
            that seeks to foster a more equitable, responsible, resilient, and sustainable
                                       economy and society”.
 We are particularly proud of our connection with the College founders’ principles of equitable
 education and social justice. These values are embedded in our research strategy, culture, and
 future aims. Research conducted within the School reflects Royal Holloway’s core values of
 excellence, creativity, collaboration, fairness and freedom.

 Our School provides an intellectually rigorous, supportive and collegial environment. Focused on
 high quality research, its size provides us with the critical mass to foster cross-disciplinary and
 socially relevant research. Our vision is for our research to contribute to more responsible and
 sustainable forms of management and organisation.

 To deliver on our shared research strategy the School has a tripartite structure for research and
 impact generation. These are 1) Discipline-Based Research Departments; 2) Research Centres;
 and 3) Research Groups.

 Discipline-Based Research Departments
 There are five discipline-based Departments in the School: Accounting and Financial
 Management; Marketing; Human Resource Management and Organisational Studies;
 Strategy, International Business and Entrepreneurship; and Digital Innovation and
 Management. Departments provide the base structure where expert knowledge within specific
 domains of Business and Management studies are fostered. Departments form the first tier
 through which our research vision is given practical effect.
 While all five departments produce high quality and impactful research, we have notable and
 internationally recognised strengths in three discipline areas.
  Accounting        In addition to a strong financial accounting research base the department is
                    internationally recognised for critical and historical perspectives on accounting
                    with a particularly strong focus on accountability and sustainability. The
                    Department ranked first equal in 2016 in the world BYU Rankings for
                    accounting research related to this core area of expertise.
  Marketing         The Marketing Department is at the subject's vanguard of theoretical
                    development as marked by Chatzidakis's and Maclaran's tenures as editors-
                    in-chief of the subject's foremost journal for conceptual matters - Marketing

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                    Theory. The department has a strong grounding in critical analysis and cultural
                    perspectives with several faculty enjoying international profiles in these areas.
                    A further notable feature are departmental engagements with popular press
                    and media that expand the subject's reach.
  Organization      We have a long established strength and reputation in the field of Organization
  Studies           Studies, including particular research strengths in organisation theory, critical
                    management studies, ethics, gender and diversity. The shortlisting of both du
                    Gay and Grey’s critically orientated research monographs in the final (five
                    book) shortlist for the first EGOS (European Group of Organization Studies)
                    book prize in 2017 is an illustration of research leadership in this area.


 Research Centres
 Complementing discipline-based research in Departments, and in line with our REF 2014 strategic
 aim of extending and deepening our collaborative and cross/inter-disciplinary research, the School
 is home to three Research Centres. These Centres undertake research that seeks to foster a more
 equitable, responsible, resilient, and sustainable economy and society.
 Research Centres represent the second structure through which our research vision is
 implemented. They are key vehicles through which we develop and sustain our interdisciplinary
 research capacities. Research Centres strengthen links between theory, practice, and policy;
 impact, engagement, and knowledge exchange. Centres also assist in the development of early
 career researchers (ECRs) and postgraduate research students.
 The three Research Centres are:
  Centre for Research into      A centre actively engaging with understandings of social/ethical,
  Sustainability (CRIS)         economic and environmental sustainability in contemporary
                                organisation, management, and society. CRIS’s purpose is to
                                advance scholarship and contribute to positive social change in
                                terms of contemporary sustainability related challenges.
  Digital Organisation and      An interdisciplinary centre whose work focuses on developing a
  Society (DOS)                 critical understanding of the implications of digital technologies
                                for work, organisations and society. DOS seeks to generate
                                responsible impact through influencing the development of
                                organisational, governmental and global politics around the use
                                of digital technologies.
  Centre for Critical and       Reflects the long standing and continuing intellectual
  Historical Research on        commitment within the School to interrogate and challenge
  Organisations       and       mainstream perspectives in management and organisational
  Society (CHRONOS)             research and practice and posit alternatives. CHRONOS also
                                investigates historical modes of organisation and new ways of
                                organising in order to meet contemporary practical and policy
                                challenges.


 Research Centres are key to our approach to fostering interdisciplinarity. Centre membership is
 cross-department and cross-College. CRIS, while located within the School of Business and
 Management, has a formalised partnership with the Geography Department; CHRONOS connects


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the School with both Geography and History; and DOS is affiliated with the Information Security,
 History, and Politics and International Relations Departments.

 Research Centres are also a key means by which the School’s researchers connect with and
 contribute to College-led research activities and strategy. For example, members of CRIS and
 DOS contribute to the Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) Research Strategy, including
 leadership positions of cluster lead (Zeyen) and GCRF committee member (McCarthy).

 The focus and research expertise of the Centres are also well aligned with, and set to contribute
 to, the recent College strategy of developing Catalyst Research and Knowledge Exchange Hubs
 in 2021. Our research centres will be centrally involved in two of these, notably the Living
 Sustainably Catalyst and the Digital Transformations Catalyst.

 Centres are organised around themes each with an emphasis on contemporary matters of
 economic, social, organisational and management concern. Themes are regularly reviewed by the
 Centres. Research Centre themes as of 2020 were:

         CRIS                      CHRONOS                       DOS
        Gender and social         Space and time within and      Digital technology,
        change                    across organisations           organisation and work
        Global impact chains      Identity and working life      Digital economy and
                                                                 innovation
        Precarious work and       Critical consumption and       Digital inequality, ethics
        modern slavery            politics of markets            and cyberactivism
        Alternative economies     Accountability and control     Digital research methods
                                  Silent voices: Feminist and
                                  subaltern perspectives


 The Research Centres, and our research environment more broadly, also benefit from the
 continued active membership of Emeritus Professors. For example, Prof. Jane Broadbent and
 Prof. Brendan McSweeney are members of CHRONOS where they contribute through
 scholarship, research, and career mentoring. Centre membership also includes affiliates from
 other national and international institutions adding to the profile and standing of the Centres.

 Research Groups
 The School is also home to two Research Groups. These are informal collectives that support new
 or emerging research interests related to our vision for a fairer society. They constitute the third
 structure by which our research vision is implemented. Research Groups may, over time, become
 themes within existing Research Centres or candidates for designated Research Centre status as
 their focus and critical mass develops. Research Groups are currently focused on two themes:
 Intercultural and International Perspectives on Management (IIPM), and Knowledge and
 Organisational Learning (KOL).

 1.2 Research Strategy and Objectives 2014-2020
 In REF 2014, the School laid out its research objectives for the next REF period. These included:

    •   extending and developing the cross/interdisciplinary reach and power of established
        research groups to enhance their role in fostering a more equitable, responsible, resilient,
        and sustainable economy and society.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   increasing the scope and significance of our research and research outputs, while further
        expanding the practical impact of that research and levels of income accruing from
        externally funded research projects.

 Research Centres have been central to realising these two objectives. Since 2014 we have
 successfully increased the number, interdisciplinary reach, and challenge-oriented stance of our
 Research Centres as well as the quality, range and impact of their activities all in line with our
 research vision.

 Supporting Research Centres and embedding the Research Strategy
 A clearly articulated set of performance criteria helps guide the activities of the Research
 Centres. These criteria outline Research Centre roles and expectations in relation to advancing
 our research vision and strategic objectives. They include: enhancing academic standing;
 increasing external grant income generation; advancing impact and public engagement; and
 assisting in the development of the research capacities and careers of ECRs, PDRAs and
 PGRs. In line with our research vision and associated values, the criteria associated with
 enhancing academic standing includes, for example, reference to the role of Centres in
 “fostering research of significance in line with the School’s research vision, and of encouraging a
 culture of curiosity, critical interrogation, and intellectual enthusiasm amongst Centre members,
 both internal and external”.

 Since their establishment in 2018 these criteria have not only helped embed our research vision
 and strategy within the Centres, they have also provided a key mechanism through which their
 performance is evaluated. Each Centre is subject to an annual review process, based on a
 written report framed in terms of the above performance criteria. This is then assessed by the
 School’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee. This Committee is tasked with
 formulating, monitoring and reviewing all research‐focused policy within the School. All tasks
 undertaken by the Committee facilitate the achievement of our research ambitions as stated in
 our mission, including:

    •   Supporting the ongoing development of researchers through oversight mentoring and
        researcher training opportunities, as well as the School’s sabbatical scheme.
    •   Developing and maintaining the School’s research ethos e.g. through oversight of the
        academic visitor scheme, promoting and supporting the work of Research Centres,
        providing support/training for grant bid preparation.
    •   Managing the financial resources allocated to support research to maximise the scope of
        the School’s research development and dissemination activities and;
    •    Promoting the School and wider RHUL impact agenda, identifying and supporting
        pathways through which the School can maximise the engagement and impact of its
        research on management practice and practitioners.

 The Committee conducts its activities in conjunction with the College Research Advisory Group,
 its Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee, its Research and Innovation Department,
 and the PhD School. The School’s research activities and committees are supported by our
 administrative staff including in the areas of Finance and Facilities, and Communication.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Building Long-term International Collaborations
 The Research Centres are also a key means through which international collaborations are
 facilitated. These relationships have become more formalised since 2014 as the Research Centres
 have developed the scale and scope of their activities.

 In 2019, the School signed two institutional MOUs to facilitate research collaboration and deepen
 existing research links with institutions pursuing related research visions: Copenhagen Business
 School (CBS), with its strategic focus on ‘Business in Society’, for instance. In particular, the MOU
 with CBS enhances collaboration between our respective Research Centres:

    •   CRIS and CBS Sustainability;
    •   CHRONOS and CBS’s Centre for Public Organization, Value and Innovation (POVI), as
        well as its key critical and historical organization scholars located in the Departments of
        Organization (IOA) and Management, Philosophy and Politics (MPP);
    •   DOS and CBS’s Digital Transformations Platform.

 In addition, an agreement was signed with the University of Siena in 2019 that formalises the
 collaboration between CHRONOS and Siena’s Department of Business and Law. An MOU was
 signed with Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics (NUAA) in 2019 with the goal of
 facilitating collaborative research in Asia. This builds on already existing ties with NUAA which has
 involved visits by our ECRs and joint research projects. An MOU with Stockholm Business School
 (SBS) involving all three of our Research Centres is currently being formalised and expected to be
 signed in 2021.

 Enhancing External Research Income and Impact through Research Centres
 As outlined in the performance criteria governing their activities, Research Centres, supported as
 appropriate by Discipline-based Departments, are key structures through which our objective of
 enhancing external research income generation and impact activities in line with our research
 vision are supported and developed. Each has run grant writing and impact workshops (e.g., DOS
 Grant Application Workshop 2017; CHRONOS workshop on Critical Impact, 2019) and, when
 appropriate, the Research Centres facilitate the formal peer review of grant applications prior to
 submission.

 Some examples which illustrate how the Research Centres promote and facilitate research
 associated with the overall strategy include:

 CRIS’s support of Chatzidakis’s work on Modern Slavery leading to a British Academy/Leverhulme
 Small Research Grants award (with Prof. Shaw, Glasgow and Dr Carrington, Melbourne). This
 research focuses on analysing consumer understandings and responses to modern slavery and
 exploring and influencing consumer attitudes and behaviours in more ethical directions. The
 project, the first of its kind in the UK, aims to impact businesses, media campaigns by government
 actors, and NGOs. Having already advised organisations on product labelling and contributed to
 the revision of the Parliamentary Private Members’ Bill on modern slavery, as well as widely
 engaging with various audiences, such impact is evident despite the project being at an early
 stage.

 CRIS also supports a partnership between various CRIS researchers and Heathrow Airport
 focusing on co-producing the airport’s sustainability plan. This is part of the Research Centre’s
 various collaborations with local and regional communities and businesses.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CHRONOS’s support of Davison’s project “Emile Zola: property bubbles, banking crises and the
 role of money in society”, resulting in a Leverhulme Research Fellowship (2018). This
 interdisciplinary project focuses on Zola’s analyses of money, finance and speculation deploying
 a historical lens to make a critical contribution to contemporary behavioural finance and accounting
 research. In line with CHRONOS’s focus on deploying critical and historical perspectives to explore
 contemporary economic and social issues, Davidson’s project indicates the enduring importance
 of Zola’s work regarding the role of accounting and finance in society. Davison is currently the
 President of the Emile Zola Society, a long-established literary society which aims, amongst other
 things, to stimulate interest in Zola beyond academia.

 CHRONOS also supported Rees and Gold’s work on ‘Employee participation practices across six
 countries’, leading to a two-year project (2016-2018) funded by the European Commission
 (‘Project Direct’). Focusing on direct employee participation practices in Bulgaria, Cyprus, Ireland,
 Italy, Poland and the UK, the CITUB (Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria) led
 project includes partners such as the Bulgarian Industrial Association (BIA), Cyprus Workers’
 Confederation (SEK) Ideas Institute (Ireland), Fondazione Giuseppe di Vittorio (Italy) and the
 Warsaw School of Economics (Poland).

 DOS demonstrates how Research Centres take a central role in impact activities providing key
 platforms for connecting researchers with relevant stakeholder communities and enabling the
 dissemination of research to interested audiences. In 2019, DOS held workshops on Platform
 Work in Global Contexts, and Digitisation and Sustainable Development, exploring and fostering
 more equitable and sustainable practices. Participants included academic (Cambridge, Oxford,
 LSE, Liverpool, Loughborough, ANU) and practitioner bodies, including the Overseas
 Development Institute and the Independent Workers of Great Britain Union.

 Engaging ECRs in our Research Environment
 ECRs are important to any vibrant research environment and activities within the Departments,
 Research Centres, and Research Groups are conducted with ECRs at their core. As per the
 performance criteria governing the Research Centres, ECRs participate in designing and
 managing events, and are mentored in developing their research project experience by becoming
 CIs on large research project bids. ECRs have a dedicated representative on the School’s
 Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee. As well as having a discipline home, all PhD
 students are encouraged to join Research Centres and Research Groups. Our partnerships with
 CBS, Siena and NUAA involve PhD exchanges, enabling our doctoral students to undertake visits
 to and work at world leading universities, thus enhancing their student experience and developing
 their research capacities.

 Embedding Gender, Diversity and Inclusion
 Gender, diversity and inclusion are embedded into our School’s culture as reflected in the
 constitution of the School’s Research Leadership. At present three of the five Department Heads
 are women and all Research Centre Directors (Eckhardt (CRIS), Giovannoni (CHRONOS), and
 Co-Directors Symon and Zheng (DOS)) are women. One of the Research Groups is also led by a
 woman (Lam (KOL)).

 In line with the College’s history of gender equality, gender and social change research are key
 post-2014 research themes of CRIS and identified as one of the core areas of research expertise
 within the Centre. Likewise, a key research theme of CHRONOS is Silent voices: Feminist and
 subaltern perspectives led by Kravets and Maclaran. In addition, several staff members undertake


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research related to disability and inclusion. For example, Smith and Zheng research disability in
 the Chinese labelling industry, and Zeyen, supported by CRIS, analyses “disability
 entrepreneurship” and the intersection between disability and social entrepreneurship in
 developing country contexts. Zeyen also investigates disability and the return to work in relation to
 the COVID lockdowns. Ashley, a CHRONOS member, is an established researcher in the
 development and implementation of diversity and inclusion programmes within organisations.

 Supporting the Production and Dissemination of High-Quality Research
 Over the assessment period, we have continued to produce and disseminate high-quality
 scholarship framed by our research vision by publishing in internationally recognised and
 respected journals. A selection of these include: Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal
 (Agyemang, Bryer, Giovannoni, Napier, Nobes, Stadler, Rinaldi, Tregidga), Accounting,
 Organizations and Society (Bryer, Davison, O’Leary, Tregidga, Unerman), British Journal of
 Management (Anastasiadis, Conway, Dyerson, Lange, Wang), Critical Perspectives on
 Accounting (Agyemang, Ashley, Bryer, Tourish, Tregidga), Human Relations (Grey, Karreman,
 Lam, Simosi, Smith, Spence), Information Systems Frontiers (Harindranath, Elbanna, Wu),
 Information Systems Journal (Panteli, Lycett, Zheng), Journal of Business Ethics (Bradshaw,
 Chatzidakis, Conway, Eckhardt, Glozer, Spence, Zeyen, Vazquez-Brust), Journal of Business
 Research (Coronado, Lycett, Mondragon, Ozcan), Journal of Consumer Research (Eckhardt,
 Husemann, Preece), Journal of the Association for Information Systems (Panteli, Wu), Journal of
 Management Studies (Glozer, Hagedoorn, Karreman, Spence, Symon), Journal of Marketing
 Research (Eckhardt, Kravets), Marketing Theory (Andehn, Bradshaw, Chatzidakis, Hackley,
 Laamanen), MIS Quarterly (Elbanna), Organization (Andehn, du Gay, Grey, Karreman),
 Organization Studies (Giovannoni, Grey, Karreman, McCarthy, Symon), Work, Employment and
 Society (Ashley, Panteli, Smith, Zheng).

 All Research Centres have facilitated this strategy by organising publishing workshops and
 dedicated ‘Revise and Re-submit’ sessions focused on collective discussion and support for
 colleagues to ensure publication in key journals in their fields. A cross-Centre two-day Writing
 Retreat was held in 2019 allowing staff from the Centres dedicated writing time and support.

 A number of ‘Meet the Editors’ events have supplemented these activities including:

    •   A CHRONOS hosted Meet the Editor session with the Editor in Chief of Organization
        Studies, Prof. Daniel Hjorth (Copenhagen Business School);
    •   A CRIS editors panel (moderated by Prof. Andre Spicer, City’s Business School) with
        Prof. Michelle Greenwood (Editor Journal of Business Ethics), Prof. Andrew Crane
        (Editor Business and Society), Prof. Deidre Shaw (Journal of Business Ethics Section
        Editor) Prof. Charles Cho (Editor Accounting Forum).

 1.3 Our Approach to Enabling Impact
 Our impact strategy is led and shaped by our unit’s research strengths and our commitment to
 sharing our research with multiple and diverse publics. With our vision to foster a more equitable,
 responsible, resilient, and sustainable economy and society research impact is a key part of our
 research culture and strategy. Research impact is recognised through one of our School’s three
 core mission statements: “Make a positive difference to management policy and practice through
 our research and teaching”.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since REF 2014, a significant and positive change of culture in relation to impact has occurred
 with impact being embedded into more of the research undertaken within the School. This has
 been achieved through a range of College and School impact events for all staff including
 workshops, training events - including policy brief writing, twitter, building links with policy makers,
 professional bodies and business networks – as well as by impact becoming a key criterion for
 applications for research sabbatical.

 In 2014, we stated that our impact related research strategy was “to be in the top tier of UK
 management schools renowned throughout the world for using our agenda-setting research for
 theory, policy and practice, addressing some of the biggest cultural, social, economic and
 management challenges of the day”. Since 2014, we have successfully instituted a number of
 formal processes to achieve this.

 In 2015, the same year that two dedicated impact manager roles were created at College level,
 the School created a Director of Research Impact role. Undertaken by senior research leaders
 within the School who effectively combine high quality research outputs with research impact
 (2015-2017 Spence; 2018 - Conway), this role is well resourced through workload abatement and
 funds. This role has been key in promoting and supporting the impact agenda across the School
 and instigating the evident culture shift.

 In 2016, and as part of our strategy to make our impact more visible both internally and externally,
 we launched an impact website and commissioned three videos showcasing impact case studies.
 Furthermore, to support impact practices and in recognising the commitment needed to achieve
 effective impact, those involved in the development of Impact Case Studies, receive both workload
 reduction (10%) and financial support. This is provided through an impact budget managed by the
 Director of Research Impact. Impact has been further embedded into the School’s research
 environment with demonstrating impact becoming one of four core criteria for promotion
 applications at all levels in line with College requirements. Developing an impact case study or
 writing a grant application is also embedded into sabbatical applications further supporting the
 culture in this area.

 Research Centres Providing Impact Leadership
 Research Centres take a key role in encouraging and supporting impact. Centres raise
 understanding of impact and best practice through hosting impact related events. Some examples
 include:
    •   Impact was a key topic at the CHRONOS Research Centre launch event in 2018 where
        practitioners were involved in the formal presentations (e.g. Martin Vogel from Vogel
        Wakefield). CHRONOS subsequently conducted a half-day workshop on impact in 2019,
        involving research beneficiaries, and further embedding impact into the Centres research
        culture
    •   Conway, in his role as Director of Research Impact, has given presentations to the three
        Research Centres and two Research Groups on impact as well as to the entire research
        staff through annual presentations at the School of Business and Management Research
        Away Days (see section 2).


 The success of these activities and overall impact strategy is evidenced by the range of staff
 engaging in research that embeds impact. It is also evidenced by the distribution of impact cases
 across the School and Research Centres with all Research Centres having at least one dedicated

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 case study in this assessment period (CRIS Spence; CHRONOS Ashley and Grey; DOS
 Wainwright and Coronado Mondragon). The role of Research Groups is also evident with the KOL
 Research Group supporting the impact case study of Conway. These activities have helped
 institute a research culture where impact is visible and embedded, ensuring our focus on impact
 is sustained in the future.

 A further indication that an impact research culture has been embedded across the School is
 illustrated by the range of impact activities being undertaken within Research Centres and outlined
 in section 4.

 The breadth and range of impact activities illustrate the cultural change that has occurred
 and how impact has become established and embedded within our research priorities.
 This provides us with a platform upon which to build and further extend our impact
 activities.
 Achieving Impact through Partnerships and Collaboration
 Key collaborations for impact with a range of user groups have been developed over the
 assessment period. This has been achieved through such initiatives as; ensuring research impact
 funds are shared across the three research structures (Departments, Research Centres and
 Research Groups) with staff within these units tending to serve different ends (e.g. economic,
 social): and, actively encouraging staff to consider how their research impact benefits a wide
 variety of user groups (e.g. Conway’s research impact was initially conceived as being about clergy
 wellbeing but extended out to include economic impacts for the churches more broadly).

 In line with the College’s strategy of innovative challenge-led research designed to benefit society,
 researchers within the School participate in the College’s GCRF which focuses on research
 partnerships with partners from Development Assisted Countries (DAC). Zeyen is one of the four
 College level GCRF Research Cluster Leads and Harindranath and McCarthy undertake GCRF
 projects with a focus on impact in various DAC listed countries.

    •   Zeyen leads the “Disability, wellbeing and sustainable inclusion” RHUL GCRF cluster
        which fosters research on people with disabilities and other marginalized groups in all
        realms of society including culture, education and the economy. One focus of the cluster
        is on chronic pain in South Africa and Zambia where a multi-disciplinary team work with
        local researchers and NGOs. Zeyen also works with local Disabled People’s
        Organizations in Uganda and India using entrepreneurship to enhance the livelihoods of
        people with disabilities.
    •   Harindranath leads a work package on Digital Technologies and Inequality within the
        UKRI GCRF South-South Migration, Inequality and Development Hub led by Coventry
        University. This work examines the extent and ways through which ICT has alleviated or
        exacerbated existing inequalities in the context of South-South migration. More details
        are in section 3.
    •   McCarthy has engaged various local communities (Ghana and India), NGOs and policy
        influencers in her research on supply chains and gender. For example, the Fairtrade
        Foundation, where she applied visual methods for their Fairtrade supply chain, and
        Divine Kuapa Kokoo and Twin Trading where she conducted impact assessments on
        gender empowerment. McCarthy’s research has had an impact on industry bodies
        including completing action learning with corporations and industry (e.g. Cottonconnect in
        India) relating to sustainable cotton production.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Overall, we have enhanced our research impact over the assessment period and have embedded
 a positive research culture in relation to impact to ensure it is sustained into the future. This
 enhanced position and understanding of impact within the School has led to staff increasingly
 engaging in research which informs and benefits our communities in line with our overall research
 vision.

 1.4 Open Access Research and Research Ethics
 We recognise the increasing move towards open access and reproducibility and the importance
 of making our research available to users and communities of interest. Making pre-published
 versions of manuscripts and published works available is now the norm within the School for newly
 published work. IT infrastructure to support open access research includes Figshare and an
 updated and enhanced Pure platform. Where possible and appropriate, pre-published versions of
 work are openly available via Pure and easily found from researchers’ homepages enabling our
 research to be accessed by diverse communities and enhance knowledge sharing activities. Staff
 continue to receive support in relation to making their manuscripts and other published work open
 access via the library and RCUK which has a fund to support open access.

 Training in research ethics is likewise embedded in staff and PGR training supplied by the
 university. All researchers within the School are supported by the Research Ethics Process and
 benefits associated with the College’s commitment to the principles of the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity. PGR supervisors are regularly updated on issues of research integrity.

 1.5 Research and Impact Strategy 2021-2026
 We are committed to maintaining our focus on research reflecting Royal Holloway’s core values
 of excellence, creativity, collaboration, fairness and freedom and delivering on our vision. As such,
 our strategy moving forward will focus on:
    •   To extend and develop the interdisciplinary reach and standing of the School’s Research
        Centres to enhance their strategic role in effecting our research vision of fostering a more
        equitable, responsible, resilient, and sustainable economy and society.
    •   To deepen and extend collaborative research project and impact activities with our formal
        international partners (e.g., Copenhagen Business School and the University of Siena)
        and to build further collaborative relations with other relevant national and international
        institutions.
    •   To increase the volume and reach of high-quality and policy-relevant research and
        research outputs in line with the objectives of our research vision of effecting social and
        economic change.
    •   To continue to develop impact activities and partnerships for impact through the
        Departments, Research Centres and Research Groups, and through our engagement
        with the College’s interdisciplinary Catalyst Research and Knowledge Hubs in the areas
        of Living Sustainably and Digital Transformations.
    •   To further develop and extend the emphasis placed on research that builds upon
        practical engagement with business, government, and non-governmental organisations.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development (including equality and diversity)
 Our values of social justice and equity are represented through, and supported by, our diverse
 staff body and our approach to staff development. Our core strategy in 2014 was to maintain a

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 critical mass of high calibre researchers while aiming for balance of senior staff members and
 ECRs. We have continued to attract new research-active staff and have modestly grown our staff
 over the assessment period to 76 research-active staff (71.13 FTE). Recruiting, retaining and
 developing high quality research staff continues to be central to the School’s staffing strategy as
 does our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion.

 We promote and maintain our research environment through developing staff internally (including
 pathways for promotion), attracting high-calibre academics to the School as permanent staff and
 visitors (including our annual Distinguished Visitor Scheme), and integrating and supporting
 postgraduate research students into all our research activities. Gender and equality underlies all
 aspects of our staff development and strategy, and therefore is embedded across all areas.

 Ensuring Our Staff Profile is Balanced and Diverse
 The School has an equal gender balance of 38 women staff (50%) and 38 men staff members
 (50%). Our current staff profile is:

               Professors           Readers                SL          Lecturers              Total
             Number     %         Number    %         Number    %   Number     %
  2019-20      33     43.4%         5     6.6%          21    27.6%   17     22.4%             76


 The gender balance and diversity of the Professoriate is actively monitored because we believe it
 is essential for fostering inclusive and effective leadership and mentoring as well as supporting our
 staff development strategy. The 33 Professors within the School has a gender balance of 14
 women professors (42%) and 19 men professors (57%). This is well above the sector norms where
 women represent only 25% of the Professoriate in Business and Management Studies and is an
 increase of 8.9% from 2014. The School’s Athena Swan action plan includes measures to close
 this gap further. Moreover, while there is still room for improvement in relation to Black, Asian and
 Minority Ethnic (BAME) representation at Professorial level, our profile here is again well ahead of
 the rest of the sector with 21% of the Professoriate being from a BAME background compared to
 the sector average of 14%.

 Policies and procedures are in place and regularly reviewed to ensure that all appointments and
 promotions are based on transparent criteria of merit, ability, and potential. We follow Royal
 Holloway’s equal opportunities statement with regards to equality and diversity, the success of
 which is demonstrated in the above staff profile. Royal Holloway actively endorses the seven
 principles outlined in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and has
 policies and practices at both institutional and departmental level designed to implement these
 principles.

 For example, there is mandatory training for all members of selection panels including equal
 opportunities training, equitable treatment for part-time and fixed-term staff, and a clearly stated
 promotions process. Extensive staff development opportunities are offered including a centrally
 administered mentoring programme (supplemented by departmental mentoring for ECRs) which
 is open to all research staff, and a comprehensive annual equality and diversity data monitoring
 and review exercise. The only fixed term academics we employ in the School are researchers
 working on time-limited externally funded research projects, some teaching focused staff covering




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for periods of absence of permanent academics, or where we have a permanent vacancy we
 intend to fill the following academic year.

 Building Research Culture through Effective Recruitment and Mentoring
 Since 2014 we have continued to nurture areas of excellence primarily in sustainability, accounting
 and accountability, macro-marketing and consumption, and organization studies. This has
 involved the recruitment of staff at Professorial and Readership level (du Gay (increased to 0.5
 FTE), Tregidga, Wainwright) and emerging researchers (Andehn, Ayikoru, Hoelscher, McCarthy,
 O’Leary, Simosi, Stadler). A key strategic advantage that the School enjoys in recruiting
 academics and sustaining research culture is that it is widely perceived to be a supportive
 environment and a collegial place to work.

 Retaining Staff through Pathways for Promotion and Support
 Alongside recognising the need to continue to recruit high quality researchers, key to the staffing
 strategy is having attractive pathways for promotion and supporting the career trajectories of
 research staff. This assists in supporting gender and equality by recognising that opportunities for
 career mobility are not the same for all staff members (those with disabilities, caring
 responsibilities, and so forth). Promotions data confirms the existence of pathways for promotion
 within the School including 11 staff members progressing to Professorships during the assessment
 period (Agyemang, Bradshaw, Chatzidakis, Giovannoni, Harindranath, Hosany, Moore, Rees, Rui,
 Tan, Tregidga).

 To support gender equity in the promotion process, and further improve our gender balance
 amongst the Professoriate, 11 members of our staff have participated in the Women’s
 Enhancement Programme run by the College, a series of seminars on how to apply for academic
 promotion. It also enables invaluable networking and mentoring amongst women members of staff.
 Five members of the School who have participated in this programme in the assessment period
 have subsequently been promoted to Professor (Agyemang, Giovannoni, Moore, Rui, Tregidga).

 Staff Development, Leave and Training

 To develop research capability, our research environment is designed to ensure consistent and
 continuous support for staff to develop their own individual competencies and to meet collectively
 agreed objectives. It is based on equal access, not competition. Each research active academic
 automatically receives £2k pa for conference attendance together with a further £1k pa per
 academic to develop research skills, enter cognate research fields, and pursue new research
 agendas. This combined £3k per academic per annum represents a substantial investment, largely
 funded by our QR funding.

 We recognise that researchers need dedicated time to undertake high quality research, develop
 and deliver on funding applications, and invest in building collaborations for research and research
 impact. Alongside workload abatements for research management and leadership roles (20% for
 Research Centre Directors; 10% for Research Group Leaders, for instance), and for administrative
 and other necessary roles to ensure the success of the School, access to periods of study leave
 to undertake more intensive research and access to research support funding are provided.
 Academic staff are eligible for one sabbatical term of leave after nine teaching terms service.

 Supporting career aspirations and research trajectories of ECRs is an important element of our
 research environment. Formal probation mentoring for new appointments covers support,
 development and monitoring of both teaching and research. A large aspect of this is run at College

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 level enabling ECRs to connect and network in addition to receiving formal training. At School level
 all new non-professorial faculty are encouraged to seek one or more informal mentors (normally
 amongst the Professoriate). As discussed, Research Centres and Research Groups are a valuable
 additional source of informal research mentoring, involving running sessions on research and
 dissemination strategies, individual strategies to grow and develop research skills and portfolios,
 and career planning. In addition, for ECRs to develop their research profile and capacities at the
 beginning of their careers, we offer a reduced teaching load (20% in 1st year of probation; 10% in
 2nd year; 5% in 3rd year).

 The Research Management Team organises the School’s annual Research Away Day which is
 an important staff development event. These Away Days not only assist in maintaining our
 research culture but also offer an occasion to apprise staff of the School’s ongoing Research
 Performance across all cognate areas. They provide an opportunity for staff to engage in training
 events and workshops, share good practice, and act as a catalyst for inspiring new collaborations.
 At these Away Days particular themes are explored and highlighted via talks by external guest
 speakers, combined with workshops, team building exercises and reflection sessions. For
 example:
    •   In 2017, David Musson, Founding Director of Oxford University Press’s Business and
        Management List, spoke about the continuing importance of Research Monographs for
        the field of management and organization studies. Focused group work was undertaken
        on extending the role and organisation of the School’s Research Centres;
    •   In 2018, Annie Gibney from the ESRC spoke about applying for research funding from
        the Council. Staff workshops involved reviewing and assessing research applications
        from members of the School;
    •   In 2019, Prof. Mark Reed, Newcastle University and Director of Fast-Track Impact
        Training Consultancy, spoke and undertook a workshop for staff on ‘Fast Track Impact’.


 An Additional Focus on Gender, Diversity and Equity
 Additional activities related to gender, diversity and equity are undertaken as part of our overall
 staffing strategy. Connecting with activities at College level we have an Athena Swan Committee
 and an Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Director. The School also has a Women’s Network,
 an informal group open to all women staff who meet once a term to discuss issues such as
 promotion and mentoring and to provide friendly support and networking opportunities.

 As discussed, all staff receive training about gender discrimination and those participating in key
 roles (e.g. promotion committees, REF), undergo unconscious bias training. School member
 Zeyen, an active researcher and campaigner for disability rights, is a member of the College Staff
 Disability Forum. This is a support network for staff with disabilities which meets quarterly to
 discuss disability issues at Royal Holloway. Zeyen is also a member of the College EDI Committee.

 Our flexible work hours and on-site childcare facilities are important to ensuring a good work
 environment. Our practice of ensuring that meetings are set in core work hours to ensure equity in
 participation is also seen as important in this respect.

 These activities and the inclusive environment they create is reflected in the gender balance
 amongst staff (50/50), in particular amongst the Professoriate, as well as reflected in the gender
 profile of key positions within the School. As noted in section one, all Research Centre Directors
 are currently women (Eckhardt, Giovannoni, Symon, Zheng), two (of five) Discipline Department

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Heads (Nuri, Wagner) are women and the Head of School since 2016 (Agyemang) is a BAME
 woman. Overall 30% of staff are BAME, ahead of the sector average where BAME representation
 is 26%.

 2.2 Research Students: Strategy and Development (including equity and diversity)
 PhD students contribute to and enhance the School’s research culture with many attracted by, and
 engaging in, research in our core areas of strength. Supervising and supporting PhD students is
 a crucial role that brings together and develops research and teaching skills and knowledge to
 train the next generation of academics.

 From 2014, after a period of expansion, our strategy in relation to our PhD programme became
 one of growing the PhD programme at a modest rate with a focus on maintaining high quality
 supervision and enhanced completion. Our PhD programme over the recent assessment period
 has been successful in meeting this objective.

 PhD Student Profile and Growth
 The current number of research students, one of the largest in the College, is 90 (74 full time and
 16 part time). The PhD student gender balance is 58% women and 42% men. The PhD student
 body is diverse as demonstrated in the following graph, showing that 70% of PhD students have
 BAME heritage.




 The number of doctoral degrees awarded improved from 12 in 2013/14 to 17 in 2019/20. This was
 supported by investment in internal scholarships (from £85,604 in 2013/2014 to £111,864 in
 2019/20, and included a significant investment of £386,384 in 2016/17). While scholarships have
 been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic (reduced to four scholarships at a total value of £60,358

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in 2020/21 as monies were redirected to support current students) it is anticipated that this will not
 be a permanent decrease with support returning to at least pre-COVID levels.

 PhD Student Opportunities and Support
 We are a member of the Business and Management pathway of the South East Network for Social
 Sciences (SeNSS) along with 7 other universities (City, Essex, Kent, Reading, Sussex, Surrey and
 UEA). SeNSS provides a world-class interdisciplinary PhD research and training environment. 5.5
 students have been funded by SeNSS/ESRC studentships (1 in 2015/16, 1 in 2016/17, 3 in the
 2017/18, 0.5 (shared with Department of Geography) in the 2019/20 cohorts). In addition, 9
 students have external scholarships from sources such as the Higher Education Commission,
 Pakistan; the Punjab Higher Education Commission (PHEC), Pakistan; the Saudi Government;
 and the China Scholarship Council (CSC).

 We have a range of systems and processes, overseen by a Director of PGR (2016-2020 Robson;
 2020- Moore) and Deputy Director of PGR (2016-2019 Elbanna; 2019– Wu), to support and
 develop PhD students. These support systems have been particularly important during the COVID
 pandemic enabling the required activities (supervisory meetings, upgrades, vivas) to be moved
 online as well as swiftly implementing a programme of social and network activities virtually to
 continue to support students during this difficult time.

 We are responsive to the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) and continue to
 improve the quality of students’ training and their overall competencies. Student goal setting and
 progress is carefully monitored through two semi-annual reviews for full-time students and one
 semi-annual review for part-time students. We hold a well-attended annual PhD conference
 providing all PhD students to present and receive feedback from academic staff.

 In recognising that PhD students require access to financial resources to conduct research and
 participate in academic activities, each PhD student has access to £1,950 to spend on research
 related activities over the first three years of their doctoral research. This represents an increase
 on the 2013 amount (£1.5k). This funding allows all PhD students to attend, network, and present
 a paper at one or more relevant conference or event. In addition, all PhDs can apply for additional
 funding through the Research Centres to assist in aspects of data collection or dissemination of
 research results for different audiences, such as scholars, managers and policy makers.

 We encourage and support our PhD students to publish their research findings in high quality
 journals and consider how their research might benefit interested stakeholders. To assist PhDs in
 developing their capacity to conduct impactful research, we run annually a PhD course on Impact
 with a practical orientation focused on strategies and tactics for enhancing the wider social
 relevance of their research (currently led by du Gay and Spence).

 Engaging PhD Students in Our Research Centres
 PhD students, as well as having a discipline department home, are encouraged to join one or more
 of the Research Centres or Research Groups. They are involved in, and have the opportunity to
 participate in running, events. For example, PhD students Zakariah and Azer take an active role
 in DOS including leading the Friendly and Critical Support Space (FCSS) for PhD students (a
 “platform that seeks to provide a community of practice for PhD students through an informal
 setting that is useful socially, emotionally and intellectually” (Twitter: #criticalsupportspace) and
 running a virtual conference in 2020. PhD student Atanasova plays a key role in CRIS’s social
 media activities.


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Celebrating PhD Student Success
 The success of our PhD programme in supporting and developing ECRs is evidenced in a number
 of ways. There have been several successes from our PhD students including: Aboubichr being
 awarded a Mitacs Globalink Award to fully fund a three-month research stay at the University of
 Calgary, Canada; Azer who won the Civil Society Scholar Award from the Open Society
 Foundation in 2016; and Alrubaishi who won the 2014 best PhD proposal competition at the
 International Family Enterprise Research Academy (IFERA) conference. Graduating PhD students
 have gone on to academic positions both in the UK (e.g., University of Birmingham, Essex
 University, Lancaster University, Loughborough University, University of Liverpool, Queen Mary
 University) and overseas (e.g. Rotterdam School of Management, Erasmus University; the
 International Islamic University, Malaysia, and the University of Lagos).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Strategies for Generating Research Income
 Since 2014, and in order to support our research activities and extend research impact, we have
 sought to increase our research grant income. Our strategy is to embed research income
 generation activities into our research culture and provide support and resources to facilitate
 research grant income activities. This has been effective in developing a culture where the
 importance of generating research income is understood, and has translated into more staff
 engaging with research grant income activities.

 Developing and Formalising our Approach to Research Income
 In 2016 we established the role of Director of Research Income (2016 Vazquez-Brust, 2017-
 Lycett). This role-holder, similar to that of Director of Research Impact, is held by a senior research
 active staff member with experience and success in income generation. The role is resourced in
 time and funding and was central to our post-2014 research income strategy.

 A new and formalised strategy for research income was developed in 2017. Strategic objectives
 focused on increasing percentage of staff submitting proposals as well as improving the quality
 and value of applications. Across the current period we have increased both the median and
 average value of grant applications. To foster an enhanced culture of applying for research income
 and to build confidence in writing applications, several mechanisms have been instituted to
 incentivise and support staff. Grant development and submission is now embedded in sabbatical
 requirements, further prompting staff to consider the appropriateness and sources of funding for
 their research activities.

 We have also systematised further the use of mentoring and internal peer feedback as well as
 raise awareness of the changing funding landscape. Visits from various funding bodies have taken
 place over the REF period such as at our annual Research Away Days to build relationships and
 enhance staff familiarity with the different funders. To date, colleagues have had the opportunity
 to meet representatives from the ESRC, EPSRC, Leverhulme, and Innovate UK.

 Enhancing Culture and Support for Research Income
 We have been successful in building a culture and understanding of research income and research
 income generating processes. There has been an increase in relation to the volume, value and
 success of grant activity, especially from mid-2017, which was the start of new strategic objectives
 in this area. The culture change has translated into more funding applications submitted by
 members of the School (i.e. a growth from approximately 10 applications per annum during the
                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF2014 period to an average of 19 applications per annum this REF period). We are also mindful
 that change takes time; so while a noticeable change is evident, we expect to see this develop
 further.

 Significant support is provided via a mentoring system overseen by the Director of Research
 Income. We have a formalised review and mentoring process for all external research grant
 applications to ensure that they are all internally reviewed against external criteria to improve their
 quality. This ensures all applications are reviewed and refined before submission. This is done in
 a collegial and supportive manner with the Professoriate, Research Centres and Research Groups
 playing key roles. This enables us to capitalise on domain expertise and leverage peer support
 structures for mentoring. Research Centres have also facilitated and supported research
 applications by, for example, running workshops on income generation related activities. These
 activities are supported at College-level by the “Advance” workshops, which provide training on
 topics such as grant writing, leadership of research teams, and workshops run specifically for
 ECRs.

 Furthermore, and in recognition that grants involve significant effort, a workload abatement
 scheme is provided to PI and CIs. This is a sliding scale up to a 30% abatement for PIs on
 proposals of £250k or more. This supports researchers and has another advantage of encouraging
 higher value applications, supporting our strategic aims.

 Research Income Successes
 Our strategic activities in this area have seen some key successes with a number of grants
 received in areas that highlight our research strengths. They also illustrate outcomes in relation to
 the School and College’s commitment to innovative challenge-led research designed to benefit
 society. The Schools objectives of engaging more with College-led interdisciplinary proposals is
 evident and provides examples for future engagements with College-wide initiatives such as the
 Catalyst Research and Knowledge Hubs. High profile successes have been effective in
 embedding research income into our research culture with staff motivated by such outcomes.
 Some highlights include:

 Interdisciplinary Research Consortium: Lycett (CI, and Preece a named researcher) on
 StoryFutures, a £5.6 million R&D collaboration funded by the AHRC enabling the creative
 industries to meet the challenge of next-generation storytelling by producing compelling content
 for and with emerging creative technologies. The collaboration brings together universities, world-
 leading creative and technology companies and local SMEs. Key project partners include BBC
 Worldwide, Double Negative, Heathrow, Imaginarium, Sky VR and Pinewood-Shepperton Studios.
 Lycett’s work package focuses on ‘value networks’, developing novel business models, enabling
 next-generation markets and addressing issues of geographical dispersion by strengthening the
 cluster’s network connectivity. StoryFutures is worth approximately £400k to the School and
 employs one Research Fellow.

 Consortium: Harindranath (with Professor Unwin, Geography) is a CI on the UKRI GCRF South-
 South Migration, Inequality and Development Hub – a £18.7 million project funded by the ESRC.
 The project sees academics, artists, community leaders, international organisations and
 policymakers from 12 countries across South America, the Caribbean, Africa, Asia and the Middle
 East working together to better understand international migration patterns and consequences,
 and to support and influence global migration policy development. Harindranath and Unwin’s work
 package ‘Digital technologies and inequality’ focuses on understanding the extent and ways

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through which digital technologies have alleviated or exacerbated existing inequalities in the
 context of South-South migration, as well as successes and challenges facing the use of ICT for
 migrant-related development outcomes. The project is worth approximately £680k to the School
 and employs one Research Fellow.

 Investigator-led Research: Ozcan is PI on a project titled ‘In/Visible Syrian Immigrants in
 Turkey: Identities and Cities in Transition’ – a £48,400 project funded by the British Academy’s
 GCRF. This project aims to support the well-being and inclusion of immigrants in urban life
 through an interdisciplinary study of visible and invisible boundaries such as employment,
 identity formation and resource access. The study seeks to contribute to the UN 2030 objectives
 of making cities inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable as well as address structural
 inequalities built in gender roles, ethnicity and social status.

 Innovative Methods: Panteli is CI (with Coles-Kemp, Information Security) on an ESRC
 Research Hub Discribe (https://www.discribehub.org/). This is a four year £3.5 million grant that
 will undertake and commission projects on Digital Security by Design. Project partners include
 both Universities (Bath, Cardiff, and Bristol) and businesses (e.g. Microsoft and HSBC). The
 project will employ a post-doctoral researcher within the School.



 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure
 The School’s research infrastructure is formally organised to achieve our core research objectives.
 Providing research strategy and leadership at the School level is the Research Management
 Team, the School’s Executive Committee, and the School’s Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Committee. The latter conducts its activities in conjunction with the College Research Advisory
 Group, its Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee, its Research and Innovation
 Department, and the PhD School. The School’s research activities and committees are supported
 by administrative positions within the School including in the areas of Finance and Facilities, and
 Communication.

 Key role-holders with research portfolio responsibilities within the School have been constituted
 into a formal Research Management Team. The current Research Management Team consists of
 the Director of Research (du Gay), Director of Research Income (Lycett), Director of Research
 Impact (Conway) and REF Lead (Tregidga). This Research Team meets monthly to assess current
 and ongoing research priorities and to ensure that developments in all key research areas are
 aligned with the School’s overall research purposes and those of the College.

 Given the importance of Research Centres and Research Groups in developing our research
 standing and reach, they receive base funding per annum (£7k and £2k respectively). Likewise, in
 light of the role that Research Centre Directors and Research Group Leads play in the research
 environment, since 2017 these positions are filled through a formal application and interview
 process. These positions are open to all research active staff within the School and while at present
 are mainly occupied by members of the Professoriate, this is not a pre-requisite. One of the current
 DOS Co-Directors (Zheng) is a Senior Lecturer, demonstrating that our focus is on appointing the
 most suitable staff member, not necessarily the most senior.




                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 Operational Infrastructure

 Physical infrastructure is important to creating a research environment. The heritage of our
 canonical Founders Building provides a powerful identity for Royal Holloway and its history as an
 early higher education institution for women. It continues to be an important communicator of our
 values of inclusivity and equality.

 The new £57.5m 10,000m2 Emily Wilding Davison Building at the heart of the Egham campus
 which houses the library collection completed in 2018 provides staff and PGR students with 24/7
 access and dedicated research spaces and IT infrastructure able to meet current and future
 demands. Refurbished staff areas in the Founders Building provide additional meeting spaces that
 complement those in the Moore Building, the main building where the School of Business and
 Management is based at the Egham campus.

 Dedicated spaces and facilities at the refurbished Bedford House (a £5m project), the Royal
 Holloway city campus location in Bloomsbury, and Senate House are also facilities that enable
 research activities such as collaborations with other academics and central London research
 partners. Access to the wider University of London and central London research facilities such as
 the Senate House Library and British Library enhance staff access to research resources and
 facilities. Access to these facilities enables our staff, many of whom are located in or around central
 London, more opportunities for flexible working. Research Centres benefit from access to these
 physical premises with many events, especially those connecting with businesses, practitioners
 and the community, taking place at these central city buildings.

 3.4 Scholarly Infrastructure
 Researchers within the School have access to a range of operational and scholarly infrastructure
 that supports their research. Research enabling infrastructure includes access to IT packages and
 software and research staff and students have benefited from access to Bloomberg since 2014.
 IT infrastructure to support research includes Dropbox for Business, Figshare and an updated and
 enhanced Pure platform. This software is supported by both College level IT support and a
 dedicated IT analyst position within the School. Researchers are also supported by the Research
 Ethics Process and benefits associated with the College’s commitment to the principles of the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity.

 In addition to the College’s own extensive library collection and library staff providing both research
 and administrative support (e.g. facilitating open access), researchers can make use of the large
 scholarly resources provided by the University of London. As an affiliated College, we benefit in
 numerous ways such as shared subscriptions and access to the extensive reference library
 located online and physically at Senate House.

 Research support staff, both at School and College level, play an important role in research and
 research impact activities. In addition to those noted at School level above, dedicated Research
 and Innovation, IT Support, Finance and Facilities provide essential infrastructure at College
 level. Dedicated Research Impact and Knowledge Exchange Staff also work directly with
 researchers to enable and support such activities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  As a well-established Business and Management School we contribute to the vitality and
 sustainability of the business and management scholarly community in the UK and abroad. This
 includes participation in international and national networks of scholars, and high quality theoretical

                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and empirical work involving national and international collaborations. In line with our research
 vision of seeking to foster a more equitable, responsible, resilient, and sustainable economy and
 society, we undertake socially relevant research through local, national, and international
 collaborations and partnerships. These collaborations and partnerships, as well as our approach
 to communicating research, ensures we reach and contribute to a range of relevant communities
 and beneficiaries. An illustrative selection of these activities is included in this section.

 4.1 National and International Collaborations and Networks
 Since 2014, our staff have been involved in national and international collaborations resulting in
 high quality outputs and impact activities as well as increasing our visibility and profile in line with
 our research strategy. These include, but are not limited to:

 UK: Birmingham Business School (Li, Preece, Tregidga), Lancaster (Agyemang, Tregidga),
 Manchester Business School (Giovannoni), Oxford University (Bradshaw), University of Sheffield
 (Preece).

 Europe: Aalto University (Wainwright), Copenhagen Business School (du Gay, McCarthy,
 Panteli, Spence); Kedge Business School (Maclaran), Stockholm School of Economics (Moore,
 Spence), University of Helsinki (Bradshaw, Hayes, Spence), Universite Paris Dauphine
 (Conway, Grey).

 North America: Boston University (Eckhardt), Bentley (Eckhardt), Carnegie Mellon University
 (Simosi), Du Paul University (Giovanonni), Hofstra University (Agyemang), Ivey Business School
 (Napier, Zeyen), UMASS Boston (McCarthy), University of South Carolina (Hosany).

 Rest of World: American University in Cairo (Harindranath), Fudan University (Rui), Marmara
 University, Turkey (Ozcan), Middle Eastern Technical University, Turkey (Ozcan), National
 Chengchi University, Taiwan (Panteli), RMIT Melbourne (McCarthy, Napier), University of Cape
 Town (Zeyen), Universidad de los Andes in Bogota, Colombia (Cordoba-Pachon), Makerere
 University, Uganda (Zeyen), University of Melbourne (Chatzidakis), University of Sydney
 (Agyemang), University of Hong Kong (Smith, Zheng).

 As part of our commitment to producing transformative research, we have worked closely with the
 GCRF initiative, with ongoing collaborations with universities located in listed DAC countries. Staff
 collaborations exist with, for example, the Centre for Migration Studies, University of Ghana
 (Agyemang, Harindranath), Ghana Institute of Management and Public Administration and Central
 University Ghana (Hilson), Beguma University, Uganda (Elbanna). In 2019, the relationship
 between the School (Tregidga, Hilson) and the University of the South Pacific led to a successful
 GCRF joint workshop on “SDGs in the Pacific: Challenges and Responses for Small Island
 Developing States”. The workshop included participants from five Pacific based Universities and
 a Pacific-based NGO.

 The Distinguished Visiting Fellowship scheme has an annual budget of £12k. The scheme has
 attracted international scholars within our key areas of research reflecting our own research
 standing. These visitors offer the possibility of interchange with the wider community, especially
 internationally, fostering collaborations, new insights and access to networks. They are also one
 way that we enhance the visibility and reputation of our own research. International Visitors to the
 School since 2014 who have been funded by this scheme include: Prof. Catherine Coleman (Texas

                                                                                                 Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Christian University); Prof. Laurence Romani (Stockholm School of Economics, Centre for
 Advanced Studies in Leadership); Prof. Joseph Sarkis (Foisie School of Business, Worcester
 Polytechnic Institute); Prof. Jennifer Preece (University of Maryland) Dr. Deborah Bunker
 (University of Sydney Business School); Prof. Michelle Greenwood (Monash University); Prof. Israr
 Qureshi (Australian National University); and Prof. Mitchell Dean (Copenhagen Business School).

 CRIS has a number of Permanent Visiting Professors including Prof. Dirk Matten (Schulich School
 of Business, York University Canada) and Prof. Patricia Werhane (Darden and DePaul
 Universities) which reflects the international networks of the Centre globally. Over the assessment
 period CRIS’s Distinguished Scholar Programme has attracted internationally recognised scholars
 including Prof. Andrew Crane (2014); Prof. Jan Bebbington (2015); Prof. Ralph Hamman (2016);
 Prof. Mette Morsing (2016); Prof. Joseph Sarkis (2017) Prof. Michelle Greenwood (2019) and Prof.
 Oana Branzei (2020). This has resulted in numerous collaborations and outputs between visitors
 and CRIS members. For example Morsing and Spence’s Human Relations output and further
 ongoing research with the Danish UN Global Compact network, and Branzei and Zeyen’s
 approved Special Issue in the Journal of Business Ethics and establishment of the Spring Institute,
 a virtual community on (dis)abilities and organising.

 The launch of the CHRONOS Research Centre in 2019 saw the School welcome a number of the
 Centres key partners and collaborators and further solidify our network with key scholars in the
 critical and historical research area. Alongside CHRONOS members (du Gay, Grey and
 Giovannoni) key contributors to the event included Prof. Barbara Czarniawska (University of
 Gothenburg) Prof. Daniel Hjorth (Editor in Chief of Organization Studies, Copenhagen Business
 School), Prof. Paolo Quattrone (Director of the Centre for Accounting and Society, University of
 Edinburgh Business School) and Prof. Juliane Reinecke (Associate Dean Impact & Innovation at
 King’s College London).

 CHRONOS runs an Annual Distinguished Lecture with previous speakers including 2014/15 Prof.
 Hugh Willmott (City’s Business School and Cardiff University); 2015/16 Prof. Christine Cooper
 (Strathclyde Business School); 2016/17 Prof. Roy Suddaby (Victoria University); 2017/18 Prof.
 Eve Chiapello (CEMS, CNRS, Paris), and 2019/20 Prof. Mitchell Dean (Copenhagen Business
 School).

 The DOS Research Centre hosted Prof. Judy Wajcman (Anthony Giddens Professor of Sociology,
 London School of Economics) in their first Distinguished Lecture in 2019. In June 2020, Prof. Lucas
 Introna (Centre for the Study of Technology and Organisation, Lancaster University) gave the
 Distinguished Lecture virtually.

 At the discipline level, fractional appointment Professors and Visiting Professors contribute
 significantly to the research environment and assist in the School’s international profile and
 reputation. Prof. Lee Parker (Distinguished Professor of Accounting, RMIT, Australia) and Prof.
 Brendan O’Dwyer (University of Amsterdam) have been key fractional appointments over the
 assessment period, increasing our strength and profile in the Accounting discipline while long-term
 fractional appointments Prof. Dan Kärreman (Copenhagen Business School) and Doug Holt (CEO,
 Cultural Strategy Group, USA) reflect our standing in both Organization Studies and Marketing.




                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Contributions to Economy and Society
 In line with the School’s values, we aim to be a good citizen through contributing to national and
 international scholarly debates and relevant communities. The following represent some of our
 core activities in this area.

 The CRIS Annual Sustainability Lectures are open public lectures specifically designed to discuss
 areas related to sustainability and of broad interest and appeal to communities beyond academia.
 The two most recent lectures have demonstrated how the Centre and School more broadly
 facilitates such discussions on core issues. Baroness Diana Warwick (Chair of the National
 Housing Federation) engaged audience members on the issue of Brexit and social sustainability
 while Jason Lewis (explorer and environmentalist), discussed key environmental issues he had
 observed through a conversation format with Centre Director Eckhardt.

 Several Research Centre workshops have ensured the research conducted within the School is
 undertaken in collaboration with our significant intellectual communities. Most notably a
 CHRONOS workshop on Critical Impact (2019) was a key event where our Director of Research
 Impact (Conway) along with two of the Schools researchers engaging in high impact research
 (Ashley and Grey) engaged with members of the academic and practitioner communities. At the
 event Ashley, who in 2015/16 led teams appointment by the Social Mobility Commission (SMCPC),
 discussed her work on ‘Social mobility in the city’ and Grey his impact case on ‘Public
 understanding of Brexit’. Contributors to this event included Charlotte Moore (an award-winning
 financial journalist, ex Guardian, now freelance) and Sarah Cheung Johnson (previously a
 Goldman Sachs employee and journalist at Reuters and a LibDem Councillor and trustee of the
 Chinese Community Centre in London's Chinatown). The practitioner community was engaged
 when launching the CHRONOS Centre with a session with Martin Vogel from consultancy Vogel
 Wakefield who discussed the importance of the links between research and industry. Other
 examples include a successful KOL-sponsored practitioner engagement workshop facilitated by
 Elbanna. This workshop, entitled ‘Social Media for Emergency Management’, was attended by 20
 practitioners including representatives from BT and the Red Cross.

 Our submitted impact case studies exemplify our research vision of contributing to more
 responsible and sustainable forms of management and organisations. However, they only
 represent some of our impact activities. Others, not related to our submitted impact cases include,
 but are not limited to:

    •   Eckhardt and Husemann’s (CRIS) partnership with Heathrow Sustainability to decelerate
        the passenger experience at the airport. The project is funded by Heathrow and is in
        partnership with the National Gallery and the Universities of Essex and Reading.
    •   du Gay’s (CHRONOS) work with the Institute of Public Administration of Australia (IPAA)
        New South Wales (NSW) relating to the contemporary ethical challenges facing senior
        public servants.
    •   Panteli (DOS) designed and led a research initiative evaluating Realshare, an online
        community for Teenagers and Young Adults with Cancer in the SouthWest. This project,
        was funded by the Teenage Cancer Trust in collaboration with University Hospital Bristol,
        and Youth Cancer Trust.
    •   Rui (DOS) used the findings from her ERC funded research to advise Yiwu’s municipal
        government (one of the world’s most important sites for the wholesale purchase of low-
        grade commodities in China's Zhejiang Province). Advice related to the nurturing of local


                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        and global traders, advising local traders to upgrade their products and services, and
        facilitating the government to reform its policy on trade, tax, land, immigration and the
        environment.
    •   Lycett (DOS) has improved client understanding in the financial sector through
        developing novel analytical models for product opportunity.


 Our academic standing in the areas of accounting, marketing and organization studies is also
 evident in our contributions to the enhancing scholarly and external communities. For example:

    •   Excellence in accounting and accountability research leads to contributions both to the UK
        accounting community and accounting practice. These contributions have been recognised
        through two staff members receiving British Accounting and Finance Association
        Distinguished Academic Awards (Nobes 2015; Unerman 2016) and one receiving the
        British Accounting and Finance Association Lifetime Achievement Award (Napier 2017).
        Two accounting academics (Nobes 2017; Unerman 2018) became Fellows of the Academy
        of Social Sciences.

    •   In Marketing contributions are illustrated by Chatzidakis's role as a member of the Care
        Collective who published the Care Manifesto with Verso, Bradshaw’s Dictionary of
        Coronavirus Culture published by Repeater Books as well as Eckhardt's high profile talk at
        Brand Week 2019 in Istanbul.

    •   Members of the HRMOS discipline illustrate how a large number of researchers within the
        School, given the social relevance of their research, contribute to public engagement
        through various media. Several staff have featured in the mainstream media to inform
        stories through their research. Most notably: Sengupta’s research on ‘Creative
        performance in the Indian film industry’ which included her in conversation with Suman
        Ghosh, film director, was featured in the Telegraph (India) and Grey’s ongoing high-profile
        research on Brexit has seen him and his research feature in many fora, including as far
        afield as Australia where he was extensively quoted in an Australian Broadcasting
        programme.

 Contributing to, and engaging with, relevant national and international communities requires using
 diverse research communication and engagement channels. While the Conversation
 https://theconversation.com/uk remains a popular channel through which staff contribute to
 discussions on issues of broader interest, social media activities are playing an increasing role in
 research and research impact related activities. They are particularly relevant with connecting
 research within the School with audiences and networks beyond academia. Zeyen, for example,
 has an active blog documenting her “disability journal as a registered blind academic”, and
 Bradshaw, in line with his expertise on consumer culture, launched an interdisciplinary podcast
 series during lockdown with colleagues in Finland (‘Quarantine Market podcast’) on the potential
 long-term impacts of COVID-19 on contemporary lifestyles. The series has since been published
 as the Dictionary of Coronavirus Culture (Repeater Books) and includes contributions by seven
 faculty from the School. CHRONOS member Grey uses his high-profile and successful
 @chrisgreybrexit account (42K followers) and Brexit blog which has received approximately 4
 million unique page views to engage on issues central to his field of research and of importance
 to a large number of stakeholders.


                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Social media is increasingly being used by Research Centres and centre members within the
 School. @RHUL_CRIS the Twitter account for the CRIS Research Centre is a key way the
 Centre communicates and engages with their community currently reaching 1,688 followers.
 Individual CRIS researchers are also active on Twitter with four members appearing on The
 University of Bath’s #thinklist, “a quarterly list of social media’s most influential faculty thinking on
 issues of responsible business” (Kravets, McCarthy, Spence and Wagner). A dedicated Twitter
 account at School level (@RHUL Management) is used for communicating research and
 research related events with interested communities, including the student body.

 4.3 Contributions to and Recognition by Research Base
 Faculty members contribute to the international scholarly community through undertaking a
 number of visiting positions at internationally well-respected institutions. This enables our
 researchers not only to contribute to the international scholarly community but also to collaborate
 and cement networks. Long-term collaborations through fractional appointments include CBS (du
 Gay) and University of Sydney (Nobes).

 Some of the Visiting Professorships undertaken during the assessment period include: CBS
 (Spence, McCarthy); Dalian University of Technology China (Chin-Ju); ESSEC Business School
 (Oka); ESCP Europe Paris (Maclaran); European University Viadrina, Frankfurt-Oder Germany
 (Grey); Jonkoping University (Elbanna); Middle East Technical University (Kravets); Monash
 University (Tregidga); RMIT Melbourne (Eckhardt); Sydney University (Elbanna); Universite Paris
 Dauphine (Conway, Grey); University of Bergamo (Tregidga, Rinaldi); University of California
 (Hackley); University of Cape Town (Husemann); University of Canterbury (Napier); University of
 Hong Kong (Smith); University of Melbourne (Chatzidakis) University of Strathclyde (Lee);
 University of Toulouse (Conway); University of Trento (Rinaldi).

 Staff have made substantive and sustained contributions to editorial roles and membership of
 editorial boards in international scholarly journals. The following represents a subset of the
 activities undertaken.

 Editor, Associate Editor or Senior Editor Positions (selected):
 Accounting and Business Research (Davison); Accounting Forum (Tregidga); Human Relations
 (Conway); Information Systems Journal (Elbanna, Panteli, Zheng); Information Technology and
 People (Harindranath, Panteli); Information & Management (Harindranath); Journal of Asian
 Business Studies (Rui); Journal of Business Ethics (Spence); Journal of Business Research
 (Hosany); Journal of Cultural Economy (du Gay); Journal of Macromarketing (Bradshaw);
 Marketing Theory (Chatzidakis, Maclaran).

 Special Issue Journal Editorship (selected):
 Accounting, Auditing & Accountability Journal (Rinaldi); Accounting and Business Research
 (Nobes, Davison); Arts and the Market (Preece); Business & Society (Spence); Computers in
 Human Behavior (Hosany); Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice (Zeyen); European Journal of
 Cultural and Political Sociology (du Gay); Information Systems Frontier (Elbanna); Information
 Technology and Development (Zheng); Information Systems Journal (Zheng); Journal of Business
 Ethics (Chatzidakis, Spence); Journal of Business Research (Hosany); Information and
 Management (Harindranath); Journal of Cultural Economy (du Gay); Journal of Macromarketing
 (Chatzidakis; Kravets; Laamanen); Journal of Marketing Management (Eckhardt, Husemann);
 Marketing Theory (Chatzidakis).



                                                                                                  Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Editorial Board Memberships (selected):
 Accounting
 Abacus (Nobes); Accounting, Auditing and Accountability Journal (Agyemang, Davison,
 Giovanonni, Napier, Rinaldi, Tregidga); Accounting Forum (Giovannoni); Accounting History
 (Giovannoni); Accounting and Business Research (Nobes, Stadler); Advances in Public Interest
 Accounting (Agyemang); British Accounting Review (Nobes); Critical Perspectives on Accounting
 (Tregidga).

 Marketing
 Marketing Theory (Bradshaw, Hackley, Kravets); European Journal of Marketing (Hackley);
 International Journal of Research in Marketing (Eckhardt); Journal of Consumer Ethics
 (Chatzidakis); Journal of Consumer Research (Eckhardt); Journal of Macromarketing
 (Chatzidakis, Eckhardt, Kravets, Laamanen); Journal of Marketing (Eckhardt); Journal of
 Marketing Communication (Hackley); Journal of Marketing Theory (Hackley); Journal of Marketing
 Management (Eckhardt, Hackley, Husemann, Preece).

 Management and Organization Studies
 Business Ethics: A European Review (Spence); Consumption, Markets and Culture (Bradshaw,
 du Gay); Entrepreneurship and Regional Development (Robson); Family Business Review
 (Giovannoni, Robson); Group and Organization Management (Simosi); Human Relations
 (Conway, Grey, Karreman); Journal of Change Management (du Gay); Journal of Organizational
 Behaviour (Conway, Symon); Journal of World Business (Rui); Leadership (Robson); Organization
 (du Gay, Grey, Karreman); Organization Studies (du Gay, Grey, Karreman, Lam); Work,
 Employment and Society (Rees).

 Information Systems and Information Management
 Information and Management (Elbanna); Information Technology and People (Wu); International
 Journal of Information Systems (Elbanna); Journal of Enterprise Information Management
 (Ameen); Journal of Information Technology (Harindranath); Journal of Information Management
 (Panteli); Journal of the Association of Information Systems (Elbanna; Panteli); Technovation
 (Hagedoorn).




                                                                                       Page 25
