Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chester

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Structure and context
Chester Business School (CBS) first participated in the REF in 2014, and has since significantly
invested in the vibrancy and sustainability of its research and impact in relation to responsible
enterprise and work-based learning for ‘decent work’ (Sustainable Development Goal 8). CBS’s
research and impact infrastructure is now driven by a closeness-to-practice which ensures direct
relevance to complex global challenges through co-production with interdisciplinary communities.
This work is underpinned by £742k of competitively won, interdisciplinary research grants from highly
selective bodies such as The British Academy, the ESRC, and the Medical Research Council.
CBS now collaborates with researchers from Cambridge, Copenhagen, Imperial, Sydney, and
Stanford universities, amongst others in the UK, US, Europe, Australia, and Vietnam.

CBS’s pathway to impact has been delivered through £34.74m of regional SME growth and
innovation grants (including ERDF, ESF, and various Local Enterprise Partnerships - LEPs), which
has generated a GVA improvement of £44.54m for the region (Clatworthy 2021; Mickledore, 2020).
This work has (1) supported 1,632 SMEs, 62 nascent entrepreneurs, and 131 pre-start-up
businesses, (2) impacted >8,800 employees, the public services delivered to >1.1m residents, and
(3) informed industry-wide professional body frameworks and development programmes affecting
>130,000 practice-based learners in the UK and practitioners in >20 countries.

CBS achieved these substantial gains through consolidating its research focus and reorganising its
academic groups to enable a greater focus on social and economic value:

   •   four disciplinary departments providing line and programme management across
       interdisciplinary programmes (Analytics & Finance; Enterprise, Leadership &
       Management; Experience Economy; Sales & Marketing);

   •   three departments focused on partnership working with organisations, agencies, and
       professional bodies to investigate and deliver workforce interventions and wider economic or
       social development (The Centre for Work Related Studies, Strategic Economic
       Development, and the Business Research Institute and China Centre); and

   •   two departments embedded within University sites to target economic and social
       development and inter-disciplinary research generation and utilisation: CBS@Warrington is
       located within the Cheshire Science Corridor Enterprise Zone which houses a significant
       cluster of science and engineering businesses; and University Centre Shrewsbury, a joint
       venture with Shropshire Council and the Marches Local Economic Partnership,
       addressing a cold spot for research and development (the 2nd lowest investment in the
       country out of 36 LEP areas).

CBS’s two cross-cutting themes, responsible enterprise and work-based learning for decent
work, are orchestrated through CBS’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee, which
comprises an Associate Dean, professors, heads of departments, early career researchers, with
contributions from interdisciplinary researchers in the University and the University’s Research &
Knowledge Transfer Office.

Responsible enterprise
This vibrant cluster brings together research for responsible management, SMEs, and business
growth. Specifically, Moore and colleagues examined the development of morals in small
businesses and how these shape SME management practices (published in Entrepreneurship &


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Regional Development). Ullah extended this theme by examining business growth particularly in
relation to ethnic enterprise (published in Journal of Small Business and Enterprise Development).

Davies examined cultural adoption and stereotyping in purchasing decisions (published in Journal
of Business Research) as well as the effects of unethical behaviour on trust (published in European
Journal of Marketing). Manning explored social capital in SMEs, in addition to darker forms of
enterprise in criminal organisations and open innovation (published in Management Decision and
Business Ethics: A European Review).

Manning’s research into the business ethics of social capital, networks, and unethical enterprise
behaviours, underpinned the successful acquisition of the competitive Medical Research Council
funded “Prevention of Disease Using Trade Agreements” (PETRA, £308k), an interdisciplinary
collaboration with researchers in health and epidemiology. Initiated through CBS’s ongoing
involvement in the University’s interdisciplinary ethics research network within the University,
Manning’s research specifically contributed awareness of unethical practices in business supply
chains and networks which might impact the spread of disease, and ways in which these can be
effectively safeguarded in practice. The project has created a pan-European, interdisciplinary
network comprising researchers from Imperial, Cambridge, Sydney, and Monash universities, and
senior staff at the World Health Organization, and Public Health England and Wales. So far, PETRA
has provided resources concerning food security post-Brexit to the Food, Farming and Countryside
Commission and in the British Medical Journal. This work highlights the increased risk of disease
post-Brexit, due to differential standards and business practices in food handling and working
conditions, and the need for such considerations in high level trade negotiations and agreements.

The sustainability of the research cluster has been underpinned by four professors (Allman, Davies,
Harris, and Manning), two associate professors (Hancock, Lam), and five researchers (Ullah,
Omoruyi, Smith, Zhao, Qian). There are three early career researchers in this cluster (Omoruyi,
Smith, Zhao). Visiting professors, who mentor the team, have included Mahon from Maine Business
School (US), Britzelmaier from Pforzheim University (Germany), Millar from the University of
Twente (the Netherlands), and Sun previously of Oxford and Harvard universities. This cluster
supports 31 doctoral researchers.

Reflecting the structure of CBS, the reach and significance of the research generated in the
responsible enterprise research cluster has informed the successful acquisition and delivery of
£34.74m worth of regional SME growth and innovation grants across the wider University including
from the ERDF, ESF, and the Cheshire & Warrington and The Marches LEPs (see sections 3 and
4).

Work-based learning for decent work
The second cluster focuses on individual, organisational and system wide learning for ‘decent work’
(Sustainable Development Goal 8), specifically, learning which enhances workplaces to promote
ethical governance, wellbeing, diversity, and inclusion. This cluster refined its earlier research into
work-based learning with 100s of organisations in the UK and overseas, into the International
Centre for Thriving (Wall). The centre is a collaboration with the Chartered Institute of Personnel
& Development (CIPD), the European Mentoring & Coaching Council (EMCC), and Lapidus
International (the professional association for the use of creative practices for wellbeing). Jointly held
conferences, roundtables, open workshops and seminars on CBS premises strengthen CBS’s
closeness-to-practice issues which informs ongoing research.

Research in this cluster takes a critical perspective to examining the micro-dynamics of behaviour in
workplaces and spaces. Specifically, Moore, Moss and Stokes examined how these dynamics play
out in practice to balance immediate operational demands, and longer-term uncertain demands
(organisational ambidexterity) such as sustainable development, which have been published in
Human Resource Management. This work was then extended by Moore, Stokes, Wall to explore
how these micro-dynamics operate in relation to resilience and wellbeing in the workplace (published
in International Journal of Human Resource Management). Wall and Perrin adopted similar critical
apparatus in a peer-reviewed book to examine how wider political systems work across whole

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
systems to influence the micro-dynamics of behaviour in work and education. This was then
extended by Wall with colleagues in Australia (as part of an Australian Research Council project)
and the US to examine how these micro-dynamics affect migrant workers in sites of workplace
learning. Lyon adopted a similar critical perspective to examine how discourses shape the
engagement of stakeholders in wider systems in attempting to tackle complex sustainability
challenges balancing decent work and climate change in the context of tourism (published in Tourism
Management).

Wall’s research into the micro-dynamics of how ethical practices are expressed through work and
learning has won 7 competitive grants and contract research worth >£320k (see section 3). Wall
won a competitive grant to research the ethical and safe use of creative practices for wellbeing
outcomes through an international consultation involving 20 nations. This led to a practice framework
which was then adopted as the industry standard, informed professional body training and
development opportunities, and has been translated into 20 languages. Informed by the cluster’s
work into how decent work and ethics are embedded in workplaces and policy, and initiated by
visiting professor links in Vietnam (Tran), Wall was subsequently awarded a competitive British
Academy bid (£266,077) with co-investigators in Hanoi, Tay Bac, and Phu Xuan universities. The
project, “Empowering Ethnic Minority Youth in Vietnam to Re-Vision the Future of Decent
Work” (Re-WORK), examines pathways to decent work with ethnic minority young people,
employers and policy makers, and uses creative appreciative practices to revise employment and
education policy and employment practices across Vietnam.

The sustainability of the research cluster has been underpinned by four professors (Leong, Moss,
Stokes, Wall), three associate professors (Lyon, Marmion, Perrin), and five other researchers
(Hindley, Moore, Rowe, Talbot). There are five early career researchers in this cluster (Loibl,
Nagirikandalage, Rowe, Rowlett, Scott), and five researchers who are due to complete their
doctoral training by 2021. Visiting researchers, who mentor and collaborate on research and impact
work overseas, have included Tran from Deakin University in Melbourne, Kovac, previously of
Purdue University and president of the National Society of Experiential Education in the US, Stanton
from Stanford University, and Giles from the University of Massachusetts. The cluster supports 31
doctoral researchers.

Since REF2014, the reach and significance of the research generated in this research cluster
informed the successful delivery of the Practice Assessment Record & Evaluation project and
ongoing service funded by Health Education England (£1.9mn), which informs the ethics
embedded within reflective practice, supervisory dialogue, and multi-stakeholder oversight of
130,000 professional learners across health and social care organisations in England (see sections
3 and 4).

Strategic achievements since REF2014
In addition to substantial improvements in research grant income (from £3k in REF2014 to £742k)
and the acquisition of £34.74m of enterprise and innovation grants, CBS increased:

   •   the number of staff with doctorates by 178% (9 to 25)
   •   increasing supervisory capacity by 333% (6 to 26)
   •   the number of research outputs submitted by 74% (23 to 40)
   •   the number of staff submitted by 208% (6 to 18.5)

CBS has also seen a marked increase in the number of postgraduate research degree awards,
averaging 9.5 per year compared to only 0.4 per year at REF 2014.

These achievements have been underpinned by CBS’s ongoing commitment to equality, diversity
and inclusion in terms of its staff and student recruitment, development, and culture. Through
recruitment and promotions, CBS has maintained a higher proportion of women academics in
business and management compared to other universities between 2014 and 2018/19 (University’s
Athena Swan application and HEIDI Plus data, 2020). In this period, 52% of CBS’s new
appointments and promotions were women. Five of these were senior leader appointments, and

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
three women have been supported in their successful applications to the Aurora programme,
Advance HE's leadership development initiative for women. In addition, 27% of the new
appointments and promotions identify as BAME, which is significantly higher than the local BAME
community of 5% in Cheshire West & Chester area (CWAC, 2018). Finally, CBS researchers have
taken an active role in leading university-level initiatives for LGBT+ staff and students as well as
leading the roll out of preventative and responsive mental health training (see below).

Research and Impact Strategy and Objectives
As an early-adopter of the UN’s Principles of Responsible Management Education initiative (one of
the first 3 in the UK), CBS will continue to pursue the University’s interdisciplinary research themes
of ‘Health and Wellbeing’ and ‘Sustainability and the Environment’ alongside the ‘Regional
Economy’. Underpinned by the University’s ‘Citizen Student’ agenda CBS promotes the co-
development of social capital, the integration of research into teaching at all levels, and lifelong
learning. As a business school connected to its communities, CBS aims to become a leader in co-
produced research, innovation and enterprise, and by 2027/8, will deliver three core strategies:

Strategy 1: Strengthen closeness-to-practice of CBS’s research culture and staff
development
CBS will increase the proportion of CBS staff with professional body membership (other than
AdvanceHE) from 47% to >50%, and proportion participating in board memberships of social and
economic growth bodies and agencies from 16% to >20%. CBS will maintain its researcher
development programme which integrates practitioners and researchers (see “CBS’s Researcher
Development Hub for staff and students” in section 2), and build staff research capability by
increasing the proportion of doctoral-qualified staff from 42% to 60%. CBS will continue to recruit
practitioners and to provide inclusive staff support for doctoral study. All new appointees are
expected to be doctoral-qualified at point of hire, or within a specified time period, and CBS will adopt
the University’s Research Apprenticeship programme. To engage communities of practice at the
earliest stages of research and impact, CBS will maintain its School Board and Business Advisory
Council to promote collaboration opportunities with external stakeholders (e.g. influential CEOs and
civic leaders). These mechanisms will facilitate the co-creation of impact plans as part of CBS’s
performance metrics. This places CBS in a strong position to achieve Association to Advance
Collegiate Schools of Business accreditation, strengthening its ability to attract and retain high quality
research staff and students.

Strategy 2: Strengthen capacity for co-produced research in line with CBS research clusters
and industrial strategies
CBS will increase research income from £742k to >£1.2m by the next REF in collaboration with our
communities. This involves the further integration of the Strategic Economic Development
department of the University into CBS to enhance current capacity for acquiring and delivering
research projects with stakeholders. CBS will invest in new research capacity by appointing or
promoting staff to professors to drive strategically aligned publishing and grant capture, and to
embed mentorship opportunities for early career researchers. CBS will maintain the practitioner-
focus of its doctorates, and increase the number of doctorates awarded from 42 to 49 by the next
REF whilst maintaining a top 10 position in PRES (see PRES scores on page 9).

Strategy 3: Strengthen research impact reach and depth through co-production in
enterprise, innovation, and by influencing communities of practice.
CBS will continue to deliver its substantial portfolio of enterprise and innovation projects, as well as
seek additional funding in concert with our communities. Specifically, CBS will extend the reach of
this research impact through aiming to secure >£500k of additional revenue funding on average, per
annum. To support this, CBS will refine and directly connect individual and research cluster planning
processes to promote longer term research and impact plans as well as workload planning
allocations. CBS will appoint a research and knowledge exchange lead to build leadership capacity
and drive strategic alignment between culture, research, and impact. These place CBS in a strong
position to co-produce impact as part of the Levelling Up agenda in the North West, the North
Wales-Liverpool City Region economic corridor, and the Marches LEP area.


                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

CBS Research & Impact People Strategy

Since REF2014, CBS has pursued four core strategies:

(1) Valuing practitioner expertise and networks: 80% of academic staff are recruited directly from
industry to deepen its research and impact with professional communities. CBS has recruited 5 new
professors with strong connections and contributions to practice communities. For example,
Schofield was on the Board of Enterprise Educators UK, and Manning has an advisory role to the
Crime Commissioner’s Ethics Committee. 16% of CBS academics contribute to local, regional or
national boards including economic and social development agencies.

(2) Rewarding research impact on practice knowledge and networks: CBS has recognised significant
contributions to academic leadership and practice or professional communities, and has
promoted 10 staff to associate professor (4 women). For example, Allman is on the board for the
Mersey Dee Alliance, Lyon is on the board of the Cheshire & Warrington Local Enterprise
Partnership’s destination promotion agency, and Simpson is a board member of the European
Observatoire for Sport and Employment.

(3) Building a vibrant and inclusive early career researcher development community: CBS has
invested heavily in supporting the doctoral training of early career researchers especially those with
strong practice backgrounds. CBS has supported, or is supporting, 25 academics through doctoral
training in the last REF cycle, 76% of whom have focused on strategic practice issues through
research-based professional doctorates. Importantly, 35% of the researchers submitted in this
submission have directly benefited from this support, and 29% of these are early career researchers.

(4) Enriching a vibrant and inclusive research culture connected to professional communities and
bodies. CBS sustains its inclusive culture through systematically developing staff and student
awareness of diversity and equality. CBS’s Researcher Development Hub (see below) was
created as an open researcher development community which intentionally integrated research staff
and students across disciplinary boundaries leading to research projects with other disciplines such
as health.

As a result of the CBS’s People Strategy, research staff and students are active citizens in driving
infrastructures for decent work within CBS, the University, and the City of Chester. Since the last
REF, CBS research staff and students have:

   •   established the Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Group, which has raised awareness of the
       accessibility of learning and research resources and the decolonisation of doctoral and
       research training
   •   established the Forum for Research into Equality and Diversity at the University of
       Chester
   •   established Equality & Diversity Accredited Training which was then adopted by the
       University and is available in all work-based learning programmes across the University
   •   led the University’s involvement in Chester’s first and subsequent Pride events
   •   co-led the wider University’s LGBTQ+ staff group
   •   and, as a result of these successful activities, co-led the University achievement of the
       Navajo Merseyside & Cheshire LGBT Charter Mark.

CBS research staff initiated and led the roll out of the preventative and responsive mental health
training (e.g. Mental Health First Aid training) to 27% of its staff which is double that of other
organisations (BIC, 2019). As a result, CBS contributed to the national evidence base for mental
health training in the UK (MHFA England, 2018).




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Evidence of the success of the People Strategy has been staff leaving to take up promotions at
Liverpool University Management School, and Newcastle, Lincoln, and Leicester business schools;
taking academic leadership role as deans; and to set up their own or join private consultancy
enterprises.

Staff development for research and impact
Underpinning the strategic achievements above, CBS has sustained its vibrant research and impact
environment through investing over £450k in research and impact staff development including
doctoral training (e.g. QR, Erasmus+). This investment funded key strategic strands:

(1) Research events to share research findings, build relationships, and co-create ideas for
research and impact with professional bodies and other stakeholders. These included open
access and interactive annual research conference and research seminars where staff and students
share their work and exchange ideas with practitioners and policy makers. For example, previous
events included a roundtable and research seminar on thriving at work with a CIPD policy advisor.
Since REF2014, there have been over 1,200 attendances at these events. In addition, the “Bringing
Sport, Business and Media Together” project (£18,258.58, Simpson) funded an inter-disciplinary
collaboration to examine and tackle the engagement of girls and women in sports organisations and
employment especially in the Middle East and India, further building existing relationships with the
Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, the UK Sector Skills Council for Active
Leisure & Learning, and several UK universities.

(2) Research grant bidding opportunities: CBS created opportunities for staff to work in cross-
disciplinary teams to apply for small grants. Previous grants utilised the work of the research clusters
to develop proposals, which included for example “Nurturing the spirit of ubuntu at work: a
collaborative approach to tackling multiple professional demands” (£2k), which investigated the use
of arts-based practices with researchers and practitioners to balance workplace stressors. Similarly,
another project examined “What can UK managers do to enhance the resilience of their employees?”
(£2k), which was later translated into larger bids to collaborate with organisations in public and
private sector organisations to research employee resilience (£30k). In total, 51 projects were
supported, 43% led or co-led by women, and 25% included researchers from other disciplines (e.g.
from health and the arts).

(3) Research network development with leading researchers in Europe, the US, and Australia.
This included inward and outward visiting fellowship opportunities through various Erasmus+ and
Santander International Research Excellence Awards. For example, “Ubuntu: exploring the potential
for radical re-formulations of management education” (£3,458) strengthened the research
relationship with Professor Tran, Australian Research Council Researcher at Deakin University in
Melbourne, and delivered a series of articles about work-based learning and decent work. Another
project built relationships with a Russian university to examine the extent to which negotiation work-
based learning could be adopted in Russia (Talbot, Santander, £1,000). This later led to the
Erasmus+ VALERU project (“Validation of non-formal/informal learning in Russian Higher
Education”, £50k). Another example of international collaboration is with Pioneers of the National
Society of Experiential Education in the US; Professor Stanton from Stanford and Professor Giles
from Massachusetts who developed project ideas and mentored various staff (Santander, £5,000).

(4) Inclusive doctoral training support. CBS has invested in the research training of 25
academics (56% women), including three in this submission (compared to 1 in REF2014). This level
of support represents 25% of current staff base, and is reflected in the high proportion of early career
researchers in CBS’s submission. 29% of academics submitted are either women and/or Black,
Asian, Minority Ethnic colleagues. Since the last REF, CBS has supported £193k worth of doctoral
training.

CBS’s Researcher Development Hub for staff and students
CBS’s Researcher Development Hub (The Hub) is a highly visible and vibrant researcher
development community open to all researchers in CBS and their actual or potential collaborators
across professional bodies, communities, and other disciplines. The Hub has successfully integrated

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
disparate departments and distinctions between research students and staff to promote openness,
curiosity, creativity and collaboration. It integrates researcher development opportunities for
research staff and students across all departments within CBS, and links closely to other
opportunities delivered by the central learning and research support teams of the University (such
as the annual Research and Diversity Festivals), as well as other research communities across the
University (such as health and education).

The Hub combines a highly interactive series of research and impact workshops mapped to the
ESRC’s doctoral training standards and toolkits, small group mentoring supported by an experienced
professor, open research seminars freely available to CBS networks (often in association with the
CIPD), evening and weekend writing retreats (both on site and off site to encourage the connection
to other communities), and research conferences (also with support from bodies such as the CIPD
and the Global Centre for Work Applied Learning in Australia, GCWAL). In these events alone, there
were >1,200 registered attendances since the last REF.

The vitality of The Hub was substantially stimulated by regular opportunities to connect and build
relationships with leading practitioners from professional bodies and experienced researchers
from leading international universities. In terms of researchers, CBS has hosted Professor Tim
Stamford, Stanford University US; Professor Dwight Giles, University of Massachusetts US;
Professor Carole Parkes, Special Advisor to the United Nations' Global Compact; Professor Kiran
Trehan, University of Birmingham UK, and Professor John Mahon from the University of the
University of Maine US. In addition, CBS hosted an extensive Visiting Researcher programme
with institutions in China, resulting in 286 exchanges from/to China, substantially enriching the
cultural diversity of The Hub. In terms of connection to professional bodies, The Hub has hosted
research events by professional bodies such as the AGRH (Association Francophone de Gestion
des Ressources Humaines) Congres, monthly CIPD events on site, the Lapidus International
Research Day, and the EMCC’s research conference. The Chester Forum, now in its 9th year,
connects CBS with Chester Business Park residents such as the Bank of America, and facilitates
dialogue about responsible and sustainable enterprise. These events have enabled CBS research
staff and students to network and build relationships with 100s of practitioners.

The vitality of The Hub is driven by the openness of research staff and students to participate and
interact with CBS’s collaborative research opportunities. For example, in this REF cycle, staff and
students participated in the Edge of Experiential Education Symposium with Stanford and
Massachusetts universities (funded by the Santander International Research Excellence Awards),
collaboratively developing research ideas and articles around the role of service learning to
challenge workspaces and places. Similarly, research staff and students engaged in the Beyond
Text project (Erasmus+, £280k, with UoA23 Education) which explored and documented the
application of arts-based methods across Europe. This project enabled CBS research staff and
students to engage in events across the UK, Spain, Estonia, and Finland to learn and apply arts-
based research methods for research and impact alongside arts-based research practitioners.
Research staff and students also engaged in the Creative Practices for Wellbeing Framework
project (which co-developed a practice framework with multiple stakeholders and a professional
body) and the Creative Recovery project (a national study into the use of creative practices under
COVID-19). Both of these projects gave research staff and students a first-hand experience of using
collaborative and participatory research projects in live environments.

CBS, in collaboration with CIPD, Lapidus International, and GCWAL, recognised the research
projects of staff and students with actual or potential impact. The 7 awards included: The CIPD Prize
for Impact on the Professions, The GCWAL Highly Commended Award for International Impact; The
CIPD Health & Well-being Research Impact Award (Parkyn); The CIPD Equality & Diversity
Research Impact Award (Johnson); The CIPD Championing Work & Working Lives Research Impact
Award (Weston); The GCWAL Highly Commended Award for International Impact (Evans); and The
Lapidus International Research Award (Rossetti). From 2018 onwards, CBS aligned its awards to
the Sustainable Development Goals, for example, The Research Award for Championing Work &
Working Lives (Russell), for Health & Well-Being in Organisations (Parkyn, Evans), for Promoting


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Quality Education for All (Rowlett), for Sustainability in the Curriculum (Mburayi), and the
Environment & Climate Change Research Impact Award (Hindley).

CBS’s postgraduate research community and support
CBS’s postgraduate research awards have increased from 2 in the previous REF cycle, to 57
research awards in this cycle, thereby increasing from an average of 0.4 to 9.5 research-based
awards per annum. These awards include 42 doctoral awards (40 FTE in UoA17), 14 research-
based Master of Professional Studies awards, and 1 PhD by publication. 6 doctoral graduates (2
FTE, 14%) were co-supervised with researchers in UoA3 Allied Health Professionals, UoA23
Education, and UoA14 Geography & Environmental Studies; indicating CBS’s increased capacity
and capability to tackle complex responsible management issues across disciplines.

CBS’s postgraduate research is strongly aligned to the strategic research and impact vision to
connect with practice and deliver value to its stakeholders: 72% of CBS’s postgraduate research
awards (MProf, DBA, DProf) and 61% of CBS’s doctoral awards (DBA, DProf), were practitioner
research projects informed by practitioners, and informed practice, for example, through EMCC
policy and practice reports.

      Doctoral awards           2013    2014    2015    2016     2017     2018    2019     Total
       (FTE in UoA17)
 Research-based                1       2.9      3       1       2         8.9     6        24.8
 professional doctorate
 (DBA and DProf)
 PhD                           2       3        2       3       0.3       4.9     1        16.2
 Total                         3       5.9      5       4       2.3       13.8    7        41

CBS’s doctoral research community now stands at 62 students and comprises 44% women and
24% identifying as BAME, the latter of which is significantly higher than the 5% BAME community
in Cheshire West & Chester area (CWAC, 2018). To promote equality and diversity of CBS’s doctoral
community, CBS provides proposal development support at the application stage and utilises the
Recognition of Prior Learning systems to value diverse and non-traditional backgrounds.

All members of the CBS postgraduate research community are part of The Hub. Workshops are
fundamental within the first year to enable cohorts to form a cohesive bond and sense of research
culture, followed by ongoing dialogue with supervisors to negotiate other activities that are relevant
to their development as a practitioner-researcher. All members of the community can access
Epigeum Research Integrity Training and related micro-credentialing, including in areas such as
intellectual property and commercialisation for career and impact development.

In addition to each student having two supervisors balancing subject and methodological expertise,
students can access support and guidance from the professional doctorate and PhD programme
leaders, tutors, and a team of independent assessors for annual reviews. CBS hosts an open and
inclusive Staff Student Liaison Committee which adopts creative methods to explore possible
collaborative developments in the programme. External examiners have consistently commended
this “open and transparent” approach and the quality of the doctoral research.

In the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), CBS’s doctoral students have
consistently rated it above the sector and University’s average scores. In 2019, the University ranked
8th for overall satisfaction and of 3rd for research culture (out of 38 institutions), and CBS scored
above the institutional average in all main categories by 1 to 11% points. This places CBS’s in a
strong position nationally. The scores for main categories are summarised below.

 Main PRES category                 2017             2018               2019             2020
 Supervision                        100%             87%                95%              94%
 Resources                          100%             93%                94%              80%
 Research culture                    89%             69%                89%              78%


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Progress/assessment               99%               90%              95%              82%
 Responsibilities                  92%               88%              95%              84%
 Research skills                  100%               93%              98%              91%
 Professional development          93%               77%             100%              89%
 Overall satisfaction             100%               80%             100%              94%
Key: Bold text represents scores above institutional and national averages.

In line with CBS’s closeness-to-practice, its postgraduate researchers are often senior practitioners
in organisations seeking to enhance decent work. These postgraduate researchers mostly secure
organisational sponsorship which indicates the value generated through practice-oriented research
for those organisations, for example, in terms of service improvement, business growth, or employee
wellbeing and productivity. CBS postgraduate researchers secure bursaries, for example from the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales’s Chartered Accountants’ Company
(£10,000, see UoC, 2020).

CBS’s doctoral graduates have progressed on to: lecturing and academic leadership roles at
Liverpool University Management School, Manchester Business School, Newcastle University
Business School, and Pforzheim University in Germany; and influential leadership roles as
consultants in private practice, Head of Research in a national ambulance service, global leadership
of research at the EMCC, and policy advising at the CIPD.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income
Reflecting CBS’s growing reputation for research which focuses on global challenges and social
value, research income has grown substantially from £3k in REF2014, to winning a total of £742k
including from competitive, highly selective sources such as the British Academy, the ESRC,
and the Medical Research Council. These are significant given that the typical success rates for
some grants is as low as 10%, and demonstrates an increasing positive reputation for significant
research for global challenges. A breakdown is provided below.

UKRI
In terms of CBS’s work-based learning for decent work research cluster, Wall secured a British
Academy grant as PI for “Empowering Ethnic Minority Youth in Vietnam to Re-Vision the Future of
Decent Work” (£266,077 across 2020-2021). In terms of CBS’s responsible enterprise research
cluster, Manning secured a Medical Research Council grant (£308,000, 2019-2023) as Co-I for
the “Prevention of Disease Using Trade Agreements” interdisciplinary network, in collaboration with
researchers in UoA3 Allied Health Professions (where the income is reported). Similarly,
Nagirikandalage was awarded an ESRC award for “Exploring the Recent Trend Shift in Social and
Management Research: Social Media Data and its Sampling Property”, particularly in relation to the
inclusivity of these methods (£5,170.80).

UK industry, commerce and public organisations
With a growing reputation for relevant and impactful research, CBS has won competitive research
projects with a range of public and professional bodies, enabling deep impact on a range of
communities in the UK and across 20 nations. Lam was commissioned by the West Cheshire &
North Wales Chamber of Commerce to undertake a comparative study examining the
internationalisation of regional SMEs compared to SMEs in China (Lam, 2017, £15,000). This work
led to advice and guidance to the Chamber and its members (WCN, 2018; Lam, Harris, Sidsaph,
Wang, Zhou, and Yang, 2018). In turn, this led to the Chamber offering enhanced provision in
international trade and export CPD events for its 4,000 members. This project was linked to CBS’s
Visiting Researcher initiative with researchers and entrepreneurs from China (Lam, 2017,
£96,131), which subsequently led to 5 doctoral studies in responsible enterprise and ongoing
relationships to develop outputs.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sport England commissioned a national research pilot through Bury Council with stakeholders such
as England Netball and Greater Sport who influence the engagement of women and girls in sports
employment and physical activity (Simpson, 2016, £22,500); this work created an action plan for
the council. Workplace wellbeing research projects were commissioned with Wirral Metropolitan
Council (Wall, 2018, £3,688), Oxfordshire County Council (Wall, 2018-2020, £26,750), Wirral
University Teaching Hospital (Talbot, £2,500), which drove practice and cultural change to embed
everyday practices of wellbeing at work with >8,800 employees. Collaborative research with civic
and business leaders and community inspirers as part of Cheshire West and Chester Council’s West
Cheshire Poverty Truth Commission generated £1.7m social value through redesigning social
housing eviction processes from process to wellbeing oriented (Wall, 2018-2020, £4,986). Other
contract research focused on service improvement, such as Church Stretton Council (Omoruyi,
2018, £2,448) and One Vision Housing Association (Page, 2014, £3,016).

Research income also included undertaking work for professional bodies. As part of a Higher
Education Academy’s National Teaching Fellowship grant, Wall examined the ways in which ethics
can be embedded in workplace and vocational learning and practice development, collaboratively
exploring human connectedness to place and people with ideas from African and Oriental
philosophies (Wall, 2017-2020, £5,000). This work informed the re-development of reflective tools
for the multi-disciplinary work-based learning programme supporting >6,000 practice-based learners
in this REF cycle.

Wall was commissioned by Lapidus International (the leading professional body for the use of
creative practices for wellbeing outcomes in organisations) to collaboratively research the effective,
safe and ethical practices of professionals across multiple fields (Wall, 2018-2020, £11,000). This
study led to a new professional framework for practitioners and the development of an industry-
standard training programme across 20 countries (see impact case study). CBS also acquired a
research scholarship from the Global Centre for Work-Applied Learning in Australia to raise
awareness of responsible management in action research practice communities in Australia (Wall,
2017-2018, £3,000).

Infrastructure
CBS embeds connectedness and impact throughout its infrastructure. CBS’s Business Advisory
Council, composed of civic and business leaders, acts as a dynamic and proactive force, steering
and reviewing all aspects of CBS’s work, including research and impact. An Associate Dean with
strategic responsibility for research and impact is then supported by research and impact
representatives in each of the nine departments with responsibility for promoting research and
impact work at the local level. Underpinning this work is CBSs Researcher Development Hub which
is closely connected with professional bodies such as the CIPD, EMCC, and Lapidus International,
and residents of Chester Business Park through the well-established Chester Business Forum.

In addition to a centralised Research & Knowledge Transfer Office, which provides research grant
support, the Strategic Economic Development department is closely connected to the two regional
LEPs (Cheshire & Warrington LEP and the Marches LEP) as well as the Mersey-Dee Alliance,
stretching from North East Wales, through West Cheshire, to the Wirral. This department leads the
translation of CBS research into economic and social regeneration impact projects. Since REF2014,
this research and impact infrastructure has supported over £34.74m worth of impact projects funded
by the ERDF, ESF, the Cheshire & Warrington LEP, The Marches LEP, and Health Education
England. These large-scale projects promote culture change within regional businesses, and embed
innovation capabilities within organisational structures, ways of working, skills, and create strong
relationships with CBS beyond the life of projects. As such, CBS’s projects are a regional platform
to sustain impact over the long-term.

Key projects included: The High Growth Centre (2013-2015, £3.4m ERDF) supported pre-start or
existing high growth businesses in the advanced manufacturing, automotive, engineering and
environment sectors at Thornton Science Park; Catalyst for Growth (2013-2015, £4m ERDF),
supported the Northwest’s chemical sector financially through a competitive grants scheme with an
overall objective of the creation and safeguarding of jobs in the region’s chemicals sector; the

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Business Growth Programme (2015-2021, £488k ERDF via the Cheshire and Warrington LEP and
partners) supports SMEs with business growth activities such as growth boot camps and coaching
across priority sectors; Innovation 2 Commercialisation (2016-2019, £960k ERDF) supported
SMEs to embed innovation in their organisations and deliver new products, processes or services to
the market; Digital Solutions (2018-2023, £3.5m ERDF via The Marches LEP) supports SME
adoption of technologies for business growth through research services and new digital innovation
networking groups; the Centre for Research into Environmental Science and Technology (2017-
2023, £2m ERDF) supports environmental sector SMEs through innovation and research support
plus two specialist cluster networks; Building Skills and Growth Capacity (2019-2022, £486k ESF)
supports SMEs and microbusinesses in the Marches LEP area around workplace learning and skills;
Eco-Innovation Cheshire & Warrington (2016-2021, with Lancaster University, £1.2m ERDF)
supports SMEs to increase adoption and commercialisation of new low-carbon technologies and
R&D; Accelerate (£14.8m Cheshire and Warrington LEP and ESF) supports the reskilling and
upskilling of regional workforce for example in leadership and management and organisational
wellbeing; and Practice Assessment Record & Evaluation (£1.9m Health Education England)
which has rolled out ethical reflective practices to 130,000 practice-based learners across health and
social care workers across the UK.

Facilities
Since REF2014, CBS relocated seven of its departments distributed over three sites on to one site,
the Queen’s Park Campus, co-locating with the West Cheshire & North Wales Chambers of
Commerce. The site has benefited from £4 million investment in facilities, enabling closer
collaboration across CBS departments and businesses, and intensifying the vitality of all of the
research and impact activity (e.g. the Researcher Development Hub, research and impact projects,
and professional body conferences). The new campus is also within walking distance of incubation
and business support spaces at the Riverside Innovation Centre (a £5.5m investment), as well as
researchers from UoA3 Allied Health Professions and UoA23 Education, encouraging
interdisciplinary collaboration. As such, the Queen’s Park Campus is a busy, corporate space for
inter-disciplinary research with organisations and professional bodies, and within walking distance
of the 100s of businesses in the vibrant Chester City Centre.

CBS maintains its presence in the Cheshire Science Corridor Enterprise Zone, through
CBS@Warrington and at Thornton Science Park which are both located alongside a significant
cluster of science, engineering, and sustainable energy businesses. In addition, CBS is now a core
contributor at University Centre Shrewsbury, an ambitious joint venture with Shropshire Council
and the Marches Local Economic Partnership to address their cold spot for research and
development. CBS’s research and impact work at these sites has strengthened the ability of CBS to
inform start-up incubation and business support for environmental and technology-based
enterprises.

Finally, a close collaborative arrangement between the University and Storyhouse (a £37m theatre,
library, cinema and arts centre funded by Cheshire West and Chester Council, Arts Council England
and MBNA) has enabled CBS to undertake interdisciplinary and co-produced research
collaborations with diverse communities in an open, inclusive and approachable space. Two
examples of the use of this space include (1) with a wide range of community health and arts-based
health practitioners in the Lapidus International research projects (Wall), and (2) with local
communities experiencing poverty in the Poverty Truth Commission Research & Development
project (Wall). Storyhouse, as a strategic cultural partner, strengthens CBS’s connection to, and co-
production with, diverse communities who would not feel comfortable fully participating within CBS’s
other corporate spaces.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaborations for economic and social contributions
CBS’s research and impact infrastructure involves a close connection to practice communities in
relation to responsible enterprise and decent work: external membership and influence through
CBS’s Business Advisory Council, the collaborative and inclusive Researcher Development Hub
delivered in connection with professional bodies, the Chester Business Forum in collaboration with
residents of Chester Business Park, co-location with the West Cheshire & North Wales Chambers
of Commerce, membership of the two local LEPs and the Mersey-Dee Alliance (MDA, 2020),
presence at two major sites in the Cheshire Science Corridor Enterprise Zone, and in one of the
lowest areas of research and development investment in the UK. These are all established routes to
connect CBS’s research and impact with practice communities. As an indication of the wider
recognition of such developments, CBS was awarded Educate North awards for employer
engagement (2017, 2018) and was shortlisted for the Times Higher outstanding contribution to
leadership development (2019).

Evidence demonstrates that the impact projects have, within this cycle alone, supported 1,632
SMEs, 62 nascent entrepreneurs, and 131 pre-start-up businesses. 312.3 jobs have been
created and 113.9 safeguarded including in areas where business growth is below the UK and West
Midlands averages (Mickledore, 2020). The net GVA improvement of the projects has been
estimated at £44.54m GVA (Mickledore, 2020). In addition, CBS’s research and development work
into poverty in Cheshire West and Chester Council, with civic leaders and people with lived
experience of poverty, generated an additional £1.7m social value (CWAC, 2020). Other research
and impact projects continue to create value, such as CBS’s Social Enterprise Design Sprint which
has improved capacity for collaboration between council members, local universities, local social
enterprises, and young people. The use of the Sprint in Shotton (one of the most deprived areas in
North Wales) has resulted in 4 new social enterprises and 62 new volunteers posts on community
collaboration and rejuvenation projects. Since then, the social enterprises have written and submitted
bids for over £500k, and are at the second stage of development for a £350k project to promote
collaborative social enterprise in and around Shotton.

CBS’s research and impact work has also raised the profile of ethical and responsible practices
across a wide range of practice communities, specifically in relation to creating decent workplaces
and spaces which are free from harm (Sustainable Development Goals 3 (Health & Wellbeing) and
8 (Decent Work). These include: enhanced working practices in Wirral Metropolitan Borough, West
Lancashire Metropolitan Borough, and Oxfordshire County Council, impacting over >8,800 staff and
improving the services delivered to 1.1m residents; a new professional framework which has
become the industry standard and thereby improving the practices of 400+ practitioners using
creative practices for wellbeing outcomes enhancing wellbeing (and preventing harm) with 1000s of
participants over 20 countries; the enhanced ethical standards of over 4,500 coaching
professionals; improved ethical working cultures at Cheshire Constabulary which then influenced
national debate about decent workplace cultures in the Police; and improved supervisory dialogue
for 130,000 practice learners and supervisors in health and social care organisations across the
UK (through the Practice Assessment Record & Evaluation project).

Collaborations for research and knowledge base contributions
CBS researchers are active contributors to a range of disciplines underpinning responsible
enterprise and work-based learning for decent work. As part of CBS’s commitment to the UN’s PRME
initiative, CBS is an early member of the Inter-University Research Programme for Sustainable
Development (IURPSD) and the European School of Sustainability Science Research
(ESSSR), which has significantly developed international, collaborative research networks and has
led to the co-development of over £16m worth of funding bids including from the ESRC and
HORIZON2020.

As a result, Wall was invited to became an editor of the Encyclopedia of the United Nations’
Sustainable Development Goals (the largest publication of its kind with over 3,000 authors across


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
17 volumes, and with contributions from MIT, Columbia, Oxford and Cambridge universities) and
lead editor of The SAGE Handbook of Organizational Wellbeing with researchers at Manchester
Business School and Griffiths University in Australia.

CBS researchers are part of “Pathways to Impact” research groups exploring inclusive approaches
to change and impact through Business Schools: one group is a collaboration between researchers
at CBS and Copenhagen Business School, University of Glasgow’s Adam Smith School of Business,
University of Sheffield Management School, Newcastle Business School; and another is with
Auckland University of Technology and University of Waikato in New Zealand, University of
Technology Sydney and Bond Business School in Australia, and Haskayne School of Business at
the University of Calgary in Canada.

In addition, CBS researchers have established various research and impact networks as part of
research projects: the project, British Academy’s “Empowering Ethnic Minority Youth in Vietnam
to Re-Vision the Future of Decent Work” (Re-WORK) project has established a virtual network
across Vietnam and internationally to examine young ethnic minority voice in understanding decent
work. This includes investigators in Hanoi, Tay Bac, and Phu Xuan universities in Vietnam, but also
leading researchers in Australia, the US and the UK. Similarly, the Medical Research Council’s
“Prevention of Disease Using Trade Agreements” project has launched a European, inter-
disciplinary research network to conduct inter-disciplinary research with researchers from Imperial,
Cambridge, Sydney, and Monash universities, and senior staff at the World Health Organization,
Public Health England, and Public Health Wales.

Speaker invitations: CBS researchers have been invited to give keynote and other speeches at,
for example, the European Commission, Copenhagen Business School Denmark, Deakin University
Melbourne, University of Sao Paulo, Oxford Brookes University Business School, Middlesex
University Business School, the Chartered Association of Business Schools, University of Wyoming,
Guangxi Normal University, South China Normal University, Dezhou University, South Central
University of Nationalities, Dalian Minzu University; the Arab Knowledge Summit, Mohammed Bin
Rashid Al Maktoum Educational Foundation, and the International Forum on Socio-Economic
Sustainability, Dubai, UAE.

Key roles in international research networks, conferences or international bodies: CBS
researchers have held a range of roles including: visiting professorships at Deakin University in
Melbourne, Stockholm University, Moscow’s Institute of International Trade and Law, Aalto
University Business School in Finland, and at the University of Sao Paulo; board memberships of
the Spiritual Capital Development Company; member of the British Standards Institute/CIPD’s
Human Capital Standards Committee; Vice-President of the EuroMed Research Business Institute;
Track Chair for the Sustainable and Responsible SIG at the British Academy of Management; co-
founding Track Chair of the Place Marketing and Branding track at the Annual Academy of Marketing
Conference; SIG Co-Chair Place Marketing and Branding SIG Research Group at the Academy of
Marketing; inaugural workshop lead for the Critical Management Studies Track at the British
Academy of Management conference; co-organiser of the EMCC’s International Coaching and
Mentoring Conference; co-organiser of the AGRH (Association Francophone de Gestion des
Ressources Humaines) Congres; and a board directorship of the Universities Alliance for Lifelong
Learning.

Journal editorships and review: CBS academics contribute to the research base through review
panel roles including for Journal of Organizational Behavior, Academy of Management Learning &
Education, Academy of Management Perspectives, Journal of Business Ethics, International Journal
of Management Reviews, International Journal of Human Resources Management, Journal of
Cleaner Production, Business Ethics: A European Review, and Sustainability. They have won
various Emerald Literati Outstanding Paper and Highly Commended Awards, and multiple
Outstanding Reviewer Awards. Special issues shaping the discipline, and edited by CBS academics
include: “Work-based learning and vocational learning as a Catalyst for sustainable development”,
“Global perspectives on profound pedagogies”, and “sustainability in work-applied learning and
management”.

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

CBS’s prestigious reviewing and memberships include the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Peer
Review College, the ESRC’s Advanced Institute of Management, the Inter-University Research
Programme for Sustainable Development (IURPSD), the European School of Sustainability Science
Research (ESSSR), and the British Academy of Management.

References

Amion (2019) I2C Summative Assessment Report, Amion.
BIC (2019) Mental Health at Work 2019, available at https://www.bitc.org.uk/report/mental-health-
   at-work-2019-time-to-take-ownership/, accessed 27.11.20.
Clatworthy, N. (2021) Letter of Impact from the Director of the Universities Economic Development
   Unit.
CWAC (2018) Cheshire West and Chester Population Estimates 2018, available at
   https://inside.cheshirewestandchester.gov.uk/find_out_more/datasets_and_statistics/statistics/p
   opulation, accessed 27.11.20.
CWAC (2020) West Cheshire Poverty Truth Commission 2 - Evaluation Report, Cheshire West
   and Chester Council, available at
   https://livewell.cheshirewestandchester.gov.uk/NewsItems/Details/9?page=1, accessed
   27.11.20.
Lam, W., Harris, P., Sidsaph, H., Wang, D., Zhou, J., and Yang, S. (2018) Internationalisation,
   Sustainability and Key Challenges Facing SMEs, West Cheshire & North Wales Chambers of
   Commerce. Available at https://wcnwchamber.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/Chamber-Report-
   English-1.pdf, accessed 27.11.20.
MDA (2020) The Mersey-Dee Alliance, available at https://www.merseydeealliance.org.uk/the-
   story-so-far/, accessed 27.11.20.
MHFA England (2018) Summary of evaluations of Mental Health First Aid, Mental Health First Aid
   England, available at https://mhfaengland.org/mhfa-centre/research-and-evaluation/summary-
   of-evaluations/, accessed 27.11.20.
Mickledore (2020) Evaluation of Catalyst for Growth Programme, available here, accessed
   27.11.20.
S4W (2020) Phase 1 Summative Assessment Report, S4W.
UoC (2020) Research into accountant adaptability wins prestigious award, available at
   https://www1.chester.ac.uk/news/research-accountant-adaptability-wins-prestigious-
   award?list=6800, accessed 27.11.20.
WCN (2018) Research project finds Chinese businesses are more active than UK companies in both
export and import markets, available at https://wcnwchamber.org.uk/research-project-finds-chinese-
businesses-are-more-active-than-uk-companies-in-both-export-and-import-markets/,          accessed
27.11.20.




                                                                                         Page 14
