Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: UoA33

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The University of Exeter Drama Department, which celebrated its 50th year in 2018, is an
 internationally renowned centre for theatre and performance research. As one of the first to
 support practice research, we have developed demonstrable strengths in transcultural
 performance practice; innovation in socially-engaged work; and acknowledged excellence in
 theatre and performance historiography. Committed to social justice, collaboration and
 interdisciplinarity, our impactful research clusters around novel international performance
 practices (Brown, Hodge, Loukes, Thomaidis), radical new understandings of inclusive,
 international, popular, grassroots and experimental theatre histories (Beswick, Curtin, Daboo,
 Milling, Newey, O’Malley, Pearce, Reilly, Roms, Turner) and leading socially-engaged
 change in wellbeing and community (Beswick, Daboo, Goldingay, Hillman, Schaefer).

 Achievements this REF cycle include: 11 books and 5 practice outputs submitted to REF21,
 delivered across all career stages; increased internationalisation of research; strategic strength-
 building in environmental humanities; consistent PGR numbers, funded from diverse sources
 with increased completions; increased capacity to achieve funding targets developed from seed
 projects; vibrant contributions to local, national and international performance industries; and
 demonstrable impact on understanding marginalised UK practices.

 Strategic Aims 2014-2021:
  a) decolonising the intellectual frameworks within which we work
  b) developing research capacity in early-mid career staff
  c) expanding our strengths in theatre and performance history and historiography
  d) building on and further internationalising research in contemporary performance (as
 strategised in REF2014)
  e) developing socially-engaged and interdisciplinary performance (REF2014)

 Our unit-level strategy is developed in reference to College of Humanities and University
 strategies, and informed by the annual research monitoring process, which identifies strengths
 and weaknesses of the unit and areas of focus for development. The University’s Innovation,
 Impact and Business (IIB) team works closely with us to identify key strategic goals in external
 engagement (cf. Institutional-Level Environment Statement (ILES) 4.6-4.13), and the College
 employs a specialist researcher to assist in developing the impact of Humanities research.

 We have established two Research Centres to support our strategic aims. While related to areas
 of strength (Performance Histories and Cultures; Contemporary Performance Practice), they
 each welcome all interested staff and postgraduate researchers (University data show an
 increase in PGR satisfaction with the research environment during the period). In addition, the
 Colloquium for Interdisciplinary Research and Community-Led Engagement (CIRCLE) has been
 set up to support our interdisciplinary portfolio. In order to facilitate more focused collaboration,
 we have also identified nine themes around which our research clusters: Creative Industries;
 Class and Labour; International Pedagogies; Visual Culture and Popular Performance;


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Environments, Ecologies and Cities; South Asian Performance and Diasporic Practices; Race
 and Ethnicity; Cultural Participation and Wellbeing; Voice, Sound and Music.

 Strategic aims a-c: Centre for Performance Histories and Cultures
 Delivering on strategic aim (c), this Centre builds on our strength in performance history and
 historiography, while its overarching scope admits participation from all researchers. The Centre
 has a particular focus on historiography, with seminars and subsequent publications and grant
 applications setting agendas for investigating the significance of popular and visual performance
 cultures (Newey, Roms) and class representation (Beswick, Hillman, Milling). Contributing to
 strategic aim (a), this Centre drives Departmental discussions of ‘de-colonising’ research,
 building on Daboo’s research and her work on the teaching curriculum (externally funded by
 SCUDD). In 2019, the Centre hosted an international delegation to discuss building resilient
 networks with South East Asian institutions concerning intercultural exchange in theatre
 pedagogy. The Centre operates as the main forum for sharing research process through both
 public seminars and closed discussion. A programme of researcher development for writing
 research funding applications has led to awards, following peer review from this group (Curtin,
 Daboo, Newey). Contributing to strategic aim (b), the Centre has been pro-active in the
 development of PGRs and ECRs, reviewing papers towards publication.

 Strategic aim d: Centre for Contemporary Performance Practice
 This Centre meets regularly to discuss practical projects and shared approaches to articulating
 practice research both within performance process and to external audiences, facilitating
 decision-making and presentation. Contributing to strategic aim (d), it has built on, and added to,
 long-term, rich international research relationships. These include international partnerships in
 intercultural performer training (see REF2014) and in site-based performance, including
 methodological exchanges with researchers in China and India. The Centre organised an
 international panel on ‘Working between Cultures’; an interdisciplinary discussion on practice
 research; and hosted interactive seminars by practitioners including US director, Anne Bogart.
 Seeking new creative industry partnerships, an important international exchange has developed
 with the acclaimed Eugene O’Neill Theater Center, USA, supported through Exeter’s internal
 ‘Global Intersections’ funding.

 CCPP currently hosts four staff-led companies (RedCape, ARTEL, Adrift Performance Makers,
 Wrights & Sites). In the period of assessment, RedCape mounted two newly-devised works,
 touring the UK; Wrights & Sites produced a joint practice-research publication, and two practice-
 research projects by individual members; ARTEL has been developing a collaboration with
 Animal Cracker Conspiracy and an internet-based art project; and as Artistic Director of
 AdriftPM, Thomaidis has collaborated with Virginie Magnat (University of British Columbia) in
 drawing from creative training, mindfulness and cultural practices towards improved wellbeing. A
 joint initial symposium (2018) became a research cluster funded by a UBC Eminence Grant and
 the Wellcome Centre for the Cultures and Environments of Health (WCCEH), furthering our work
 in the medical humanities as well as our international reach (REF2014).

 Strategic aim e: Colloquium for Interdisciplinary Research and Community-Led Engagement
 (CIRCLE)
 Leading on Strategic Aim (e), this Colloquium replaced the Centre for Performance, Sciences
 and Community to enable a focus on our approach to interdisciplinary collaboration and socially-
 engaged work. The group has developed a strategy for interdisciplinary research for the unit,

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and draws on connections with film studies, the medical school and the Met Office in considering
 modes of cross/inter/trans/anti-disciplinary research. During this REF period, it supported
 applied and medical humanities work, including Goldingay’s collaboration with the Institute for
 Integrative Health on healing, funded by the BIAL foundation, and Schaefer’s work on rurality
 and everyday participation, funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC). It
 supports interdisciplinary research into environmental humanities from scholars including
 O’Malley and Pearce, with O’Malley gaining AHRC and NERC funding for her work with the
 Met Office and a range of open-air theatres. Concluding this REF period, the group has laid the
 groundwork for a new research centre in Performance and the Natural World, facing a post-
 COVID theatre industry and supported by newly awarded funding (AHRC).

 The Research Centres are not the only mechanisms for supporting our strategic aims. For
 instance, our commitment to decolonisation (a) has been the subject of regular meetings
 involving all staff, informing our research ethics and supervision of overseas PGRs. We are also
 concerned with discussions of ethics and equality in wider research contexts: for example,
 Daboo is a member of the advisory board for the AHRC’s Common Cause project, which looks
 at the representation of global majority interests in research collaborations. Race and Ethnicity is
 one of our identified research themes, with demonstrable impact on creative industries.

 We support early career researchers and others through (b) individually-focused support and
 development offered by Academic Leads and the Director of Research (detailed in S.2), with
 staff encouraged to feed into Exeter’s ECR Liaison Forum. Staff also make use of other
 university-wide support structures, such as the AHRC Strategy Group’s research hustings, which
 offer robust and multi-disciplinary feedback on funding bids (currently chaired by Newey).

 Our international initiatives are vital to all researchers. We have been committed to developing
 transnational Europe-wide networks to consider theatre and performance historiography
 (Newey, Roms); and we anticipate that in a post-Brexit era, EU researchers will remain
 significant partners. Other links are significant in extending our interdisciplinarity (e), for
 example, our collaborations with scientists at the National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS),
 Bangalore. Much international work is supported by external funding (AHRC, Wellcome) and by
 Exeter’s outward mobility grants (for instance facilitating Loukes’ work in China (d)). A
 department Director of Global contributes to the Global Strategy Group, supported by the
 University Global Partnerships team (cf. ILES 1.9,4.9).

 Some of our cultural industry and practice partnerships are mentioned above. Drama’s 50th
 anniversary was celebrated with an event to revitalise links with our alumni working in the
 cultural industries. Engagement with diverse communities beyond the academy is at the core of
 Exeter's Drama Department. The centrality of our unit’s expertise to the University’s public
 engagement in the arts is recognised through our participation in strategy groups and institutes
 across the University. The range of our involvement across colleges also represents our strategy
 (outlined in REF2014) to become actively involved in interdisciplinary exchange (e) and to
 advocate for the role of the arts and humanities in responding to international and climate crises,
 cultural understanding and exchange. By addressing urgent societal challenges in collaboration
 with other disciplines we will increase the impact of our research.

 Our commitment to public engagement drives our culture of Open Access to research, including
 training workshops. We go beyond basic UKRI Open Access requirements and seek new

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 avenues for sharing our research, through online blogs, print journalism and radio and television
 broadcasts (Beswick, Goldingay, Newey, Pearce). A redesign of our research web pages was
 directed towards making our expertise more publicly visible, including highlighting areas of
 impact and project partners.

 Projects with significant public impact have received targeted support. Two of these are
 represented in our impact case studies (Daboo and Pearce), but they sit alongside impactful
 research in medical humanities (Goldingay), politics and performances of organised labour
 (Hillman), performer training (Loukes) and urbanization (Hodge, Turner). The department has
 engaged with IIB and the College of Humanities in identifying opportunities and resources to
 support this work.

 Our process for ethical approval, including data security and protection, through the Department
 Ethics Officer working with the College’s Ethics Committee is part of our commitment to the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity, which underpins all our work (in line with the
 institutional commitment (ILES 2.09)). Beswick is currently Co-Chair of the Committee.

 Staff in our unit are leaders in the discipline. Newey is chair of the national subject association,
 the Standing Conference of University Drama Departments (SCUDD). Both Newey and Roms
 were founding members of disciplinary associations (TaPRA and Performance Studies
 International). In 2019 we moved quickly to provide a venue for TAPRA’s annual conference,
 following its necessary relocation, and Beswick, supported by the unit, ensured a well-run
 context for 400 papers and vital discussions about the future of performance research.

 In the coming REF cycle, we will increase the reach and impact of our work by:

    a) Contributing to climate responsibility through the research theme ‘Environments,
       Ecologies and Cities’ (Hodge, O’Malley, Pearce, Turner), establishing a new research
       centre for Performance and the Natural World, to host new funding initiatives, symposia
       and interdisciplinary exchange (for example in collaboration with Exeter’s Environment
       and Sustainability Institute) and drawing on the particularities of the SW region to
       specialise in coastal and rural locations.
    b) Developing international dialogues in performer training and pedagogy, supported by
       external grant applications and existing networks of researchers (Daboo, Loukes,
       Milling, Roms), especially in Asia. For instance, by developing Loukes’ research with
       ArtsCross, and by securing funding for a network on international performance
       pedagogies.
    c) Consolidating creative research collaboration at Exeter and our own intermedial research
       (Hodge, Roms), by increasing our engagement with colleagues in TV and film studies
       across the University, and by developing shared postgraduate provision and dialogue
       within research centre symposia.
    d) Drawing on our engagement with cultural industries in contributing to ambitious regional
       projects, while extending our industry exchanges internationally and being supported by
       a new advisory board of cultural industry representatives.
    e) As a vital response to current inequalities, use processes of recruitment, representation
       and advocacy (building on initiatives led by Daboo) to increase staffing diversity,
       consolidate our inclusive environment for diverse research students, and support
       research initiatives in cultural activism.

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Development
 We pride ourselves on the unit’s caring and supportive sense of teamwork and foster a sense of
 community in work and play, resulting in a deep knowledge of each other’s work and practice.
 Consequently, there are a number of informal writing groups and sustained research
 collaborations (e.g., Milling and Schaefer; Daboo and Turner; Hodge and Turner). We aim to
 be ethical in all research practices and to challenge ourselves to acknowledge existing inequities
 or omissions: to this end, we place inclusivity and diversity at the top of every departmental
 meeting agenda.

 The department has undergone a period of transition, with new research leadership reflecting an
 investment in mid-career researchers, recognised as a need in REF 2014. We have supported
 staff with regular research leave (4-5 per annum), internal funding opportunities, away days to
 facilitate funding applications, peer review of applications and outputs, immediate and highly-
 skilled technical support from in-house technicians and world-class facilities. We have made use
 of opportunities such as the University’s Aurora programme offering leadership training for
 female staff (Beswick, Kreider) and its mentoring programme, One Step Beyond. As a
 consequence, the period has seen four members of Cat A staff promoted to full Professor
 (Daboo, Hodge, Milling, Turner), two Senior Lecturers promoted to Associate Professor
 (Loukes, Schaefer) and seven Lecturers promoted to Senior Lecturer (Beswick, Brown,
 Curtin, Goldingay, Hillman, O’Malley, Pearce). Following retirements, we dropped to two
 professors mid-REF cycle: the department ends the period with six full professors; and all
 members of Education and Research (E&R) staff at senior lecturer or above. All Cat A staff are
 on permanent contracts.

 These promotions also reflect prioritisation of early career researchers. Within the framework of
 ‘the Exeter Academic’ (cf. ILES 3.3) staff are supported by a personal development programme
 (PDP) (mapped against the Concordat) and an Academic Lead, who discusses training, targets
 and progression in regular meetings. One Academic Lead is responsible solely for members of
 staff on probation until promotion to senior lecturer. An annual review prompts a dialogue to
 acknowledge achievements, ambitions, training needs and wellbeing. Clear targets are set for
 progression through probation and for promotion. Where additional mentoring is needed, this is
 offered by the Academic Lead and Director of Research. As a result, our early career staff are
 achieving promotion and designing ambitious research programmes. (For instance, O’Malley
 received early promotion and is engaged on a number of grants concerning environmental
 humanities.)

 We have one AHRC-funded postdoctoral researcher (Holmes), who is mentored by Newey,
 participates fully in research centre activities and has provided research-led teaching. The
 publication of her first monograph (forthcoming, Routledge 2021) has been supported through
 the Centre for Performance Histories and Cultures and through the annual review process. A
 previous postdoctoral researcher, Walcon, gained National Portfolio status for her community
 arts organisation in 2017 (the first in Torbay to do so), and we were able to appoint her to a
 permanent, part-time ‘Education & Scholarship’ (E&S) contract through which she shares this
 industry expertise. E&S staff often bring significant industry skills and knowledge, benefiting the
 research environment. Two were promoted to Senior Lecturer through this period (Macbeth and
 Kreider), demonstrating our commitment to career progression in all roles.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We have made use of new appointments to strengthen our research into performance histories
 following Wiles’ retirement (Roms); practice, following Zarrilli’s retirement (Brown, Thomaidis)
 and socially-engaged practice, broadening the range of approaches to this area and bringing
 numbers back to previous levels following staff departures (Beswick, Hillman, O’Malley,
 Pearce).

 We have a high proportion of female members of staff, including five professors (in a
 professoriate across UK HE which underrepresents women). An aim in further recruitment
 processes will be to increase the number of staff of the global majority (BIPOC) at all levels. We
 currently employ three, one professor, Daboo, and two E&S lecturers, Harris and Abdulla.
 Harris also runs theatre company Beyond Face, which is committed to raising the profile and
 visibility of people of colour (working with some of our postgraduate students in 2020). Abdulla
 is attached to us through the University’s Project Enhance, which is helping to create a digitally-
 enhanced teaching portfolio.

 Research Students

 Starting the REF period with 24 research students, we now have 35 research students: 28 are
 enrolled towards PhD (having successfully upgraded), and 7 are currently enrolled at MPhil level
 and will upgrade to PhD (see below). 44 research students have successfully completed since
 2014, averaging 6 per annum, and exceeding the total of the previous REF period.

 During the current REF period, 7 students (one still enrolled) were supported through the
 collaborative supervisory project linking us to the National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS),
 Bangalore, funded by Exeter, with staff exchange initially facilitated by the UK-India Education
 Research Initiative (ending in 2014), and subsequently by research networking grants. This has
 enabled cross-disciplinary projects, focused on Indian performance cultures and their contexts,
 as well as staff exchange. As this collaboration has developed, PhD students at both institutions
 have been involved as research collaborators and assistants, working with staff in the UK and
 India (Mahiyaria; Savory Fuller). 4 of these students currently hold academic positions and
 another is employed as editor for the Indian Cultural Forum, which supports discussion
 concerning the politics of culture in contemporary India (Mahiyaria).

 We have supported 6 students (4 as lead supervisor) through the AHRC South, West and Wales
 Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW1 & 2), a consortium of 10 institutions, which has sustained
 270 students over 5 cohorts 2014-19 and 200 studentships with 3 cohorts, 2019-2021. The DTP
 has allowed us to co-supervise with, for example, Cardiff University School of Music, to support
 interdisciplinarity within and across institutions, and to foster deeper regional research
 connections with cultural institutions and social organisations. It also offers a suite of events and
 training to complement those offered by the unit and by Exeter’s Doctoral College, and funding
 to support student leadership.

 5 students were funded by AHRC, including through a Collaborative Doctoral Award (CDA) with
 Theatre Alibi. We have 2 students (one first and one second supervised in the unit) funded by
 WCCEH, with transdisciplinary supervisory teams. College studentships have also supported
 international scholars, including students from the US, Pakistan (Jubilee Scholarship) and Syria
 (Sanctuary Scholarship). Others have been funded by their own governments (China, Iraq,

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Thailand, Saudi Arabia, Syria) or institutions such as the China Scholarship Council. Our
 strengths in performance practice and social justice research have led to approaches from
 prospective students in the Middle East and South East Asia.

 All PhD students initially register as MPhil and transition to PhD through our upgrade process,
 prepared by regular supervisory meetings and tri-annual review by the full supervisory team.
 These meetings also identify training needs. These needs are met through the Doctoral
 College’s central training and development programme (mapped against the Concordat), where
 students from across the disciplines explore research methods and training more widely; through
 regular College of Humanities training seminars, which bring the drama cohort together with
 other humanities students; and bespoke departmental training covering more drama-specific
 research methods (details below). Supported by the College, we have also joined with other
 creative-based disciplines (Film, Creative Writing) to address questions in practice research –
 involving guest speakers/keynotes; student presentations; and intensive feedback sessions.

 All research students are invited to affiliate to one of our Research Centres and to attend
 meetings and share work where appropriate. Each year begins with a ‘Pre-Sessional’ event,
 which combines inductions for new research students with sharing of papers from research
 students at later stages, as well as staff members. There are also seminars specifically for
 research students, organised by the student body, and contributed to by staff (‘PG Tips’ and ‘PG
 Blips’). In their first term, all students are offered a series of staff-led discipline-specific training
 events for new PhD students; in their second term, all research students are enrolled in the
 Departmentally-hosted ‘Research Project Development’ module, where they develop their
 research projects via peer and academic feedback. All PhD students are also given the
 opportunity of training in teaching and supported experience.

 Many students have been successful in obtaining bursaries to attend conferences, from SWW1
 and 2 or internal funding. Drama staff, the Department Ethics Officer and the institution’s central
 Research Ethics and Governance office also mentor students in putting together complex ethics
 applications. Bradwell, for instance, has submitted two successful Social Care REC applications
 to research arts programmes with older adults living with dementia.

 All students are allocated a mentor outside the research supervisory team. Students are able to
 interrupt their studies should the occasion arise, or to transition to part time and/or distance
 learning (for example, if this is desirable following maternity leave). The Doctoral College offers
 support in careers, health and well-being, and other general support.

 Many of our students have gone on to success in both research and cultural industries
 professions. In the current REF period, our doctoral graduates achieved academic appointments
 both with us (Holmes, O’Malley, Pearce), elsewhere in the UK and at universities in South
 Africa, Uganda, Ghana, Thailand, Korea, India and the US.

 Strategies towards future PGR recruitment include:

     a) Diversification of funding streams, through cross-disciplinary collaboration, e.g.,
        collaborating with WCCEH, building on current supervisory collaboration




                                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    b) Diversification of funding streams through systematic identification of open calls,
       maintaining existing prompt support for students who apply with research from
       international governments or other sources
    c) Applying for postgraduate funding in conjunction with research bids, where applicable -
       e.g., currently in conjunction with ERC Advanced grant applications
    d) Developing a second cohort of students from Middle Eastern countries, making use of
       available funding mechanisms but also raising awareness through staff exchange and
       publication
    e) New MA programmes, such as the MA Creativity: Innovation and Business Strategy, and
       an Applied route within the MA Theatre Practice, have been designed with a view to
       providing a route to PhD research
    f) Continuing to offer flexible research programme opportunities including part-time and
       distance learning
    g) Developing an attractive, inclusive research community through anti-racism initiatives; for
       instance, an online resource pack was developed in 2020 by the Department Director of
       Postgraduate Research in conjunction with current students

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity

 We embed equality, diversity and inclusivity in every aspect of our research environment, and it
 drives our research in class, labour, cultural participation, race, ethnicity and diasporic practices.
 The department has taken a leading role in initiatives to address issues of EDI across the
 University, with an initial focus on teaching, but extending also to research processes. Our
 current research strategy includes an initiative to increase our number of speakers from the
 global majority in our department seminars, alongside a recruitment strategy to increase
 representation on staff at all levels.

 Reflecting the needs of our own ODA-funded research, we have been particularly concerned
 with the ethics of international research. For instance, Turner and honorary research
 fellow/National Institute of Advanced Studies researcher Smriti Haricharan contributed to a
 symposium led by the University of Leeds on the ethics of heritage research, with Turner cited
 in the resulting report. Daboo led a workshop for the EU-India Platform for Social Sciences and
 Humanities (EqUIP) in Gurgaon, India, in 2016, which generated discussions of creativity,
 inclusivity and diversity as research themes. Daboo has led an internally-funded, intra-
 institutional project, ‘Decolonising the Curriculum/Diversifying the University’ which, while it has
 an education focus, also asks questions of academic research, touching on methodologies and
 partnerships. Responding to Daboo’s initiative, we are mindful of how this relates to and informs
 our research. In developing the range of PhD projects, we have actively supported research that
 international students would find difficult to do in their home countries, for instance studies of
 Dalit activism in India; women in theatre in Saudi Arabia; and political theatre in Pakistan.

 As detailed in section 4, we are aware of exclusions within the performing arts more widely, and
 our research and engagement aim to mitigate that, as our two submitted impact case studies
 demonstrate. For example, Pearce co-organised an interdisciplinary symposium (with Goddard,
 Royal Holloway) on ‘Representing Race and Black Britain in Theatre, Film, Television and Digital
 Media’ at the National Theatre, London in 2015. Daboo collaborated with Voluntary Arts to
 conduct a year-long project on global majority involvement in participatory arts across the UK,
 resulting in the production of a report, ‘Open Conversations’, in 2017 directed towards change in

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that organisation. Following her 2019 book on social housing in performance, Beswick has
 spoken on class and performance in numerous contexts (including internationally) and organised
 conferences and events on art and class in 2016 and 2017, including with Phoenix Arts Centre,
 Exeter, and at The Museum of the Home, London. Curtin’s AHRC-funded research network on
 representations of classical music involved commissioning a creative artist of the global majority
 to create a play about a Black composer excluded from the canon.

 The University is committed to a policy of equality of opportunity and aims to provide a working,
 learning and social environment that is free from unfair discrimination. It aims to ensure that
 staff, students, visitors and all others associated with the University are treated with dignity,
 respect, and equity, regardless of inappropriate distinctions, such as age, disability, gender
 reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief,
 sex, and sexual orientation (identified under the Equality Act 2010 as 'protected characteristics').

 Consequently, all staff are required to complete the online Equality and Diversity training as part
 of their induction. All those involved in decision-making for REF have completed mandatory
 training in recognising bias in decision making, and REF selection was made with reference to
 representation across career stages and protected characteristics. The College Inclusivity Group
 (including Drama staff Woods and Newey) meets termly to identify areas for review.
 Department members are involved with the cross-college Equality and Diversity Network.
 Research proposals are approved by the College Ethics Committee, including a review of
 equality and diversity in relation to appointments as well as fieldwork. Support is given to staff on
 short-term and/or E&S contracts to build research capacity through the development of funding
 applications and outputs.

 Recruitment for research-related leadership roles is open to application from those at senior
 levels. Within the Department, research administrative roles are allocated with a view to
 supporting career trajectory, as well as to serve the needs of the unit.

 Research leave applications are considered with no detriment to staff applying as a result of
 maternity leave, paternity leave or sickness, thus ensuring equality of opportunity. Teaching
 allocation takes note of the needs of staff returning from periods of leave (parental leave), ill
 health, management of long-term illness, or those with caring responsibilities. Reasonable
 requests for flexibility in timetabling or remote working are facilitated.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding awards have enabled research into grassroots and popular performance;
 research and impact on diasporic cultural heritage; and supported practice, interdisciplinarity and
 research leadership. We leave the REF period with a significant upturn in funding, with over
 £100k annual income already secured for three years (2021-24).

 Grassroots and popular performance
 We began this REF period with high levels of research income in this area, with senior staff
 completing large-scale projects on Amateur Drama, Everyday Participation, and Pantomime.
 These are reflected in the research outputs and impact submitted to this REF, including the
 award-winning The Ecologies of Amateur Theatre (Milling with Helen Nicholson (Royal
 Holloway) and Nadine Holdsworth (Warwick)). Milling won AHRC funding in 2014 for an ‘Expert

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Workshop’ on Amateur Voluntary Arts’ (£7,851), while Schaefer’s AHRC Follow-On Research
 Grant (2015) ‘Re-vitalising Critical Dialogues on Community Theatre’ comprised a seminar
 series and national festival (£23,976), match-funded by Acta Theatre. Schaefer also extended
 the international reach of this work through a British Academy (BA) Small Grant, ‘Sojourn
 Theater's "Islands of Milwaukee": a critical analysis of performance connecting communities in a
 structurally segregated city’ (2014, £4,250) and through funding of SD17,000 from the National
 Arts Council, Singapore, to work with Dramabox (2014). Focusing on popular performance,
 Newey commenced a major new research project funded by AHRC, ‘Theatre and Visual Culture
 in the Long Nineteenth Century’ with Jim Davies (PI), Warwick (2018, £690,309; Exeter portion
 £320,480); and just post-REF census, she facilitated a Marie Skłodowska-Curie post-doctoral
 fellowship (Mello).

 Diasporic cultural heritage
 Having concluded her AHRC-funded project, ‘The Southall Story’, Daboo’s resulting research is
 reflected in one of our impact case studies. Building on her collaboration with Kuljit Bhamra, the
 development of the electronic tabla and related research were supported by funding from
 AHRC/REACT (Research and Enterprise in Arts and Creative Technology), 2014 (£11,892) and
 2016 (£3,600). In collaboration with Smriti Haricharan (India lead), Daboo leads an AHRC/ICHR
 (Indian Council of Historical Research) funded network to consider ‘Cultural Heritage
 Transformations of Weddings and Marriage among Women in the Tamil and Parsi diaspora
 communities in India and the UK’ (2019, £27,637).

 Supporting performance practice
 Support from a BA Small Grant in 2019 enabled Brown to develop new networks and
 investigations into resistant curatorial practices (‘Staging Other Russias: an investigation of
 contemporary Russian theatre in the age of Gayropa’, £9,900). A further ~£145k of non-HESA
 funding was awarded directly, or indirectly, to many members of staff, reflecting the vibrancy of
 our practice-as-research and our industry engagement. For instance, Loukes, with her company
 RedCape theatre, received Arts Council England (ACE) funding (2015-17, £40,000) and REACH
 funding (2015, £35,000) for Be Brave; ACE funding for Thunder Road (2018-19, £30,000); as
 well as ACE funding for Research and Development (2018, £5,000). Loukes also received
 funding for travel to China to collaborate in an international exchange, via the Middlesex
 University AHRC ArtsCross network, visiting Beijing Dance Academy (2014, £2,000; 2016,
 £2,000; 2018, £2,500; 2019, £2,500) and via a related British Academy grant to visit Taipei
 University of the Arts (2015, £2,000) to research exchanges in performer training.

 Another practice researcher, Hodge’s artwork Where to build the walls that protect us, initially
 supported by Kaleider, using public funding by the National Lottery through ACE and Exeter City
 Council (2014, £18,600), was reiterated and commissioned for Compass Festival, Leeds (2016,
 £3,500); the output has been submitted to REF.

 Others received awards for contributing to practice networks; for instance, Brown received
 funding from a travel grant from the Network of Ensemble Theatres and from the Henson
 foundation, USA for his work with ARTEL (2017-18, $10,000).

 Supporting interdisciplinarity
 Both Curtin and Turner established AHRC-funded interdisciplinary networks. Curtin leads the
 AHRC-funded network, ‘Representing 'Classical Music' in the Twenty-First Century’ (2019,

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £37,454) in collaboration with musicologists. Turner’s AHRC/GCRF (Global Challenges
 Research Fund) Grant built on our collaborations with archaeologists and animal behaviour
 researchers in South India for ‘The Politics Of Performance On The Urban Periphery in South
 India’ (2018, £51,719). Goldingay has received a range of funding to support her work on
 healing, including from the BIAL Foundation for ‘Healing Rituals In Lourdes’ (2016, £33,987) and
 from The Institute for Integrative Health, Baltimore, US, to work with the Institute, two hospitals
 and Exeter prison on projects under the heading ‘How are you healing?’ (2017-19, £16,000); by
 WCCEH to create an intervention at the Green Man Festival (2018); and by private donors and
 sponsors to develop the Healing Matters Network and website (2016-19, £2,000). Thomaidis
 was supported by WCCEH and UBC, Canada, to participate in a network, PI Virginie Magnat
 (UBC): ‘Culture, Creativity, Health and Wellbeing’ (Thomaidis received travel expenses plus a
 direct sub-grant, 2018, £6,605).

 Development of research leadership
 Sustained support (see below) and an extension of funding sources developed funding capacity
 for ECR staff, and enabled others to enter new research fields. ECR researchers have moved
 from CI to PI, with related research income increasing 90% since 2016 (when previous large
 grants concluded). For example, O’Malley was CI on NERC-funded ‘Climate Stories’ with Peter
 Stott, Engineering, Exeter (2018, £79,312); and on AHRC-funded ‘Atmospheric Theatre: Open
 Air Performance and the Environment’, with PI Chloe Preedy, English, Exeter (2018, £159,768)
 and commences the next REF period as PI on ‘Outside the Box’, considering sustainable and
 secure performance, supported by AHRC’s Covid-19 Rapid Response funding, working with
 Turner and Tim Coles, Business School, Exeter (post-census award).

 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Recognising the need to support capacity at the beginning of this REF cycle, we developed a
 culture of informed and generous support for staff grant applications, particularly for early career
 research. We regularly identify recurrent funding schemes and note which colleagues might be
 potential applicants, and disseminate information on new calls, alerting those best placed to
 respond. Initial and developing ideas are discussed at funding ‘away days’. A twice-yearly
 programme of training events based on Parker Derrington’s ‘Ten Key Sentences’ for grant
 writing began in 2019-20. Feedback is available to staff on drafts from the Director of Research,
 with support from appropriate colleagues. Assistance is also offered by Research Services,
 including the preparation of budgets and advice on contracts. All final drafts are peer reviewed,
 and larger grants are reviewed by researchers from across the College. Successful bids are
 supported by Research Services, and training for Principal Investigators includes skills in
 managing a team.

 The College Impact Researcher and Impact Leads from the University’s Innovation, Impact and
 Business (IIB) team have contributed to ongoing assessment of impact and have helped to
 identify ways of supporting and maximising the positive impact of our research. They have
 supported the Department’s Director of Impact, offering advice, funding, event management and
 information gathering. For instance, they supported Brown’s collaboration with the Eugene
 O’Neill Theater Center.

 Participation in university centres and networks has enabled interdisciplinary work: for instance,
 Daboo co-founded and remains a member of the South Asia Research Centre, as is Turner;

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 this led to the Department hosting a symposium led by archaeologists to look at guided walks in
 South Asia. The Department is engaged with Exeter’s International Institute for Cultural Enquiry
 (IICE), and Pearce obtained IICE seed funding for a cross-disciplinary international project on
 South African tourism in 2020 – an example of the Institute’s investment in interdisciplinary
 research facing development and cultural industries (cf. ILES 1.3).

 Since 2016/17, the University’s ‘21st Century Library’ initiative has made an additional
 investment of £1.6 million (in addition to routine spend) to enhance digital research resources,
 special collections and links to local archives, for instance offering access to archival collections
 such as British Library Newspapers, Eighteenth Century Drama and State Papers Online. The
 Bill Douglas Cinema Museum continues to be a resource for work into popular performance
 culture and is a project partner for Newey’s AHRC-funded project ‘Theatre and Visual Culture in
 the Long Nineteenth Century’.

 The Department maintains an exceptional set of facilities, supporting both scholarly and practice
 research. We have the sole use of 6 fully equipped, large drama studios and 9 rehearsal spaces,
 two recording studios and workshop. All staff have individual office spaces, and postgraduate
 researchers have a 24-hour accessible IT suite with hot desks available for PGRs who teach as
 graduate assistants. There is a bookable library/meeting room for staff, equipped with specialist
 books donated by Emeritus Professors Thomson and Zarrilli. A broad range of technical
 equipment is available for practice research, including VR, 360-degree video and locative
 technologies (currently used in developing research by Hodge), as well as audio & video
 documentation kits. Four dedicated technical staff with specialisms in lighting and sound design,
 video production, editing, and costume, support all aspects of our research. They offer training in
 website design and multimedia editing of performance documentation in all forms, for research
 purposes and for publication online or as media.

 The College’s strategic investment in its Digital Humanities Lab (£1.2M) enhances access to our
 research data and findings. Newey, for example, has drawn on the Lab in designing historical
 databases, while Daboo received assistance in redesigning an exhibition for a digital platform in
 response to pandemic restrictions.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Working with/in the Creative Industries

 We used our 50th anniversary celebrations to stimulate contacts across the creative industries,
 and are now working with a wider range of cultural organisations including Punchdrunk, the
 National Theatre, Sadler’s Wells, The Place, Step Out Arts, Theatre Alibi, ACTA Theatre, The
 Northcott Theatre, Battersea Arts Centre, In Between Time, Chapter (Cardiff), Eugene O’Neill
 Theater Center (US), Gogol Center (Moscow), International Community Arts Festival
 (Rotterdam) and Hong Kong Drama/Theatre and Education Forum (TEFO). In order to extend
 our work to new contexts, we have been involved in the University’s Creative Industries Strategy
 (Brown, Hodge, Loukes); and the Arts and Culture Strategy, an institution-wide initiative, which
 from 2017 was developed and led by Hodge (see below). Drama researchers are also active in
 WCCEH, the Global Systems Institute Community and the newly-established IICE (Turner was
 an Associate Director for the pilot year, 2020).


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have been involved with creative industries in large-scale and smaller initiatives. Awarded at
 the end of the previous REF cycle but continuing to 2016, Hodge was the Co-Director of REACT
 (Research and Enterprise in Arts and Creative Technology), a £4m Knowledge Exchange Hub
 for the Creative Economy (2012-2016), funded by the AHRC as a collaboration between
 Watershed (Bristol), UWE (PI), and the Universities of Bath, Bristol, Cardiff and Exeter. REACT
 facilitated 53 collaborations between 73 academics and 53 businesses. It helped these teams
 make products for sectors such as heritage, publishing, documentaries and children’s products.
 Hodge has also been a ‘resident’ of Kaleider since 2013. Kaleider is an ACE National Portfolio
 Organisation and is a production studio in Exeter that plays at the edges of installation, live
 performance and digital arts. His project, Where to build the walls that protect us, was funded
 and hosted there, involving climate scientists, before going on to Leeds Compass Live Art
 Festival in 2016. Hodge is a trustee of In Between Time, Bristol, another National Portfolio
 Organisation and a critically acclaimed and globally respected producer of live art.

 As this demonstrates, we have made important contributions to the cultural life of our own city.
 Hodge is Director of Arts and Culture for the University and works to integrate university-based
 arts and culture activities with those of Exeter and the county of Devon. This has resulted in
 collaborations and commissions across the region, including the placement of artists in research
 contexts across diverse disciplines. Following the closure of the fringe Bike Shed Theatre,
 Brown has supported the development of a new city centre performance incubation house and
 social innovation hub, Maketank, by mentoring and supporting grant writing with Exeter City
 Council (2019, £3270) and ACE (2020, £19,000), which facilitated artists (Evans, Petrakova) to
 reactivate this disused building with performance interactions, artistic and community forums,
 and international performance incubation. Maketank has also worked with other Exeter-based
 small arts organizations, Scare the Horses and Topos, to stage performances and
 presentations. The delivery of our MA Creativity has drawn extensively on Maketank as a
 resource, developing innovative ideas that in turn benefit local arts businesses.

 Our expertise in theatre and performance history also informs our work with the creative
 industries. Roms is a National Advisor/ Arts Associate to the Arts Council of Wales. She serves
 on the Board of Directors of Cardiff Dance Festival, and on the Aberystwyth Arts Centre
 Advisory Group. She regularly collaborates with Chapter, Cardiff, to identify histories of that
 venue and has supervised an AHRC CDA with that institution (2013-2016). She was on the
 project team as research advisor for Amgueddfa Cymru – National Museum Wales’s 2015-2016
 exhibition, Silent Explosion: Ivor Davies and Destruction in Art, the largest solo exhibition of a
 contemporary artist by the museum to date (attracting over 45,000 visitors) and supported by
 another AHRC CDA.

 Expanding our international collaborations

 An important aspect of our strategy has been developing collaborations in China and other parts
 of East Asia. Building on Loukes’ research into training methods and practice with RedCape
 theatre, she contributed to the international research network ArtsCross (led by ResCen,
 Middlesex) in 2014, and is now one of the leading researchers for that project, sharing research
 and practice in training between Exeter, Middlesex, Queen Mary, The Place and Step Out Arts in
 the UK, and with international partners Beijing Dance Academy, Taipei University of the Arts,
 European Dancehouse Network, Penghao Theatre (Beijing) and Ping Pong Productions (US).
 Performances developed during the project have led to further commissions around the world.

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Techniques developed during the collaboration are now used within the curriculum at Beijing
 Dance Academy. Beswick has also begun a research partnership through the British Academy
 and UK-China Humanities alliance. Roms is collaborating with scholars in Singapore, Australia,
 Netherlands, UK, Malta, Norway and United States on 21st-Century performance pedagogies,
 while Turner was awarded internal ‘outward mobility’ funding to establish links in Japan (in
 recent months these activities have been delayed by the pandemic). In all these examples
 facilitation of equal dialogue and exchange of ideas is the core objective.

 The department’s relationship with the National Institute of Advanced Studies (NIAS), India,
 which was formally established via an MoU in 2017, has continued to develop, via our joint
 supervisory programme, and through research collaborations between Daboo, Turner and NIAS
 researchers Srinivasan, Sinha (AHRC funded) and Haricharan (Newton Fund). Daboo and
 Turner are both adjunct faculty members at NIAS, while there is a reciprocal arrangement for
 NIAS staff. These collaborations are interdisciplinary, linking archaeology, animal biology and
 drama; and the work of Sinha and his biologist PhD students has led Daboo and Turner to
 consider the role of the temple elephant as performer. This has resulted in emerging projects to
 support public understanding of the elephant and mahout relationship, expanding the focus of
 the biologists’ research in turn. Turner’s AHRC/GCRF project (see above) commissioned nine
 Indian artists to produce public work responding to their cities, with four performances in
 Bengaluru, exhibitions and presentation at NIAS, Bengaluru, and an artists’ publication centred
 on Kochi. Two of the art commissions have been developed further, including one for Goa’s
 Serendipity Festival 2019.

 Other international collaboration includes a network of training institutions between Exeter, the
 Gogol Center in Moscow and the Eugene O’Neill Theater Center, USA. Brown’s work in
 Moscow particularly engages with the Gogol’s Center’s ground-breaking curation of LGBTQ+
 work. A collaboration agreement between the O’Neill Theater Center and Exeter has enabled
 researchers (from Exeter: Brown, Milling, Newey) to make reciprocal visits in 2017-18.
 Brown’s work with ‘The Black Hen Society’ was an exchange with puppeteers and designers,
 presented at the O’Neill.

 In line with our continuing commitment to collaboration with researchers in Europe, Roms co-
 founded (with Dr Dror Harari, Tel Aviv University) an international research network on the
 histories and historiographies of performance art, comprising 20 members from 10 European
 countries. Roms is also on the Academic Advisory Board (Beirat) for the Centre of Competence
 for Theatre, University of Leipzig (Germany); and on the Advisory Board for the Finland-
 Academy-funded ‘How to do things with Performance’ at the Theatre Academy Helsinki.

 Contributing to health and wellbeing

 Our researchers have been influencing the discussion and practice of health and wellbeing,
 drawing on their understanding of the significance of environment, collaboration, connection and
 holistic training. Goldingay’s collaboration with the Institute for Health Research at Exeter
 Medical School has challenged the dominant linear and individualistic biomedical paradigm of
 healing, empowering people to consider the control they have over their own health and healing.
 This has been achieved through working with the Healing Matters network and with the Institute
 for Integrative Health, Baltimore (TIIH), to reassess medical approaches to healing, for instance
 through the exhibition ‘How are you healing?’ (Musgrove Park and Southmead Hospitals, 2017-

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 18). Her series of 7 half-hour Radio 4 programmes concerned a range of subjects connected
 with holistic wellbeing. Goldingay’s ‘The Problem of Pain’ (Radio 4, July 2015) was repeated in
 2016 and selected for the BBC’s ‘4 in 4’ strand. She has run workshops for medical staff at
 Blackthorn Medical Centre, Maidstone, Farleigh Hospice, Chelmsford, Southmead Hospital and
 for Exeter Prison staff on wellbeing through creativity. We also have a Statement of Co-
 Operation with the University of British Columbia, where Thomaidis contributes to a network
 looking at ‘Culture, Creativity, Health and Wellbeing’ in another approach to a more holistic
 understanding of health.

 Working for social justice

 Reflecting our commitment to inclusivity, politics and social justice, the Department has
 contributed to raising the status and understanding of amateur, participatory and community
 arts. Schaefer’s work with ACTA, Appalshop, Dramabox, MED Theatre, Big hART, Sojourn
 Theatre and others has helped to establish an international network of community performance
 organisations, exchanging best practice in symposia and in a national festival of community
 theatre in the UK, which attracted hundreds of participants and involved policy actors such as
 ACE. Schaefer was also invited to the International Community Arts Festival (ICAF) as
 academic-in-residence in 2014 and 2020. This work has underpinned grant successes for MED
 Theatre (£207,000) and conference/festival, workshop and seminar activities for ACTA.
 Research from the policy-facing report Understanding Cultural Value: The Amateur and
 Voluntary Arts (2015) (Milling and McCabe), which arose from the AHRC project ‘Expert
 Workshop: Amateur Arts and Voluntary Arts,’ is widely referenced in cultural policy documents.
 Milling’s work has helped to foreground the significance of amateur theatre within the wider
 theatre economy, and research by Schaefer and Milling into grassroots participation has
 informed ACE’s rural arts policy and the AHRC’s ‘Understanding the Value of Arts and Culture’
 (2016).

 Reflecting our ethical and political commitment, Hillman’s work with the National Federation of
 Trade Unions, Banner Theatre, Townsend Productions and Reel News (2015-17) resulted in two
 well-attended events building links between artists and unions, the larger of which, ‘Liberating
 Arts’, was held in the Drama Department in November 2017 (the other was held in the London
 area). Hillman’s research was fundamental to bridging the gap between political theatre
 companies and trade unions, which was a feature of both events. Beswick is a board member
 of COMMON, committed to equality in the performing arts, and conceived an outreach literacy
 project with the company Phakama in 2015, working with over 40 families on a council estate in
 Bethnal Green to enhance critical literacy in under-5s. Hillman is a trustee for the Future’s
 Venture Foundation, which supports the work of radical artists making ethical work.

 Contributing to the discipline

 Our contributions to research have been recognised through prizes and awards shortlists
 (Daboo, Milling, Turner). Beswick, Brown, Pearce and Thomaidis were all nominated for
 TAPRA Early Career Awards in 2019, with Beswick and Thomaidis shortlisted. Numerous
 keynotes and guest lectures are testament to the influence of our work, often taking place in
 interdisciplinary contexts: for instance, Pearce’s contribution to a conference on Diversity in
 Domestic African Wildlife Tourism, Rwanda; Roms’ lecture to Danish museums and galleries;
 and Goldingay’s address to the Royal College of Chiropracters, UK.

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We have contributed to our discipline through hosting a major conference (TAPRA 2019), and
 Newey also co-convened the Victorian Studies Conference at Exeter (2018). Staff serve on the
 editorial boards of fourteen journals, and conduct peer review for many more in our discipline
 and beyond. We edit six book series (Loukes, Milling, Reilly, Roms, Thomaidis, Turner).
 Thomaidis received an honourable mention at the ATHE Awards for Excellence in Editing 2020.
 Six members of staff are members of the AHRC peer review college (Daboo, Milling, Newey,
 Pearce, Roms, Schaefer). Newey and Roms regularly review for nine further national and
 international funding bodies. Newey is chair of the national subject association (SCUDD); and
 both Newey and Roms were founding members of disciplinary associations (TaPRA and
 Performance Studies International), with Roms serving for the second time on PSi’s Board
 2013-2018.These activities and others (such as convening working groups) reflect our
 commitment to serving disciplinary research.

 By 2026 we plan to connect our creative industries work into a regionally-inspired approach to
 environmental humanities (kick-started by, but not confined to, O’Malley’s AHRC Covid-19
 Rapid Response grant). We will expand our work with international networks toward shared
 outputs, contributing to transcultural innovation in performance, curation and pedagogy. Social
 justice remains at the forefront of our concerns, with growing capacity to address social
 inequality in terms of race and ethnicity, class and labour, through research teams working
 collaboratively with external partners. In this way, the next five years will see the unit making an
 ambitious contribution to challenge-led research, leading initiatives towards positive societal
 change.




                                                                                              Page 16
