Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Manchester
 Unit of Assessment: Biological Sciences (UoA5)
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy




1.1 OVERVIEW
The strategic research aims of this Unit of Assessment at the University of Manchester (UoM) are:

  To conduct the highest quality basic research that advances understanding of biological
  organisms, tissues and systems, via their molecular and cellular mechanisms, using
  interdisciplinary approaches to facilitate translation to allied areas.

Our research structures reflect our REF2014 forward strategy, building on two major research
challenges ‘Understanding Life’ and ‘Disease Biology’, with 148 staff (143.05 FTE) working under
five thematic areas of Research Strength (Molecular and Cellular Function; Cell Matrix Biology;
Infection, Immunology & Inflammation; Biological Timing; Evolution, Genomics & Development).

To drive the effectiveness of our research in the current REF cycle we have:
            Enhanced the interdisciplinary interface between fundamental and translational science,
             creating a new single Faculty of Biology, Medicine and Health (FBMH) in 2016.
            Strategically developed our interdisciplinary research portfolio using internal funding and
             cross-cutting structures (4.1), to expand existing Centres (e.g. Wellcome Centre for Cell-
             Matrix Research, WCCMR, 1.3.2) and develop new ones (Lydia Becker Institute for
             Immunology and Inflammation, 1.3.3).
            Exploited our outstanding research infrastructure to enable cutting-edge science, with
             capabilities boosted by £28m in external funding involving UoA5 researchers, leading to
             >1,000 research outputs acknowledging our core facilities (3.5).
            Ensured our staff and students are supported and valued (2.1), with enhanced Equality
             Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) activities, fair promotions and recruitment, attracting 22
             externally-funded independent fellows and Early Career Researchers (ECRs) to
             Manchester (4.3.2), with a supported track onto tenured positions (2.3).
            Produced a robust base for generating impactful research and encouraging innovation,
             leading to significant healthcare, policy, economic and public engagement outcomes (1.6).

As measures of their success, we highlight:
           Successful renewal of the WCCMR in 2016 for £4.9m, complemented by a £4.6m BBSRC
            sLoLa award, and externally funded cryo-EM and mass spectrometry infrastructure (£1.1m).
           External support from industrial partners (£2.4m since 2016 from GSK) to the Manchester
            Collaborative Centre for Inflammation Research, which has catalysed the formation of the
            Lydia Becker Institute of Immunology and Inflammation with internal funding (4.1).
           Over £41m in funding to support Doctoral Training in biological and biomedical science from
            UKRI and Wellcome, including a £5.4m interdisciplinary Wellcome award: ImmunoMatrix in
            Complex Disease (2.5).
           Highly cited outputs: 338 original articles published in the census period in top 5% (Web of
            Science), 64 with >100 citations.
           Recruitment and support for 36 new fellows/personal awards in this cycle, creating a
            dynamic base in areas of strategic importance (2.2 and 4.3.2).



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2 RESEARCH STRATEGY
Our UoA5 research strategy is to undertake discovery science, and develop effective translation,
which benefits all society. This builds on the University Strategy (REF5a) which embraces
interdisciplinarity as a key driver to address significant research challenges. We have developed two
of our REF2014 strategic themes of ‘Understanding Life’ and ‘Disease Biology’; researchers at
the interface drive these forwards in five major Research Strengths in key areas of biology (Figure
1). These ambitions necessitate a multi-disciplinary and integrative approach to tackle major cross-
cutting themes and we have developed operational strategies to further develop our interdisciplinary
science (4.1). Specifically, these ambitions are facilitated by strategic Research Domains, which
promote cross-cutting research themes that span UoAs and Faculties, and University of Manchester
Research Institute (UMRI) and Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) internal awards
(4.1) to pump-prime and boost targeted areas and promote cross-Faculty interdisciplinary activity.

1.3 RESEARCH STRENGTHS
Spanning our two umbrella areas of ‘Understanding Life’ and ‘Disease Biology’, all five Strengths
encompass fundamental studies of biological processes that inform mechanistic understanding of
health and disease that govern the functioning of living organisms.




Figure 1. UoA5 Research Strengths span research challenges developed in REF2014.

Like the University strategy, we seek to combine foundational and applied science to drive outputs
and impact (1.4). Notable research highlights are discussed in the next sections, including those
involving other UoAs, such as UoA1 (Clinical Medicine), where joint research has made significant
advances. Indeed, 30% of our returned outputs in UoA5 are co-authored with colleagues from the
other four Panel A UoAs. We also highlight exemplar studies that address fundamental bioscience
(‘Understanding Life’ ①), or research mechanisms and processes in health and disease (‘Disease
Biology’ ②) via numbered hyperlinks, as well as those that do both (① + ②).




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3.1 Research Strength 1: Molecular & Cellular Function
Staff use a wide range of eukaryotic model systems and state-of-the-art technologies to investigate
fundamental aspects of cell behaviour, including gene expression, molecular signalling pathways,
RNA and protein fate, and cellular dynamics. Collaborations with other groups frequently consider
how these processes impact on disease, linking research to that in UoA1.
Researchers tackle fundamental bioscience topics in cell dynamics, cell matrix biology (linked to the
WCCMR; 1.3.2), gene expression, chromatin and signalling, and protein and RNA fate. The grouping
includes four Wellcome Trust Investigators (Ashe H, High, Sharrocks, Woodman) and has
obtained significant RCUK funding (e.g. >£14m of BBSRC funding). Single cell biology is jointly led
by Sharrocks and Hanley (UoA1), demonstrating reach across fundamental and clinical science.
This has been recognised as a fast-moving area of interdisciplinary bioscience where the University
has growing strengths; kick-started by an MRC Clinical Research Infrastructure award in 2015
(£4.9m, including Rattray, White from UoA5), a further £27.7m in awards has been leveraged using
this technology. A key highlight is two successful projects contributing towards the International
Human Cell Atlas (HCA) initiative (£0.9m total). Additional UMRI and Wellcome ISSF internal funding
is driving collaborative research programmes and implementing cutting-edge approaches to single
cell research, to generate novel techniques and analysis protocols (4.1).
Important insights have been made into fundamental elements of molecular and cellular function
(‘Understanding Life’ ①); these include studies of the core principles of signalling, gene regulation
and cell dynamics:
       Identifying key transcription factors that control embryonic stem cell gene networks
        (Sharrocks: Cell-Reports-2019①; Cell-Reports-2014①; Piper-Hanley Nat-Commun-
        2020①).
       The effects of cellular stress on modes of mRNA translation, via stress granule and P-body
        formation (Ashe M, Grant: Cell-Reports-2014①; Genome-Biology-2017①).
       Definition of the supramolecular organisation of eIF2 translation factors, advancing core
        understanding of protein synthesis (Pavitt: Nat-Commun-2014①).
       The identification of a CLK1 pathway that controls mitochondrial stress (Whitmarsh: Nat-
        Cell-Biol-2015①).
       Definition of a role for ‘cytosensor’ cellular projections known in attenuating the response to
        extracellular signalling molecules (Ashe H; Dev-Cell-2019①).
       The identification of post-translational modifications of cellulose synthase that regulate its
        membrane localisation and activity, ultimately contributing to biomass formation (Turner:
        Science-2016①).
       Uncovering the function of Dynein light chains in the formation of bipolar spindle complexes,
        necessary for cell division (Allan, Woodman, Woolner, J-Cell-Biol-2014①).
Our fundamental molecular and cellular science impacts on the understanding of disease (‘Disease
Biology’ ②). This has helped elucidate pathways in genetic disease, for example in developmental
disorders:
       Defects in small nuclear RNAs involved in ribosome biogenesis have been shown to lead to
        leukoencephalopathy (Pavitt: Nat-Genet-2016①② see also 1.3.5 ) whilst disrupting protein
        trafficking leads to Lowe syndrome and gerodermia osteodysplastica (Lowe: Nat-Commun-
        2019①②).
Similarly, molecular and cellular science in this grouping has impacted on the understanding of
cancer. This has revealed:
       How oncogenic transcription factors influence cell fate commitment during mitosis (Taylor:
        Cancer-Cell-2015②) and the development of oesophageal adenocarcinoma (Sharrocks:
        Genome-Res-2019②).



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      How chromatin remodelling proteins contribute to breast cancer (Nagarajan: Nat-Genet-
       2020②).
      The intricacies of receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) signalling and the differential response to
       different ligands (Francavilla: Nat-Struct-Mol-Biol-2016①), as well as how oncogenic RTK-
       driven signalling pathways are rewired in cancer cells (Francavilla: Cell-Reports-2017②),
       and in pancreatic cancer, how these pathways operate during communication with the cancer
       stromal cell population (Jorgensen: Cell-2016②).
This latter research links the molecular cancer work to the Cell-Matrix area (1.3.2) by showing how
key intracellular signalling molecules, integrins, are involved in cellular cross-talk.
Research in Research Strength 1 drives impact, exemplified by three of our returned impact cases.
For example, work on protease inhibitors against HIV has revealed a useful off-target action, and
basic work on protein engineering led to the development and clinical use of Adoptive Cell Therapy,
whilst fundamental developmental neuroscience has primed public engagement cases.
Linked impact cases Figure 3: Hampson #5; Thistlethwaite-Hawkins #6; Prokop #2
Future research directions: Quantitative single cell technologies will become increasingly influential
in our research, enhancing our understanding of cellular heterogeneity and bringing fundamental
understanding of the regulation of gene expression into application areas; this will build on our £4.9m
MRC infrastructure award plus institutional UMRI backing (3.1 & 4.1), to map processes
underpinning genetic disease and cell function. Notable areas of future focus include: chromatin
biology (new recruit Nagaragan); molecular quantitation (Francavilla, Jorgensen); and RNA
biology (Pavitt, Ashe). We will strengthen links with computational and physical scientists to bolster
interdisciplinary work and enhance our ability to handle ‘big data’ and implement robust quantitative
approaches (e.g. via Rattray, Papalopulu, and new Turing Artificial Intelligence Fellow, Yao). This
will benefit from links to the Pankhurst Institute and our Digital Futures initiative (4.1.1).


1.3.2 Research Strength 2: Cell-Matrix Biology
Staff address fundamental questions on the role of extracellular matrix and its receptors in the
construction, function, and repair of tissues. This includes molecular and cellular studies to uncover
mechanisms underpinning interactions with matrix that govern cell cycle progression, motility and
tissue development, through to clinical applications in inflammation and cancer. The integration of
basic scientists with clinical and translational colleagues engenders a multi- and interdisciplinary
environment encouraging advances across UoA boundaries.
This area is underpinned by the Wellcome Centre for Cell-Matrix Research (WCCMR), an
externally funded centre of excellence which examines the cross-talk between cells and matrix to
provide insights into the mechanisms that underpin tissue assembly and function (‘Understanding
Life’ ①) and identify why matrix dysregulation is a major factor in most chronic diseases (‘Disease
Biology’ ②). Led by Kadler, our Centre has received continuous Wellcome funding since 1995,
and has been renewed in the REF period (£4.9m in 2016), with a recent £1.7m short-term extension
in 2020. The most recent award (to the end of 2023) continues support for nine Centre-based
research staff who are also allied to Faculty core facilities, plus maintenance and service contracts
for major capital equipment. The Centre Group Leaders collectively hold £37m of funding from
Wellcome, other charities, MRC, and BBSRC. Research focusses on three key themes: circadian
rhythms (chrono-matrix); the immune system (immuno-matrix); and mechanical stresses (mechano-
matrix). The WCCMR is a productive, interdisciplinary research centre, hosting 23 research groups
and 145 staff and postgraduate students, with world-leading experts including Allen (Wellcome
Investigator), Humphries (CRUK programme grant), Kadler (Wellcome Investigator and BBSRC
sLoLa lead), Lennon from UoA1 (Wellcome Clinical Senior Fellow), Meng (Versus Arthritis Senior
Fellow), and Grencis (Wellcome Investigator). The Centre is also home to many excellent early
career researchers: Swift (BBSRC Sir David Philips), Dyer (Wellcome Henry Dale), Zacharchenco
(UoM Presidential Fellow) and Woolner (Wellcome Henry Dale).
Allied strategic Research Domains (4.1) and University structures have helped leverage capital
infrastructure for molecular and cell-matrix science challenges. For biomolecular analysis and

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
structural biology, WCCMR staff have contributed to successful bids for cryo-EM (BBSRC £750k),
and mass spectrometry (Wellcome £390k), and linked with the Lydia Becker Institute of Immunology
and Inflammation to secure a new £5.4m Wellcome-funded PhD programme in ImmunoMatrix in
Complex Disease (1.3.3 & 2.5), as part of a joint ImmunoMatrix Theme.
This grouping has made important advances in the ‘Understanding Life’ area on how cells
communicate with, and respond to, the extracellular matrix (ECM). For example:
       Proteomic studies have demonstrated the complexity and function of integrin-mediated
        signalling complexes (Humphries: Nat-Cell-Biol-2015①),
       Links identified between integrin-mediated complexes and the intracellular cytoskeleton
        (Ballestrem: Nat-Commun-2015①).
These basic discoveries have led to applied findings in the ‘Disease Biology’ context:
       Demonstrating the importance of the ECM in kidney and liver disease (Piper-Hanley: Nat-
        Commun-2016②) linking our research to that in UoA1.
       Characterising the critical role that integrin signalling plays in T-cell-mediated inflammation
        (Travis: Immunity-2015②).
       Showing how interactions between the ECM in the lung and alveolar macrophages are critical
        to macrophage metabolism during inflammation (MacDonald: Nat-Commun-2014②).
       Similarly, ECM interactions are important in regulating cytokine availability for combatting
        whipworm infections (Grencis: Nat-Commun-2019②).
Future Research Directions
The recent WCCMR renewal focussed on three ongoing interdisciplinary themes, linking the cell-
matrix with:
       Circadian biology (1.3.4),
       Mechano-matrix (e.g. Kadler BBSRC sLola),
       Immuno-matrix (via the Wellcome PhD award, 1.3.3).
We will develop a new theme, Disease Matrix, focused on cancer and fibrosis. Wellcome ISSF
support (£285k to Gilmore, 4.1) has enabled collaboration with the Manchester Cancer Research
Centre, and a subsequent £3.4m award to become part of the CRUK International Alliance for
Early Cancer Detection (ACED). Piper-Hanley will lead on expanding basic scientific studies in
matrix biology towards understanding the pathophysiology underpinning fibrotic diseases. We aim
to understand how matrix tension drives the profibrotic phenotype of myofibroblasts, and will apply
proteomic methodologies developed with our core facilities to determine the pathological “signature”
of fibrosis. These studies will target biomarker discovery and digital health (via new appointments
in artificial intelligence (AI), including Yau in UoA5). This links the fundamental science to the new
£25m Christabel Pankhurst Institute for Health Technology Research and Innovation (4.1.1),
assisted by £2.4m from InnovateUK and £2.1m leveraged from Roche Diagnostics and GE
Healthcare.


1.3.3 Research Strength 3: Infection, Immunology & Inflammation
Staff study how immunity and inflammation are regulated across the life course in health and
disease. The biology of infection is studied, including microorganisms (virus, bacteria, fungi,
parasites) at the molecular and cellular level, through to their behaviour in communities (e.g. the
microbiome) and interactions with the infected host, both in health and disease. In both cases,
research crosses UoA activities and outputs highlight interdisciplinarity.
This area is underpinned by two Centres/institutes, the Manchester Collaborative Centre for
Inflammation Research (MCCIR) and the recently established Lydia Becker Institute of
Immunology and Inflammation (LBI), both led by Hussell (UoA1). Originally founded in 2012, the
MCCIR is a multi-disciplinary research centre that performs exploratory research, in collaboration
with industry, investigating the molecular basis of immune health and its dysregulation in

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
inflammation. Established with initial investment from the University, GlaxoSmithKline and
AstraZeneca, MCCIR has grown since the last REF period, with major ongoing funding from GSK
(£2.4m since December 2016). The MCCIR sits within the LBI, established via an UMRI award in
2018 (4.1), and tackles wider immune complexity in major themes. Many are led by UoA5 staff:
Grainger: barrier immunology, Davis: cellular immunology, Travis: immune tolerance, Grencis:
pathogens, parasites and commensals, and Allen: immuno-matrix. The LBI embraces cutting-edge
technology, such as super-resolution microscopy and deep phenotyping of single cells (4.1, Single
Cell UMRI award), uniting 176 PIs and research fellows from across the whole university. LBI themes
bridge to other UoAs: cancer immunology (linking with Manchester Cancer Research Centre and
CRUK-MI), immuno-informatics (links to UoA10 (Mathematical Sciences)) and neuro-immunology
(UoA4 (Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience)). The 30 UoA5 PIs in this Strength have secured
£31m of external funding in the current REF cycle.
The MCCIR and LBI have made key advances in our ‘Understanding Life’ umbrella area in
molecular immunology, including:
       Discoveries of novel mechanisms underlying macrophage activation in tissue repair,
        demonstrating that tissue-specific signals are essential for type 2 immune responses (Allen
        & Sutherland: Science-2017①) and uncovering the molecular basis of gut macrophage
        replenishment (Allen, Konkel, Grainger: J-Exp-Med-2018①).
       A new epigenetic mechanism established between the chromatin binding protein Mbd2 and
        T cell responses, (MacDonald, Allen, Sutherland, Cook, Grainger: Nat-Immunol-2019①),
        identifying Mbd2 as a target for therapeutic manipulation of allergic inflammation and anti-
        helminth host defence.
       Mapping the molecular details underlying cytokine signalling and how tissue architecture
        helps constrain TNF- levels, thereby maintaining a localised inflammatory response
        (Paszek, White: Sci-Signal-2018①).
Often with industrial partners, fundamental studies also describe how cells and systems respond to
infection and inflammation, impacting on ‘Disease Biology’:
       In collaboration with Celgene, Davis (Blood-2015①②) helped establish
        how immunomodulatory drugs augment the activity of natural killer (NK) cells, and in
        collaboration with GSK, discovered how NK cells detach from target cells, which is now being
        exploited by Fate Therapeutics in a new cell therapy for acute myeloid leukaemia (called
        FT516) (Davis: J-Cell-Biol-2018①②).
       Also with GSK, discovered novel immune system functionality in clearing extracellular
        molecules from intercellular contacts (Davis: Nat-Commun-2014②). This has
        consequences for drug clearance, leading to further mechanistic investigations for drug
        design. Davis has joined GSK’s Immunology Network to advance this and other issues.
       How chemokine binding proteins inhibit immune cell migration and thence inflammation,
        suggesting novel therapeutic strategies based on the key binding protein TSG-6 (Day,
        Milner: J-Biol-Chem-2016①②), which have leveraged knowledge exchange (MRC, £200k)
        and other external funding (1.6.1).
In the LBI’s immune tolerance sub-theme, the use of antibiotics has been shown to perturb mucosal
macrophages, leading to long-term immuno-defects (Mann, Travis, Grencis: Sci-Trans-Med-
2018②).
Many studies integrate expertise from other Strengths, such as Cell-Matrix Biology (1.3.2) including:
       Studies showing how the extracellular matrix influences immune responses during lung
        infection, where the environment controls macrophage metabolism (Thornton, Grencis,
        Sutherland, Allen: Nat-Immunol-2019①②).
       Parasitic infection has been linked with the gut microbiota, characterising the novel interplay
        between a whipworm parasite and its host, showing how the parasite exploits the host’s
        microbiota, both to achieve infection and promote its long-term survival (Roberts, Grencis:
        Sci-Adv-2018①②).

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Infection biology also links with UoA1, notably in the area of mycobiology. Fundamental aspects of
genome biology relate to Aspergillus colonization, where a genetic variation in a key transcription
factor ZNF77 has been identified as a risk-marker for stratification (Bowyer, Denning (UoA1): Nat-
Commun-2018②), underpinning ImpactCase#4.
Linked Impact Cases Figure 3: Cruickshank #1; Denning, Bowyer #4; McBain #6
Future Research Directions: The LBI has recently focused on the COVID-19 pandemic, forming a
cross-disciplinary consortium and new objectives allied to respiratory medicine (UoA1). The team,
involving immunologists, bioinformaticians and clinicians from four local hospitals, followed patients
longitudinally from admission, through to outcome and 12-week follow-up. This revealed critical
components of disease pathogenesis that will influence therapy in subsequent infection waves. Led
by Hussell, with UoA5 collaborators (Mann, Menon, Konkel, Rattray, Grainger: Sci-Immunol-
2020①②), the study characterises a biomarker profile that can identify admitted patients at risk of
severe disease trajectory. As a reflection of external esteem, the Institute was selected to lead the
largest theme in the UKRI-funded Coronavirus Immunology Consortium (UK-CIC) which unites 17
immunology research centres across the UK (£6.4m). Future plans will link COVID-19 research to
primary care records to understand the impact of medication, lifestyle and multimorbidity on disease
severity.
We will expand the immunology-cell matrix interface, building on the recently awarded Wellcome
PhD Programme in Immuno-matrix in complex disease (£5.4m), a joint venture with the WCCMR
and the Manchester Cancer Research Centre (1.3.2).
We will build a cross-UoA network of infection biologists using UMRI funding (4.1), to refresh the
pipeline for antimicrobials and develop new non-drug-based treatments, as part of a wider University-
driven strategy in antimicrobial resistance (AMR). Leadership of the network has been boosted by
recruitment of a specialist in the evolutionary microbiology of AMR (Brockhurst) alongside existing
staff in UoA1 (Bromley, Fenton), as well as synergy with staff in Research Strength 5 (1.3.5).


1.3.4 Research Strength 4: Biological Timing.
Using model organisms, in vitro and computational approaches, staff are uncovering mechanistic
links between the circadian clock and animal/human physiology to reveal new, exciting approaches
for drug development and therapy. Specific research strengths include inflammation, metabolic and
cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and tissue fibrosis, seeking to rapidly progress basic research
breakthroughs into a clinical setting.
FBMH has the largest community of circadian researchers in Europe, in the Centre for Biological
Timing (CfBT), featuring 27 principal investigators, unified in their goal “to determine, understand
and exploit timing as a new dimension in biology and medicine for enhancing human and animal
health and wellbeing.” CfBT PIs have secured £52m of external funding in the current cycle, as
measured by internal UoA5 credit share. Led by Director Lucas (UoA4), their research spans basic
biology, neuroscience, many clinical disciplines, mathematics, and engineering. Research is
organised across three complementary areas, two led from UoA5: i) Brain, behaviour and
environmental response (Brown), ii) Internal homeostasis and clock mechanisms (Bechtold), iii)
Clinical translation and multi-morbidity (Rutter, UoA1).
A core component of research focuses on the entrainment of circadian rhythms by external cues:
      A pioneering discovery is that the mammalian circadian system responds to the blue-yellow
       colour axis that changes at twilight and provides a more reliable control to the system than
       light intensity alone (Brown: PLoS-Biol-2015①;Curr-Biol-2019①). This has revolutionised
       appreciation of the effects of artificial lighting on circadian health and led to the production of
       new international lighting guidelines (Figure 3, ImpactCase#8).
      New mechanistic insights into how feeding entrains the circadian clock, demonstrating that
       insulin and IGF-1 signalling rapidly upregulate translation of clock proteins, and that mistimed
       insulin release creates circadian disruption (Bechtold: Cell-2019①②), leading to metabolic
       and cardiac dysfunction (Bechtold: Nat-Commun-2017②).


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      New understanding of the molecular mechanisms of casein kinase (CK1ε) as a potential
       target for alleviating the detrimental effects of chronic shift work and jet lag (Bechtold: Curr-
       Biol-2014①).
Related work with UK Biobank data has identified genetic loci that influence our chronotype and
sleep disturbance, sharing pathways with neuropsychiatric and metabolic diseases (Loudon: Nat-
Commun-2016①; Nat Genet-2016②).
Our international reputation helped attract Fustin from Kyoto University on a UKRI Future Leaders
Fellowship, whose ground-breaking work has demonstrated the importance of mRNA methylation
on molecular timekeeping (Fustin: PNAS-2018①). Understanding this evolutionarily conserved
mechanism could offer new therapeutic approaches for treating methylation deficiencies (Fustin:
Commun-Biol-2020①).
Underpinned by an MRC Programme Grant and a Wellcome Investigator Award totalling £2.7m, and
in collaboration with colleagues from the LBI, CfBT researchers have deciphered pathways
mediating clock regulation of the immune system. They have shown that:
      Responses to bacterial lung infections, and the therapeutic effects of the glucocorticoid
       dexamethasone, depend on an epithelial cell clock (Loudon: Nature-Med-2014②).
      In the liver, the clock protein REVERBa exerts time of day-specific control of the spectrum of
       target genes engaged by glucocorticoid receptor, and that timed administration of
       glucocorticoids can alleviate their serious metabolic side-effects (e.g. hepatic steatosis)
       (Hunter, Iqbal, Rattray, Loudon: J-Clin-Invest-2018②).
Collaborative studies with researchers in the WCCMR have shown the highly circadian nature of
matrix regulation, including:
      The fibrotic response to oxidative damage in the lung (Meng: Genes-Dev-2014②) with the
       targeting of REVERBa possibly presenting a new strategy to reduce collagen deposition by
       fibroblasts in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis patients (Blaikley: PNAS-2020②).
      Identification of key clock gene regulating cartilage homeostasis, identifying a major risk
       factor for osteoarthritis (Meng: J-Clin-Invest-2020②)
      Further corroboration revealing the circadian control of collagen secretion in normal
       physiology, and day-night segregation of collagen degradation and synthesis (Kadler: Nat-
       Cell-Biol-2020①).
Linked Impact Cases Figure 3: Brown, Allen, Bechtold, Lucas (UoA4) #8
Future Research Directions: We will build on our strengths in basic biology and model systems to
unravel the constituent molecular pathways underpinning circadian rhythms, engaging across UoAs
with mathematicians and engineers to model and rationalise the findings. With researchers from the
Henry Royce Institute - advanced materials, UoA12 (Engineering) - and in a joint venture with the
Health & Safety Executive, we will generate new wearable devices to measure the effects of our
interactions with the modern environment on our biological rhythms and health. This will complement
our recent population level genetic studies with UK Biobank, and in combination with advanced
computational approaches (Rattray, Iqbal) – again bridging to Digital Futures/Pankhurst Institute
(4.1.1) - link between circadian disruption and disease susceptibility, moving towards experimental
medicine studies.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3.5 Research Strength 5: Evolution, Genomics and Development
Researchers address developmental and evolutionary biology problems that are unified by the
concept of the genome as a platform from which biological function and dysfunction can be
understood. This frequently integrates computational biology, and spans all scales, from molecules
(gene expression at the transcriptional or translational level, underpinning cell fate), via cells (how
genetic lesions lead to Mendelian disease), via whole organisms (how adaptive processes change
phenotypes), through to how populations adapt (e.g. how antimicrobial resistance arises in bacterial
populations).
UoA5 researchers in this Strength have been awarded £37.1m in the current REF cycle, again based
on percentage credit split. Our genomics work unites clinical geneticists in the Manchester Centre
for Genomic Medicine with basic scientists using computational and molecular characterisation of
genetic lesions, often in model systems, to bring understanding to human genetic disease and
pathology. Our restructure, along with internal funding mechanisms (UMRI, ISSF awards totalling
~£300k, led by Lovell and Black (UoA1), 4.1) have helped develop a pipeline from fundamental
genome variant characterisation back to translational/clinical leads. Manchester hosts one of seven
NHS Genomic Laboratory Hubs and involvement with Genomics England’s 100,000 Genomes
project provides data for analysis. Such integration of clinical data with fundamental biology helps
underpin impact (Figure 3, ImpactCase#3) at the interface of ‘Understanding Life’ and ‘Disease
Biology’. Example outputs include:
      Research explaining how genetic variants can produce mechanistic defects in the processing
       of essential ribosomal rRNAs, leading to developmental disorders (O’Keefe, Pavitt,
       Griffiths-Jones: Nat-Genet-2016②) with co-authors in UoA1 (Crow).
      Studies describing how a genetic variant in the transcription factor STAT2 leads to a type I
       interferonopathy, with supporting computational molecular modelling data (Lovell: Sci-
       Immunol-2019②) with co-authors in UoA1 (Briggs).
      Mechanistic studies describing an in cis 5’UTR variant that causes epigenetic silencing of the
       BRCA1 gene, which is associated with familial breast and ovarian cancer in independent
       families (Smith M: Am-J-Hum-Genet-2018②) with co-authors in UoA1 (Newman, Evans).
Computational biology often underpins genome science, including in developmental biology.
Examples include:
      The international microRNA database, miRbase, led by Griffith-Jones, is central to major
       genome projects (e.g. the house spider BMC-Biol-2017①), and can also be used to
       demonstrate conserved evolutionary principles, such as how non-coding RNA drives
       developmental biology gene expression programmes in arthropods (Ronshaugen, Griffiths-
       Jones: Genome-Res-2016①). miRbase also has wider impact, supporting product design
       for wide use across the biomedical sciences (Figure 3, ImpactCase#9)
      Underpinning methods development, such as in single cell biology and gene expression
       (Rattray: Nucleic-Acids-Res-2019①). Multi-disciplinary approaches involving advanced
       statistical modelling of time-series data to explain how a key transcription factor determines
       cell fate decisions in the developing mammalian spinal cord (Rattray, Papalopulu: Nat-
       Commun-2019①), part of a broader interdisciplinary theme led by Papalopulu
       characterising the importance of oscillatory regulatory networks in controlling cell fate
       decisions (e.g. EMBO-J-2020①).
Major insights have been made into fundamental principles controlling developmental pathways,
including:
      An integrated zebrafish in vivo and computational model demonstrated how asymmetric cell
       division can drive cell migration in angiogenic development – a hitherto unknown role
       (Herbert: Nat-Cell-Biol-2016①).
      A direct link between cell polarity and cell cycle has been shown in neurodevelopmental
       pathways, stemming from a localised kinase which phosphorylates a cell cycle inhibitor
       (Papalopulu: Dev-Cell-2014①).

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      A new mathematical framework to understand how cell shape and mechanical forces
       influence cell division has been developed by Woolner: Cell-Rep-2019①, whilst others have
       shown how endocytic signalling pathways are robust to temperature fluctuations in Notch
       pathways (Baron: Cell-2014①).
Evolutionary biology has been strengthened, with new leadership in the area of microbiology
(Brockhurst) supported by outstanding ECRs (Lagator Wellcome Henry Dale Fellow; Krasovec
UKRI Future Leaders Fellow; Gifford UKRI Rutherford Fellow; Coyte Presidential Fellow). The
group has uncovered novel adaptive mechanisms in microbial populations that drive antibiotic
resistance, as well as the dynamics of microbiomes, all underpinned with theory and models:
      Whole-genome sequencing has shown how cross-resistance against multiple phages
       develops in bacteria, with implications for effective phage therapies (Brockhurst: PLoS-Biol-
       2018①②).
      Ecological theory has been applied to rationalise community phenomena observed in the gut
       microbiome (Coyte: Science-2015①; Sci-Transl-Med-2018②), and shown that possession
       of certain genes permits bacteria to evolve antibiotic resistance at faster rates, whilst
       blocking this evolutionary pathway by co-administering other drugs can hinder evolution of
       antibiotic resistance (Gifford: Nat-Ecol-Evol-2018①②).
Linked Impact cases Figure 3: Griffiths-Jones #9; Black #3
Future Research Directions: We will enhance genomics research links to the NHS via the Genomics
Laboratory Hub (led by Black, UoA1). Clinicians finding unexplained genetic variants are matched
with UoA5 academics, bioinformaticians and core facilities to generate an integrated pipeline.
Supported by internal UMRI funding (4.1), we will use stem cells, model systems, and ‘omics
techniques to explore the consequences of these mutations, linking to FBMH’s Stoller Centre for
Biomarker Discovery and UK Biobank.
We will develop a new, cross-Faculty approach to address AMR, building on an UMRI-funded
network (4.1) of 127 staff led by Bromley (UoA1). The network bridges infection biologists (1.3.3),
evolutionary biologists (1.3.5), clinicians (via a £4.5m NIHR award to Felton), public health staff
(UoA2), and synthetic biologists (UoA8 (Chemistry)) in the Faculty of Science and Engineering. This
has also benefitted from the UoM’s Wellcome ISSF (4.1) which helped Krasovec deliver key papers
and bridge to his UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (PLoS-Biology-2017①).




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.4 UNIVERSITY STRUCTURE AND CONTEXT
98% of staff in our Research Strengths (1.3) work in FBMH. First constituted in 2016, FBMH is one
of three large, multi-School Faculties that make up the UoM. This restructure followed a review in
2015 that recognised that modern bioscience research is increasingly multi- and/or inter-disciplinary.
Accordingly, we merged our previous Faculties of Life Sciences and Medical and Human Sciences
to generate a revitalised platform for multi-disciplinary research, bringing strengths in fundamental
biosciences closer to the clinical and translational sciences (4.1 and Figure 2 below).




Figure 2. Faculty and School Structure. Strategic Research Domains (left) are cross-cutting themes
to promote and coordinate research activities targeted at major research challenges. For each
Division the number of UoA5 staff is shown as FTE (circle, top right), and as % of total FTE in that
Division (bottom left).

FBMH comprises three Schools: Biological Sciences (SBS), Medical Sciences (SMS) and Health
Sciences (SHS). Each contains six Divisions (Figure 2), the primary operational unit providing direct
line management. UoA5’s 148 staff (143.05 FTE) are concentrated across SBS and SMS.
Within Divisions, UoA5 staff work in interdisciplinary teams alongside staff from other panel A UoAs.
This promotes collaboration between applied and basic scientists. For example, all bar one contain
staff from other UoAs, and 30% (106) of our returned outputs are co-authored by academics from at
least one other Manchester UoA. Similarly, 31% of awards to UoA5 staff have co-applicants from
UoAs 1-4. Several staff from UoA5 work in hospital labs alongside clinical colleagues or are
embedded with chemists, physicists, informaticists, computer scientists, mathematicians, and
environmental scientists to foster greater interactions, in the Manchester Institute for Biotechnology,
which houses our University strengths in industrial biotechnology and synthetic biology. This
epitomises our cross-cutting interdisciplinary ethos and our Faculty’s future research strategy, which
is embodied in three grand challenges:
   i.      Discovering novel biological, psychological and social mechanisms
   ii.     Developing new approaches to prevention and early detection of disease
   iii.    Developing next generation person-centred therapies, interventions and care pathways
We will develop this strategy further in the next REF cycle, where fundamental bioscience
discoveries (‘Understanding Life’) are the foundation of challenge (i), and bridge to applications
(‘Disease Biology’) addressing (ii) and (iii) above. These will link discovery science to University

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
institutes/Centres with a focus on health technology research and translation (e.g. our Pankhurst
Institute and Stoller Centre for Biomarker Discovery, 4.1.1). Specific examples include:
       Further development of infection biology understanding and applications in AMR (1.3.3 &
        1.3.5, and 4.1), leading to new treatments and practice
     Growth in exploiting genomics sequence and allied ‘omics data for characterising genetic
        disease (1.3.5), leading to novel diagnostics and treatments
     Influence of circadian biology on disease detection (1.3.4 & 1.3.2), leading to experimental
        medicine studies
which all impact on challenges (ii) and (iii).

1.5 RESEARCH SUPPORT STRATEGY & INFRASTRUCTURE
A broad range of research support is available for staff, from the library, governance, and pre- and
post-award grant support teams. We strongly support the open access (OA) agenda, and our
University library aids with deposition of outputs and administers the University block grants from
UKRI and Wellcome, augmented by the £300k UoM OA fund. They also ensure Author Accepted
Manuscripts are deposited in the University’s PURE system. Schools also employ a full-time member
of staff who assists staff in dealing with OA matters, ensuring our high OA compliance rate (98%).
Manchester has also played an important role in promoting OA compliance in the biomedical
sciences from the President (Rothwell) down. UoM was a partner on the UKPMC/EuropePMC
project with the British Library and the EBI, with Hubbard sitting on the project board during the REF
period and promoting OA compliance more widely.
The Faculty Research Governance Team supports all researchers undertaking biomedical, clinical
and health-related research. All staff undertake mandatory annual research integrity training, and
each Division contributes staff to our ethics committee structure. The Faculty team acts on behalf of
the University as Research Governance Sponsor, to drive forward the University’s Research Integrity
agenda (REF5a, section 2v). This includes the University-wide Open Research Working Group who
arrange training events and workshops around Open and Reproducible Research.
Research support at the School level is administered via dedicated Research Support Managers
and Officers (one per Division) who provide direct input in identification of resources, budget
construction, and compliance with funder terms and conditions, and University policy. In addition,
Research Support Managers provide input towards School research goals, including provision of
management information on research activity, and participation in statutory returns for external
organisations. For major awards, programme grants and similar, FBMH’s Strategic Funding Team
(SFT) provides comprehensive support (3.3).

1.6 IMPACT STRATEGY
Our institutional statement (REF5a section 2) outlines our focus on impact, where we were ranked
first in Europe in the 2018 THE University Impact Rankings. The University and FBMH research
strategies aim to have an impact beyond academia and yield economic, health and social benefits.
UoA5 research spans fundamental discovery science (‘Understanding Life’), via mechanistic work
with implications for disease (‘Disease Biology’), through to therapeutic targets and impact on
clinical treatment, leading to impact in three main themes: (i) health – including translating research
into new practices and products to deliver improvements in health and wellbeing; (ii) environmental
and social – engaging with the public, education and promoting public health messages, stimulating
policy debate and influencing policy decisions; and (iii) economic and commercial, including the
establishment of profitable spin-out companies, creation and commercialisation of new products,
industry investment in innovative research. Harmonising with the FBMH impact strategy, UoA5:
       Supports and develops researchers to achieve their goals, enhance research partnerships
        and stakeholder engagement, including industry,
       Builds productive partnerships, and
       Delivers positive societal impact by maximising translation and implementation of research.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The following sections describe our methods to achieve this.


1.6.1 Mechanisms promoting impact
Oversight and governance of the University’s impact activities are ensured by the overarching
University Research Impact Group, chaired by the Vice-President for Research. Our structures
facilitate joint research between UoA5 staff and others in the Faculty in areas including cancer,
inflammation and genomics, thereby maximising translation and impact (Figure 3).
School-level Knowledge Exchange & Impact Officers (KE&IOs) provide one-to-one support for
writing impact sections of funding applications and planning for, monitoring, evidencing and
evaluating the resulting impact. Since 2014, they have contributed to 87 draft impact sections on
grants. KE&IOs also signpost researchers to other University support teams such as the Business
Engagement Team, UoM Innovation Factory (the University’s commercialisation arm), as well as the
Library and Press Office and other specialist academic networks. Each School in the Faculty has a
dedicated academic Director of Social Responsibility, with Social Responsibility leads in each
Division. The University Academic Lead for Public Engagement with Research, Cruickshank, is
from UoA5. She led the UoM’s first Gold award from the National Co-Coordinating Centre for Public
Engagement, and awards from the BBSRC for her immunology research on parasitic worm infections
and public health (Worm Wagon) - see also ImpactCase#1 (1.3.3 & Figure 3). Recently,
Cruickshank’s citizen science research on asthma and hay fever symptoms has linked into Computer
Science (UoA11) to develop a novel app in the Britain Breathing project.
Further impact support is provided by an institution-level team which unifies activities, administering
impact awards made to the University, including a £300k BBSRC Impact Acceleration Account, MRC
Confidence in Concept funding, and Wellcome Institutional Translational Partnership Award (iTPA).
Eighteen UoA5 academics have received a total of £1.1m from these awards, to accelerate the
transition from discovery research to translational development by supporting preliminary work or
feasibility studies. The Wellcome iTPA funds two Translational Research Facilitators, who lead the
following two schemes: Access to Expertise Award (£250k) and Projects for Translation (£220k). Six
UoA5 researchers have received awards from these schemes, allowing them to leverage additional
external funding. For example, Day/Milner received a total of £232k overall, including £57k of iTPA
support, which was targeted at TSG6, a biologic for degenerative immunological conditions. This in
turn lead to a Versus Arthritis Programme Grant (£1.23m) to identify osteoarthritis patients who are
most responsive to the developed biologic. The MRC also funded development of a diagnostic assay
for anti-TNF drug treatment response in rheumatoid arthritis which confirmed that immunoprofiling
can predict clinical outcome, leading to a patent application in preparation, and £96k of proof of
principle funding from UoM Innovation Factory. Other notable examples include two Knowledge
Transfer Partnership (KTP) awards to commercialise yeast strains in brewing (Delneri, CloudWater
Brew Co. £190k) and algal-based omega3 oil biosynthesis (Day Anil, Algaecytes Limited, £293k).


1.6.2 Recognising and rewarding impact
As part of our strategy to instigate a culture change in impact awareness, we started the ‘Making a
Difference Awards’ (May 2015) to recognise the contribution made by staff and students to society.
This included awards for ‘Outstanding Benefit to Society through Research’ which recognises
success in collaborative working and knowledge exchange activities, and ‘Outstanding Public
Engagement’. Success in working with industrial partners or generating IP is recognised at Faculty
or School-level annual Research Symposia, with awards for ‘Best new industrial collaboration’ and
‘Most promising new innovation’ awarded, with accompanying presentations to inspire enquiries to
the Business Engagement team. Our annual Performance and Development Reviews require all
academic staff to detail their contributions to business development and public engagement. This
scheme allows line managers to recognise and encourage impact achievements, and use the
evidence for promotions.
Led by Hubbard, UoM was a finalist in BBSRC’s 2016 Excellence with Impact competition, and was
awarded two commendations; for outreach in collaboration with the Manchester Museum and


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
effectively embedding impact across our staff development programmes. The bid featured prototype
REF2021 impact cases from Cruickshank, Prokop, and Griffiths-Jones (Figure 3).
The Faculty has funded impact activities during the current REF cycle. For example, funding for an
Experimental Officer to resource “droso4schools” and to support production of educational YouTube
videos for the Fly Facility (Prokop, Figure 3) and to Cruickshank, for the development and delivery
of English to Speakers of Other Languages classes and the #BritainBreathing app for allergy tracking
and monitoring. Similarly, the University matched the £25k won in the 2013 BBSRC Activating Impact
competition, to support a variety of activities linked to disclosures requiring further development. One
such award (to Hentges) primed research on the role of Med31 in bone ossification, helping secure
a BBSRC CASE award with Syngenta in 2017.




Figure 3. Impact cases supported by our strategy


1.6.3 Training, mentoring and capacity building
The University and Faculty have developed a range of training materials and resources for staff and
students on the importance of impact at all stages in the research cycle, including dedicated sessions
on our compulsory New Academics Programme. We have developed an extensive set of ‘how to’
guides and training modules on ‘Pathways to Impact’ guidance and ‘Impact Pipelines’, available via
the University intranet. For students, we have delivered workshops and competitions at the
Manchester Enterprise Centre with our Business Engagement team acting as judges/mentors,
offering an insight into the life science industry. Supported by BBSRC Knowledge Exchange &
Commercialisation Seminar Funds, over 200 postgraduate students have attended Faculty Industry
workshops, where industry representatives share advice on making the transition to industry and
collaborating with industrial partners. Similarly, we also promote student impact activities via the
professional internships for PhD Students (PIPS) scheme as part of our BBSRC DTP programmes.


1.6.4 Strategic partnerships, IP and business engagement
Partnerships are critical to impact and we have strategic links with several major partners including
GSK and Boots UK Ltd (4.1.3). The role of the University is described in REF5a, section 2iv. Over
the seven-year REF period, the entrepreneurial activity of staff from UoA5 has resulted in > £6m in
total grant income associated with IP, and a total number of 40 patents. Examples of impact cases


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
relating to commercialisation are the microRNA database (#9 Griffiths-Jones) and dressings for
wound healing (#6 McBain), as shown above.


1.6.5 Social responsibility and influencing policy development
One goal of UoA5 research is to influence the public and change policy (1.6). Examples of success
are provided by two of our impact cases:
     #8 Lucas, resulting in novel guidelines to regulate the wavelengths of light used for
       illumination (1.3.4).
     #5 Hampson, where drug repurposing to treat cervical cancer was used in the debate on the
       Medical Innovation Bill (2014), informally known as the Saatchi Bill (1.3.1).

Another example comes from Cruickshank, who developed a phone app to capture symptoms of
allergy and asthma sufferers to correlate with measurements of pollution and other environmental
triggers. The results have influenced politicians at both regional and national levels, with Cruickshank
invited to present her work at the Greater Manchester Council. She was subsequently invited on to
the Council’s Air Quality Task and Finish Group to inform strategy on air quality in the region. She
also presented the project at Parliament to MPs and interested parties as part of Evidence Week in
2019. To start addressing concerns around air quality and health directly, a UKRI funded-community
based project was initiated in collaboration with a city council housing group, S4B.




                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People


2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
The organisational structures reflect our strategy to promote work at interdisciplinary boundaries,
particularly at the biomedical interface. Consequently, many of the areas identified as Research
Strengths in Section 1.3 comprise staff from different organisational areas and, indeed, different
UoAs. This adds dynamism as we encourage new links to forge.
The 148 staff returned to UoA5 include a diverse mix of bioscientists contributing to our Research
Strengths (1.3). Our strategy is to target recruitment in areas of existing strength and strategic
importance (e.g. to targeted Chairs in immunology (Allen), evolutionary microbiology (Brockhurst),
and AI (Yao)). We have also recruited ECRs in these areas to generate critical mass with a view to
long-term expansion, major collaborative funding, and Centre bids. Our Presidential Fellowships
scheme has improved the quality and quantity of our ECRs and fellows (2.3 and 4.3.2), and we have
a total of 36 externally-funded personal awards across all career levels in this REF cycle (4.3.1).

2.2 EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
As equality, diversity and inclusion are fundamental to success, we seek best practice for all ED&I
principles and protected characteristics. The FBMH ED&I committee, chaired by the Associate Dean
for Social Responsibility (SR), meets quarterly and includes: an ED&I Partner, postgraduate student,
HR partner, the three School SR Directors, Chair of our University's Disabled Staff Network,
representative BAME staff and students, Academic Lead for ED&I (Gender Equality), Athena SWAN
and Race Charter Marks' Coordinator, and a Student Experience representative. Both SBS and SMS
(where most UoA5 staff work) were re-awarded Silver Athena Swan awards following our restructure.
SBS has set the tone with a 68% female leadership team including both the original (Worthington)
and current (Hoyland) Heads of School. This strongly signals that performance and leadership skills
are recognised and promoted regardless of gender.
31% of staff and 24% of Professors/Readers are female. Significantly, 40% of promotions to Chair
were female in the most recent round, demonstrating equal progression. UoM champions and has
invested £80k in the national Aurora Women’s Leadership Programme, launched in 2013 by the
Leadership Foundation, AdvanceHE. This has enabled 70 talented UoM women to take part in the
programme, including four from UoA5. Three have been promoted since attending, including to Chair
(Cruickshank) and Reader (Hentges).
The University has a Bronze award from Race Equality Charter Mark, retained in 2019, and is
signatory to the Disability Confident Scheme and Stonewall Diversity Champions Programme. FBMH
launched the pilot flagship Inclusive Advocacy Programme, designed to ensure that high-performing
researchers from under-represented groups, including BAME, are supported to reach their full
potential. The programme aims to increase diversity in leadership positions and promote inclusivity
within academic culture. The proportion of BAME staff in UoA5 is 8.8% (16 staff), of which three
(19%) are Chairs, two of whom were promoted in the current REF cycle.

2.3 PRESIDENTIAL FELLOWS AND ECRS
FBMH recognises the importance of strong support for ECRs and have introduced schemes to recruit
talented young scientists at the ‘stepping stone’ phase of their career; 27 (18%) of our returned UoA5
staff are ECRs starting their first independent post. UoA5 has benefitted from internal schemes,
notably the University’s Presidential Fellowships, to recruit the next generation of researchers.
Launched in 2017, the scheme built on the previous Dean’s Prize fellowship providing three years’
salary, research and travel expenses, access to research facilities and crucially, strong mentoring
from line managers to achieve independent fellowship success. This scheme has attracted 10 ECRS
to UoA5 in the areas of immunology/infection (Dyer, Green, Greenhalgh, Menon), development
(Manning, Wong, Sagner), cell-matrix (Zacharenko), and evolutionary biology (Coyte, Lagator).
A number have already won external fellowships, including Wellcome Henry Dale (Lagator, Dyer)


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and MRC Career Development Fellowships (Wong). FBMH has also recruited five Henry Wellcome
Postdoctoral Fellows, with four sponsored and mentored by academic staff returned in UoA5.

2.4 ECR AND FELLOWSHIP SUPPORT
All ECRs and Fellows are supported by our Faculty Fellowship Academy. Established in 2013, this
helps talented researchers to gain externally-funded fellowships, providing support from initial
planning through to interview practice, with ongoing mentorship; 22 externally-funded independent
fellows were successfully supported over the assessment period to win awards (4.3.2). The
Academy’s full-time Manager coordinates activities including: 1-2-1 fellowship application advice
sessions, bespoke events, and a Fellows network that the fellows themselves run. Advice sessions
are popular, with over 500 people attending at least one session since January 2014. Events raise
awareness of opportunities, with invited talks from funders including MRC, Wellcome, CRUK, BHF,
BBSRC, and NIHR. The network helps fellows to meet informally and share common
ideas/problems. Fellows also sit on many of our governing bodies, including School Research
Committees, Divisional Leadership Teams, and, importantly, on School Leadership Teams and
Promotion Committees. For example, Francavilla (Wellcome Henry Dale Fellow), is part of the SBS
Leadership Team.
We actively support Fellows towards permanent baseline-funded positions or further externally-
funded Fellowships via a mid-term Fellowship Review Committee chaired by the Head of School,
which reviews progress against objectives set at the outset of the Fellowship. The review provides
a supportive environment to discuss any issues arising and agree future plans. Since 2018, we have
reviewed 30 Fellows in SBS. Of the 18 who have completed their fellowships, 14 were offered
extensions at the end of their Fellowship or are/will be taken on permanently. Within UoA5
specifically, following the completion of their Fellowships, currently six will be taken on to baseline
(Lopez-Castejon, Orozco, Hepworth, Konkel, Das, and Swift).

2.5 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND MONITORING
The University is committed to creating an environment where researchers can develop and fulfil
their potential (see REF5a, section 3.3). For example, UoM was the first in the sector to introduce
an open-ended contracts policy that carries additional benefits for research staff with four or more
years continuous service. This includes an extra three months’ salary (after external grant funding
has ceased) to provide a further opportunity for career development, e.g. undertake specific training,
job shadowing. There is also a redeployment scheme where staff are offered preferential
consideration for UoM job vacancies for a further six months after external funding ends. Research
Staff also benefit from our Extended Access Policy providing access to email accounts and e-
resources for a 12-month period beyond their contract end.
Academic and research staff are recognised and rewarded through our annual promotions process,
which considers career-breaks, ill-health, and part-time working. Promotion of research staff is
independent of funding being available from their current grant, with the cost borne by the relevant
School. Support is provided via promotion workshops and School/Divisional promotion champions,
with successes shared and celebrated through the online research staff handbook. This approach
has led to a year-on-year increase in research staff promotions (success rate 88%). During this REF
period, 20 UoA5 staff have been promoted to Chair, including six women.
In FBMH, staff development is coordinated by our Centre for Academic and Researcher
Development (CARD). CARD is the hub for the delivery of Faculty training, mentoring, and coaching
for the personal and professional development of all academics including research staff. It helps
build research capability, teaching and learning best practice and accreditation, leadership and
management capacity, personal effectiveness, and strategic career management.
CARD convenes the Faculty Research Staff Representatives Forum, a network of >30 research staff
representing every Division in the Faculty. In September 2019, a university-wide team led by FBMH
research staff celebrated the first University of Manchester Postdoc Appreciation Week, linking with
global initiatives to raise awareness and celebrate the achievements of our >2,000 diverse
postdoctoral researchers. Led by UoA5’s Hahn, our efforts were recognised internationally by the

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(USA) National Postdoctoral Association and were awarded the 2019 Elsevier National Postdoc
Appreciation Week best new event award. Postdoc appreciation week is now an embedded annual
event.

2.6 POSTGRADUATE RESEARCH AND SUPPORT
The Manchester Doctoral College oversees the University’s doctoral training and research staff
development, integrating postgraduate research support with research career development. Multiple
Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs) and Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) have been driven
by UoA5 staff, notably from BBSRC, EPSRC and Wellcome. Two BBSRC DTPs have been active
during the current REF period (DTP1 £6m; DTP2 £9m) which have been built upon by the award of
£12m for DTP3 in 2020. Our size, diversity and research strength allowed UoM to bid successfully
as one of the few ‘single site’ lead institutions. The BBSRC DTP currently recruits 21 standard and
five CASE students per year, with 12 fully funded by BBSRC and the rest by the University,
demonstrating our financial commitment to PGR research. A cross-Faculty EPSRC/MRC DTC led
by Kimber from UoA5 in Regenerative Medicine (£4.3m) also illustrates our excellence in
interdisciplinary graduate training. UoM also leads the Wellcome 4ward North Clinical PhD Academy
(£5m) for Northern England, which brings clinicians to study for PhDs at Manchester. Four are hosted
in UoA5 staff labs (Sharrocks, Hepworth/Grencis, Luckman/Dunne, and Travis).
We have hosted three Wellcome Doctoral Programmes during the current REF cycle. Each recruits
six students per year (one fully Faculty funded):
       Molecular and Cell Biology, £2.5m (MCB Ashe H, Sharrocks)
       Quantitative Biology and Biophysics, £2.6m (QBB Papalopulu, Rattray)
       Immuno-Matrix in Complex Disease, £5.4m (ICD Hussell, Allen).
We also run schemes where students have additional PhD supervisors from other institutions. These
are the A*STAR Institute in Singapore, the University of Melbourne, Australia, and the Weizmann
Institute of Science, Israel. Collectively, these programmes recruit 8-10 students per year, with
funding provided by the University and partner Institutions to strengthen our international links. More
recently, our unique BBSRC DTP3 combines with the Universities of Toronto and Melbourne to offer
further international collaboration opportunities.
In total, 517 PhDs were awarded in the current cycle, averaging 3.62 graduates per UoA5 FTE, a
42% increase on the like-for-like matched statistics for 2014.
Our Manchester DTP bids focussed on key priority areas. For example, our DTP3 aligns with
BBSRC’s “Advancing the Frontiers of Bioscience Discovery” strategic theme, in the areas of
“Understanding the rules of life” and “Transformative technologies” which map to our Research
Strengths. All three of our Wellcome-funded programmes are focussed on the fundamentals of
molecular, cell and developmental biology. The QBB programme epitomises our interdisciplinary
strengths and cross-faculty working (4.1), with all recruited students from a physical sciences
background supervised by ‘wet’ and ‘dry’ supervisors with complementary backgrounds in
biosciences, mathematics, physics, computer science or engineering.
Since 2016, the Doctoral Academy has been responsible for operational support and guidance of all
UoA5 postgraduate research (PGR) students, from recruitment to completion. Funding is provided
for conference attendance and society membership. We have an extensive student representative
network allowing dialogue with Division, School and Faculty research committees. Each student has
a primary supervisor and at least one co-supervisor to provide comprehensive interdisciplinary
support throughout their research programme. In addition, students are allocated an Advisor, who
acts in a pastoral role. All students have access to a designated Divisional-level PGR Tutor who
monitors and supports their progress independently of the supervisory team.

2.7 STUDENT TRAINING, SUPPORT AND ENGAGEMENT
Training from The Doctoral Academy ensures generic skills development, timely completion of the
degree, and increased future employability. All PGR students undertake an initial skills-needs
analysis to identify areas for development and, throughout their programme, undertake research

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
skills training directly related to their project. This includes generic training on writing, presentation,
statistics, and personal effectiveness, as well as bespoke core facility workshops to promote
interdisciplinarity, covering technologies ranging from biomolecular analysis, through to bioimaging,
genomic technologies and bioinformatics. Our online progression monitoring system, eProg, records
progress and encourages supervisory feedback.
PGR student representatives sit on Divisional, School and Faculty-level committees, and also on
committees of UKRI-funded programmes, thereby empowering students and helping integration into
the research culture. Our PGR student-led Graduate Society hosts public engagement activities and
external speakers, enhancing networking opportunities for students. To recognise student
achievements, each School has postgraduate prizes, as well as PGR Student of the Year awards at
School, Faculty and University level.
The UoM considers student wellbeing a priority. Multiple initiatives operate across both the University
and Faculty, including 24/7 mental health and counselling support, PGR student representatives with
a remit for advising on mental health and an online ‘Pulse-Check’ initiative including Wellbeing Apps
allowing PGR students to self-check their mental and physical wellbeing. A successful Office for
Students-funded bid (£150k) has allowed us to investigate mental health issues and promote self-
help through the use of Wellbeing Apps. Furthermore, UoM is partnered with the Greater Manchester
Health and Social Care Partnership, to offer an integrated approach to supporting students via the
university and NHS. In 2018, we established a successful ‘PGR Parents Group’ that meets regularly
to provide peer support, as well as a ‘PGR Partners Group’ in 2019 that provides a support forum
for partners, particularly of international PGR students.
New ECR supervisors initially act as co-supervisor, until successful completion of the degree, before
holding primary supervisory responsibility. FBMH’s compulsory New Academics Programme
provides training, with particular emphasis on ‘Effective Supervision by the New Supervisor’.
Furthermore, as part of supervisors’ continuing professional development, the Faculty provides
refresher courses on supervisory policy, good practice in recruitment, managing the
student/supervisor relationship and supporting career development.




                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 INCOME
External support: UoM is a major recipient of bioscience funding from UKRI, charities, international
and industrial sources (>£185m awarded from the BBSRC and Wellcome during the period), and
has been consistently ranked as the first or second highest recipient of BBSRC funding since 2014.
UoA5 staff have been pivotal to this success, named on 59% of BBSRC (£57m), 52% of MRC (£66m)
and 55% (£48m) of all Wellcome funding to UoM in the current REF.
BBSRC funding in UoA5 covers the key strategic priority areas in World Class Underpinning
Bioscience, Industrial Biotechnology (IB) and Synthetic Biology (SynBio). Our promotion of
interdisciplinarity has helped leverage funding success in these areas, which often lie at UoA
boundaries. For example, we have had interdisciplinary BBSRC grant successes from three sLoLa
grants that were active over this REF cycle, totalling ~£13m:
       Hubbard Spatio-temporal map of the developmental fly interactome
       Pavitt Understanding how RNA interacting proteins modulate the translatability of mRNAs
       Kadler Modulating extracellular matrix secretion and assembly for long term health
UoA5 researchers have helped develop the SYNBIOCHEM Centre for synthetic biology (Delneri;
~£10m from BBSRC), reinforcing inter-Faculty links to the Manchester Institute for Biotechnology
where it is based, along with colleagues in the Faculty of Science and Engineering. These successes
are promoted by our structures, which interface core biosciences with physics, chemistry,
mathematics, computer sciences, engineering, material sciences, pharmacy, psychological
sciences, dentistry and medicine. In addition to excellence in basic bioscience, our work crosses into
the biomedical arena, as demonstrated by our extensive Wellcome and MRC funding (£72m in total,
based on UoA5 credit-split awarded in this REF cycle). This is exemplified by the Wellcome Centre
for Cell-Matrix Research (~£5m) (1.3.2), and our exploitation of graphene technology for 2D
Materials for Next Generation Healthcare Technologies (2D Health) (MacDonald; ~£5m from
EPSRC). UoA5 has contributed to research in the cancer arena through the award of the MAnchester
RESearch Transforming Radiation Oncology (MAESTRO) Programme as Part of CRUK RadNet
(~£16m). Our work has also contributed to major national and international research efforts including
the Human Cell Atlas (Sharrocks, Rattray; ~£1m from MRC). In addition to interdisciplinary
teamwork, we have secured numerous programme level grants to support individual PIs, exemplified
by 12 PIs holding Wellcome Investigator/Senior Investigators awards (>£18m), attesting to our
international quality science.
Our work at the frontier of bioscience research is underpinned by access to cutting edge core
facilities (3.5) enabled through UoM investment and external funding. Since 2014, we have acquired
~£28m of equipment funding from external sources and typically invest ~£1-2m per year from internal
funds. Notable awards include:
       A £4.9m MRC award to harness the single cell capabilities of our genomics and imaging
        facilities (Systems Microscopy Centre).
       Two awards from BBSRC 18ALERT to augment our live cell imaging with a Lattice
        Lightsheet Microscope (£463k) and an imaging CyTOF (£440k).
       Development of the Stoller Biomarker Discovery Centre (Hubbard from UoA5; ~£12m from
        MRC) and the recent acquisition in 2019 of an Orbitrap Exploris 480 (Wellcome £390k) to
        expand our mass spectrometry portfolio.
       A recent BBSRC 19ALERT award (£750k) has modernised our EM capabilities by funding
        the acquisition of new cryo-EM equipment.
External funders have also supported research interactions by providing income in kind. This totals
£2.1m during the current REF cycle, covering access to the National Electron Physical Science
Imaging Centre for electron microscopy and the Diamond Light Source for X-ray
crystallography/SAXS at Harwell, leading to 38 publications (e.g. Baldock, Roseman, Derrick,

                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Ford) and NIHR BRC funding (Taylor). Researchers also make use of the long-read sequencing
available at the MRC regional sequencing facility in Liverpool.

3.2 UNIVERSITY SUPPORT FOR RESEARCH EXCELLENCE
The University and Faculty have supported strategic areas of research during the current REF cycle
with targeted investment in appointments, support for equipment bids (3.1 above), internal
fellowships (2.3), and by financial support for Centre bids. For example, we supported the MCCIR
centre directly and Lydia Becker Institute via an UMRI award (4.1), focussing on our immunology
Research Strength (1.3.3). This has come in the form of major strategic appointments (Allen,
Davies) and support for ECRs (see also 2.3), particularly via underwrites whilst seeking Fellowships.
Similar support was provided for the ongoing development of the WCCMR and development of our
single cell capabilities (4.1).

3.3 OPERATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
As part of UoM’s strategic vision of world-leading research, there has been significant investment in
infrastructure for securing and managing research funding. The University Research Services team
provides cross-Faculty support for research, including a specialist EU office, compliance and risk
management, research governance and data protection. Specific research management for UoA5
is provided by the FBMH Research and Business Engagement Team, comprising Research
Services, Research Governance, the PGR Doctoral Academy, Business Engagement and Strategic
Funding. In Research Services, 28 staff support different elements of the research lifecycle, including
advice and guidance on funding opportunities and costing and submitting applications. Attracting
funding for initiatives that complement our research strategy, such as Centres and large consortia
grants, is supported through the FBMH Strategic Funding Team (SFT). The success of the Team
during the REF period is demonstrated by the number and value of the Centres and Consortia bids
(3.2).
The SFT is part of our wider Research Strategy and Innovation Team, and comprises a group of
Strategic Funding Managers who work not only across the Faculty, but also on pan-university
initiatives. Its primary objective is to coordinate the development of strategic grant proposals, and
has helped obtain >£250m research funding. The SFT supports our multi-disciplinary research
portfolio, coordinating cross-cutting research areas, facilitating themed workshops and large events
that help collaborations grow and prosper, performing strategic analysis of outputs and impact from
funded research to inform strategy, and developing strong relationships with funders to pre-empt
major calls and communicate changes in funding policy and strategic priorities. This has generated
many multi-disciplinary collaborations involving UoA5 researchers. An example is Biological
Timing (1.3.4); the SFT instigated a series of workshops between engineers and circadian
biologists, leading to a successful Wellcome ISSF proposal to create novel sensors to capture
temporal real-world data on light exposure. SFT support has also provided performance and
competitor analysis, targeted development of personal and collaborative award applications, and
dedicated efforts to recruit and relocate international researchers (UKRI Future Leaders Fellow,
Fustin). Another major driver has been to increase the number of collaborations between
fundamental biologists and clinicians. This has been achieved through support of our Clinical
Genomics and Single Cell Biology UMRIs (4.1), and SFT representation on the Faculty Research
Domains and the associated Manchester Academic Health Science Centre. This promotes
interactions with our allied NHS Trusts and oversees pump-priming initiatives specifically aimed at
new partnerships. This has supported a 65% increase in publications co-authored by UoA5 with
UoA1 researchers from 48 in the first three years of the REF period to 79 in the last three years.
The University provides centralised IT support, from routine user support through to data storage
and high-performance research computing. At a local level, a dedicated Research Data Manager in
our core facilities ensures that data and meta-data are archived according to international standards.
Centrally, there is a dedicated Research IT team, comprising ~50 FTEs, which is embedded in
central IT and provides support for a broad range of activities, including High Performance
Computing platforms, a dedicated research Virtual Machine Service, cloud-based resources and
research software engineers that can be assigned to individual projects. Much of our computational

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
biology work, particularly in the structural biology, bioinformatics and genomics areas, is performed
on the Computational Shared Facility (CSF), a platform currently comprising approximately 12k
cores. The CSF is tightly integrated with the Research Data Storage platform which provides approx.
8,000 TB of resilient data storage to the UoM research community, across three sites. A user-driven
working group, chaired by UoA5 member (Rattray) meets regularly with Research IT staff to discuss
computing and storage needs, ensuring requirements and user demands are fed into the central
team.

3.4 CAMPUS INFRASTRUCTURE
Most UoA5 researchers are located in the Michael Smith and AV Hill buildings on the central
University campus, directly connected to the Stopford building and the Core Technology Facility
(CTF), allowing easy interaction with other researchers in the Faculty. The CTF also allows
interaction with biotech firms co-housed there. Interdisciplinary work is also enabled via UoA5
researchers in the Manchester Institute of Biotechnology. Further interdisciplinary and translational
research is facilitated by our juxtaposition to the Manchester Foundation Trust, creating a single
contiguous Biomedical Corridor. Close connections with the Manchester Cancer Research Centre
are facilitated by embedding several UoA5 researchers in the Oglesby Research Building (adjacent
to the Christie Cancer Hospital) and the CRUK Manchester Institute. To cement this partnership, the
University has recently committed to the building of a new integrated Cancer Research building
(~£150m) alongside funding from CRUK and the Christie Hospital.

3.5 RESEARCH FACILITIES
The vision for our research infrastructure is simple: competitiveness requires cutting edge research
facilities, maintained and operated by skilled staff to deliver key technologies. Our facilities are
located optimally, managed appropriately, and available to all. To ensure that our researchers’
current and future needs are met, we pursue both top-down (through Domains/Divisions) and
bottom-up (from academic community and user groups) horizon scanning strategies. For example,
issues raised by users triggered a review of the electron microscopy research facility, which resulted
in strategic investment and the acquisition of ~£2m of EM equipment since 2018. To maximise
effectiveness, facilities engage with the research community throughout UoM, and with partner
healthcare trusts. To maintain international competitiveness, we invest in emerging technologies. In
parallel, optimal utilisation and management of FBMH space allows co-location of cognate research
groups and underpins effective research strategy.
The Faculty hosts eight core research facilities: Bioimaging, Biological Mass Spectrometry,
Biomolecular Analysis, Electron Microscopy, Flow Cytometry, Genomic Technologies (with
integrated Bioinformatics support), Genome Editing, and Histology. To complement these
equipment-based cores, we also have a Fly Facility and an extensive Biological Services Facility
(BSF) to provide a wide range of model organisms (sheep, rats, mice, African striped mice, gerbils,
fish, frogs, tortoises and snails). With 9,000 m2 of usable space (including ~7,000 mouse cages), a
turnover of £2.5m and 42 FTE staff (up from 38 in 2014), the Manchester BSF is one of the largest
in Europe. To maintain and grow international competitiveness, there has been £1.9m investment
since 2014, including the construction of a germ-free facility. A Management Advisory Group meets
quarterly to ensure liaison between the academic community and staff involved with animal care.
The BSF also leads on raising public awareness of the use of animals in research and our web site
has been recognised for its ease of use by UAR (Understanding Animal Research) and is one of the
first establishments to be awarded the “Leaders in Openness 2019–2022” status. The Faculty also
provides technical resource for research support services, including a media kitchen,
decontamination/sterilisation facility and central stores, infrastructure services, and manages and
maintains core communal equipment including centrifuges, molecular imaging systems, and liquid
nitrogen storage facilities. These services are supported by a team of 20 technicians.
These core research facilities have expanded over the review period through internal and external
investment. Over £42m has been invested in the equipment base (including >£14m from UoM) and
staffing has increased from 33 staff in 2014 to 49 in 2020. The increased size and capacity are
reflected in turnover (<£2m in 2014 to ~£3.5m in 2019). We operate a transparent and equitable

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
charging policy with discounted rates applied to support postgraduate student training. Despite our
extensive strategic investments, cost recovery has increased annually to over 90%.
Investment in the core facilities is exemplified by our core Genome Editing Unit. Historically, this was
focussed solely on creating and rederiving transgenic mouse models. However, in 2014 we made a
strategic investment from our Wellcome ISSF fund in an Experimental Officer to develop CRISPR
technologies. Since then, the facility has grown from two to seven staff, and now contains a service
arm creating both transgenic mice (114 created in the REF period), engineered cells (23 created and
12 in progress since inception in 2019), and recombinant plasmids (>500 in the past 18 months), as
well as a research and development arm to establish and implement new cutting-edge technical
advances. The facility now contributes to many new research areas, spanning basic, translational
and clinical areas in zebrafish and mice through to patient-derived cells, and underpins a rapidly
increasing number of outputs each year (from one manuscript in 2015 to 18 in 2020). Novel technical
advances from these studies include: the generation of an endogenous gene fusion system in mouse
(HaloTag) that transforms the capacity to perform live single cell imaging combined with dynamic
ChIP-seq analysis of rhythmically expressed transcription factors (Hunter, PNAS-2020); the use of
new derivative CRISPR tools within cell lines (CRISPR activation), to analyse the function of putative
enhancers identified in GWAS studies linked to different diseases (Rattray, Nat-Commun-2020); the
establishment of an in vivo, virally delivered gene knock-out approach in mice that provides a
significant 3Rs advantage (Mol-Metab-2019). The successful application of the above technologies
by a core facility has enabled and accelerated dissemination and uptake by other research groups.
A second area of investment and growth has been in developing our single cell capabilities, which
are incorporated into the Bioimaging, Flow Cytometry and Genomic Technologies Facilities. In
Bioimaging, there has been a major influx of equipment with the acquisition of super resolution
microscopes including STED, STORM, and lattice light sheet systems. This is mirrored by the
establishment of CyTOF and Hyperion single cell systems in Flow Cytometry and the acquisition of
10x Genomics and ICELL8 systems for single cell sequencing based analyses. Additional technical
resource has been dedicated to the latter two facilities to cover these new technologies. These recent
developments have allowed us to apply novel approaches, such as using a Flipper-TR probe and
Fluorescence Lifetime imaging to study membrane tension in live cells. This demonstrated that
directional persistence and membrane tension is highly coordinated and could explain how cells
move rapidly into fibrotic areas and promote cancer invasion (Caswell, Dev-Cell-2019). Current
projects are probing the lung environment in COVID-19 patients using the CyTOF, and other studies
have used the 10x system to reveal profound mitotic heterogeneity within a living biobank of ovarian
cancer ex vivo models (Taylor, Nature-Commun-2020).
Engagement with the research community is ensured through improved web presence, annual
workshops and the establishment of regular user group/advisory board meetings as exemplified by
the Bioimaging and Biological Mass-spectrometry core facilities. The annual reports on the core
facilities show that there has been an upgrade in the quality and impact of research activity in FBMH
based on associated publication metrics through the core facilities (from 111 papers in 2013 to 209
during 2019).
The success of our core facilities is exemplified by the high number (1,243 from 2014-2020) of
research outputs acknowledging their input over the reporting period. Of these, 295 are co-authored
by core facility staff, demonstrating their added value and the utility of their expert input into the
projects. Several of these involve multiple core facilities and can be exemplified by the combination
of staff in Bioimaging (Spiller), Mass Spectrometry (O’Cualain) and Genome Editing Unit (Adamson)
contributing to the discovery that competitive cytokine signaling predicts tissue thresholds for the
propagation of macrophage activation (White,Paszek, Sci-Signal-2018).




                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 INTERDISCIPLINARITY AND COLLABORATION


4.1.1 Promoting interdisciplinarity and collaboration
As part of our longer-term strategy, we introduced several measures to encourage and increase
interdisciplinary science in FBMH:
     Domains: These major, interdisciplinary research themes span several UoAs and operate
      across Schools (Figure 2). Domains encourage interdisciplinarity between UoA5 researchers
      with others from more clinically-oriented or technically-focused areas elsewhere in the University.
      Domain Directors use a variety of approaches to build research strengths, including focussed
      meetings, retreats, and workshops. The most relevant Domains (with numbers of UoA5 staff
      members indicated [ ]) are:

            o    Cellular & Developmental Systems has ‘Understanding Life’ as a core theme; the
                 Domain acts as a cross-UoA forum to study how cellular dysfunction causes disease,
                 enhanced by understanding of how alterations affect cells, their behaviour, and their
                 interactions. [62]
            o    Infection, Immunity, Inflammation & Repair links basic, clinical, and translational
                 innovation with particular strengths in chronic lung conditions, dermatology,
                 musculoskeletal disease and complex wounds. It was integral to formation of the Lydia
                 Becker Institute (1.3.3), which in turn facilitated integrated and rapid responses to the
                 COVID-19 pandemic. [48]
            o    Evolution, Systems & Genomics encompasses the broad scope of genetic diversity
                 from viruses and bacteria, fungi and protozoans, plants, and animals – including humans.
                 Genetic and genomic work includes neonatal testing through St Mary’s Hospital and
                 working with data from millions of completed genomes. The Domain is also linked with
                 the Manchester Centre for Genomic Medicine, and helped catalyse the Genomics UMRI
                 bid (see below). [35]
            o    Cardiovascular, Endocrine & Metabolic Sciences links mechanistic, cellular and
                 molecular studies of the heart and circulation, the control of energy balance, and
                 endocrine and metabolic systems to disease. Biological timing is a key sub-theme (1.3.4).
                 [26]
            o    Cancer connects fundamental molecular and cellular cancer biology to the Manchester
                 Cancer Research Centre – a partnership between the University, Cancer Research UK
                 and The Christie NHS Foundation Trust. [20]
            o    Neuroscience & Mental Health contains a Vision sub-theme, encompassing circadian
                 and inner retinal photoreception, linking Research Strength 1.3.4 to UoA4. [17]
     UMRI-funded research networks: The University of Manchester Research Institute (UMRI),
      funds groups, as part of the Manchester 2020 strategic plan, to establish the University as a
      major centre for interdisciplinary research. A number are led by or involve significant input from
      UoA5 staff, integrating researchers from several Strengths, and have received a total of £429k
      (Figure 4). One of the first such networks, the Lydia Becker Institute of Immunology and
      Inflammation has already flourished into a mature Centre (1.3.3). The others are:
        o       Centre for Biological Timing - Promotes cross-Faculty links in areas related to biological
                timing in public policy, modelling and mathematical analysis of oscillatory systems in
                complex biological contexts, and enhances clinical translation of biological timing into
                clinical trials and healthcare.




                                                                                                 Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      o   Infection network - To assemble an integrated community of clinical, academic and
          industrial partners focussed on antimicrobial strategy in the settings of mono- and multi-
          morbidity, and with a significant emphasis on respiratory infection and sepsis.
      o   Interdisciplinary single cell biology - Connects cell signalling, nuclear regulation and
          absolute molecular quantification of protein and RNA at single cell resolution with
          mathematical modelling to understand ‘cell state’, facilitating understanding of emergent
          properties from tissues and systems.
      o   Genomics - A network of experimental and computational biologists using interdisciplinary
          basic science approaches to improve interpretation of human genomic variation,
          particularly where biological knowledge is insufficient either to determine pathogenicity or
          understand its mechanism.




Figure 4. Competitively awarded interdisciplinary pump-priming awards from UMRI


   ISSF awards: A central Wellcome ISSF theme has been to fund interdisciplinary research teams.
    During the current REF cycle, we have invested our two awards (total £4.5m) on ECRs,
    interdisciplinary research projects, public engagement, and infrastructure. UoA5 researchers
    have been heavily involved in the leadership of four major funded projects totalling £906k (Table
    1): two ‘Cross-Faculty Consortia’ bids in 2018 to establish novel project-focussed groupings, and
    two ‘UMRI Consolidator’ awards in 2019/20 to synergise with existing UMRI networks.



Table 1. Competitively awarded Institutional Strategic Support Fund awards
    Leadership         Title                        Aims                                      Value
    Lovell, Gifford    Tackling antimicrobial       Harnessing innovations in sequencing      £250k
    (UoA5), Felton     resistance by                and modelling to further understanding
    (UoA1), van Staa   understanding                of the fitness consequences of
    (UoA2), Knight     evolutionary landscapes      antimicrobial resistance evolution, the
    (UoA7), House,                                  accompanying ameliorating mutations,
    Galla (both                                     and effects on population dynamics
    UoA10)
    Gilmore, Swift     Modelling the dynamic        Using novel mass spectrometry             £285k
    (UoA5),            changes of micro-            techniques and biomaterials to

                                                                                              Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Roncaroli          environment during            characterise and recapitulate distinct
    (UoA4),            cancer initiation and         tumour cell environments from patient
    Domingos,          progression                   samples, and provide insight into the
    Saiani (UoA12)                                   complex matrix interactions that drive
                                                     tumour progression
    Sharrocks,         Towards a Centre of           To embed technical expertise in our        £198k
    Piper Hanley,      Excellence in                 core facilities to generate foundational
    Rattray (UoA5),    Interdisciplinary Single      Spatial Transcriptomics datasets that
    Hanley (UoA1),     Cell Biology                  can benefit multiple researchers in
    Jensen (UoA10)                                   hypothesis generation, and to develop
                                                     cutting-edge capability for
                                                     mathematical modelling of dynamic
                                                     changes at single cell resolution
    Brown (UoA5),      Bioelectronic monitoring of   Generating tools and proof of concept      £172k
    Lucas (UoA4),      light exposure and            data for applying wearable technology
    van Tongeren       circadian rhythms             to study biological rhythms and
    (UoA2), Casson,                                  contingent aspects of human health.
    Johnson                                          Exploiting the synergy between
    (UoA12)                                          Manchester’s expertise in biological
                                                     timing, bioelectronics, and
                                                     occupational health to generate large
                                                     scale grant funding and improve
                                                     health

   University Institutes and Networks: The University has several cross-Faculty institutes and
    research networks where UoA5 staff lead or play pivotal roles, to help transform life and health
    sciences. Our Digital Futures network contains the Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
    Institute, led by Rattray, which couples methodologists and translational scientists in
    biomedicine and health, drawing on strength-in-depth in data science (Rattray, Yau, Iqbal,
    Causey-Freeman). Similarly, the Christabel Pankhurst Institute is a new collaboration between
    UoM, the NHS, business and local government in a £25m initiative to promote and translate
    needs-led health technology research and innovation into practice. These initiatives will be
    central to translation of future research in our research themes (e.g. 1.3.1, 1.3.2, 1.3.4), via
    AI/data science, materials and technology.
   Integrative Doctorial Programmes - Our major doctoral programmes (2.6) are interdisciplinary,
    with supervisory teams built from staff with different areas of expertise and backgrounds. Notable
    examples are the BBSRC DTP and the Wellcome-funded Quantitative and Biophysical Biology
    PhD programme led by Papalopulu, Rattray and Jensen (UoA10), which both involve co-
    supervisory teams involving mathematicians, statisticians and physical scientists as well as
    bioscientists (2.6). The effectiveness of these strategies is exemplified by 30% of returned
    outputs having UoM co-authors from outside of UoA5.




4.1.2 Collaboration with UK and international institutions
Our collaborative networks extend beyond Manchester. UoA5 staff have held honorary professorship
positions at four UK and four international institutions. We co-publish extensively within the UK (30%
of our papers), with the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge, and Imperial College London, being
the most regular partners. Moreover, we continue to drive an international research agenda, and 105
UoA5 staff participate in international collaborations delivering 775 papers since 2014 (~50% of total
output), with a broad world-wide distribution (Figure 5). The most frequent collaborations were with
Harvard University, NIH, INSERM and CNRS (114 papers).




                                                                                                Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 5. World-wide distribution of outputs co-authored with UoA5 staff. Numbers correspond to
the total number of outputs from that country, also coloured by gradient.


4.1.3 Collaboration with industry
We develop strategic links with major partners to generate impact:
      MCCIR and Lydia Becker Institute (1.3.3). Renewed in 2016 for £908k in partnership with
       GSK (Davis, Travis, Grainger, MacDonald, Lopez-Castejon), and originally established
       with joint investment from UoM, GSK and AstraZeneca. Its aims are to harness academic
       innovation to investigate basic mechanisms and, importantly, advance drug development for
       clinical needs. Ongoing work between GSK and Davis seeks to exploit these targets (1.3.3),
       where identification of macrophage receptor nanoclusters has led to further funding (GSK,
       £660k and Bristol Myers Squibb, £960k).
      Similar partnerships with Boots UK Ltd have been renewed (£3.6m overall), involving Meng
       and Swift from UoA5, targeted at fundamental bioscience of skin ageing.
      Unilever (Thornton, Dearman): on behaviour of T lymphocytes to skin sensitising chemicals
       and oral mucins to chemicals (total £600k).
      Eli Lilly (Luckman, D’Agostino): mode of action of natural hormones/transmitters and their
       effects on appetite and body weight (total £950k).
      ABInBev (Delneri): novel yeast strains for brewing and biotech (total £263k). Discovered a
       new yeast species growing at high altitude with cold tolerance, catalysing further industrial
       interactions with local brewers (Cloudwater KTP £190k).
      A Manchester consortium was awarded £4.5m from InnovateUK as part of the ID Liver award
       with £855k to UoM (Piper-Hanley, Rattray, Martin K).
      35 BBSRC/MRC CASE studentships with 32 different companies.
Total funding of £6.9m has been acquired from the commercial sector during the REF period.




                                                                                           Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.2 CONTRIBUTION TO COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT


4.2.1 Peer review and strategic contributions to research strategy
UoA5 staff have performed 142 different journal editorial roles either as editors or editorial board
members, including several editorships at prominent journals (Nucleic Acids Research, Sharrocks;
Journal of Cell Biology, Humphries; BMC Evolutionary Biology, Brockhurst) and three acting as
editor-in-chief (Parasite Immunology, Grencis; Frontiers in Cell and Developmental Biology,
Kouskoff; Regeneration, Amaya). Extensive UoA5 staff membership of grant panels includes 29
on RCUK panels (five as chair, Cruickshank, Hubbard, Luckman, MacDonald, White), 19 on
charity panels (including four Wellcome, Papalopulu, Kadler, Ashe H, Grainger), and 18
international panels (three as chair, Sharrocks, Ford, Travis). Humphries chairs, and is the Senior
Independent Member of BBSRC Council. Hubbard chaired BBSRC’s Institute Assessment Exercise
that awarded £70m to its Research Institutes, and White served on BBSRC groups, developing their
‘People and Skills’ and Bioimaging strategies. Rattray has served on multiple UKRI advisory panels,
most recently the BBSRC Data Intensive Bioscience Review. Rothwell has co-chaired the Prime
Minister’s Council for Science and Technology and is a board member of the Dementia Research
Institute. A further nine staff have served on advisory boards for UK or international research
institutions and organisations, and 17 UoA5 staff have held directorships/consultancies/advisory
board membership in a commercial setting, including major bioproducts/pharmaceutical companies
Pfizer (Bechtold), Unilever (Konkel), AstraZeneca (Rattray and Rothwell), Eli Lilly (Luckman),
GSK (Rothwell) and Smith and Nephew (Day P). Allen J is on the UoA5 REF2021 panel.


4.2.2 Contributions to scientific societies and conferences
Twenty UoA5 staff have contributed to the running of Academic Scientific Societies, including two
associated with the Academy of Medical Sciences (Vice-President, Humphries; Chair of Sectional
Committee, Davis) and two as presidents of international societies (International Society for
Hyaluronan Sciences; Day A; Machine Learning for Computational Systems Biology, Rattray).
Rothwell was the Inaugural Chair and President of the (Royal) Society of Biology, Council Member
of the Royal Society, Delneri is a UK Commissioner on the International Commission on Yeasts.
UoA5 staff have had major roles in organising conferences, with 35 as organisers of 75 national, and
55 of 116 international conferences (including four chairs of Gordon Research Conferences,
Baldock, Day A, Francavilla, Thornton). Lovell/Delneri bid for and won the right to host the
Society for Molecular Biology and Evolution international meeting in Manchester in 2019. Staff
regularly present their work at scientific conferences and workshops. Fifty-two UoA5 staff have
delivered plenary/keynote conference presentations (24 national and 30 international; 175 talks in
total). Nine talks have been delivered at elite EMBO run events and 18 at Gordon conferences.

4.3 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION


4.3.1 Prizes and awards
UoA5 staff hold fellowships of prestigious societies (Academy of Medical Sciences, Allen J, Davis,
Humphries, Loudon, Papalopulu, Rothwell; Royal Society Edinburgh, Allen J; Royal Society,
Rothwell; Academia Europaea, Day, Humphries, Loudon, Rothwell, Taylor S). Since 2014, five
researchers have been awarded prizes by academic societies, including the lifetime achievement
Fell-Muir Prize, awarded by the British Society for Matrix Biology (Kadler) and the Fleming prize
from the Microbiology Society (Brockhurst). Allen J was elected as an EMBO member, Brockhurst
was awarded the Philip Leverhulme Prize for ECRs and Konkel a Lister Prize Fellowship.
Cruickshank has had her work on innovation recognised through winning Project of the Year in the
Bionow awards.




                                                                                           Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.3.2 Fellowships
A significant number of personal fellowship/awards have been made to UoA5 staff, which span all
our Research Strengths – first independent fellowships*, ECRs**:
      10 Wellcome Investigator awards.
      2 Wellcome Senior Research Fellows
      1 Versus Arthritis Senior Fellow
      1 ARUK Research Fellow
      1 Medical Research Foundation Fellow
      3 BBSRC David Philips Fellows
      5 MRC Career Development fellows
      2 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships
      9 Wellcome Sir Henry Dale Fellowships
Cell and developmental biology (Research Strengths 1 & 5, 1.3.1, 1.3.5):
     Membrane synthesis (High Wellcome Investigator)
     Membrane receptor turnover (Woodman Wellcome Investigator)
     Fundamental principles of developmental biology (Papalopulu Senior Research Fellowship
       Ashe H and Rattray Wellcome Investigators; Das* MRC CDA; Herbert Wellcome Senior
       Research Fellow; Wong** (MRC CDA)
     Transcriptional control of gene expression (Sharrocks Wellcome Investigator)
     Endocytotic recycling of tyrosine kinases (Francavilla* Wellcome Henry Dale)
     Microtubule dynamics (Hahn** Leverhulme Early Career Fellow)
Cell matrix biology (Research Strength 2, 1.3.2):
     Collagen homeostasis (Kadler Wellcome Investigator)
     Mechano-stress and ageing (Swift* BBSRC David Philips Fellow)
     Cell-matrix and immune cell recruitment (Dyer** Wellcome Henry Dale)
     Mitotic spindle and cell environment (Woolner* Wellcome Henry Dale)
     microRNAs and wound healing (Kurinna** MRC CDA)
Immunology and infection (Research Strength 3, 1.3.3):
    Respiratory immunology (Allen J Wellcome Investigator)
    Cell surface imaging immunology (Davis Wellcome Investigator)
    Pathogen host immunology (Grencis Wellcome Investigator)
    Oral immuno-surveillance (Konkel* BBSRC David Philips fellow)
    Microbiota and mucosal inflammation (Mann** Wellcome Henry Dale)
    Monocytes, infection and inflammation (Grainger* Wellcome Henry Dale & Senior Kennedy
      Trust fellow)
    T-cell responses in inflammatory disease (Hepworth* Wellcome Henry Dale & Lister Fellow)
    Deubiquitination and the inflammatory response (Lopez-Castejon* Wellcome Henry Dale)
    Inflammation in cerebrovascular disease (Strangward** ARUK Fellow)
    Fungal sulphur metabolism (Amich Elias* MRC CDA)
    Infection and stroke (South**, Medical Research Foundation fellow)
Circadian biology, vision (Research Strength 4, 1.3.4):
     Clock control in lungs (Loudon & Ray Wellcome Investigators)
     Clocks, cartilage and aging (Meng Versus Arthritis Senior Fellowship)
     Epigenetic regulation of clock in metabolism (Fustin** UKRI Future Leaders Fellow)
     Visual coding and the circadian clock (Allen A** Wellcome Henry Dale)
     Vision and clocks via the SCN (Brown* BBSRC David Phillips)
     Neuroactivation of appetite suppression (D’Agostino** MRC CDA)
Evolutionary biology (Research Strength 5, 1.3.5):
     Evolution of mutation rates (Krasovec** UKRI Future Leaders Fellow)
     Multi-drug resistance mechanisms (Gifford** UKRI Rutherford Fellow)
     Evolution of gene regulatory networks in AMR (Lagator** Wellcome Henry Dale)
                                                                                      Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.4 IMPACTS ON THE ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
In addition to the Impact Cases returned (Figure 3), 15 patents have been filed by UoA5 staff, and
two spin-out companies have been created (Links Logistics, Day A; GeneGini, Day P). A notable
example is the patents granted for using TSG-6 to treat bone disorders and eye disease, which form
the basis of a case to develop a spin-out company (Milner, Day A).
There have been multiple inputs into public engagement. Notably, Davis has written two books on
popular science with the latest on the immune system (The Beautiful Cure), ranked as a Book of the
Year in The Times, Telegraph and New Scientist, and translated into 15 languages. He has
published a variety of articles including in The Times and Wired magazine and has made >50 media
presentations over the REF period to discuss science related to his research, including on the BBC,
ITV, Channel 4, and Radio 4, and has given a wide range of public talks at literary, science and
music festivals in the UK and internationally. Similarly, Cobb has made extensive contributions to
public engagement, writing two books on the history of science (The Idea of the Brain and A History
and Life’s Greatest Secret: The Race to Crack the Genetic Code), authoring three major radio
programmes (on BBC radio 4 and world service), writing 29 popular science articles and giving 80
public talks. His ‘Brain’ book was long-listed for the Baillie-Gifford non-fiction prize 2020.
Our work on the fruit fly extends beyond the Prokop impact case (stimulating practical biology in
schools) with Hahn presenting at the Manchester Museum as part of the Manchester Science
Festival. This event also saw Else raise public awareness of parasitic infections in conjunction with
the National Trust at Quarry Bank Mill, Styal, and Brockhurst generate an audio-visual interactive
installation about disease transmission. Cruickshank has contributed to the climate change agenda
by raising awareness of air quality issues in partnership with Manchester City Council. Turner
presented at the BBSRC flagship Great British Bioscience Festival on “The Complex Life of Sugars”.
Multiple staff have engaged with patients and the general public, either directly or via the BBC (Food:
Truth of Scare?) to explain the scientific basis of cancer (Sharrocks, Nagarajan, Bruce) and heart
disease (Shiels, Wang Liu).




                                                                                              Page 30
