Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: The University of Manchester
 Unit of assessment: 21 (Sociology)
Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.1
 The Sociology Unit of Assessment (UoA) comprises colleagues based in the Departments
 of Sociology and Social Statistics. The size and breadth of our UoA (58 academics),
 affords us the critical mass and expertise to engage across a wide range of core and
 emerging areas of social research, including inequalities and stratification, relationality,
 culture and consumption, and social movements. The UoA plays a leading role in 8
 pioneering research centres and institutes focused on ageing, ethnicity, sustainable
 consumption, networks, personal life and innovative quantitative and qualitative methods.
 Much of the research collaboration across the two departments comprising the UoA
 occurs within these centres and institutes. This includes major funded research projects,
 seminar series and collaborative management of the centres/institutes themselves.

 The UoA combines a uniquely broad range of methodological approaches, from
 qualitative ethnographic research to cutting-edge forms of statistical modelling, including
 pioneering work on network, digital, sensory and interdisciplinary, social-biological
 methods. This combination of expertise allows us to explore the social world on multiple
 scales, from cross-national comparison and ‘big data’ to the specificities of dyadic
 interaction and personal identity, and our size and disciplinary span allows us to take a
 distinctively multi-perspectival and mixed-methods approach.

 We continuously strive to improve and refresh our research environment and culture:
 monitoring our performance; implementing changes where we believe we can improve;
 and pursuing our key strategic goals. This can be seen across this current REF cycle.
 Reflecting key strategic goals decided at the outset of the current REF cycle we have:

       Increased the volume and quality of our publications, including award winning
        monographs and articles, recognised within and beyond the academy. Examples
        include Pilkington’s monograph, Loud and Proud, (awarded the 2017 Thinking
        Allowed ethnography prize); Crossley and Bottero’s article, ‘Music Worlds and
        Internal Goods’, (winner of the Sage Cultural Sociology Prize 2016); Joseph-
        Salisbury’s monograph on Black Mixed-Race Men, (winner of the Philip Abrams
        Prize, 2019); and Younge’s Another Day in the Death of America (winner of the J.
        Anthony Lukas Book Prize and shortlisted for the Orwell Prize, Helen Berenstein
        Book Award, Andrew Carnegie Medal, Jhalak Prize and Bread and Roses Award).
       Continued to increase and diversify our research income, raising our grant
        capture by 72% (to £24M (£430k per fte) across the REF cycle, diversifying our
        funding streams and supporting a broad range of colleagues (especially ECRs) to
        pursue grant capture.
       Continued to recruit, support and develop outstanding researchers and early
        career scholars, including five Presidential Fellows, seven Simon/Hallsworth
        Fellows, three British Academy/Leverhulme Fellows, a Marie Curie Fellowship and
        one Age UK Fellowship.
       Improved our PhD completions by 24% from 2014 (to 104) by offering
        additional support and training.
       Embedded and supported impact across a range of our activities and career
        levels, and achieved external recognition for this work. For example: Alexander’s
        ‘Our Migration Story’ 2019 Guardian University Award for Research Impact; Buffel
        and Phillipson’s ‘age-friendly cities’ award from the National Coordinating Centre
        for Public Engagement; Tinkler’s ‘City Life’ award for her exhibition with


                                                                                       Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


         Manchester Art Gallery
        Further internationalised our research focus and expertise with a growth in
         work on South Asia and Africa, and new institutional links with the Universities of
         Amsterdam, Toronto and Melbourne.


1.2 Unit context and structure

 The Departments of Sociology and Social Statistics are co-located in the School of Social
 Sciences (SoSS) within the Faculty of Humanities (FoH). As of 2019 the School has 8
 departments: Criminology, Law, Economics, Philosophy, Politics and Social Anthropology,
 as well as Sociology and Social Statistics. This location facilitates research support for the
 UoA (see S3) and enables interdisciplinary collaboration (notably through the Research
 Institutes and Centres). Members of the UoA are actively involved in collaborations with
 colleagues in each of the School departments, with departments and Schools across the
 Faculty, as well as in innovative partnerships with colleagues in the Faculties of Biology
 and Medicine, and Science and Engineering. These collaborations provide an important
 stimulus to individual excellence and support the activities generating a vibrant research
 environment: e.g. grant capture, network and capacity building, attracting international
 visitors and the successful organisation of research events, such as conferences and
 seminars.

 UoA members participate in a number of high-profile research centres, institutes and
 networks. We play a leading role in five School and Faculty Centres and University
 Institutes: (i) The Cathie Marsh Institute for Social Research (CMI); (ii) The Centre on the
 Dynamics of Ethnicity (CoDE); (iii) The Manchester Institute for Collaborative Research on
 Ageing (MICRA); (iv) The National Centre for Research Methods (NCRM); (v) The
 Sustainable Consumption Institute (SCI). CMI, CoDE, and the Manchester node of NCRM
 are each directed by UoA members. SCI was directed by a UoA member until 2018 and
 retains a strong input from the UoA. MICRA was directed by a UoA member (Price) until
 early in 2020, and Chandola is currently Deputy Director. In addition, two influential
 research centres and one research network sit wholly within the UoA: (a) The Mitchell
 Centre for Social Network Analysis; (b) The Morgan Centre for Research into Everyday
 Lives; (c) Movements@Manchester

 Research activity within the UoA is organised across six interlinked clusters:

    1.   Social Inequality and Stratification.
    2.   Race, Ethnicity and Migration.
    3.   Networks, Relationality and Everyday Lives.
    4.   Social Movements and Protest.
    5.   Culture and Consumption.
    6.   Methodological Innovation.

 In what follows, we outline key features of these clusters, including significant publications
 and research projects. Each cluster involves a mix of senior, mid- and early career
 colleagues, including new appointments (see S2). Colleagues in each area engage with a
 range of external partners and impact events, some examples of which are highlighted
 below (see Impact Strategy) and in S3 and S4. Each theme also includes a range of
 activities, including conference, seminar and event organisation and editing of key field
 journals, highlighted in S4.




                                                                                         Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1) Social Inequality and Stratification.
 Building upon a longstanding track record of research on inequality, work in this cluster
 adopts mixed method and interdisciplinary approaches to examine socio-economic
 inequalities in health, education, labour-market, cultural and civic participation, in the UK
 and internationally. The cluster focuses upon (i) gender and sexuality (Fagan, Heaphy,
 Olsen, Elliott, May, Nordqvist) (ii) age (Nazroo, Price, Chandola, Vanhoutte,
 Phillipson, Buffel) (iii) health and mental health (Fe, Nazroo, Chandola, Kapadia,
 Rhodes, Zhang) (iv) social class, mobility and stratification (Bottero, Brown, Byrne,
 Devine, Li, Laurence, Miles, Oncini, Rhodes, Thoburn), and (v) poverty and
 development in the global South (Olsen, Chandola, Zhang). CMI, the Morgan Centre
 and MICRA all contribute strongly to this area and key publications in this REF cycle
 include:

      Social Class in the Twenty-First Century, whose co-authors include Devine and
       Miles.
      Bottero’s A Sense of Inequality.
      Byrne & De Tona’s All in the Mix: Race, Class and School Choice
      Fe’s ‘Short-and-long-run estimates of retirement on health’

 UoA members in this cluster have been very successful in obtaining research funding.
 Examples of projects, centred upon inequality in Britain and globally, include:

      Chandola, Nazroo and Vanhoutte’s ‘Frailty, Resilience and Inequality in Later Life’,
       funded by the Medical Research Council.
      Elliott and Fagan’s ‘Which Fathers’ - an ESRC-funded project which explores the
       division of labour within parenting.
      Nazroo’s The English Longitudinal Study of Ageing (ELSA), an interdisciplinary
       survey database on health and wellbeing of over 50s in England, which spans the
       medical and social sciences.
      Olsen’s ‘Gender Norms, Labour Supply and Poverty Reduction’ - a joint ESRC and
       DfID funded four-year project, focused upon women in India and Bangladesh.
      Phillipson and Buffel’s ‘Age Friendly Cities’, coordinated within MICRA in
       collaboration with the Greater Manchester Ageing Hub and the World Health
       Organization.
      Thoburn’s British Academy funded study of the Robin Hood Gardens estate in
       London.

2) Race, Ethnicity and Migration.
 Race, ethnicity and migration form a key part of our focus upon social inequality and
 stratification. However, the volume of work on these topics is such that it forms a distinct
 cluster. Adopting a range of innovative methodological approaches, from statistical
 analysis to ethnography, researchers in this cluster have conducted research on: (i) race,
 health and mental health (Nazroo, Rhodes, Kapadia); (ii) employment and education (Li,
 Alexander, Byrne, Clark, Joseph-Salisbury); (iii) racial and religious identities
 (Joseph-Salisbury, Alexander, Tinsley, Younge); (iv) postcolonial and decolonial
 memory practices (Tinsley, Alexander, Byrne); (v) state violence (Tinsley, Younge); (vi)
 diaspora, migration and asylum (Alexander, Bloch, Wisniowski, De Noronha); (vii)
 citizenship (Byrne, De Noronha, Younge).

 Key publications by members of this cluster include:

      Alexander, Chatterji & Jalais - The Bengal Diaspora: Rethinking Muslim Migration


                                                                                         Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      Bloch & McKay’s Living on the Margins: undocumented migrants in a global city
      Byrne, Alexander & Nazroo - Ethnicity and Race in the UK: State of the Nation
       (collaboration with the Runnymede Trust)
      De Noronha’s Deporting Black Britons: Portraits of Deportation to Jamaica, arising
       from his Sociological Review postdoctoral fellowship
      Joseph-Salisbury Black Mixed-Race Men: Hybridity, Transatlanticity and ‘Post-
       Racial Resilience’ (winner of the Philip Abrams Prize, 2019)
      Younge’s multi-award winning Another Day in the Death of America


 Research is closely tied to CoDE, which received £152K ESRC Centre extension funding
 from 2013-17, and transition funding of £499,813 for 2018-2020. The Centre generated
 research income of around £2m during this REF period. Other funded projects include:

      Alexander’s AHRC project on the ‘Indian restaurant’ trade in Brick Lane
      Byrne’s ESRC funded study of school choice
      Nazroo and Kapadia’s Lankelly Chase funded Synergy project on race and mental
       health

3) Networks, Relationality and Everyday Lives.
 Comprising the Mitchell and Morgan Centres, this cluster focuses substantively upon
 social relations, empirically, theoretically and methodologically. The Mitchell Centre
 specialises in social networks and formal social network analysis. Research activities
 involve: (i) methodological innovation, including mathematical (Everett, Schoch),
 statistical (Shafie, Voros) and mixed-method contributions (Bellotti, Crossley,
 Edwards); ii) software development (Everett, Schoch); (iii) novel sociological
 applications of these methods and software, including in criminology (Bellotti), music
 (Crossley), social movement studies (Crossley, Edwards), gender (Bellotti) and the
 sociology of science (Bellotti); (iv) research capacity-building by way of dissemination
 and training, including, a co-authored book offering the first ever extended discussion of
 ego-net analysis and a new approved Masters programme in social network analysis; and
 (v) engagement with social theory (Crossley).

 The Morgan Centre specialises in qualitative research on intimate relations, personal and
 everyday life, and has pioneered the field of the sociology of personal life. The Centre
 focuses on contemporary issues around gender, sexuality, generation and the life course.
 Recent research has explored: (i) LGBT lives (Heaphy & Nordqvist); (ii) changing
 conceptions of gender (Tinkler, Edwards); (iii) civil partnerships and same-sex marriage
 (Heaphy); (iv) lifecourse and ethics (Woodward); (v) kinship and assisted reproduction
 (Nordqvist); (vi) housing and shared living (Heath, Edwards); (vii) intimate relationships
 (May, Holmes, Nordqvist); and (viii) innovative qualitative methodologies (Holmes,
 Mason, Tinkler, Heath, May).

 Key publications from this REF cycle include:

      Crossley’s Networks of Sound, Style and Subversion
      Crossley, Bellotti, Edwards, Everett, Social Network Analysis for Ego-Nets
      Heath, Edwards et al Shared Housing, Shared Lives
      Mason’s Affinities: Potent Connections in Personal Life
      Nordqvist’s Relative Strangers
      May & Nordqvist’s Sociology of Personal Life
      Woodward’s Birth and Death

                                                                                     Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 This theme has significant funded projects, including with non UKRI-partners:

       Bellotti’s FORTE (Sweden) funded project on social networks and responses to
        domestic violence.
       Bellotti’s Alcohol Research UK funded project on the distribution and consumption
        of counterfeit alcohol.
       Everett, Crossley and Edwards’ Leverhulme funded project on covert networks.
       Heath’s ESRC-funded project on shared housing.
       Nordqvist’s ESRC funded project on the impact of donating gametes on donors’
        personal lives.
       Mason’s Leverhulme Fellowship research on ‘socio-atmospherics’ and ‘living the
        weather’.
       Tinkler’s ESRC-funded research exploring the experience of growing up amongst
        young British women of the baby boomer generation.

4) Social Movements and Protest.
 The development of work on social movements was a key commitment in our REF2014
 strategy and has been strengthened across the current REF cycle.
 Movements@Manchester provides the main core for this stream. Directed by Edwards
 and Gillan, the network has developed a programme of high profile events, including the
 longstanding annual Alternative Futures and Popular Protest conference which UoA
 members assumed responsibility for in 2018. Key research themes include: (i) new social
 movements (Gillan, Edwards); (ii) movements of the global south (Fadaee); (iii) Far Right
 and Islamist movements (Pilkington); temporality (Gillan); and new forms of
 consumption (Yates).

 Key publications include:

       Fadaee’s edited collection Understanding Southern Social Movements
       Gillan’s field defining collaborations, Research Ethics and Social Movements;
        Occupy! A Global Movement; and Technology, Media and Social Movements
       Pilkington’s award winning monograph, Loud and Proud: Passion and Politics in
        the English Defence League
       Shlomo’s ‘New approach to assess the normalisation of differential rates of protest
        participation’

 Significant funded projects in this area during the current REF cycle include:

       Pilkington’s H2020 funded projects, DARE, exploring radicalisation, and
        PROMISE, on youth social engagement
       Pilkington’s EU funded MyPlace project on youth activism in Europe
       Yates’ Tesco-funded work on the politics of the sharing economy


5) Culture and Consumption.
 This cluster brings together two strands of research: first, on cultural sociology with a
 focus upon: (i) science (Balmer, Bellotti, Nimmo), (ii) the arts (Crossley, Miles,
 Thoburn), (iii) law (Balmer), (iv) cultural participation (Miles, Bottero, Katz-Gerro), (v)
 popular culture (Crossley, Holmes, Kirkpatrick); second, centred in the work of SCI,
 which brings an innovative focus on environmental sustainability to bear upon the study of
 consumption (Holmes, Warde, Yates, Southerton, Katz-Gerro, Welch, Whillans)


                                                                                      Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 A number of significant publications have been produced during the current REF cycle,
 including:

       Balmer’s Lie Detection and the Law.
       Crossley’s Connecting Sounds.
       Kirkpatrick’s Critical Technology and Formation of Gaming Culture.
       Thoburn’s Anti-Book.
       Warde’s Consumption: a Sociological Analysis and The Practice of Eating.
       Warde, Paddock and Whillan’s The Sociological Significance of Dining Out.

 Key funded projects include:

       SCI Tesco Funding (to 2018), a block grant which funded a range of projects
        including Warde’s ‘Dining Out’ research
       Holmes’, Hallsworth Fellowship on ‘thrift’ and material cultures
       Miles’ AHRC funded research on cultural participation and cultural values
       Welch’s ESRC New Investigator grant on Imagined Futures of Consumption
       Whillans’ BA Postdoctoral Fellowship on the temporal organisation of employment
        and the performance of eating occasions
       Yates’ Hallsworth Fellowship on one-person households and environmental change

6) Methodological Innovation.
 This theme cross-cuts much of what we do in the UoA and forms part of the explicit
 mission of CMI, NCRM and the Mitchell and Morgan Centres. These units focus
 respectively upon quantitative (CMI, NCRM), qualitative (Morgan) and network (Mitchell)
 methodologies but each also has an explicit commitment to mixed methods research. This
 is enhanced by overlapping membership between the centres (e.g. Edwards in both the
 Mitchell and Morgan centres; Everett, Schoch and Shafie in CMI and the Mitchell
 Centre).

 Methodological innovations within the Mitchell Centre during the present cycle include
 Schoch’s path-breaking work on centrality measurement; Shafie’s work on entropy;
 Everett’s dual projection approaches to two-mode networks; and publications advancing
 mixed method approaches to network analysis. Within the Morgan Centre, there has been
 leading-edge work by Mason on ‘facet’ methodology, Woodward on ‘material methods’,
 Holmes on ‘mundane methods’ and an innovative collaboration between the Morgan
 Centre and artist Lynne Chapman, funded under Heath’s Leverhulme Artist in Residence
 Award, exploring the use of observational sketching as method.

 Shlomo’s Bayesian Adaptive Survey Design Network, funded by the Leverhulme Trust
 and involving participation from several national statistical offices, is developing new
 approaches to data gathering and analysis. Within NCRM, Shlomo and Chandola’s
 recent work on bio-social methods of research, and particularly longitudinal surveys,
 represents a major innovation with interdisciplinary implications. Elliot’s work on data
 anonymization and disclosure risk for linked datasets is world-leading, whilst his work as
 chair of the United Kingdom Anonymisation Network performs an important role for the
 UK social scientific research community.

 Key publications:

       Bellotti’s Qualitative Networks


                                                                                      Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


          Elliot et al The Anonymisation Decision Making Framework
          Holmes and Hall’s interdisciplinary book Mundane Methods
          Shafie’s ‘A Multigraph Approach to Social Network Analysis’
          Mitchell Centre’s collaborative, Social Network Analysis for Ego-Nets
          Mason’s edited collection Living the Weather
          Wisniowski et al ‘Bayesian Population Forecasting’
          Woodward’s Material Methods

 Key funded projects in this REF cycle include:

           The Manchester component of the National Centre for Research Methods
           Elliot’s ESRC funded Administrative Data Service
           Mason’s Leverhulme funded research on ‘socio-atmospherics’ and ‘living the
            weather’
           Shlomo’s Leverhulme Trust funded research on Bayesian statistical theories
           Shlomo’s H2020 project, Integrating Expertise in Inclusive Growth 2

 Comparing these areas with the clusters described in our REF2014 environment
 statement, it is clear that our interests and expertise have maintained a balance of stability
 and change during the current REF cycle. We have retained a strong focus upon
 innovative and mixed methods, personal life and inequality, making a strategic decision, in
 relation to the latter, to develop our expertise in race and ethnicity. We have fostered
 research in social networks and social movements within the UoA, and will build on these
 in the next REF cycle. We have also built on our longstanding expertise in cultural
 sociology and this will be a focus of further support in the next cycle. This reflects the
 combination of our continuing commitment to core sociological concerns with our ambition
 to innovate, progress and remain at the cutting-edge of the discipline. In most cases
 changes accord with priorities identified in the future strategy section of our 2014
 statement.


 1.3 Research Strategy
 The three strategic priorities in our 2014 return were:
    1. Fostering the excellence, distinctiveness and visibility of Manchester sociology.
    2. Identifying key areas for interdisciplinary and international collaboration.
    3. Strengthening the social impact of our research.

 Fostering the excellence, distinctiveness and visibility of Manchester sociology:
 We have built on our existing strengths and cultivated excellence in new areas through
 strategic recruitment, research support and rewarding hard work (see S2). Much of our
 distinctiveness lies in our collaboration across Sociology and Social Statistics, and the
 opportunities this affords us to offer a comprehensive programme of research, covering
 many mainstream areas of sociological interest (e.g. inequality, culture, personal life and
 methodology), whilst pursuing emerging areas at the cutting-edge of the discipline (e.g.
 sustainability, social networks, social movements and advanced quantitative methods). As
 S2 and S3 show, we have made key appointments across all levels and our staffing
 strategy facilitates significant time and resources for research. Our impact strategy over
 the cycle has strengthened our visibility both through an extensive effort to work with
 policy makers and engage non-academic audiences, particularly within MICRA and
 CoDE. As S4 shows, colleagues are keen to engage with the discipline broadly, for
 example through editorship of key journals – notably, of course, Sociology.



                                                                                        Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Identifying key areas for interdisciplinary and international collaboration: Our
 investment and involvement in centres and institutes, such as CMI, CoDE, MICRA and
 SCI, which span the School, Faculty and University, has formed an important element in
 our pursuit of interdisciplinarity. Sociology UoA members have leadership roles in key
 institutes and manage large interdisciplinary teams. For example, CoDE involves
 economists, political scientists and geographers, as well as sociologists; CMI and the
 Mitchell Centre collaborate with mathematicians, physicians, psychologists, computer
 scientists and business scholars; SCI partners with the Dalton Institute and other science
 and engineering academics; and MICRA has a 1000-strong network of academics,
 practitioners, policy makers and members of the lay public, with academics from a wide
 range of disciplinary backgrounds spanning the medical sciences, natural sciences and
 arts.

 Interdisciplinary collaborations also emerge from our engagement in cross-Faculty and
 cross-UoM networks. Chandola, Devine, Fagan, Olsen and Price are involved in the
 Work and Equalities Institute, based in the Alliance Manchester Business School (AMBS),
 which brings together psychologists, economists, and sociologists; Devine is Vice-Dean
 and Head of the Alliance Manchester Business School, the largest business and
 management school in the UK; Elliot sits on the management board of the Data Science
 Institute, an interdisciplinary unit involving mathematicians and computer scientists; and Li
 sits on the steering committee of the Manchester China Institute, a new interdisciplinary
 unit whose members include engineers and natural scientists as well as social science
 and humanities disciplines.

 These institutional links are complemented by collaborations by individual academics.
 Recent individual interdisciplinary collaborations have reached beyond the social sciences
 to include both STEM disciplines (e.g. medical science (Chandola, Nazroo, Price, and
 Phillipson), biology and neuroscience (Balmer), computer science (Everett, Schoch)
 and mathematics (Everett)) and the wider humanities, including Russian Studies
 (Pilkington), architecture (Thoburn), History (Alexander, Tinsley, Byrne) and
 musicology (Crossley). Chandola and Shlomo’s work on bio-social methods is an
 excellent example of this kind of interdisciplinary work.

 The centres and institutes also play an important role in generating international
 collaboration, creating an attractive environment for visiting scholars and events which
 raise our visibility. The School and Faculty invest significant resources in
 internationalisation (S3) and this REF cycle has seen productive connections between
 UoA colleagues and Universities in Amsterdam (migration), Toronto (sexuality),
 Melbourne (personal lives and health) and Copenhagen (sustainable consumption).
 These include research seminars, joint grant applications, PhD collaborations and
 research visits/placements. Our ongoing research projects have links with partners across
 Europe (Pilkington), in East and West Africa (Joseph-Salisbury), China and India
 (Zhang, Chandola, Olsen). The University’s Hallsworth Visiting Professorship scheme is
 important in this respect, moreover, as it affords funding for visiting international scholars
 (see S3).

 Strengthening the Social Impact of our Research: Developing and embedding the
 impact of our research outside the academy has been a central focus during the present
 cycle. This is discussed further below (1.5) and also in S3.

1.4 Future Research Strategy

 Developing and embedding these priorities remain central to our future research strategy,
 while also expanding these priorities in new directions. In the next REF period,


                                                                                         Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 specifically, we aim to build on the above by:
   1. Exploring and supporting emerging strengths. Innovation and direction are often
       generated ‘from below’, through the collaborative activities of colleagues. We are
       committed to maintaining an open and supportive environment in which such
       initiatives can flourish and achieve formal status within the School - for example,
       supporting an expanded network focused on cultural sociology, and seeking Centre
       funding and status.
   2. Consolidating and developing our ‘Movements and Protest’ stream. Social
       movement research has gathered considerable momentum during this REF cycle,
       making a strong contribution to the Manchester UoA’s distinctive identity. We seek
       to consolidate this through securing official centre status (according to UoM
       regulations) and funding for Movements@Manchester.
   3. Developing/expanding our internationalisation agenda. While we have
       developed our international collaborations and profile across this REF cycle, we
       hope to deepen these partnerships in terms of research and PGR exchanges (e.g.
       with Columbia University). Building on School resources supporting
       internationalisation (see S3), we will develop emerging links with partners in India
       and Africa, particularly around joint grant applications (e.g. through GCRF funding).
   4. Continuing to improve our impact and external profile. As we discuss below, we
       have strongly developed our impact profile and seek to embed and strengthen this
       further. We have access to a new External Relations Team, who will enable us to
       develop links with external partners (including for Industrial Strategy funds), while
       the appointment of Younge to the Sociology department will also raise our profile
       and develop our expertise in public engagement.

 1.5 Impact Strategy

 The UoA is committed to developing research with impact, through engaged social
 research that makes a difference to the world outside of the academy. We have sought to
 achieve this regionally, nationally and internationally, and with public, private and third
 sector organisations, the media and the general public, across our key research domains.
 While the scope and scale of this impact is reflected in our selected impact cases, the
 UoA has worked hard to embed impact culture across the research lifecycle, with many of
 our colleagues engaging with a wide range of partners and stakeholders at all stages from
 the design and conduct of research through to its dissemination. Impact both draws on,
 and feeds into, the excellence of our research, and the development of a research culture
 within which impact is embedded, rewarded and fully supported (see S2, S3).

 The UoA has embedded training on impact at all levels, from PGR onwards, and impact is
 a key plank of our research away days, reflected in our annual impact prizes for PGR and
 ECR colleagues. We have drawn very effectively on SoSS’ Knowledge Exchange and
 Impact Officer and made extensive use of the internal and external funds available for
 impact, such as Manchester’s ‘Social Responsibility Flagship’ support fund, the Faculty’s
 Strategic Investment Fund, and ESRC Impact Acceleration awards (see S3). We have
 also benefitted from institutional support for external partnerships through the presence of
 Simon Industrial Fellows (including Rob Berkeley from the BBC, Sandra Kolnik, an award-
 winning broadcast journalist with Suedwestrundfunk, and Sue Lukes, a consultant on
 migration and refugees). From 2014-2017, the School supported a Memorandum of
 Understanding with the Runnymede Trust, linked to Sociology and CoDE, to support its
 policy and public engagement work around race equality. We focus particularly on
 creative and high-quality communication and engagement, drawing on the opportunities
 offered by the University-wide initiative Policy@Manchester, and our UoA
 communications manager, who oversees our successful Twitter account.



                                                                                       Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our impact cases show the range of these collaborations. Outside of these cases,
 significant collaborations include Nazroo’s influential work with the Cabinet Office which
 shaped the Race Disparity Audit and his work on the ELSA database which has informed
 policies around later life work. Pilkington’s DARE project has worked with partners
 across Europe around conflict resolution and mediation, and informed the Commission for
 Countering Extremism; Purdam’s work on poverty and foodbanks, with local government
 and NGO partners across the region; Fagan’s consultation with the ILO, Eurofound and
 European Commission on working families; Olsen’s consultation with the Government
 Equalities Office on the gender pay gap; Price’s role in the Pensions Advisory Group.

 Our institutes and centres are key locations for impact partnerships. For example, SCI has
 worked closely with Unilever and Tesco around sustainable consumption practices, CoDE
 has partnered with the Ahmed Iqbal Ullah Race Relations Archive, Whitworth Art Gallery
 and Manchester Museum, MICRA works closely with regional partners around ageing.
 The Mitchell Centre’s work on 'covert networks' and human trafficking, respectively, led to
 collaboration with governmental, police and security related agencies; and the Centre
 submitted evidence to a parliamentary education committee regarding patterns of
 interaction and relationships in schools in a Covid-19 context. The Morgan Centre has
 worked with Crisis on shared housing and with both the Human Fertilisation and Embryo
 Authority, and the Progress Education Trust on donor conception.

 UoA members have also raised the public profile of our research through engaging with a
 diverse range of audiences through photographic exhibitions, artists’ workshops,
 exhibitions, podcasts, pop-up events, graphic novels, sociological fiction leaflets, websites
 and educational resources and short films. S2 and S3 provides further detail on the
 School and Faculty support for impact at an institutional level. S4 reflects the broad range
 of partners that UoA members have engaged with across this REF cycle.


 1.6 Open Access

 The UoA is strongly committed to the open access agenda. Regular bulletins remind all
 staff to upload all pre-publication articles to the University Open Access (OA) Gateway
 run by the University Library Services, who have a dedicated team to deal with OA issues
 and queries (Section 2.5 REF5a). However, the UoA goes beyond these formal
 requirements, as part of our commitment to our broader impact and engagement agenda
 (for example, Byrne et al’s recent ‘State of the Nation’ report, which has OA). The large
 majority of our papers are available for open access either in ‘green’ format on our
 website, in gold format in their journal outlet or in an open access journal. The Faculty has
 ringfenced generous funds for the School to support Gold OA publication for non UKRI-
 funded research outputs since 2016, which has been used primarily to support RCS, ECR
 and non-professorial colleagues. These funds have also been used to support OA for
 monographs, such as Thoburn’s Anti-Book.




 1.7 Research Integrity and Ethics

 The UoA cultivates a culture of research integrity and promotes high ethical standards at
 all levels. For example, all UoA staff and PhD students receive mandatory online training
 in good practice for research integrity and ethics, and in GDPR requirements, which is
 renewed every two years. All staff and PhD students follow the University’s robust ethics
 procedures and Code of Conduct
 (https://www.manchester.ac.uk/research/environment/governance/conduct/).

                                                                                      Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research integrity more broadly conceived (as enshrined in the University’s Code of
 Good Research Conduct) is secured through the supervision, mentoring and training of
 researchers (see S2 below) and by the nurturing of a supportive research environment
 (see S2 and S3).


Section 2. People
 2.1: The UoA

 The UoA comprises 58 people (fte:55.8); including 25 professors, two readers, 14 senior
 lecturers, nine lecturers, five presidential fellows, and eight research fellows (see Table
 One).

 The current REF period has seen a number of new appointments, including 10
 permanent lecturers (Balmer, Cernat, Fadaee, Holmes, Kapadia, Shafie, Shryane,
 Voros, Welch, Yates), one senior lecturer (Fe) and two professors (Price, Younge).
 Appointments have been linked to the strategic development of our areas of research
 expertise, above: Price (ageing); Younge (race and ethnicity); Holmes and Welch
 (culture); Shafie and Voros (networks); Fadaee and Yates (social movements);
 Kapadia, Cernat, Fe and Shryane (quantitative methodological innovation); Holmes
 (qualitative methods and consumption).

 A particular area of strength has been in our recruitment of talented early career
 scholars. In addition to the appointments above, as part of UoM’s prestigious
 ‘Presidential Fellowship’ scheme, which is concerned with recruiting talented early
 career staff, we appointed five high quality ECRs to key areas of research strength:
 Joseph-Salisbury & Tinsley (race and ethnicity); Shoch (social networks); Zhang
 (health, inequality). We have also benefitted from the awarding of seven fellowships
 through the UoM’s highly competitive Simon and Hallsworth post-doctoral fellowship
 scheme. Some of these talented researchers have taken up permanent positions with us
 (Balmer, Holmes and Yates). Of others who have completed Fellowships in this cycle,
 one currently has a teaching contract and four have taken up permanent academic posts
 at York, St Andrews, Liverpool and Mannheim. De Noronha took up a permanent
 lectureship at UCL in January 2021.

 2.2: Career Development and Progression
 Alongside the recruitment of exciting new talent, the successful retention and
 development of our existing staff forms a key plank of our research strategy, providing a
 strong foundation for our research culture, at all career levels. All new ECRs are
 appointed a mentor, who meets regularly with them, offering information and advice
 regarding all aspects of their role and career trajectory. We provide dedicated career
 development guidance for early career colleagues as they go through probation and
 apply for promotion, and support them through the process. Annual Performance and
 Development Reviews (PDRs) are also used to identify and encourage colleagues to
 apply for promotion, or to recognise exceptional performance. In addition, the School
 holds annual workshops for colleagues thinking about applying for promotion, and has
 an additional round of review prior to submission to provide feedback on applications.
 During the current cycle 14 lecturers have been promoted to senior lectureships, eight
 senior lecturers to professorships and four to readership. In addition, one research fellow
 has been promoted to a senior fellowship.

 All permanent research active staff have broadly equal departmental workloads (40%


                                                                                      Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 teaching, 40% research, 20% administration). New ECR staff have lighter teaching and
 administrative loads (usually 50% of a normal teaching load and no administration
 during their first year, with a gradual increase during the following two years, until they
 carry a normal load in their fourth year).

 Career development of all staff is supported through the annual PDR process. PDRs
 check workload balance, assess individual research activities and plans, and identify
 support needs. Research expectations are incorporated into the PDR, covering:
 externally funded research bids; conference attendance; publication plans; and impact
 and dissemination activities. This aids career planning and helps to identify areas for
 improvement, future support and seedcorn investment. These elements, particularly
 impact and engagement, are all fully integrated into recognition and reward processes
 around probation and promotion, and are taken into account in workload allocations.

 PDRs account for different career stages and are used to nurture the careers of ECR
 research fellows and associates. This makes UoM an excellent springboard for early
 career researchers (ECRs) and Research Contract Staff (RCSs). Six research fellows
 (Balmer, Becares, Holmes, Yates, Buffel, Zhang) and four research associates
 (Cernat, Kapadia, Shryane, Welch) have been transferred to permanent posts since
 2014. In addition to the UoM Concordat Implementation Plan (Section 3.3.2 REF5a), the
 School has established a bespoke policy for Research Contract Staff (many of whom
 are based in the Departments of Sociology and Social Statistics) (see 2.3 below).

 Each staff member is allocated £2,000 p.a. to support their research, and departments
 provide further seedcorn funding for targeted development activities, in addition to
 School and Faculty funds (see S3). Colleagues are encouraged to present at an
 international conference at least once every two years and at a national conference
 annually. They are entitled to one semester of academic leave in every seven
 semesters, subject to producing a research plan and final report. All full-time permanent
 staff in post since 2014 have been entitled to two such periods of leave during this REF
 cycle, with many having additional teaching relief funded by research centres.

 The Staff Learning and Development Unit provides career development opportunities for
 researchers at all career stages. In addition, the mandatory Faculty New Academics
 Programme includes five modules on research-related skills, whilst the UoM’s ECR
 website offers additional guidance to those working in HE. The support and
 encouragement that we offer to ECRs is reflected in the fact that three of them have won
 prizes for their work during the current REF cycle. Ruiz was awarded the International
 Association of Survey Statisticians' 2019 Cochran-Hansen prize for the best paper on
 survey research methods submitted by a young statistician; Vanhoutte was awarded the
 LIVES Best Paper Award for Early Scholar 2018; and Schoch won the International
 Communication Association Best Paper Award, 2019. Teaching-focused lecturer, Abbott
 won the Philip Abrams prize in 2020 for his monograph The Self, Relational Sociology
 and Morality in Practice.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 As a large and diverse unit, with a strong research expertise in inequality, the UoA is
 committed to the advancement of equality in employment and career development of all
 staff. We believe that this is an important means of fully unlocking research potential, in
 addition to its obvious social justice dimension. Equality data monitoring and action
 planning is embedded into annual performance reviews, and in recruitment and
 promotion practices. Diversity figures for the UoA are summarised in Table One.



                                                                                       Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Table One: UoA Diversity Breakdown

                                      All        Female       BAME
    Professors                        25         13           4 (17%)
    Readers                           2          1            1
    Senior Lecturers                  14         5            0
    Lecturers                         9          4            6 (46%)
    Research Fellows                  8          2            0


 Whilst we recognise that we can still improve and have strategies in place to do so (see
 below), these figures mark an improvement on our previous REF return (particularly in
 relation to BAME staff where we are above sectoral norms for Sociology departments
 nationally). Four female professors within the UoA have senior management roles:
 Alexander is Director of Research for the School and sits on Senate and the Board of
 Governors, Devine is Director of Alliance Manchester Business School, Fagan is UoM’s
 Vice President for Research, and Heath is Faculty Vice Dean for Postgraduate
 Research. In addition, the heads of both departments in the UoA are women (Bloch and
 Olsen), as is the School’s PGR director (Woodward). Heaphy, from the UoA, is Vice-
 Dean and Head of the School of Social Sciences.

 UoM and SoSS have implemented four initiatives to further improve our diversity profile:

   1. Fixed Term Contracts. In 2017, the School established a Research Contract
      Staff Working Group to look at the management and career development of fixed-
      term research staff and developed a range of new policies and procedures. These
      included clearer guidance for PIs on their responsibilities, a new Network Co-
      ordinator position at School level (currently Balmer from the UoA), and the
      establishment of a £1,000 p.a. Career Development Allowance, to support
      independent career development.
   2. Promotions. Academic promotions are another area where equality and diversity
      issues may arise. To address these issues, the Head of School runs an annual
      promotion workshop, to ensure that staff understand promotion criteria and
      process. The School Promotion Committee (SPC) operates a ‘dry run’ each
      November, where draft applications are considered, and feedback is given to all
      candidates (and senior colleagues) on how they might strengthen their
      application.
   3. Staff Diversity Training. All academic staff within SoSS have undertaken
      courses on unconscious bias and equality and diversity within the current REF
      cycle. These courses focus particularly upon issues relating to recruitment,
      promotion and PGR supervision.
   4. Athena SWAN. SoSS has held an Athena SWAN bronze award since 2017. Its
      Equality and Diversity Committee, established in 2016, meets twice a semester
      and includes representatives from every department and research centre in the
      School. A ‘caring costs fund’ was introduced in 2018; this allows all academic
      staff (including fixed-term) and PGRs to apply for money to cover the costs of
      looking after children or other dependents while away from home outside working
      hours (e.g. attending a conference or seminar). The Faculty is currently piloting a
      scheme to give additional sabbatical leave to women returning from maternity or
      adoption leave.




                                                                                    Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.4 PGR Training and Development
 Our research culture is enriched by a large postgraduate community, whose members
 are key players in our collective intellectual life. During the REF period UoA staff
 supervised 104.09 FTE PhD students to successful completion, compared with 83.14
 FTE in REF2014. In addition we have enjoyed year-on-year increases in recruitment to
 our suite of Masters courses (three of which enjoy ESRC RT recognition), with a healthy
 through-flow of students from the Masters to the PhD programme.

 We offer financial support to PhD students through our involvement in: the North West
 Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (NWSSDTP) and its annual competitive
 bursary scheme; the School’s own internally funded bursary competition (see S3); and
 bursary schemes (funded jointly by RCUK and matched, Faculty funds) available in
 CoDE and MICRA respectively. We support student applications to these schemes and
 seek to maximise success in them by way of an internal review, with feedback to
 applicants and support through the revision process by prospective supervisors.

 Between 2014 and 2016 PGR training was coordinated by the NW Doctoral Training
 Partnership, the second largest of the ESRC’s 21 DTCs, comprising UoM, the University
 of Liverpool and Lancaster University. In 2016 Keele University joined and the
 consortium was renamed the North West Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership
 (NWSSDTP). The partnership coordinates collaborative activities such as cross-DTP
 conferences and workshops run by Methods NorthWest, through its ‘Methods Exchange’
 programme. Members of the UoA held lead roles in the establishment of the original
 DTC, and UoM is currently lead partner for Methods Northwest, directed 2018-20 by
 Heath. Heath is the institutional lead for NWSSDTP, which is guaranteed 65 new PGR
 studentships per year to support doctoral research and training. It has a particular focus
 on advanced quantitative methods, with UoM leading this strand of work, and a strong
 and growing emphasis on interdisciplinary and cross-institutional projects. Students can
 access an impressive array of training and high-quality interdisciplinary expertise across
 the three HEIs.

 In addition to NWSSDTP, Manchester is the only university to have successfully
 obtained funding for two ESRC Centres for Doctoral Training: in BioSocial research (with
 UCL and Essex) and in Data Analytics and Society (with Leeds, Liverpool and Sheffield),
 with Chandola and Elliot, respectively, taking lead roles.

 Methods@Manchester also has a key role in PGR training and holds an annual
 ‘Methods Fair’, a day-long event early in the academic year. PGR students are able to
 access Methods@Manchester’s regular seminars and training events and their annual
 summer school (running since 2012). Members of the sociology UoA are always strongly
 represented at these events. For example, the Mitchell Centre puts on two courses
 (Introduction to Social Network Analysis and Advanced/Statistical Network Analysis)
 every year, CMI runs ‘Introduction to Longitudinal Data Analysis using R’ and the
 Morgan Centre runs a course on ‘Creative Approaches to Qualitative Research’.

 All potential PGR students are interviewed by a panel including possible supervisors and
 an independent Chair prior to acceptance. All supervisors receive mandatory
 unconscious bias and supervisory training. PhD students receive joint supervision (at
 least two supervisors), broadening the expertise available to them. All have allocated
 desks in the open plan areas of the departments across the whole of their PhD studies.
 New students participate in a range of induction activities, are expected to participate in
 fortnightly skills workshops, and have access to an online postgraduate resource and
 communications hub. In addition, the UoM has a bespoke online PGR progression


                                                                                      Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 system, ‘eProg’, which provides a platform for students, academics and administrative
 staff to record and track key progression milestones from registration to examination,
 and allows students to book training activities online. Student progression is supported
 by annual mid- and end of year reviews with an independent assessor. In addition, the
 School provides tailored completion support, which has contributed to the UoA’s
 improved completion rates.

 To encourage student participation in academic conferences and similar events to
 advance their career prospects the Research Training Support Grants made available to
 all full-time students have been increased from £500 to £1,000 per annum during this
 REF cycle. In addition, £3K fieldwork bursaries have been introduced for students not
 supported by RCUK grants and a dedicated £50K Student Enhancement budget has
 been instituted to support School activities which improve the experience and
 opportunities of PGR students.

 Postgraduates are invited to participate in all seminars, reading groups and workshops
 organised by the UoA and its affiliated centres and institutes, and have access to
 funding and support where they wish to organise their own. Their co-location within a
 number of purpose-built large open-plan spaces encourages a communal spirit and this
 is further enhanced through a monthly postgraduate bulletin, edited by a third year PGR
 student and distributed to all postgraduate students and staff. In these ways our
 postgraduate students play an active role in our research community and make an
 important contribution to it.

 Employability is a key element of our research training, in terms of impact and
 publications. We provide bespoke impact workshops annually, and support impact
 related events (particularly at the ESRC Social Science Festival, see S3), and we hold
 annual workshops on publishing drawing on expertise from within the UoA. Many of our
 PGR students have published papers (individually or with their supervisors) in leading
 journals during their studies, including papers in Sociology, the British Journal of
 Sociology, Theory, Culture and Society, Feminist Review, Social Networks and
 Methodological Innovations. Others have won prizes and been awarded scholarships or
 bursaries to participate in events, including a fellowship sponsored by the International
 Journal of Urban and Regional Research and a bursary to fund participation in a major
 international symposium on social movements in Florence. Others still have taken up
 exciting work placement opportunities, including a recent example at the Cabinet Office.

 Our PGR students have an excellent track record in further employment. A number have
 taken up permanent lecturing posts at institutions including the universities of Anadolu
 (Turkey), Leicester, Liverpool, Nottingham, Shanghai, Taichung (Taiwan), Warwick, York
 and Yunann (China) (as well as Manchester itself). Others have moved on to
 postdoctoral research posts at institutions including the universities of Cambridge,
 Dublin (UCD), Edinburgh, Leuven, London (UCL), Mexico City (NUM), Oxford,
 Sherbrooke (Canada), Sussex, and again Manchester. In addition, a number of our
 students have taken up research posts at institutions outside of the university sector,
 including the Office for National Statistics, Google Deep Mind, the United Nations
 (Human Rights Office), the US Department of Energy and the Australian Institute for
 Family Studies.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The UoA continues to enjoy a strong record of success in obtaining high profile research
 grants from prestigious sources, with income spend during the REF period totalling

                                                                                     Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 £24.M, a 72% increase on REF 2014. Over 65% of REF eligible staff have held grants
 as PI or Co-I. In addition to significant ongoing funding for CoDE (ESRC) and SCI
 (Tesco) notable new grants obtained during this period include:

      -   £374K from ESRC “Curious Connections: The Impact of Donating Egg and
          Sperm on Donors' Everyday Life and Relationships” (2017-19)
      -    £456K from AHRC “Beyond Banglatown: continuity, change and new urban
          economies in Brick Lane” (2018-20)
      -   £487K from Lankelly Chase Foundation “Establishing a 'knowledge hub' on
          ethnic inequality and severe and multiple disadvantage” (2017-22)
      -   £500K transition funding from ESRC for “Understanding the dynamics of
          ethnic identity and inequality in the UK (CoDE)” (2018 -20)
      -   £571K from ESRC “Transitions and Mobilities: Girls growing up in Britain
          1954-76 and the implications for later-life experience and identity” (2017-20)
      -   £833K from ESRC “National Centre for Research Methods” (2014-2019)
      -   £912k H2020 “Dialogue About Radicalisation and Equality – DARE” (2017-
          21)

 In line with our stated REF2014 priority the UoA has worked hard to diversify its sources
 of research income. Although we continue to have significant success with RCUK/UKRI
 awards (£10.5m) this cycle has seen the increase in non-RCUK/UKRI sources (to
 £10.8m), and we will seek to strengthen alternative funding avenues in the next period,
 particularly focusing on international and industrial partnerships (see Section 1 future
 strategic aims). Examples from the current cycle include: £3.4m from the EU, £2.1m
 from charities, £3m from commercial sources, and £450K from local and national
 government.

 UoA members are also well represented in collaborative awards with other leading
 institutions: for example, Chandola’s co-directed ESRC funded International Centre for
 Lifecourse Studies in Society and Health (with UCL), May’s work with the Finnish Centre
 of Excellence on Ageing and Care, May and Chandola’s involvement in the ESRC
 Centre on Society and Mental Health (KCL), and Elliot with NCRM. Pilkington’s DARE
 project has 14 international university partners, (including Poland, Tunisia, Turkey,
 Croatia and Russia), while her PROMISE project has 8 academic partners (including
 Croatia, Russia, Germany, Slovakia and Portugal).

 Support for research is organised at Departmental, School and Faculty level. In addition,
 as discussed in S1, the UoA plays a significant role in School, Faculty and University
 Centres and Institutes (CoDE, SCI, MICRA, CMI) which form a locus for research
 support and funding activities.

 Departmental:
 In addition to the departmental career support structures discussed in S2, each
 department has a research director (DRD) who oversees department research strategy
 and sits on the School Research Committee (SRC). All REF eligible staff in the School
 have an annual Research Support Allowance of £2,000 p.a. (increased from £1,000
 since 2015), which can be spent, without prior approval, on any research-related activity,
 such as conference attendance or pump-priming research. Since 2018, research
 contract, teaching focused and fixed term teaching staff have a Career Development
 Allowance of £1,000 p.a. to support independent research career development.

 Both Sociology and Social Statistics departments hold annual research days and
 provide space to disseminate UoM principles of good research conduct, reflect on

                                                                                     Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 research strategy, consider new funding opportunities, opportunities for collaboration
 and develop approaches to impact. There is a monthly departmental seminar, and a
 number of vibrant reading groups supported by Departmental funds (e.g. decolonial,
 CoDE, social movements, pragmatism) which provide support on works in progress and
 publication.


 School:
 The academic management of the School’s research strategy is overseen by the School
 Research Director (SRD), supported by the School PGR and Social Responsibility
 Directors. Since 2016, School research strategy is also supported by new roles in
 Internationalisation and Business Engagement. Since 2018, a Network Co-ordinator has
 developed support for research contract and ECR staff. The UoA has significant input
 into research strategy across the School through these roles (Alexander, Balmer,
 Heaphy, & Woodward currently hold School leadership roles related to research).

 SoSS has made significant investment in research structures and support in this REF
 period, which have supported research culture and activity in the UoA. From 2018, the
 School established the Grant Management and Administration Team, who provide post
 award support for externally funded grants and co-ordinate the School’s Research
 Contract Staff policy. This has been of particular benefit to the UoA and related Centres
 and Institutes where many of the Research Contract Staff are located. From 2018-19 the
 School employed a full-time Research Promotion Manager, who assisted with
 opportunities for media and policy and public engagement. In 2019, this post was folded
 into an expanded External Relations unit (5 people), which is responsible for supporting
 external profile, website, and research related business engagement activities,
 conferences, workshops and other research events.

 The School-based Research Support Hub comprises a Research Support Manager and
 REF Manager (from 2018), four research support officers (RSO) and two Finance
 Officers. The UoA has a dedicated RSO to advise on grant applications from Sociology
 and Social Statistics. In addition, there is a knowledge exchange and impact officer who
 provides expert advice on designing and maximizing the impact of research. From 2016
 a grant writer works with individual applicants or teams in priority areas to develop
 research ideas and translate them into high quality applications. This role has
 particularly targeted training and support for ECR applications and has led directly to
 positive funding outcomes – for example, Welch’s ESRC New Investigator award on
 Imagined Futures of Consumption. The School Research Office co-ordinates a number
 of bespoke training sessions for departments and doctoral and early career
 researchers/research contract staff, particularly around grant writing, publication, and
 impact and engagement.

 The School Research Budget has increased from £25,000 per annum in 2014 to
 £64,000 in 2018/19, to £105,000 in 2019/20 (following the incorporation of the Faculty of
 Law within SOSS in 2019). In addition, the School has dedicated annual Social
 Responsibility funds, (£20,000 in 2019-20), an Internationalisation budget (£40k) and
 Business Engagement budget (£10,000). Since 2015 the School has run a competitive
 biannual competition for small grants (up to £2,000) for grant preparation, impact and
 engagement, networks and collaboration and internationalisation. Members of the UoA
 have received 36 of these awards in the REF period (worth nearly £63,000). This has
 been of particular benefit for RCS and ECR staff - for example Joseph-Salisbury
 developed workshops on mixed-race with NGOs and academic partners in Ghana,
 Buffel held stakeholder meetings for the Manchester Urban Ageing Research Group,
 Edwards & Gillan organised conferences to raise the profile of social movements

                                                                                    Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 research and Wisniowski undertook primary research and stakeholder events on
 climate change and migration for grant preparation.

 As noted in S2, the School provides a PGR Student Experience budget which has risen
 from £8.5k in 2014/15 to £50k in 2019/20. It has increased the Research Training
 Support Grant from £500 to £1,000 per annum (£3k in total per student) to encourage
 PhD participation at academic conferences and similar career development events. In
 addition to the 42 funded School PhD scholarships offered annually, funded at RCUK
 levels, the School provides £3,000 fieldwork bursaries for non-RCUK students. Every
 PhD in years 1-3 (i.e. normal registration period) is guaranteed an allocated desk.

 Centres and Institutes:
 The School hosts a number of Faculty and School Centres and Institutes (see S1).
 Many UoA staff members are actively engaged with these Centres and Institutes with
 the UoA providing directors for CMI (Everett), MICRA (Price to 2019, Chandola), CoDE
 (Nazroo and Byrne), SCI (Southerton to 2018). The specialised focus of research
 Centres and Institutes, combined with their size, enable them to contribute to our
 research environment in important ways. They not only provide space and
 interdisciplinary intellectual forums, events and seminars for a range of researchers, but
 also offer methods training, mentoring, grant writing support and seedcorn funding for
 ECRs and RCSs, focused on impact and piloting new research.

 As examples, the Mitchell and Morgan Centres provide bespoke methods training,
 support for funding bids, mentoring, peer review of grants and publications, and
 seminars/research events and networks. The Morgan Centre publishes free-to-
 download ‘toolkits’ pertaining to specific aspects of methodology on its website,
 alongside various audio-visual aids. In 2017-19, the Morgan and Mitchell Centres were
 each awarded 18-month postdoctoral fellowships, funded by the School, to support
 these activities. CMI runs approximately 25 short courses on various quantitative
 methods every year and hosts the Manchester Q Step Centre, providing training in
 quantitative methods to undergraduate and postgraduate students. These initiatives
 make a major contribution to research capacity within the UoA, SoSS and the wider
 social scientific community.

 CMI and the Mitchell Centre each organise an open weekly seminar series and all units
 regularly organise conferences, workshops and seminars. These events provide
 frequent and regular opportunities for researchers across all career stages to discuss
 shared research interests and serve to integrate postgraduate students tightly within our
 research community. In addition, the centres and institutes contribute to research
 capacity by way of data management and archiving. During the current REF cycle, for
 example, the Mitchell Centre has developed an on-line archive of ‘covert network’
 datasets. In addition, CMI hosts the Manchester component of the UK Data Service and
 the UK Anonymization Network, and has developed a new Data Science Research
 Partnership (DSRP) with the BBC.

 Faculty/University:
 In addition, the Faculty of Humanities has a range of research support funds to which
 staff can apply. These include the Humanities Strategic Investment Fund (HSIF), which
 supports activities related to the University's research strategic goals and
 internationalisation strategy, and Social Responsibility funds to support public
 engagement activities. It also administers the ESRC’s Impact Acceleration Account. A
 fund of £1m was awarded to the University in 2017, to foster collaborative activities
 between UoM staff and non-academic partners, with a further £1m awarded in 2019.


                                                                                     Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Members of the UoA were awarded five HSIF grants (totaling over £65,000) which have
 supported research grant applications (e.g. Elliott on data science). UoA members have
 also been awarded 10 IAA grants in this period, worth over £300,000 (see below). The
 Faculty also runs an annual Simon/Hallsworth postdoctoral fellowship scheme (6
 awarded in UoA, see Section 2) as well as a visiting professor programme (11 visitors
 from six countries) and Simon Industrial Fellowship (3 held in the UoA - Berkeley, Kolnik
 and Lukes). These have enabled the UoA to develop and embed research links with
 international institutions such as Copenhagen, Renmin, Toronto, Columbia, Melbourne
 and Australia National Universities, and with research partners in China, India and
 Bangladesh. It has also facilitated engagement with third sector, government and private
 sector organisations, such as Rochdale Borough Council, Runnymede Trust, Migration
 Works, the BBC and Sudwestrundfunk. These links will be expanded in the next REF
 period to support our international and industrial strategy. The UoA has also benefitted
 from conference support from the Hallsworth Endowment which has supported three
 events in the REF period: Holmes’ ‘Make Do and Mend’ expo and two major CoDE
 events, including their 2014 launch event.

 The Professorial enhanced research leave scheme (PERL) is a Faculty initiative to
 support senior professors in continuing to build their research leadership and to publish
 high quality, internationally leading research outputs. The award provides one semester
 of leave to successful applicants. One member of the UoA (Heath) has benefited from
 PERL.

 Impact:
 The UoA has placed particular emphasis on developing the impact of its research and
 has had notable successes in this area across a range of arenas (see S1, S4). Each
 UoA has an ‘Impact Lead’, an experienced member of academic staff who advises on
 impact at UoA level. The School has a dedicated knowledge exchange and impact
 officer, a post-award team and an external relations team who work with individuals and
 groups to develop impact and profile. Training and networking events are organised at
 Faculty, School and UoA levels, encouraging colleagues to embed impact activity into
 their research plans, share best practice and to build relationships with research users
 and potential beneficiaries. This is supported by the Business Engagement lead and the
 Policy@Manchester initiative; a team of Professional Services (PS) colleagues working
 to connect researchers with policymakers and influencers. The School provides
 ringfenced funds for impact work (£30k in 2019-2020), and access to School and
 Faculty Social Responsibility funds. Colleagues have been awarded over £300,000 in
 total from ESRC IAA funds for a range of impact related work. These have supported
 impact and engagement projects, which have underpinned our impact case studies and
 additional impact work in schools (Byrne), with Trades Unions (Nazroo), on
 organizational change (Fagan) and extremism (Pilkington).

 The UoA has a dedicated Communications Officer, who oversees Sociology’s
 successful Twitter account. The Sociology Twitter account has over 12,000 followers,
 and in 2019 our tweets had over 530,000 impressions. Supported by School and Faculty
 funds, members of the UoA have worked with the University’s cultural institutions, for
 example, through research on cultural industries (Whitworth Art Gallery, Manchester
 Museum), education (Ahmed Iqbal Ullah Race Relations Resource Centre),
 consumption (Central Library), and on the Peterloo anniversary (John Rylands Library)
 to expand their public engagement regionally.

 The School is also the Lead on the ESRC Social Science Festival, which has run


                                                                                     Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 annually since 2015 (in collaboration with Manchester Metropolitan and Salford
 Universities) with a budget of £20,000. The Festival has raised the profile of Social
 Science and UoA research in the city and region through over 90 funded events to a
 diverse range of audiences. For example, PhD and ECR colleagues have held public
 events with older populations (‘Living Library’ and ‘Reimagining the Future for Older
 People’), school children (Britain by Numbers – the big social science data quiz, and
 ‘Telling Migration Stories with Data’) and HIV positive individuals (LHives: Narratives of
 HIV). These underpin our strategy of developing impact from our research across the
 research lifecycle from PhD and RCS colleagues to senior staff.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 We see collaboration within and across the discipline as key to driving and maintaining
 high quality research and innovation, empirically, theoretically and methodologically. As
 noted in S1, members of the UoA are centrally involved in interdisciplinary collaborations
 at School, Faculty and University level: all of our Institutes and Centres are
 interdisciplinary in nature: CoDE collaborates with colleagues in Economics, Politics,
 Anthropology and History, SCI with Politics and Engineering, MICRA with Biology and
 Medicine, Morgan Centre with Law, Geography, Social Work and AMBS, and the Mitchell
 Centre with Mathematics, Biology, Criminology and Computing. The ELSA survey is co-
 directed by Nazroo with an Economist at the Institute for Fiscal Studies, while Chandola,
 Devine and Fagan work with colleagues at the AMBS Work and Equalities Institute.


 Our research collaborations are also national and international in scope: the NCRM
 node is a partnership with Southampton, Alexander works with historians in Cambridge,
 Chandola’s research is with medics and social statisticians at Kings, Essex and Imperial,
 Nazroo’s Synergi Collaborative Centre grant collaborates with medical colleagues at
 Queen Mary, Pilkington’s H2020 projects have 22 academic partners in 17 countries in
 Europe (and Turkey and Tunisia); Olsen works with development partners in India;
 Joseph-Salisbury in East and West Africa; Zhang in China.


 We make a strong contribution to the research base of the discipline and the academy in
 the UK and globally. Involvement in a range of areas and roles ensures that UoA
 members remain at the cutting-edge of their specialised research areas and the
 discipline, and play an active role in shaping the future of the discipline, and supporting
 the development of early career scholars. UoA members (Joseph-Salisbury and
 Alexander) recently led on an important BSA funded project into racial and ethnic
 inequality in the discipline, with their recommendations accepted by the BSA for
 implementation. Fagan was a member of the British Academy Working Group on
 Interdisciplinary Research and Higher Education (2015-16) and report co-author (2016)
 Crossing Paths: Interdisciplinary institutions, careers, education and applications.


 Our contributions can be summarised under 6 headings:


    (i)      Hosting and editing leading research journals and book series.
 In the current REF period, UoA members have edited 13 key disciplinary and field
 journals including:


         Sociology (2018-date) (May, Chandola and others in the UoA),


                                                                                       Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



           Social Movement Studies (2009-date) (Gillan, Edwards and others in the UoA)
           Social Networks (2017-date)(Everett)
           European Journal of Development Research (2017-2020) (Olsen)
           Identities: Global Studies in Culture and Power (2011-2019) (Alexander)


In addition, we co/edit four prestigious book series:
           Transforming Capitalism (2014-date) (Edwards)
           Reproduction, Culture and Society (2018-19) (Nordqvist)
           Ageing in a Global Context (2017-date) (Phillipson)
           Palgrave Studies in Relational Sociology (2017-date) (Crossley)


 We sit on the editorial boards of 48 different journals, including: Acta Sociologica, the
 Sociological Review, Contemporary Society, Body and Society, Cultural Sociology,
 Ethnic and Racial Studies, Ethnography, New Formations, the European Journal of
 Ageing and Migration Studies.


    (ii)       Funding Body and Professional Association Work
 We are represented on the boards of seven professional associations, including:


           British Sociological Association,
           International Sociological Association,
           European Sociological Association,
           Royal Statistical Society.


 UoA members contribute to award panels for major funding bodies, including, over the
 present cycle: British Academy, ESRC (Chandola Chaired Round 3 of the ESRC Future
 Leaders Interview Panel; Chandola and Carter are both members of the Strategic
 Advisory Board), AHRC, Leverhulme Trust, Carnegie Trust, Medical Research Council,
 Marie Curie, Joseph Rowntree Foundation, ERC and H2020, Institut National du Cancer,
 Academy of Finland, Research Council of Norway, Arts Council England, Qatar National
 Research Fund, Health Research Council, Global Challenges Research Fund. Mason
 was ESRC Research Committee Vice-Chair (2012-2015).


    (iii)      Hosting prestigious conferences.
 During the present REF cycle we have hosted and/or organised 10 major conferences,
 including the main annual meetings of:


                   British Sociological Association (2017)
                   Royal Statistical Society (2016)
                   Society for Social Medicine (2017)
                   International Network for Social Network Analysis (2015)
                   British Society of Gerontology (2018)


                                                                                       Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                  European Sociological Association (2019)


 Movements@Manchester has assumed ownership of the annual Alternative Futures and
 Popular Protest conference and the Mitchell and Morgan Centres have each celebrated
 anniversaries with their own conferences. Reflecting our commitment to postgraduates,
 PhD students within the Mitchell Centre have successfully run their own BSA-sponsored
 events across two consecutive years (on gender and social networks, social theory and
 social networks).


    (iv)      External Examination and Training
 During the current cycle UoA members have externally examined:
          123 UK PhDs
          65 overseas PhDs
          29 Masters programmes (including programmes at LSE, Southampton, Lancaster
           and Trinity College (Dublin)
          9 undergraduate programmes (including programmes at St Martins College of
           Fashion, and the Open University)


 The UK Data Service, CMI and the Mitchell and Morgan Centres have provided high
 quality research methods training to colleagues and research students from a range of
 disciplines and institutions across the world. Much of this activity has been organised
 through Manchester’s research methods summer school, which enjoys a high profile
 within social science, both nationally and internationally. UKDS plays a key role in the
 training of PGR students in data analytics nationally – from October 2017-March 2020,
 Manchester UKDS UoA members provided 254 live training events to 1,463 PGR
 students.


    (v)       Honours, Prizes, Fellowships and Awards
 Our contribution to the academy and to the discipline is signalled by the various honours,
 prizes and awards bestowed upon our members. Honours include:
          Devine was awarded a CBE for her services to social science (2019)
          Warde was awarded an honorary doctorate at the University of Uppsala (2019)
          Warde was given the BSA Distinguished Service to British Sociology Award
           (2019).
          Warde (2018), Mason (2019) and Nazroo (2020) are elected Fellows of the
           British Academy, and Younge was conferred an Honorary Fellowship in 2020
          Li is an elected fellow of the Royal Society of the Arts (2017)
          17 of our professoriate have been conferred Fellowship of the Academy of Social
           Science.
          Younge has been awarded Honorary Doctorates from University of the Arts,
           London (2018), Warwick and Mount Holyoke (USA) (2019), and Honorary
           Fellowship from Cardiff (2017)




                                                                                      Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 UoA members have been awarded four national fellowships and international visiting
 professorships/fellowships in:


         Australia
         Belgium
         China
         Denmark
         Finland
         France
         Hong Kong
         India
         Netherlands
         Sweden
         Switzerland
         United States


   (vi)      Invited Lectures
 Members of the UoA have given 393 UK and 296 overseas invited (expenses paid)
 conference talks during the current REF cycle, including presentations in North and
 South America, Asia and both Western and Eastern Europe. Key examples include
 plenaries and plenary panels at BSA and ASA.


 Contribution to the Economy and Society
 As discussed above in S1 and S3 the UoA has made significant efforts to broaden and
 deepen the impact, reach and significance of our research in a range of areas, including
 in advisory roles, research collaborations and partnerships, and media/dissemination.
 Our contribution is in three main areas:



   (i)       Advisory Roles


 UoA members have served on advisory boards for various non-academic (national and
 international government, commercial and third sector) organisations: e.g.
         Government departments and units including: the House of Lords; Prime Minister’s
          Strategy Unit; Cabinet Office; Work and Pensions; Health and Social Care;
          International Development; Gender Equalities Office; Social Mobility Commission
         Statistical agencies including: the Office for National Statistics and the UK Census
         Policy bodies including: the Food Standards Agency; Public Health England; the
          Higher Education Authority; the Ethical Consumer Research Council; Pension
          Policy Institute and Wellcome Trust
         International Agencies including the European Centre for Disease Prevention and
          Control; European Commission; Eurofound; International Labour Organisation


                                                                                        Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



           the Fawcett Society, Stuart Hall Foundation
           the Victoria and Albert Museum
           Local organisations including Manchester City Council and Age-Friendly
            Manchester


    (ii)       Research Collaborations and Partnerships


 Members of the UoA work closely with a range of third sector organisations, charities and
 industries both nationally (e.g. Runnymede Trust, Working Families, Business in the
 Community, Progress Educational Trust, Age-friendly Manchester, Oxfam GB, TESCO,
 Unilever and Commonword) and internationally (European Network Against Racism,
 People for Change Foundation, Malta, YES network, Public Health Foundation of India,
 Bangladesh Rural Advancement Committee) to extend the impact of their research. UoA
 members have worked with: the Cabinet Office, Greater Manchester Combined Authority,
 Manchester City Council, BBC, Arts Council England, Advance HE, Business in the
 Community, Trades Unions, national archives and museums (including the Imperial War
 Museum, National Archive, Black Cultural Archive, Victoria and Albert Museum),
 teachers’ unions and schools.


    (iii)      Media and Dissemination


 Research within the UoA has attracted a great deal of media attention during this REF
 cycle. Notable examples include Pilkington’s work on the English Defence League (The
 Independent, Manchester Evening News, BBC Radio4, Radio Five Live, The Guardian,
 The Observer) which led to Pilkington consulting on BBC 3 screenplay (‘the Left Behind’)
 which won a 2020 Royal Television Society award. Bloch’s work on migration has also
 attracted media attention (Radio Manchester, BBC Radio4, BBC Sunday Politics, ABC
 news). Nazroo and Joseph-Salisbury have appeared on Newsnight, and Nazroo on
 BBC World News. Alexander’s work was featured by Al-Jazeera+. Fadaee edited a
 series of articles in openDemocracy. Fagan is an editorial board member for The
 Conversation.
 Since his appointment in April 2020, Younge has published articles in The Financial
 Times, The Nation, The New Statesman, New York Review of Books. He has appeared
 in online events/interviews with the BBC (Start the Week), New Economics Foundation,
 The Sociology Show, Tribune Magazine, and the Stuart Hall Foundation, and been
 interviewed by leading outlets in Spain (El Mundo, CTXT), Italy (Il Messagiero), Belgium
 (Der Standaard) and South Africa (New Frame).


 Concluding Remarks
 In sociology at Manchester we pursue a broad, inclusive and dynamic research agenda.
 We use a range of methodologies, from the highly quantitative to the deeply qualitative,
 in dialogue with cutting edge theoretical and substantive debates across the social
 sciences, and other disciplines, to actively engage with the key social issues within the
 discipline and the wider community.




                                                                                     Page 24
