Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Westminster

 Unit of Assessment: 34 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context

 The Communication and Media Research Institute (CAMRI) is situated in the School of Media
 and Communication and is a world-leading centre in the study of media and communication,
 renowned for its critical and international research. It builds on a long tradition of critical research
 in media and communication at Westminster that spans five decades. The University launched
 the first media studies degree in Britain in 1975. Until autumn 2018, CAMRI was led by Co-
 Directors Fuchs and Kavada. Since Kavada became co-leader of the University’s new cross-
 disciplinary Arts, Communication and Culture Research Community in 2019, Fuchs has acted as
 Director and Michalis as Deputy Director. CAMRI also hosts a large PhD programme led by
 McNicholas, with D’Arma serving as Deputy Director. In academic year 2019/2020, the
 programme had 53 fully enrolled PhD students. In the 2020 QS World University Rankings, we
 were ranked at position 31 out of a total of 200 worldwide institutions in the field of
 media/communication studies (#9 in Europe).

 CAMRI’s overall objective is to be a platform for critical media and communication studies that
 builds on and develops, what James Curran has termed, the ‘Westminster School’. It conducts
 critical analyses of communication power in light of the transformations that society and the
 communications landscape are undergoing. In the periods covered by RAE2008 and REF2014,
 one of the major strategies and aims was to advance critical media and communication research
 by helping to de-Westernise media/communication studies through the activities of regional
 media centres (the Africa/Arab/China/India Media Centres). In REF2014, our stated future aims
 were to ‘develop as a global centre for critical research’ and to ‘meet transformations in a media
 environment shaped by rapid developments’. During the REF2021 period, we have realised
 these goals by developing and transforming our organisational structure in the form of five new
 research networks (see 1.2) and the creation of the CAMRI Policy Observatory (see 1.4), which
 has considerably advanced CAMRI research impact, as well as through our significant
 contribution to advancing open access (see 1.5).

 In the REF 2021 period, our research income was £1,538,089 (REF4b) and the number of our
 doctoral completions was 64.

 CAMRI’s objective during the next five years is to develop further the Westminster School
 tradition of critical and international communication research in light of ongoing transformations
 in the social and communications environment. This will be achieved through the strategic
 expansion of the activities of our five thematic networks in global media, political economy and
 communication policy, digital media, cultural identities and social change, as well as
 communication theory, history and philosophy (see 1.2 for more details).

 1.2 Structure

 Since REF2014, CAMRI has shifted from a structure consisting of research centres focusing on
 the study of media in specific regions (Africa, Arab world, China, India) towards a structure
 centred around five research networks, each focusing on one key research theme. Each network
 is facilitated by two co-ordinators who are members of CAMRI. The five networks have
 overlapping membership and focus on the following themes:

 (i) Cultural Identities and Social Change Research Network:
 Co-ordinators: Specht & Tsagarousianou
 This Research Network examines and deconstructs notions of culture, identity and social
 change. Work extends across areas including gender and post-colonial studies, development

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studies, social movement studies, migration studies, nation and nationalism, social activism,
 education and literacy, audiences and users, studies of representation and power.
 Members: Fuchs, Iqbal, Kavada, Linfoot, Mano, Meikle, Sabry, Seaton, Specht,
 Tsagarousianou

 (ii) Digital Media Research Network:
 Co-ordinators: Meikle & Verdegem
 This Network conducts research into social, cultural, political, economic and technological
 aspects of digital media and communication. Its emphasis is on the characteristics of the digital
 in mediated communication, and on their social implications. Recent developments include
 research on big data, digital authoritarianism, geographic information data, the Internet of Things
 and Artificial Intelligence.
 Members: Aouragh, Boucas, D’Arma, Barbrook, Denisova, Fuchs, Herzogenrath-Amelung,
 Kavada, Meikle, Michalis, Specht, Verdegem

 (iii) Global Media Research Network:
 Co-ordinators: Aouragh & Sabry
 This Network studies media, culture and society in different regions of the world, including, but
 not limited to: Africa, China, Europe, Latin America, the Middle East and South Asia. It conducts
 critical research on global media that is positioned in an international, comparative and historical
 context.
 Members: Aouragh, Bracho, de Burgh, Fuchs, Goodwin, Iqbal, Lodhi, Mano, Michalis,
 Sabry, Sakr, Specht, Tsagarousianou, Xin

 (iv) Media History and Philosophy Research Network:
 Co-ordinators: Herzogenrath-Amelung & Seaton
 This Network represents CAMRI’s ongoing project to critically theorise the historical, ontological,
 epistemological and ethical aspects of communication and the role of media in society. This has
 involved a reconstruction of the history of media organisations such as the BBC and a re-
 thinking of media theory around culture and digital media.
 Members: Herzogenrath-Amelung, Fuchs, Iqbal, Kavada, Linfoot, Lodhi, McNicholas,
 Sabry, Seaton, Specht, Tsagarousianou

 (v) Political Economy of Communication and Communication Policy Research Network:
 Co-ordinators: Fuchs & Michalis
 This Network continues the long-standing tradition of the ‘Westminster School’ political
 economy, which was started by Nicholas Garnham and included contributions by the likes of
 James Curran and Colin Sparks. The network’s focus is on the production, distribution and
 consumption of media. It studies power structures and policies that shape these processes.
 Another focus is on work in the media and digital industry.
 Members: D’Arma, Barnett, Boucas, Brown, Dwyer, Fuchs, Goodwin, Gross, Michalis,
 Musgrave, Sakr, Verdegem, Xin

 1.3 Research Strategy

 CAMRI is a world-leading centre of media and communication research. It is renowned for
 critical and international research that investigates the role of media, culture and
 communication(s) in society. Political economy, media history, communication policy and
 communication theory have been key areas of focus since the foundation of CAMRI and remain
 central to our research. CAMRI’s development through the years has seen an intensified focus
 on international and global media and communication studies, with the founding of regional
 research hubs such as the Arab Media Centre, Africa Media Centre, and India Media Centre. As
 detailed above, during the REF2021 period, these regional centres have been consolidated as
 the Global Media Research Network and digital media has emerged as a major new area of
 focus, while work has further consolidated in the area of media, identity and social change.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CAMRI’s research is based on a broader purpose and vision for society. Our work examines
 how the media and society interact and aims to contribute to progressive social change, equality,
 freedom, justice and democracy globally. CAMRI takes a public interest approach that seeks to
 promote participation, facilitate informed debate, and strengthen capabilities for critical thinking
 and complex problem solving. Our work privileges sociological inquiry and qualitative methods.
 Our research is grounded in theory and is rich in empirical detail, thereby informing both a critical
 understanding of contemporary media, as well as new approaches to policy-making and
 practice.

 CAMRI’s research strategy focuses on enabling a dynamic research environment that supports
 intellectual rigour, collaboration and public engagement. Our activities follow the strategic
 research principles of:

 (a) creating excellent, world-leading research outputs, by supporting researchers with dedicated
 hours for research, by running a mentorship scheme, by holding annual one-to-one appraisal
 meetings, by funding our members’ attendance at academic conferences, and by advancing the
 next generation of media researchers through a large and active PhD programme;

 (b) generating significant research income from a wide variety of sources, by offering focused
 and structured guidance for the development of grant proposals, by instituting a rigorous process
 of internal peer reviewing for draft applications, by organising grant writing workshops, and by
 dedicated support from a full-time Research Development Partner based in the University
 Research and Knowledge Exchange Office;

 (c) achieving research impact on society across the globe, by sustaining an online presence on
 different platforms, including the CAMRI web platform (http://www.camri.ac.uk), the weekly
 CAMRI newsletter distributed via e-mail and our Twitter account, by founding the CAMRI Policy
 Observatory for facilitating the impact of CAMRI research on policy making processes, by
 establishing the CAMRI Policy Brief series with the open access University of Westminster
 Press, and by encouraging CAMRI members to engage with the media and appear in or write for
 a variety of news outlets.

 CAMRI welcomes and fosters interdisciplinarity: Media and communication studies is in itself
 interdisciplinary, which is evident in CAMRI’s research structure. All of the CAMRI research
 networks require CAMRI researchers to engage with fields such as geography, international
 relations, economics, sociology, political science, psychology, history and philosophy when
 conducting research. Beyond this, CAMRI also encourages collaboration of its
 media/communication researchers with researchers outside the field. Examples are CAMRI’s
 collaboration with free software engineers, computer engineers, legal studies scholars, and
 economists in the netCommons project and CAMRI’s co-operation with designers, policy
 researchers, philosophers, legal studies scholars, educational researchers, and software
 engineers in the DiDIY project.

 The University has a defined Code of Practice Governing the Ethical Conduct of Research. Each
 of the University’s three colleges operates a College Research Ethics Committee. CAMRI is part
 of the College of Design, Creative and Digital Industries (DCDI) where CAMRI researcher
 McNicholas serves as the Chair of the DCDI Research Ethics Committee and D’Arma as a
 member. McNicholas is also a member of the University Research Ethics Committee that
 oversees and formulates research ethics policies. Research that may have ethical implications
 undergoes a research ethics approval process by the College Research Ethics Committee.
 Applications are submitted electronically via the University’s Virtual Research Environment
 platform (VRE), and decisions are taken by Ethics Committee in regular meetings.

 1.4 Impact Strategy

 Our impact strategy ensures that CAMRI researchers work together with a broad range of
 national and international stakeholders to maximise the impact of CAMRI’s research on society,

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 policy-making processes, cultural life, and public understanding. CAMRI’s impact strategy is
 facilitated through the following activities and infrastructure. CAMRI

 • holds at least two annual research development workshops, where our progress on impact is
   discussed and impact activities are planned.
 • researchers have an annual appraisal, as part of which they discuss their plans for impact with
   the CAMRI directors.
 • has invested in a part-time research assistant to work specifically on the CAMRI website, the
   newsletter and the Twitter account (Specht).
 • researchers are encouraged to respond to media requests in order to make their research
   publicly visible and engage with the public.
 • organises public engagement events and events with policy and other stakeholders.
 • operates the CAMRI Policy Observatory for fostering impact of research on society.
 • publishes a series of open access policy briefs together with the University of Westminster
   Press.

 The impact-focused CAMRI Policy Observatory was launched in 2017 with support from the
 University’s Strategic Research Fund. It is led by Michalis and supported by a communication
 policy impact assistant (2016/2017: Janciute, 2017/18: Nora Kroeger, 2019: Janciute). The
 CAMRI Policy Observatory has three main activities and tasks:

 • It supports and encourages CAMRI researchers to make submissions to public consultations;
 • It builds and maintains stakeholder contacts by organising policy events;
 • Together with the open access University of Westminster Press, the CAMRI Policy
   Observatory publishes the CAMRI research policy briefings series. These briefs are aimed at
   policy makers, whom it briefs about the policy relevance of CAMRI’s research.

 The CAMRI Policy Observatory supported the development of our three impact case studies.
 The three studies’ overall topic is the advancement of public service media and communication
 policy, which is the Observatory’s principal activity focus: Barnett and Michalis’ impact
 advances the public interest in communication policy; Fuchs’ impact advances the digital public
 sphere; Sakr and Mano’s impact is focused on advancing public service media in the Global
 South.

 1.5 Advancing Open Access

 CAMRI is a pioneer in open access publishing in the field of Media and Communication Studies.
 In 2004, CAMRI launched the open access journal Westminster Papers in Communication and
 Culture (WPCC) which is currently edited by McNicholas and in 2019 published its fourteenth
 volume. Fuchs founded the open access journal tripleC: Communication, Capitalism & Critique
 in 2003. He is the journal’s co-editor. During the current REF period, University of Westminster
 Press (UWP, https://www.uwestminsterpress.co.uk) was launched in 2015 as an open access
 press, which provides all its publications in freely-available digital form. CAMRI director Fuchs
 was involved in the founding of the Press, which is now managed by experienced industry
 personnel, and is a member of its advisory board. Both Fuchs and Tsagarousianou are
 members of the Press’ board. Media and communication studies has been UWP’s main
 publishing area, including the publication of Westminster Papers in Communication and Culture,
 the book series Critical, Digital and Social Media Studies (edited by Fuchs), and the publication
 of the CAMRI Policy Briefs.

 CAMRI’s involvement in open access publishing (tripleC, Westminster Papers in Communication
 and Culture, University of Westminster Press) aims at making an impact via not-for-profit open
 access (also called diamond open access) on the field of media and communication studies.
 Unlike CAMRI’s diamond open access practices, much open access is often for-profit and based
 on high, unaffordable article processing charges. UWP’s books are not just open access but also
 available as affordable paperbacks. UWP follows strict peer review and research integrity

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 standards, which includes the stipulation that all book proposals and all full book manuscripts
 are blind peer reviewed as a quality assurance mechanism.

 1.6 Future Research Strategy

 Our future research aims are:

    •    to conduct critical research at the forefront of new developments in the realm of media,
         culture and society;
    •    to continue to increase our level of research funding and PhD completions, including
         through the AHRC Techne Doctoral Training Partnership (see section 2 below);
    •    to deepen and extend our impact in the realm of communication policy and the public
         sphere;
    •    to advance our leadership in open access publishing within the field.

 We will achieve these aims by materially supporting CAMRI researchers through dedicated
 research time and supporting their attendance at and organisation of research events, and
 fostering a research environment that is conducive to critical research, attracting funding and
 PhD students, and achieving impact. Since the end of the REF2021 census period, we have
 hired two more researchers, one in the area of digital media research and one in global media
 research: Natasha Whiteman (Reader, Assistant Head of School) and Andrea Medrado
 (Lecturer).

 2. People

 Staff

 As a world-leading centre for Media and Communication Studies, CAMRI aims to attract and
 retain the very best researchers at all career stages. During the REF 2021 period, CAMRI has
 hired eight new permanent members of staff – four senior lecturers (Aouragh, Musgrave,
 Specht, Verdegem) and four lecturers (Denisova, Boucas, Bracho, Iqbal). It also hired two
 post-doctoral research fellows (Boucas [2016-2018], Risner [2015-2017]) funded by research
 projects.

 We have further internationalised our research profile and consolidated our international media
 research by strategically hiring staff with expertise in Latin America (Bracho), the Middle East
 and North Africa (Aouragh), Russia (Denisova), and South Asia (Iqbal). The area of digital
 media studies has also been expanded with new staff appointments (Aouragh, Boucas,
 Denisova, Specht, Verdegem). We are submitting 29 (25.1 FTE) Category A staff with
 significant responsibility for research to REF2021, a significant increase from REF2014’s 17.8
 FTE.

 CAMRI provides mentoring and support to all its researchers (including post-docs), whether full-
 time or part-time, on permanent or fixed-term contracts, in order to help them in their career
 development. CAMRI researchers are required to submit an annual research report, in which
 they outline their research goals and achievements. This report is then part of an annual
 individual appraisal and development meeting with the CAMRI research directors. Through this,
 all staff (including post-docs) are accorded appropriate financial and administrative support for
 independent research activity, grant application development, knowledge exchange activities,
 away days, workshops, conferences, and other activities that facilitate the research culture.

 CAMRI supports its researchers, first, by providing dedicated hours for independent research,
 managed through the University Workload Allocation Model (WAM). WAM is also used to assign
 additional dedicated time for impact, bid-writing and research management activities. The use of
 WAM ensures fairness in the allocation of hours across staff members, and clearly specifies the
 expectations for different levels of research activity. The annual guaranteed research time
 allocation for Professors and Readers is 425 hours, while Senior Lecturers and Lecturers with a

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 significant responsibility for research receive a basic allowance of 350 or 250 hours (out of the
 1504 hours that represent their total workload excluding holidays), depending on their research
 plans and activities. All academics at the University of Westminster further receive 174
 scholarship hours per annum for staying up-to-date with their chosen academic field. When
 CAMRI researchers successfully obtain external research grants, additional research time and
 teaching buy-out is ensured. In order to support research management, CAMRI provides in total
 a further 400 hours to the CAMRI directors, 200 hours each to its PhD programme director and
 its PhD programme deputy-director, as well as 60 hours shared among the co-ordinators of each
 CAMRI Research Network. University Sabbatical Policy further enables academics to apply for a
 one-semester long sabbatical leave after every three full years of service, and places particular
 emphasis on supporting members of staff with individual staff circumstances who may have
 faced obstacles in finding time for their research.

 CAMRI supports its researchers financially in attending and presenting papers at conferences
 with a conference attendance policy, as agreed annually by the CAMRI Directors. CAMRI funds
 attendance at conferences and events where CAMRI researchers are involved in the roles of
 either presenter or organiser/co-organiser/chair.

 CAMRI devotes particular attention to fostering the development of early-stage career
 researchers. We encourage hiring post-doctoral researchers on funded research projects and
 their mentoring by senior researchers in order to enhance career development. Examples
 include: Daniel Trottier (EU FP7 projects PACT and RESPECT), Judith Townend (AHRC
 project Plurality and Media Power), Didem Ozkul (AHRC project Digital Engagements: Online
 Exclusion and Social Capital), Dimitris Boucas (EU Horizon2020 project netCommons), and
 Isabelle Risner (EU Horizon2020 project Digital Do It Yourself).

 CAMRI operates a successful visiting scholar scheme that supports its international orientation
 and allows us to impact upon the development of our field around the world. In the period 2014–
 2018, CAMRI visiting researchers from the field of media and communication studies have, for
 example, included: Altug Akin (Izmir University of Economics, Turkey), Victoria García Prieto
 (University of Seville, Spain), Kavita Karan (University of Illinois, USA), Aurora Labio Bernal
 (University of Seville, Span), Yan Liang (Shandong University, China), Ann Mabel Sanyu
 (University of Bochum, Germany), Hannu Nieminen (University of Helsinki, Finland), Paschal
 Preston (DCU, Ireland), Kyon Woo Son (Korea Broadcasting Commission), Burcu Sumer
 (Ankara University, Turkey), Angelica Sventlander (Umeå University), Han Yu (Communication
 University of China), Jianmin Zhang (Jinan University, China), Bingqing Xia (East China Normal
 University, China), Wendan Zhao (Southwest University of Political Science and Law, China).

 During the COVID-19 crisis, CAMRI and the School of Media and Communication supported and
 enacted the University policy that work and research could not be conducted at University
 premises but from a distance in order to minimise infection risks. Research ethics guidance for
 both PhD researchers and staff prohibited face-to-face research during the crisis. For UKRI-
 funded projects, we applied for extensions in order to have more time to conduct project-related
 activities.

 Research Students and PhD Programme

 We run a large PhD programme, from which 64 PhD students have graduated in the period from
 2013/14 until 2019/20, an average of 9.1 per year. In the REF 2014 period (2008/09-2012/13),
 we had a total of 33 completions and an average of 6.6 per year. We have increased both the
 average and the absolute number of PhD completions.

 The School has long provided its own full-time three-year scholarships, comprising a stipend and
 a fee waiver. Since academic year 2018/2019, we are also part of the AHRC Doctoral Training
 Partnership Techne (http://www.techne.ac.uk). Techne advances the craft of research in arts
 and humanities with a particular focus on critical thinking and creativity. Westminster participates
 in three out of five of Techne’s subject groups. CAMRI Director Fuchs has since academic year
                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2018/19 represented the University of Westminster in Techne’s management committee.
 CAMRI-PhD directors McNicholas and D’Arma are members of Techne-subject group C’s
 (Cultures and Heritage) evaluation panel. 15 members of CAMRI are part of Techne’s Peer
 Review College. CAMRI researcher and former Faculty Research Director Goodwin has served
 as Chair of the evaluation panel of Techne’s subject group Performing Arts.

 The CAMRI PhD programme is run by a Director (McNicholas) and Deputy Director (D’Arma).
 It is structured around a system of Annual Progress Reviews (APR). PhD students attend the
 Doctoral Researcher Development Programme (DRDP), which has been designed in
 accordance with HEFCE guidelines for research degree programmes. Students are given
 opportunities to teach at Westminster and are enabled to obtain the University Certificate of
 Special Study to support their career development. Additional subject-specific research training
 is provided by CAMRI.

 We have hosted a twice-yearly communications research symposium since 2000 which brings
 together research students from Westminster, Goldsmiths, LSE, City and SOAS, to present their
 research, receive feedback and network. We are a long-standing member of ECREA’s
 (European Communication Research and Education Association) summer school consortium,
 and each year we fund the attendance of students and send staff to contribute lectures. PhD
 students can also apply for up to a total £1000 during their studies for help with fieldwork,
 dissemination, and support to deliver conference papers as part of their career development.

 The success of our doctoral programme is evidenced by the number of researchers who
 graduated from CAMRI’s PhD programme and have taken up professional positions, postdoc
 and research fellow positions at e.g. American University (Coretti), Berkman Klein Center for
 Internet & Society at Harvard University (Hillman), Creativity Everything Lab at Ryerson
 University (Culpepper), Ipsos Mori (Stevenson), Ofcom and LSE (Dzakula), and the Media,
 Management and Transformation Centre at Jönköping International Business School
 (Tokbaeva).

 Equality and Diversity

 The University has implemented an Equality Policy (Single Equality Policy Statement) and
 Equality Action Plan as well as a Diversity and Dignity at Work Policy aimed at avoiding any form
 of discrimination based on gender, ethnicity, origin, ability, class or inequality in the hiring
 process and in the workplace. As part of their probation review, all new staff must complete a
 diversity module focusing on diversity and dignity at work, inclusive and non-discriminatory
 language, avoiding bias, advancing inclusion and respect for people. Westminster was the first
 university to be awarded the post May-2015 Athena SWAN Bronze award, reflecting our
 commitment to eliminating gender bias and developing an inclusive culture. In respect to
 supporting staff with protected characteristics (e.g. disabilities), CAMRI provides additional
 support where needed, which includes for instance, the coverage of additional costs for transport
 and conference attendance. All members of staff are required to complete a development
 module on Equality & Diversity Essentials. All members of the School of Media and
 Communication also need to complete a development module on Unconscious Bias. In the light
 of discussions about Black Lives Matter following the police killing of George Floyd, the
 University in 2020 enacted its Black Lives Matter Commitment Plan (see REF5a).

 CAMRI and the University are committed to equal opportunities in the recruitment and support of
 both staff and research students, achieved through close coordination with the University
 Research Office and Human Resources to ensure that programme specifications appeal to a
 diverse cross-section of qualified applicants. In the Techne AHRC Doctoral Training Programme,
 University of Westminster is leading on equality and diversity in recruitment and CAMRI
 members contributed to and led on the design of a Diversity in Recruitment strategy. The policy
 adopted follows the same principle of fostering awareness of equality and diversity by inviting
 research on diversity, power and (in)equality.


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CAMRI’s research directors actively encourage and support individuals to apply for external
 funding, as well as to apply for internal funding and promotion. In taking decisions on whom to
 put forward for promotion, considerations of equality and diversity play an important role. During
 the REF 2014 period, Aouragh, D’Arma, Kavada, and McNicholas were promoted from Senior
 Lecturers to Readers, and Denisova and Specht from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer. The share of
 women promoted in CAMRI was 50%. CAMRI also practises the principles of fostering diversity
 and equality through the sharing and co-operation in research leadership positions. CAMRI’s
 internal management roles are operated this way (CAMRI director and deputy-director, ten
 CAMRI Research Network co-directors, two PhD directors, three REF UoA leaders, one leader
 of the Policy Observatory). Out of eighteen such leadership roles, 50% (9) are held by women.
 12.77 percent of the total number of Category A staff working in Media and Communications
 have a BME background. Exceeding this School-wide share, 17.24 percent of those submitted to
 REF 2021-UoA 34 have such a background. While 27.66% of the Category A staff working in
 Media and Communications at the School-level are women, a total of 34.48% of colleagues
 submitted to REF UoA 34 are female.

 The UoA 34 leads (Fuchs, Kavada, Michalis) have participated in the university-wide REF
 Equality and Diversity training as set out in Westminster’s REF2021 Code of Practice (CoP). In
 early 2019, members of the School were invited to the briefing meetings of the REF Director,
 where the basics of the CoP were discussed. After the full draft of CoP was made available, all
 School members were made aware of it and asked to provide feedback via a central email
 address. Members of staff of the School of Media and Communication were made aware of the
 possibility the CoP foresees to declare Individual Staff Circumstances and were encouraged to
 submit a Declaration when relevant circumstances applied. All School members were made
 locally aware of the CoP’s appeals process and the University’s independent REF2021 Appeals
 Panel that deals with such matters. Concerning the identification of staff with significant
 responsibility for research, the CoP and its criterion that the allocation of workload hours for
 research determine significant responsibility for research were consistently applied at the level of
 the School, which meant recording research hours in the Workload Allocation Model (WAM) and
 discussing research responsibility in annual appraisal meetings. The selection of outputs was
 based on the procedure described in the CoP, which meant appointing two external advisors
 who, together with internals, assessed outputs. For ensuring equality and diversity, the selection
 of outputs that achieved the same grade followed the criteria to maximise the representation of
 staff with protected characteristics and maximising the diversity of themes and fields within the
 UoA.

 CAMRI contributes as a world-leading research centre to fostering awareness of diversity and
 equality by conducting critical research about diversity, power and (in)equality.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Over the REF2021 period, our total research project income was £1,538,089 (see REF4b).
 CAMRI has been awarded funding for a series of major projects that have advanced our work in
 digital media and infrastructure, in cultures and identities, in media policy and media production,
 in the commons and the public interest, as well as in the role of the media in the Arab world.
 These projects have, for example, included:

 •   Orientations in the Development of Pan-Arab Television for Children (2013-2016): funded by
     AHRC, PI Sakr, Co-Is Steemers and Sabry, postdoc research fellow Mansour: The project
     investigated changes in the creation, commercialisation and reception of pan-Arab television
     content for children. It created a holistic picture of the commercial and non-commercial
     factors that underlie the evolving ecology of pan-Arab children's television and children's
     reception of it. The project refers to CAMRI’s dimensions of international media studies,
     political economy, media policy studies and media and identities. The project was followed
     up by an AHRC Follow-On Grant (2017-2018) for Collaborative Development of Children’s
     Screen Content in an Era of Forced Migration Flows: Facilitating Arab-European Dialogue,
     for which Sakr was Co-I (reports).

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   netCommons: Network Infrastructures as Commons (2016-2018): funded by EU Horizon
     2020, CAMRI: PI Fuchs, Co-Is Michalis & Boucas. The project combined computer
     science, social science and legal studies in order to study, support and further promote an
     emerging trend, community-based networking and communication services that can offer a
     complement, or even a sustainable alternative, to the global Internet’s current dominant
     model. CAMRI’s task in the project was to provide political economy foundations, to study
     users’ attitudes towards the contemporary Internet, and to conduct ethical impact
     assessment. The project combined CAMRI’s research dimensions of digital media studies,
     political economy, media and democracy, and critical communication theory.

 •   DiDIY (Digital Do-It-Yourself) (2015-2017): funded by EU Horizon 2020; CAMRI-PI David
     Gauntlett, Co-I Isabelle Risner. The project studied how DiDIY-related technologies and
     social practices amplify the creativity and skills of individuals who develop digitally self-made
     objects. CAMRI’s task was to lead the work on exploring the impact of DiDIY on creative
     society. The project combined CAMRI’s research areas of digital media studies and cultural
     studies.

 •   “How Unsustainable Fashion is Advocated Through Media Content” (2019/2020): This
     project led by Denisova is an example of research project by a CAMRI early-career scholar.
     Funded by JJ Charitable Trust, the project analysed how journalists and social media
     influencers cover fashion.

 CAMRI has received further funding for research projects, research consultancy, fellowships,
 and research networks from funding sources such as AHRC, British Academy, Chiang Ching-
 kuo Foundation, EU FP7 and Horizon 2020, JJ Charitable Trust, Leverhulme Trust, and the
 Open Society Foundation. We have received funding for research consultancy from sources
 such as Austrian Broadcasting Corporation, BBC, British Council, Greater London Authority,
 Help Musicians UK, Imperial War Museum, and Propeller TV.

 Together with the University Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO), CAMRI runs
 regular funding workshops for members of staff developing funding applications. Workshop
 attendees receive feedback on their application from the CAMRI directors, the University
 Research Development Officer and colleagues attending the workshop, particularly those who
 have had success with similar grants. CAMRI operates a rigorous process of internal peer
 review for grant applications. Each application is reviewed by at least two members of CAMRI
 with relevant expertise. An application may go through many rounds of review before it is
 deemed ready for submission. CAMRI provides extensive support for enabling research and
 impact excellence. Specht is a CAMRI member who also maintains the CAMRI website and
 newsletter. The RKEO provides support in the form of a Research Development Partner
 assigned to the School.

 Since REF 2014, CAMRI has developed significantly its external visibility by pursuing a clear
 online and public engagement strategy. CAMRI developed a digital media presence in the form
 of the CAMRI website (http://www.camri.ac.uk) that features events, news and commentary
 pieces written by CAMRI members for a wider audience. Associated with the CAMRI website is
 a weekly newsletter. It pulls headlines, short texts and links from postings on the CAMRI website
 and assembles them into a weekly newsletter that is e-mailed each Thursday to all subscribers.
 CAMRI also runs a Twitter account @UoW_CAMRI. The CAMRI website newsletter and Twitter
 account did not exist at the time of REF2014 and have since helped to professionalise CAMRI’s
 external relations and to increase its public visibility.

 CAMRI’s public engagement and impact strategy also features the CAMRI Policy Observatory.
 This was founded in 2017 with internal funding. The Policy Observatory runs an open access
 policy briefing series published by University of Westminster Press, organises policy events
 together with stakeholders, and supports CAMRI researchers in making submissions to public
 inquiries. The Policy Observatory’s activities have within a short time resulted in multiple

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 submissions to public consultations run by the government, the House of Lords, the House of
 Commons, UNESCO and the EU, an invitation to give oral evidence to the House of Lords
 Select Committee for Artificial Intelligence, as well as Barnett’s role as special adviser to the
 House of Lords Communications Committee inquiry on public service media.

 CAMRI operates a well-attended regular research seminar series. Managed by Verdegem,
 CAMRI seminars are held on Thursday evenings at the University’s main building in Regent
 Street and are open to the public. CAMRI seminars have taken place regularly during term-time.

 There is a well-equipped discipline-specific library that is part of the Harrow Campus where the
 Westminster School of Media and Communication and CAMRI are physically based (£3,265,252
 refurbishment since 2014). All staff have individual office space at Harrow, and the Head of
 School is responsible for making sure that staff are treated equitably as regards access to
 resources. Doctoral students have designated rooms with shared office space, computers and a
 social space.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 CAMRI has contributed to the research base, economy and society through editorial positions,
 major publications, awards, collaborative research projects and research partnerships, activities
 in associations and the organisation of associations’ conferences, stakeholder engagement and
 co-operation with stakeholders, hosting and organising conferences, invited keynote talks, and
 external PhD examinations.

 4.1 Editorial Positions

 CAMRI researchers are involved in the editorial and advisory boards of important journals.
 Barnett helped to found British Journalism Review, on whose editorial board he still serves.
 D’Arma is associate editor of Interactions: Studies in Communication & Culture. Fuchs founded
 and co-edits tripleC: Communication, Capitalism & Critique. Mano edits the Journal of African
 Media Studies. McNicholas edits Westminster Papers in Communication and Culture. Sabry
 co-founded and co-edits the Middle East Journal of Culture and Communication. CAMRI
 researchers also serve on numerous journals’ editorial and advisory boards, including those of
 African Journalism Studies (Mano), Communication and Critical/Cultural Studies (Fuchs),
 Comunicação e Sociedade (Michalis), Critical Sociology (Fuchs), European Journal of
 Communication (Michalis), European Journal of Social Theory (Fuchs), Historical Materialism
 (Aouragh), Interactions: Studies in Communication & Culture (Kavada, McNicholas, Sabry,
 Xin), International Journal of E-Politics (Kavada), International Journal of Press/Politics (Sakr),
 Journal of Digital Media & Policy [previously published as International Journal of Digital
 Television] (Michalis, Sakr), Journal of Digital Social Research (Fuchs), Journal of Information
 Policy (Michalis), Media and Communication (D’Arma), Media, Culture & Society (Kavada,
 Sabry), Media Industries Journal (Mano), Media History (McNicholas, Seaton), Middle East
 Journal of Culture and Communication (Sakr), Regards: Revue des arts du spectacle (Sakr),
 Social Media + Society (Kavada, Meikle), The Political Quarterly (Seaton), 20th Century British
 History (Seaton), tripleC: Communication, Capitalism & Critique (Aouragh, Verdegem),
 Westminster Papers in Communication and Culture (Denisova, Specht, Bracho).

 4.2 Major Publications

 Since 2014, CAMRI researchers have published 25 major monographs and 18 collected
 volumes that have advanced research in the fields covered by our five thematic research
 networks:

 On the theme of (i) Cultural Identities and Social Change, monographs have looked at the rise of
 Donald Trump (Fuchs: Digital Demagogue: Authoritarian Capitalism in the Age of Trump and
 Twitter & Nationalism on the Internet), the Occupy Movement (Fuchs: OccupyMedia!), the
 culture of political games (Barbrook: Class Wargames). CAMRI members have also edited key

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 handbooks and companions, including the Handbook of Diasporas, Media and Culture (co-
 edited by Tsagarousianou) and The Routledge Companion to Media and Activism (edited by
 Meikle).

 On the topic of (ii) Digital Media, monographs have focused on digitalisation and knowledge
 (Bunz: The Silent Revolution: How Digitalization Transforms Knowledge, Work, Journalism and
 Politics without Making Too Much Noise), psychoanalysis (Johannsen: Psychoanalysis and
 Digital Culture: Audiences, Social Media, and Big Data), Internet memes and Society
 (Denisova), and The Internet of Things (Bunz and Meikle). They have also encompassed more
 general introductions to social media (Fuchs: Social Media: A Critical Introduction), and social
 media sharing and visibility (Meikle: Social Media: Communication, Sharing and Visibility), while
 edited volumes focused on Social Media, Politics and the State (co-ed. Fuchs/Trottier) and
 critical theory of social media (Critique, Social Media and the Information Society, co-ed.
 Fuchs). This theme has crossovers with the Political Economy network, with a set of
 monographs and edited collections on the political economy of digital media (Fuchs:
 Communication and Capitalism: A Critical Theory; Critical Theory of Communication; Culture
 and Economy in the Age of Social Media; Digital Labour and Karl Marx; Reading Marx in the
 Information Age; Rereading Marx in the Age of Digital Capitalism; The Online Advertising Tax as
 the Foundation of a Public Service Internet; Marx in the Age of Digital Capitalism, ed.
 Fuchs/Mosco; Digital Objects, Digital Subjects: Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Capitalism,
 Labour and Politics in the Age of Big Data, co-ed. Fuchs; Reconsidering Value in the Digital
 Age, co-ed. Fuchs).

 CAMRI researchers have also published research on (iii) Global Media, covering a range of
 geographical areas including China, the Arab world, sub-Saharan Africa, and India. Monographs
 have looked at children’s media in the Arab world (Sabry & Mansour: Children and Screen
 Media in Changing Arab Contexts, Sakr & Steemers: Screen Media for Arab and European
 Children) and Chinese media (de Burgh: China’s Media in the Emerging World Order). Edited
 volumes have analysed African everyday media cultures (Everyday Media Culture in Africa, co-
 ed. Mano), African film cultures (African Film Cultures, co-ed. Mano), Racism, Ethnicity and the
 Media in Africa (ed. Mano), Social Media and Elections in Africa (co-ed. Mano), Arab
 Subcultures (co-ed. Sabry and Ftouni), Children’s TV and Digital Media in the Arab World (ed.
 Sakr and Steemers), Chinese media (China’s Media Go Global, including de Burgh and
 Thussu as co-editors), and BRICS media (Mapping BRICS Media, co-ed. Thussu).

 On the theme of (iv) Media History and Philosophy, monographs have examined the history of
 the BBC and British media (Seaton: Pinkoes and Traitors: The BBC and the Nation 1974-1987;
 Curran & Seaton: Power Without Responsibility [8th edition]), and an edited volume looked at
 radio modernism (Radio Modernisms, ed. Lodhi and Wrigley).

 Monographs published on the (v) Political Economy of Communication and Communication
 Policy theme have examined politics and the media in Italy (D’Arma: Media and Politics in
 Contemporary Italy), media production (Dwyer: Understanding Media Production: Theory and
 Practice), critical political economy (Fuchs: Marxism: Karl Marx’s Fifteen Key Concepts for
 Cultural and Communication Studies) and labour in the gig economy (Can Music Make You
 Sick?, Gross and Musgrave). Edited volumes have focused on critical political economy (Marx
 and the Political Economy of the Media, ed. Fuchs/Mosco;), media management (Managing
 Media Firms and Industries, co-ed. Brown), and media plurality (Media Power and Plurality, ed.
 Barnett and Townend).

 CAMRI has further shaped research in our five cross-cutting research themes through editorial
 activities in some of the field’s leading academic journals. Our members have co-edited five
 special issues and sections for Media, Culture & Society: Aouragh on Infrastructures of Empire
 (2016) and Kavada on IP, Copyright and Cultural Production (2015), Political Mobilization and
 the Internet (2014), Debating Big Data (2015), and Media and the ‘Populist Moment’ (2018).
 Fuchs has together with Jack L. Qiu (City University of Hong Kong) co-edited the Journal of


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Communication’s special issue ‘Ferments in the Field: The Past, Present and Futures of
 Communication Studies’ (2018).

 4.3 Recognition of Contributions to the Field

 In 2016, Barnett was the first academic from the University of Westminster to be made a Fellow
 of the Academy of Social Sciences. De Burgh was awarded a Gresham College Lectureship.
 Jisc named Denisova as one of the top 10 higher education social media superstars for 2017. In
 2014, Fuchs became the youngest elected member of the Leibniz Society of Sciences.
 Gauntlett and Seaton have been named as two of the twenty key thinkers to be included in the
 UK Government’s core content for A and AS Level Media Studies assessment. Johanssen was
 appointed as the first scholar to the British Psychoanalytic Council, the professional body of UK’s
 psychoanalytical practitioners. In 2018, Michalis became a member of the Voice of the Listener
 and the Viewer’s Board of Trustees. Seaton won the 2019 ICA Fellows Book Award together
 with Curran for their book Power Without Responsibility. Seaton was appointed as a fellow of
 the IWM Institute for the Public Understanding of War and Conflict. Specht was appointed as a
 Chartered Geographer by the Royal Geographical Society in recognition of his past and
 continuing contribution to the field of geography from an interdisciplinary perspective that links
 media/communication studies and geography.

 4.4 Collaborative Research Projects and Research Partnerships in Funded Projects

 Since 2014, we have developed our research networks through funded projects and
 collaborations in the UK, Europe, the USA and the Arab World. In the netCommons project (EU
 Horizon 2020), Fuchs, Michalis and Boucas collaborated with University of Trento (IT), CNRS
 (FR), Nethood (CH), the Polytechnic University of Catalonia (ES), and Athens University of
 Economics and Business (GR). In the DiDIY project (EU Horizon 2020), Gauntlett and Risner
 collaborated with University Carlo Cattaneo (IT), AB.ACUS SRL (IT), Manchester Metropolitan
 University (UK), Stitching Free Knowledge Institute (NL), Amerikano Kollegio Anatalia (GR) and
 Polytechnic University of Milan (IT). In the Digital Communications Technologies and Protest
 Movements project (British Academy), Kavada was a visiting researcher at the University of
 Washington, New York University, and MIT. Collaborative Development of Children's Screen
 Content in an Era of Forced Migration Flows (AHRC) was a collaboration of Sakr with King’s
 College London. The BBC Monitoring Service project (AHRC) was a co-operation between
 Seaton, the Imperial War Museum and the BBC.

 Research collaboration was also developed through networking and mobility grants. Advancing
 Social Media Studies was a research network collaboration between CAMRI and Umeå
 University (Sweden) funded by STINT: The Swedish Foundation for International Cooperation in
 Research and Higher Education. Regulating Screen Content for Children Audiences was a
 British Academy-funded co-operation between Sabry and Hicham Ait Mansour from Mohamed V
 University (Morocco). Foundational Analysis of Measures for Creating Competition Neutrality in
 Taxing Online Advertising was a collaboration between Fuchs and partners from the University
 of Vienna and University of Salzburg that was funded by the Austrian public service broadcaster
 ORF. The Newton Mobility Grant Scheme enabled Altug Akin from Izmir University of Economics
 (Turkey) to be a visiting researcher, who worked under McNicholas’ guidance at CAMRI.

 4.5 Activities in Associations and Organisation of Association’s Conferences

 CAMRI members are active in a variety of professional associations. Sakr (2018-2019) and
 Meikle (2020-2022) have been MeCCSA committee members. Michalis was IAMCR General
 Secretary between 2014-2016. Michalis has since 2016 been Co-Vice Chair of ECREA’s Media
 Industries and Cultural Production Section and since 2020 Co-Vice Chair of MeCCSA’s Policy
 Network. Kavada was the Co-Convenor of the European Consortium for Political Research
 Standing Group on ‘Internet and Politics’ (2013-2016) and sits on the ECREA Ethics Committee
 (since 2018). D’Arma has been Co-Chair of the IAMCR Public Service Media Policies Working
 Group since 2015 and in 2018 he organized the IAMCR post-conference Public Service Media in

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a Time of Global Reordering. Fuchs was an executive committee member of the European
 Sociological Association committee member (2015-2017) and conference chair of the 13th
 Conference of the European Sociological Association.

 Funded by STINT, CAMRI together with Umeå University’s Centre for Digital Social Research
 organised the PhD and early career researcher conference Critical Digital and Social Media
 Research.

 4.6 Collaborations and Public Engagement with Stakeholders from Economy and Society

 In the REF2021 period, Barnett provided evidence to multiple parliamentary select committees
 including oral evidence to the House of Commons-Culture, Media and Sport Committee inquiry
 ‘The Future of the BBC’ in 2014. In 2018, Barnett was appointed as specialist adviser to the
 House of Lords Communications Committee inquiry into public service broadcasting in the age
 of video-on-demand. In March 2020, Barnett’s research was cited in a House of Lords debate on
 the future of the BBC. Barnett also organises together with the British Journalism Review the
 annual Charles Wheeler Award for Outstanding Contribution to Broadcast Journalism and the
 Charles Wheeler Lecture at the University of Westminster. Recent winners awarded at the
 University of Westminster include Hugh Pym (BBC), Katya Adler (BBC), Michael Crick (Channel
 4), Lyse Doucet (BBC), George Alagiah (BBC), Alex Crawford (Sky News), and Jon Snow
 (Channel 4). Recent Wheeler lectures were given by Peter Bazalgette (ITV), Robert Peston
 (ITV), Alan Yentob (BBC), Tom Stoppard, and Kate Adie (BBC).

 Seaton (CAMRI) together with Rosie Thomas (School of Arts) runs the FCO-funded Chevening
 South Asia Journalism Fellowship Programme (SAJP) at the University of Westminster. It brings
 20 journalists from Pakistan, India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh together, for an eight-week
 intensive course. Alexander Evans, Chargé d’Affaires at the British High Commission in India, in
 a corroborating letter (available on request) writes that Seaton’s work has ‘helped improve the
 bilateral relationship between the UK and India’. In 2019, CAMRI secured the FCO contract for
 the Chevening Africa Media Freedom Fellowship Programme, based closely on the SAJP and
 run by Mano in collaboration with Africa Check, the leading fact-checking organisation on Africa.

 Seaton is Director of the Orwell Prize, Britain’s most prestigious annual prize for political writing.
 It awards the Political Writing Book Prize, the Political Fiction Book Prize, the Journalism Prize,
 and the Exposing Britain’s Social Evils Prize. The Orwell Prize is sponsored by Richard Blair and
 A M Heath and partners with The Political Quarterly, University College London, and The Joseph
 Rowntree Foundation. Seaton, based on sponsorship and support by, among others, A M Heath,
 Oxford University Press, Penguin Books, Pembroke College Oxford, Webb Memorial Trust,
 established the Orwell Youth Prize that was for the first time awarded in 2019. Through its prize,
 workshops and events, the Youth Prize aims to inspire the next generation of politically engaged
 young writers across the UK.

 In 2019, D’Arma was awarded a AHRC network grant as PI in collaboration with Minna Horowitz
 (University of Helsinki) as Co-I. Focusing on ‘Innovations in Public Service Media Policies’, the
 project organised four workshops bringing together public service media stakeholders and
 researchers. PSM stakeholders in the network’s steering committee include Austrian
 Broadcasting Corporation (ORF), BBC, European Broadcasting Union, OfCom, Public Media
 Alliance, and the Finnish public service broadcaster YLE.

 CAMRI researchers have as part of their impact work written or contributed to reports for
 external stakeholders: The focus of these reports has predominantly been on public service
 media and political economy, which reflects two particular strengths of CAMRI’s work. D’Arma
 wrote a chapter on public service media in Europe for ORF’s Public Value Report 2014.
 Barbrook advised the Labour Party in the formulation of its Digital Democracy Manifesto. Fuchs
 contributed a chapter focusing on Digital Democracy and Public Service Media (published in
 German) to the Austrian Broadcasting Corporations (ORF) annual public value study. He also


                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 co-authored an internal study for ORF that analyses how a tax on online advertising can be
 introduced. Fuchs’ contribution to that study was published in English translation by the
 University of Westminster Press (The Online Advertising Tax as the Foundation of a Public
 Service Internet). Gross and Musgrave conducted the industry-funded project “Music and
 Depression: Can Music Make You Sick?” together with Help Musicians UK (Report Part 1,
 Report Part 2) that had impact on the introduction of the Music Minds Matter helpline for
 musicians resulted in a wide public debate on health in the gig economy, including for example
 features in the New York Times and the Financial Times. Linfoot wrote the report Sounding Out:
 A Rapid Analysis of Young People & Radio in the UK for the British Council. Mano wrote a
 media policy framework for Zimbabwe for the Media Institute of Southern Africa (MISA). Sabry
 co-authored the policy report “Regulating Children’s Media Content in Morocco” that was
 published by Economia, HEM Resarch Center. Sakr was commissioned by UNESCO to write a
 comparative report on public service media. Xin contributed a chapter on China’s soft power to
 the European National Institutes for Culture’s 2018 Culture Report Yearbook.

 The CAMRI Policy Observatory has also organised CAMRI members’ submissions of evidence
 to parliamentary inquiries, including for example written and oral evidence given to the House of
 Lords’ Select Committee on Artificial Intelligence (Bunz), evidence to the House of Lords’ (HoL)
 Communications’ Committee’s Inquiry ‘The Internet: to Regulate or Not to Regulate’ (Fuchs),
 and evidence to the House of Commons’ Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee-
 inquiry on fake news (Fuchs). Michalis gave evidence to HoL Inquiry ‘Public Service
 Broadcasting and Video on Demand’. Fuchs and Michalis submitted evidence to the House of
 Commons’ inquiry on Rural Broadband. Tsagarousianou provided evidence to the Casey
 Review into Opportunity and Integration.

 The CAMRI Policy Observatory has supported the organisation of policy-oriented events at the
 University of Westminster that have featured stakeholders such as public authorities and
 agencies (British Standards Institution IST/36, Competition and Markets Authority, Coal
 Authority, DEFRA, Environment Agency, HM Land Registry, MetOffice, Ofcom, Office of Tax
 Simplification, Ordnance Survey, Social Security Advisory Committee, UK Hydrographic Office,
 Valuation Office Agency, NGOs/civil society (e.g. ARTICLE 19, 350.org, Association for
 Progressive Communications, Avaaz, Commons Network, Energy and Climate Intelligence Unit,
 Information Society S.A., The Media Society, Open GeoSpatial Consortium, Open Rights Group)
 and digital and creative industries companies and organisations (e.g. Balancing Act, BBC Media
 Action, BBC R&D, B4RN, Community Broadband Networks, Creative Industries Federation,
 European Broadcasting Union, Free2Air, Guifi.net, Independent Networks Cooperative
 Association (INCA), Sarantaporo.gr, Senza Fili Senza Confini, Wansdyke).

 Aouragh’s research on media, politics and social change has informed public debates on racism
 and anti-racism and social protests (report 1, report 2). Other important engagements of CAMRI
 and CAMRI members with stakeholders have included events co-organised together with Africa
 Check, the BBC Trust, Changing Faces, Centre for International Media Assistance (CIMA), or
 Open Media.

 4.7 Hosting and Organisation of Academic Conferences

 Making use of the University of Westminster’s strategic central London location (Regent Street
 Campus, Marylebone Campus), CAMRI members have organised major conferences and
 symposia that have helped media and communication researchers to disseminate their research
 and to meet and network in the heart of London.

 Key conferences organised and hosted by CAMRI during the REF2021 period have included the
 following: Arab media conferences (2018: Re-Imagining Cultural Histories of the Middle East and
 North Africa, 2017: Mapping Cultural Policy in the Arab Region, 2016: Towards a Sociology of
 Popular Music in the Arab Region; 2014: Arab Documentaries - Recording Whose 'Reality'?,
 African media conferences and symposia (2017: Elections in Africa, Virality in Media and


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Democratic Participation, 2015: African Film and Social Change, 2014: Media and Elections in
 Africa), 6th ICTs and Society Conference: Digital Objects, Digital Subjects: An Interdisciplinary
 Symposium on Activism, Research and Critique in the Age of Big Data Capitalism (2017), BBC
 Local Radio 50th Anniversary Symposium (2017), VIRAL/GLOBAL Popular Cultures and Social
 Media: An International Perspective, Rights and Might: Cultural Counter-Narratives of the
 Migrant and Refugee Experiences (2017), Different Bodies: (Self-)Representation, Disability and
 the Media (2017), IAMCR 2016 Pre-Conference Media Systems in Flux: The Challenge of the
 BRICS Countries, Times are a Changin’: Temporality, Memory and Social Movements in the
 Digital Age (2016), Louis MacNeice, Radio Writer and Producer: A Series of Listening Events at
 the British Library (2016, together with the British Library), Radio Modernisms: Features,
 Cultures and the BBC (2016, together with the British Library), Media Engagement: Connecting
 Production, Texts and Audiences International Symposium (2016), China and the Changing
 Geopolitics of Global Communication (2016), Comparing Children’s Media Around the World:
 Policies, Texts and Audiences (2015), Reframing Media/Cultural Studies in the Age of Global
 Crisis (2015), Media, Power and Plurality: Old Problems, New Policies (2015). As part of the
 STINT-funded research collaboration of CAMRI with Umeå University, the 2019 conference
 Critical Digital and Social Research was also co-organised by CAMRI in Umeå (Sweden). Dwyer
 co-organised the Trans TV conference.

 4.8 Invited Talks

 CAMRI researchers have been invited by various international academic organisations to give
 major talks presenting their research. Examples include invited keynote talks at events such as
 Holberg Symposium 2017 (Barnett), Sydney Democracy Network (Barnett), 2017 Conference
 of the European Sociological Association (Denisova, semi-plenary talk), 2014 Conference of the
 European Communication Research and Education Association (Fuchs), 2016 Challenging
 Media Landscapes Conference (Fuchs), 2019 Conference of the European Sociological
 Association (Fuchs, semi-plenary talk), 2015 ECREA Communication and Democracy Section
 Conference 'Political Agency in the Digital Age: Media, Participation and Democracy' (Kavada),
 2018 World Media Economics and Management Conference (Mano), 2017 International
 Conference on Media and Fear (Kavada, Sabry, Tsagarousianou), 2014 conference The
 Media and the Arab Spring: The Road Ahead (Sakr), 2015 conference Media Policies and
 Freedom of Expression (Sakr), Future of Journalism Conference 2015 (Seaton), 2018
 International Communication Association preconference Conceptualizing the New Silk Roads as
 Communication (Xin).

 CAMRI researchers are regularly present in the news media and have been invited by
 stakeholders to give talks and participate in many public debates, both nationally and
 internationally. At such events, communication policy questions are discussed and CAMRI
 researchers draw policy conclusions from their research to shape public debates. Examples
 include invitations to speak at events such as DM@X: Digital Media at the Crossroads 2019
 (Barnett), 2014 Turkish Radio and Television Corporation 50th Anniversary Event (Barnett),
 Westminster Media Forum ‘The Future for Local Media’ (2015, Barnett), Austrian Broadcasting
 Corporation (ORF) Dialogue Forum (2019, Fuchs), 2018 European Parliament event on
 ‘Economic Landscape under the New Telecommunications Code’ (Michalis), 2018 UNESCO
 event ‘Network Infrastructure as Commons’ (Michalis), events by the European Audiovisual
 Observatory (2015, 2016 & 2017, Michalis), 2018 Cinekid Industry Forum (Sakr), UNESCO:
 World Press Freedom Day 2016 (Sakr), Global Kids Media Congress 2017 (Sakr), 2017
 Conference of the International Council of Archives’ Section on Business Archives (Seaton),
 Leicester Mercury Media Lecture (2019, Seaton), 2016 Oxford Media Convention (Seaton),
 2017 International Journalism Festival (Xin), 2019 Battle of Ideas Festival 2019 (Xin).




                                                                                           Page 15
