Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Birkbeck, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 14

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Research structure

 Following REF2014, Geography was identified by Birkbeck as an area of excellence with
 significant potential for future growth. We developed a strategic plan to establish Geography as a
 flagship Department with the expectation of making a single UoA submission in REF2021. In
 REF2014, as the Department of Geography, Environment and Development Studies, 8.6 FTE
 were returned to UoA 23 (Sociology) (up from 8 FTE in RAE2008). In 2016/17 we became the
 Department of Geography with 15.2 FTE staff. In 2017/18, the Department was placed in the Top
 30 Geography Departments in the country (QS World University Rankings). We currently have
 19.8 FTE staff, 20 on permanent Teaching and Research contracts and 1 Leverhulme Early
 Career Fellow, all being returned for REF2021 (130% growth since REF2014), as well as a
 growing number of Post-Graduate Research (PGR) students (section 2.2).

 Our research centres on four overlapping clusters which span the discipline: Cities, Housing and
 Home; Environment, Landscape and Climate Change; Geo-analytics & Modelling; and
 International Development and Social Justice.

 Cities, Housing and Home has a national and international focus, spanning multiple
 methodological and theoretical approaches from cultural to social and economic geography and
 GIS modelling/planning. Key research themes in this cluster relate to the lived experience of
 space, and the impact of mobility on those experiences. There are specific projects relating to:
 •   migration, diaspora, exile, and housing (Cox, Gideon, Harris, PI ECF-2019-618 Leverhulme
     £93k, British Academy £0.6k, Sheringham, CoI AH/V013904/1 UKRI COVID-19 Rapid
     Response £7.6k, PI COVID-19-related Birkbeck-Wellcome ISSF, £2.5k; Watt)
 •   domestic labour (Cox, PI ES/J007528/1 ESRC £221k)
 •   the future of cities globally (Butcher CoI ESRC ES/R006857/1 £31k; Maclean, PI RF-2015-
     331 Leverhulme £48k; Nogueira, CoI UWB190208 British Academy £106k)
 •   gentrifying neighbourhoods (Ackah, Fulbright Scholarship; Watt)
 •   gender in the city (Butcher, CoI RP2012-V-041 AHRC-HERA [Humanities in the European
     Research Area] £88k)
 •   intergenerational relations in the city (Vera-Sanso, Birkbeck-Wellcome, ISSF £10k)
 •   preparing homes and lives for future threats (Barker, Birkbeck-Wellcome ISSF £40k)
 •   GIS modelling/planning (Barros, CoI ES/N011449/1 ESRC £22k)
 This is socially engaged, policy relevant research, with staff routinely collaborating with a range of
 stakeholders including national and local governments, NGOs, and creative industries (section
 4.3). Staff from this cluster are involved with Birkbeck’s Institutes of Social Research (BISR) and
 Humanities (BIH) and the interdisciplinary Birkbeck Gender and Sexuality (BiGS) group. Cox and
 Butcher have been Directors of BISR and Maclean was Director of BiGS from 2014-2019.

 The Environment, Landscape and Climate Change cluster explores both the past and potential
 futures, including drawing on historic patterns and cultural contexts to inform environmental
 management:


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Foley explores island climates and resilience to future climate change (PI NE/T004517/1
     NERC, £69k)
 •   Pooley’s Birkbeck-Wellcome ISSF (£28k) investigated traumatic human-wildlife encounters in
     India and South Africa
 •   Brooks’ Leverhulme Research Fellowship (PI, RF-2015-045, £43k) reconstructed
     contemporary landscape responses to storminess and the implications for future morphology.
     Similarly, Engels documents historic insect biodiversity in order to understand present climate
     dynamics
 •   work by Brooks in collaboration with the Department of Computer Science (Birkbeck Research
     Innovation Fund) has developed methods for field data collection in the context of the ‘internet
     of things’
 •   longer time-scale changes are investigated by Engels and Briant, from river, lake and onshore
     marine sequences including improvements to radiocarbon protocols at the limits of the
     technique (Briant PI, NRCF 1848.1014, £9.6k in-kind) and stable isotope measurements of
     chironomid head capsules (Engels PI, NEIF 2236.0320 £19k in-kind)
 Staff have links with Birkbeck’s Department of Earth and Planetary Science, including research
 collaboration, co-supervision of PhD students and shared laboratories (section 3.3).

 The Geo-Analytics and Modelling cluster focuses on spatial quantification applied to local and
 global environmental, social and policy problems including:
 •   transport networks (Barros, CoI ESRC ES/T000287/1 £111k)
 •   monitoring and modelling coastal sand movements (Brooks, CoI NERC NE/N016009/1 £60k)
 •   understanding spatial patterns of crime and epidemiology (Shiode PI British Academy
     SG130660 £9k; Birkbeck-Wellcome ISSF £13k)
 •   using environmental niche modelling to understand crocodile attacks (Pooley, Lambert
     Bequest)
 •   modelling landscape evolution over tens of thousands of years (Briant, CoI VW Foundation
     €25k in-kind) and historical climate reconstruction (Foley)
 •   understanding conceptualisations of localness in search engines (Ballatore, PI Ordnance
     Survey £40k; advisor, AHRC ‘Mapping Museums’; Facebook Research ‘Localising Content
     Governance in Place-named Facebook groups’)
 Researchers in this group have strong links with non-academic stakeholders e.g. Brooks’ impact
 case study ’Transforming shoreline management policy and practice’ (section 1.4). Staff also
 interact with the Birkbeck Institute for Data Analysis (BIDA) and Birkbeck Computer Science
 (Brooks and Ballatore).

 International Development and Social Justice (IDSJ) focuses on issues of justice within developing
 nations, including research in the fields of diaspora, migration, age, gender, health and
 reproductive justice. Members of this cluster are recognised internationally for their expertise in:
 •   healthcare (Gideon, PI ESRC ES/P006353/1 £152k)
 •   childhood (Wells, PI ECE190059 British Academy £105k)
 •   gender and reproductive years (Wilson, PI GCRF £10k)
 •   later life (Vera-Sanso, Birkbeck-Wellcome ISSF £10k, advisor, GCRF ‘Care of Older People
     in Southern Africa’)
 Members of this group are socially engaged and have strong collaborative and advisory links to
 NGOs and policy makers through their work with advocacy organisations, think tanks and
 networks. The cluster works with an array of stakeholders, including artists (Wells, PI 2014-AIR-

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 067 Leverhulme £14k), and different mediums such as film (section 4.2), including Gideon’s use
 of craft and documentary film-making in her impact case study (Birkbeck-Wellcome ISSF, £2.5k).
 Wells is a former director of BISR and all members are engaged in organising Birkbeck institute
 funded events (section 4.2).

 1.2 Research objectives since 2014

 Our key aim outlined internally in 2014 was to ‘develop a vibrant, dynamic, supportive and
 excellent research community where everyone is making progress.’ This was achieved via the
 following objectives:

 (a) increasing external research grant income to improve our ability to carry out high quality and
 impactful research through supporting all staff in applying for external funding and developing
 research partnerships. Section 3.1 shows we have successfully created a culture in which it is
 expected that all staff will apply for external funding for their research, supported by mentorship
 and peer review. This has supported our growing staff numbers to achieve a 97% increase in
 application numbers and a 100% increase in external research funding awarded between 2014
 and 2020.

 (b) publishing the highest quality research for both academic and lay audiences by both
 communicating expectations (e.g. tracking research success via annual reporting at School level)
 and providing support. Feedback on drafts is available through both mentoring and Work in
 Progress events. Staff published their research in a range of outlets, including Transactions of the
 RGS-IBG, Nature Scientific Data and Annals of the AAG. Three of our outputs were the ‘most
 downloaded’ articles in a year: Nowicki et al. (2019) in Geographical Journal (Harris), Pooley et
 al. (2016) in Conservation Biology and Watt (2018) in Cities. We regularly communicate new work
 to wider audiences and policy makers, for example, Butcher and Pooley in The Conversation both
 gained over 30k hits (section 4.3).

 (c) increasing the number of research collaborations and partnerships and raising the
 Department’s research profile with academic and non-academic partners. To do this, we have
 used seed funding from the Department, School and Birkbeck Institutes to run events designed to
 build collaboration both internally and externally (sections 1.4, 3.1, 4.2). Our website and other
 outward-facing fora highlight our research and we also feature on wider Birkbeck webpages,
 contributing to the ‘Birkbeck Explains’ series (e.g. Pooley, 14k views) and the Birkbeck Blog. Our
 involvement in the Royal Geographical Society raises Birkbeck’s profile within the discipline
 (Briant, Athena SWAN network; Cox, see section 4.4). Our staff have had their research featured
 in mainstream media including print, radio and television (section 4.5).

 (d) to increase the number of funded PhD students (details in section 2.2)

 Fulfilling these four objectives has allowed us to produce a successful research culture, increasing
 grant applications, awards, and the quality of research outputs. We have maintained an egalitarian
 approach through mentoring and peer support (section 2.1.1) and developed and recognised
 breadth and depth in research accomplishments (section 2.1) to ensure all staff are engaged with
 the Department’s research strategy.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Research objectives 2021-2026

 Having now set a strong foundation for a dynamic and supportive research community, exceeding
 our initial expectations, over the next five years our aim will be to ‘maintain and grow a culture of
 excellence’ whilst also seeking out areas for expansion and growth, through the following
 activities:

 (a) expanding existing areas of excellence and supporting interdisciplinary research, responding
 to national and international research priorities (e.g. gentrification, climate change, sustainable
 development goals, migration, exile, inequalities and representation of minorities). We will do this
 by maintaining an in-depth understanding of colleagues’ research areas, approaches, potential
 funders and avenues for outputs. We will support building relationships across clusters and
 Birkbeck departments (e.g. in mentoring or through the Birkbeck Institutes) to enable cross-
 disciplinary collaboration.

 (b) continuing to support applications for external research funding including sharing insights from
 the increasing number of staff who review UKRI and international funding applications (section
 4.5). We are establishing mechanisms for tracking mentor/mentee interactions to ensure that
 these happen regularly and harnessing the experience of successful awardees to help others,
 particularly where these include significant overseas fieldwork. We also plan regular presentations
 from grant-holders to disseminate expertise and build aspiration.

 (c) continuing to facilitate high quality publications by supporting staff through mentoring, cluster
 and Departmental events and annual research reviews. All staff review publications for journals
 and many are on editorial boards (section 4.5); this insight will be harnessed to improve the quality
 of drafts. We will also support a diversity of outputs in the most appropriate format for their intended
 audiences (e.g. visual). All outputs will be made available through open access (section 1.6).

 (d) further developing collaborations and partnerships within and beyond academia, building on
 our established networks, and facilitating all staff to find and work with appropriate partners
 (section 1.5).

 (e) seeking to increase funded PGR numbers (section 2.2), tighten progression procedures,
 improving on-time completion (aiming for 90% after COVID-19 disruptions have passed) and
 continuing to include PGR students in all Departmental support mechanisms (section 3.1). We will
 actively promote PGR study to appropriate Masters students, particularly those from
 underrepresented groups.

 1.4 Impact objectives since 2014

 Our aim has been to ‘support pathways to impact by developing and undertaking inclusive
 activities with relevant stakeholders, particularly addressing issues of social justice and
 environmental sustainability, aiming to both influence policy and benefit people at the grassroots’.
 Actions to support impact include:

 (a) developing a research culture that embeds and values impact and engagement with non-
 academic audiences/partners. This is seen in both Academic Review (section 2.1.1) and
 promotion, where engagement is now a key criterion, explicitly valuing activities such as




                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dissemination of research in non-academic outlets (e.g. industry reports, practice-based
 workshops, the media) and consultancy work.

 (b) developing pathways to impact as an integral part of grant planning and support, with the
 Research Director initiating conversations early in the application process and flagging it in start-
 of-grant meetings, particularly encouraging the relevant involvement of local stakeholders.

 (c) fully utilising available institutional support for impact. We work closely with the School Impact
 Officer to develop strategies for impact, establish and nurture productive relationships with non-
 academic partners, trace and document research impact and inspire new initiatives. The Impact
 Officer also works closely with the Public Engagement team to support researchers in
 communicating their work. We have been successful in specific impact initiatives, including the
 Birkbeck-Wellcome ISSF Public Engagement funding that supported part of Gideon’s impact case
 study and Sheringham’s COVID-19 research with refugees and asylum seekers (section 1.1). We
 also ensure that all staff and PGR students access appropriate training events, at Departmental,
 School and College level.

 (d) supporting relationship-building. The Department, School and Birkbeck Institutes provide seed
 money to support work with external partners and to enhance impact (section 4.2). We have also
 developed links and communicated with policy makers, practitioners and journalists through BISR
 ‘Breakfast Briefings’, forums and a range of other initiatives, detailed in section 4.2.

 Our impact case studies indicate the success of our overall impact strategy and exemplify the
 reach and significance of our work across the discipline (see also sections 4.2 and 4.3). Both
 Brooks’ and Gideon’s recent promotions to Chair and Reader respectively were enhanced by their
 impact work (action a). Brooks engaged with a wide range of policy and management
 organisations on coastal flooding, at a Birkbeck-funded and hosted event “Talking Floods” (2018)
 (action d). In addition, the relationships that led to Gideon’s ‘Crafting Resistance’ project were
 initiated at a 2013 workshop hosted by Birkbeck. The accompanying film was produced and
 translated into Spanish and Swedish through a Birkbeck-Wellcome ISSF grant for public
 engagement (action c). Brooks was awarded a Birkbeck Research Innovation Fund award (£5k)
 to develop new coastal monitoring capacity that further enhanced collaboration with national
 agencies responsible for coastal management ((action c). Both Gideon and Brooks attended
 multiple Birkbeck-hosted impact case study workshops (action c). Both case studies have been
 comprehensively supported by our Impact Officer (action c).

 1.5 Impact objectives 2021-2026

 Our aim for the next five years is to ‘continue to support and resource staff to impact real world
 challenges, for and with stakeholders in various fields, particularly using our interdisciplinary
 strengths in urban and environmental change’. We will do this by:

 (a) facilitating relationship-building between staff and external partners, particularly for early career
 colleagues. Our unique, largely part-time, student body are often employed in organisations
 strongly linked to our research interests. We aim to maintain relationships with our alumni who
 work with potential stakeholders, and lead networking events to gain insight into working with their
 sectors. We will also run training on developing new networks, supported by the Impact Officer.

 (b) develop a comprehensive understanding of impact amongst all staff, particularly ECRs and
 PGRs, and share good practice, for example presenting the 2021 impact case studies to

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues and supporting colleagues who are beginning to build impact from their research both
 as general good practice and in readiness for the next REF return.

 (c) ensure visibility of open access research outputs (and increasingly also data) on our webpages
 to make our research readily available to non-academic stakeholders in the context of our open
 research environment (section 1.6).

 (d) communicate activities providing support for impact which will be ongoing in the next
 assessment period. For example, encouraging staff and PGR students to use School, Department
 and Institute (e.g. BIH, BISR, BIDA, BIMI) funds to support relationship building and impact
 generating activities.

 1.6 Research integrity and progress towards an open research environment

 We support the REF open access policy by requiring all staff to deposit publications accepted in
 the last three months on Birkbeck’s green open access system, BiRON. We are aiming to be fully
 Plan S compliant by 1st January 2021 and support initiatives for Birkbeck to join read-and-publish
 agreements. 10 of our 50 submitted outputs already have openly-accessible data, but we aim to
 extend this in 2021-2026 by encouraging colleagues to make more datasets open access, either
 hosted on or signposted from Birkbeck’s Data Management system, BiRD. Departmental funds
 are available to support necessary formatting of data, especially for projects not funded by UKRI.
 Working towards the open availability of data is a key part of our research integrity, allowing our
 research to be transparently reviewed by stakeholders and other academics. We demonstrate
 care and respect for researchers and research participants by continuing to operate high-standard
 ethical approvals, overseen by a dedicated Ethics Officer and thorough fieldwork Risk
 Assessments by our Fieldwork Officer.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 We currently have 21 Category A eligible staff (19.8 FTE)

 Following the strategic re-profiling of the Department, four new posts were created and four
 departing staff replaced with the aim of bolstering our priority areas, as defined by our clusters.

 In this way, we have consolidated our strategy of building a clear research identity while
 maintaining a balance of staff across the department, with a mix of staff at all points in their careers
 to allow for effective succession planning.

 2.1.1 Staff development strategy for all research-active staff

 In line with Birkbeck’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers (HR Excellence in Research [HRER] action 5.1), teaching and research and
 research-only staff are all supported by formal research mentoring, to identify individual priorities
 and needs (e.g, publication strategies or grant applications). Staff are encouraged to meet
 regularly with their mentors and this scheme is refreshed periodically to ensure mentoring
 relationships are as effective as possible (section 1.3). New staff also have a Probationary Advisor
 (section 2.1.3).


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Post-probationary staff are supported through Academic Review, an annual appraisal undertaken
 by the Head of Department (HoD), used to ensure staff identify and undertake training
 opportunities (sections 1.3 and 1.5), and maintain an overview of their funding and impact activity
 (section 3.1). Academic Review supports staff to plan for promotion, as does mentoring from
 colleagues with experience of promotion panels. Research progress is monitored through
 individual research monitoring annually at School level, tracking outputs, grant activity and esteem
 indicators for each staff member. This gives the Research Director oversight of research activity
 and enables them to support colleagues more effectively.

 We support grant applications through formal peer review, research mentoring and group
 feedback at ‘Work-in-Progress’ events to enable staff and PhD students to receive feedback on
 funding applications and papers at every stage. Staff also have access to Departmental and
 School funds (a standard baseline and opportunity to apply for larger sums) to support research,
 including travel for field work and conferences or to carry out pilot projects. For example, following
 a period of maternity leave, Briant used these funds to seed a successful NERC application for
 radiocarbon dates in 2014 (section 1.1). Geography researchers have gained an average of £9k
 per year from School additional funds to pump-prime research activity (£55k total).

 2.1.2 Effectiveness of staffing and recruitment policy

 Since 2014, we have recruited eight permanent, three fixed-term teaching and research staff, and
 four fixed-term research-only staff (three post-doctoral research assistants on grants for Barker,
 Cox and Gideon [section 1.1] and one early career fellow). No fixed-term contracts have been less
 than a year and research-only staff have been able to also undertake hourly-paid teaching for
 career development. Two of the three fixed-term teaching and research staff were subsequently
 appointed to open-ended contracts at Birkbeck and Birmingham.

 The effectiveness of our staff development policy and the trajectory of research success can be
 seen in the many promotions since 2014 (eight to Senior Lecturer; four to Reader; five to
 Professor), with four staff (all female) promoted twice during this time. The recent development of
 a Professoriate – Cox, Watt, Wells, Brooks and Butcher – reflects our growing research profile
 (section 3.1). As of October 2020 (section 2.1) our staff profile provides both senior experience
 and leadership, and scope for career development for ECRs.

 2.1.3 Support and integration for early career staff

 Most of our early career staff are appointed as Lecturers and supported through probation.
 Probation mentors are appointed on the basis of research match and are expected to become
 long term research mentors. As well as monitoring progress, the probationary advisor helps shape
 a mentee’s research strategy, including writing high quality outputs and funding applications.

 Research-only staff (section 2.1.2) access staff development and research support in the same
 way as teaching and research staff, as well as being encouraged to plug into the College level
 ECR network (HRER action 2.1), with teaching opportunities if appropriate.

 2.1.4 Research leave and secondments

 All research-active staff (fixed-term, permanent, full-time and part-time) are eligible for a term’s
 research leave after completing nine terms, to provide a period of time to produce research
 outputs, write grants and undertake field work. The HoD tracks staff eligibility for leave, ensuring

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 equality of access, and works with colleagues to schedule leave optimally. All eligible staff have
 taken all their allotted research leave within the census period. Specific targets are set for research
 leave by the individual and activity reports are reviewed at School level by the Dean. To date none
 of our research links with external partners have involved staff formally going on secondments or
 taking unpaid leave to work with a partner, however Birkbeck has established processes to support
 this should opportunities arise.

 2.1.5 Rewarding staff for research and impact

 Research is a significant promotion criterion on the Birkbeck Teaching and Research pathway.
 From 2019, criteria also encompass engagement and impact (section 1.4). Research and impact
 are explicitly included (0.33 FTE) within the Departmental workload model. Staff success in
 research, impact or outreach is regularly celebrated in the termly Departmental newsletter,
 circulated internally and externally.

 2.2 Research students (PGR)

 2.2.1 Recruitment

 The Department has a small but growing PhD community (2 new enrolments in 2013/14; 7 in
 2019/20). (None are research-based professional doctorates). PGR students are recruited on the
 basis of a match in research interests and skills, following an application and interview process.
 We actively recruit a diverse student body due to our relevant research interests and pool of
 diverse MSc students. We are building a community of practice that celebrates this diversity and
 supports all students. Birkbeck has a number of initiatives to support under-represented groups
 into PGR study, including the Diversity 100 Scholarships (2019) for BAME PGR students. Ackah
 leads the ‘BSc to PhD’ project and the UK-wide African Diaspora PhD students’ network (section
 2.2.4). The work that we do recruiting and supporting these students is particularly important for
 the sustainability and increasing diversity of the discipline.

 2.2.2 Studentships from major funding bodies

 Since 2014, students have secured five internally-funded Birkbeck Studentships, three
 Bloomsbury Scholarships (from eleven offered each year across the member institutions of
 Birkbeck, LSHTM, RVC, SOAS, IoE(UCL)), one Boughton and one Bonnart Trust Scholarship
 (philanthropic funding) and funding from external sources such as the Brazilian Government,
 Bayelsa State Scholarship Board, Nigeria, and corporate. In 2014 the Department was not a
 member of any Research Council Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs), and one of our key
 objectives was to rectify this (section 1.3). We are now members of all three relevant research
 council DTPs: UBEL (UCL, Bloomsbury and East London ESRC DTP), CHASE (Consortium of
 the Humanities and the Arts South-east England AHRC DTP) and the London NERC DTP. Briant
 is on the London NERC DTP Management Board. Vera-Sanso is Director of the UBEL Gender
 and Sexuality Pathway (previously Cox) and Gideon has replaced Maclean on the CHASE board.

 Geography staff are active as co-supervisors of PhD students based in other Birkbeck Schools
 (e.g. Cox, BEI, Arts); within London through the Bloomsbury Scholarships (e.g. Wells, Cox,
 Gideon, Ballatore, Foley, Vera-Sanso) and further afield, e.g. Cox (NTNU Trondheim, Kent),
 Brooks (Cambridge), Ballatore (Leicester), Engels (Stockholm, Braunschweig, Germany), Wells
 (Rutgers, USA) and host international visiting PhDs (Barros, Engels, Pooley).


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.3 Monitoring and completion

 The PGR Director coordinates activities and oversees annual PGR progress reporting. Recent
 clarification of annual progression processes resulted in improving completion rates. Since 2014,
 17 PhDs have been completed and our students have gone on to academic and policy roles.

 2.2.4 Support for research students

 Within the Department, supervisors undertake training needs assessments with students as part
 of the annual review process, ensuring students are aware of how to identify their needs and
 relevant opportunities. Students have subject-specific training at Departmental level, including a
 bi-monthly Work in Progress meeting at which attendance is expected (virtually during COVID-19
 restrictions). Generic training programmes are also offered by the Birkbeck Graduate Research
 School and via the Bloomsbury colleges Postgraduate Skills Network. For example, in 2017
 students attended a School event ‘No Trespassing: The Risks and Rewards of Interdisciplinary
 Research’, which brought together PGR students from across the School to encourage
 interdisciplinary collaboration and offer insights into interdisciplinary funding bids. Students have
 also started their own research initiatives, e.g. a 2020 reading group on ‘reproductive justice’,
 attracting 25 members from a variety of countries including India, the US and Peru. Ackah (with
 external colleagues Beckford, Beckles-Raymond, and the organisation Leading Routes) has
 expanded the African Diaspora Postgraduate Seminar to provide support to c. 25 Black PhD
 students across London. In this, current and potential doctoral students meet once a month to
 present ideas, get feedback on their work and to discuss issues that they experience as Black
 students navigating academia.

 Apart from training and mentoring, students have designated hot desking space in the School.
 Departmental and School funds are available to research students to support fieldwork,
 conference attendance and other research costs. We aim to increase student employability by
 providing opportunities such as Teaching Assistant roles or funded Departmental or Institute
 internships (e.g. producing the termly Department newsletter).

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 In contrast to the predominance of men in the discipline we are pleased to have significant
 representation of women academics in the Department, including four out of five Professors. As
 in Birkbeck as a whole, we are concerned by our low BAME representation within our staff body.
 We are addressing this in recruitment by actively encouraging greater diversity of applicants when
 advertising and including BAME colleagues in shortlisting and on recruitment panels where
 possible without burdening them. We are actively supporting our diverse PGR students to be
 employable, for example through Ackah’s African Diaspora Postgraduate Seminar (section 2.2.4).

 Equality and Diversity initiatives are taken forward at a local level through the Departmental
 Equalities Rep (Wilson) and School Assistant Dean for Equalities (Wells 2017-2020). We are also
 fortunate to have Ackah sharing his national level work on representation with the Department.
 Ackah and Wilson have led on linked initiatives to support BAME PGR students, close the BAME
 awarding gap in taught programmes and decolonise the curriculum, e.g. in the BISR Decolonising
 Academia group. c.5 staff have also been mentors for the award-winning Compass Project
 providing access to higher education for refugees. Birkbeck-wide initiatives include multiple
 relevant awards and actions, e.g. equality and diversity and unconscious bias training has been
 mandatory for all staff since 2016. We also have staff networks for all protected characteristics

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Briant co-chairs the parents’ network) and equality objectives set by the Birkbeck Equality and
 Diversity Committee.

 Staff development initiatives outlined in section 2.1 all operate with sensitivity to the need to
 support equality and increase diversity. Research leave, financial support (section 3.1) and
 mentoring are open equally to all staff, regardless of protected characteristics and contract type,
 with monitoring of uptake to ensure that all staff benefit. The exceptions are the Aurora and Stellar
 HE leadership programmes that are targeted at particular groups. Geography has had two staff
 members complete each of these programmes.

 To support colleagues with caring responsibilities, enhance work/life balance, and model
 sustainable practices, flexible and remote working, including virtual participation in meetings, has
 been supported even before the COVID-19 restrictions. Reasonable adjustments are made for
 staff with disabilities as well as teaching and research staff, research-only staff or PGR students
 returning from leave, either parental or long-term sick leave. This is to enable staff to relaunch
 their research immediately on their return. The Academic Review process identifies other areas
 where particular research support is needed such as colleagues who are struggling to make their
 expected progress and addressing any structural barriers causing this on a case-by-case basis,
 e.g. adjusting teaching allocations to allow staff with young children to work more frequently from
 home.

 Research-related leadership roles are open to all, with our last four Research Directors and two
 PGR Directors being female, in line with the gender balance of senior staff in the Department.
 Part-time contracts are not a barrier to advancement because promotion criteria are based on
 quality rather than quantity, as can be seen in the promotion of three part-time staff since 2014.

 Geography outputs have been selected according to the Birkbeck REF Code of Practice, with
 bespoke REF equality and diversity training for all Departments. Requests for reduction of outputs
 are dealt with centrally and anonymously with no input at Department level. Each UoA in the
 College follows the same format and discussion is solely about outputs, not the individuals who
 wrote them. Following a Birkbeck-wide equality impact assessment showing slight (but not
 statistically significant) underrepresentation of BAME staff and those with disabilities when the
 data was viewed at the College level, we identified additional outputs from staff in these categories
 to be read for the next panel.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income

 Grant income has increased exponentially since 2014 (£0 new grants awarded) to 2019/20
 (£0.88M awarded), with a tenfold increase in expenditure. The total value of external grants
 including GCRF QR and Birkbeck-Wellcome ISSF awarded to the Unit since January 2014 was
 £2.34M. Over the same period, grant application values from the Department also increased at a
 similar rate – from £1.07M in 2014/15 to £3.49M in 2019/20, and a total over the REF period of
 £13.4M. Vindicating our research strategy of supporting all staff members, 19 of 21 current staff
 members (90%) have held an external grant since 2014.

 We have had five projects funded by the ESRC (Barros x 2, Butcher, Cox, Gideon, section 1.1),
 with an overall success rate of c. 29%. Other UKRI funding (success rate c. 29%) includes three
 NERC projects (Horn, CoI NE/00471X/1 £17k; Brooks, Foley, section 1.1) and an AHRC-HERA

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project (Butcher, section 1.1). We have also gained an Australian Research Council Discovery
 Project (Brooks, project partner); a Fulbright Scholarship (Ackah 2016-17) and two Leverhulme
 Research Fellowships (Maclean, Brooks, section 1.1), c. 22% success rate for Leverhulme. In
 addition, we have been active in seeking and securing small grants from various other sources,
 including Ordnance Survey, the Royal Geographical Society, the British Institute for the Study of
 Iraq, the British Academy and the London International Development Centre (c. 38% success
 rate). Research funding has led to strong outputs (submitted as part of UoA) including Cox and
 Busch (2016, ESRC), Brooks (Pollard et al., 2019, NERC), Wells and Bailey (2020, Leverhulme),
 and Barker (2020, Birkbeck-Wellcome ISSF).

 We have been very successful in securing internal funding. We have received five awards through
 the Birkbeck-Wellcome ISSF (a block grant to institutions in receipt of the largest sums from
 Wellcome): Barker (2017-19, leading to a Wellcome Trust standard grant application shortlisted in
 June 2020), Maclean (2015-16), Pooley (2017-19), Shiode (2015-18) and Vera Sanso (2017)
 (section 1.1). More recently, four £5k awards have been made from the alumni-funded Birkbeck
 Research Innovation Fund, open to researchers outside the Wellcome remit (Brooks, Briant, 2018;
 Engels, 2019, Cox and Butcher 2019), which has also led on to grant applications, such as an
 application made by Brooks to a targeted NERC call in 2019. Similarly, Geography researchers
 have been successful in competing for internal and external Global Challenges Research Fund
 awards (Butcher, Cox, Gideon, Wilson; internal awards totalling £55k, 2018; Wells, section 1.1;
 Gideon, PI EP/T003898/1 £105k, 2019).

 3.2 Organisational infrastructure

 Since 2014, the Birkbeck Research Office has been increasingly well-resourced, providing
 valuable support for grant applications and management. They disseminate targeted funding
 opportunities, calculate costings and oversee the process of internal approval. The Department
 has been particularly successful at gaining UKRI funding associated with themed calls (e.g.
 Foley’s NERC-funded project, section 1.1). Further Research Office support includes School and
 College level workshops on successful applications and talks from specific funders. In addition,
 cross-Departmental research institutes (section 1.4) have enabled collaborations to develop both
 within and outside Birkbeck (section 4.2).

 3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure

 Software and databases needed for research (e.g. ArcGIS, Nvivo, Digimap) are provided centrally
 and supported by IT or the Library. The Department currently shares laboratory space with Earth
 and Planetary Sciences for basic sample processing and microscopy. The College has also
 authorised the provision of further palaeoecological facilities, to be completed early in the next
 REF period. For specialist analyses, there is a laboratory budget to pay external providers.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Support for research collaborations

 The internal support detailed in sections 3.1 and 3.2 also supports the development of research
 collaborations, for example inks were strengthened by Foley’s 2018 Birkbeck-Wellcome ISSF




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funded ‘Talking Flooding’ event. We also take advantage of the School and BIH Visiting Fellowship
 schemes, enabling us to host scholars from the global south and elsewhere.

 The effectiveness of these processes can be seen in the scale of our external research
 collaborations. For example, within London, researchers co-author publications and co-supervise
 PGR students with UCL (Gideon, Barros, Vera-Sanso), LSE (Nogueira), Kings (Barros, Shiode),
 SOAS (Gideon, Foley, Vera-Sanso), QMUL (Sheringham, Briant), RHUL (Briant, Harris, Engels).
 Other examples of national collaborations are with Southampton, Liverpool, Plymouth, St
 Andrews, Glasgow, Cambridge in the NERC BLUE-Coast Consortium (Brooks, section 1.1) and
 UCL and Birmingham on the ESRC Smart Cities project (Butcher, section 1.1).

 Internationally, we collaborate with more than 70 HEIs across six continents (see map). A number
 of these projects bring together multiple collaborations (e.g. Foley PI NERC; Barros Co-I ESRC;
 Butcher Co-I ESRC; section 1.1). We have a memorandum of understanding with the Delhi School
 of Planning and Architecture (Butcher), establishing collaborative field trips in Delhi and London
 (June 2020, COVID-19-disrupted).




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Engagement with stakeholders since 2014

 A key part of our impact strategy (sections 1.4 and 1.5) is building relationships with key research
 users, identifying consultancy opportunities, and responding to invitations to advise Government,
 NGOs and other organisations, as seen in each research cluster:

 In Cities, Housing and Home, Butcher & Maclean’s Urban Change film series (2017-18) reached
 a public audience of activists and artists, as well as students. Harris’s 2019 event ‘Narratives of
 Urban Change: Rethinking the City after 2008’ was attended by local government, architects,
 housing developers and property companies. In 2019, BISR, BIH and Geography funded a
 symposium involving academics and artists discussing urban communication strategies (Butcher
 and colleagues in Applied Linguistics & Communication). Also in 2019, Ackah was an invited
 speaker at the Office for Students (50 people including key policy leaders) about decolonising the
 curriculum and the BAME awarding gap. Ackah also consults for the Council for World Mission on
 racism and anti-racism in children’s educational materials. Butcher co-organised workshops and
 public exhibitions in Shanghai, Delhi and Leiden, to explore gendered experiences of the city with
 artists and activists (2014-16).

 In Environment, Landscape and Climate Change, Foley’s ‘Birkbeck Talking Flooding Symposium’
 (2018) reached key stakeholders, and her 2020 online symposium about island adaptation to
 climate change reached almost 100 academic and government participants. Drawing on his work
 on human-wildlife interactions in Southern Africa, Pooley developed a poster campaign that is
 being used in Botswana, South Africa and Swaziland (e.g. Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife, in KwaZulu-
 Natal, and the Mbuluzi Game Reserve in northern Eswatini). Brooks has been invited to advise
 both the Environment Agency Technical Assurance Group and individual landowners on the
 technical details of coastal management (section 1.4).

 In Geo-analytics and Modelling, a recent BISR-funded ‘Experimental Collective’ on ‘Urban
 Intersections’ (Ballatore, Butcher, Nogueira) with Film, Media and Cultural Studies will focus on
 skills training for PGRs as well as public seminars and a research colloquium. In addition, Shiode
 gave a keynote to the London Mayors Office in 2019.

 In International Development and Social Justice, Vera-Sanso's photo essay exhibition ‘We too
 Contribute: we work, we contribute, we don’t retire’ and documentary films, ‘We’re Still Working’
 and ‘The Forgotten Generation’ were exhibited at the HelpAge India & UNDP conference, the
 Right to Food and Work Campaign’s National Convention, Gujarat, a knowledge exchange event
 with HelpAge International and Age International in London. In 2016, Wells’ BIH-funded
 ‘Precarious Citizenship’ event on Private Fostering arrangements with Birkbeck School of Law,
 built external relationships. In 2017, Wilson and Wells reached practitioners with a BIH funded
 conference ‘Resisting the (Internal) Border’. In 2018, Gideon ran ‘Equalities in Public Private
 Partnerships,’ workshops in Mumbai and Brussels for practitioners. The cluster has also provided
 significant advice to various agencies and built relationships with artists to explore a wider range
 of ways to engage stakeholders, for example hosting Leverhulme Artist in Residence, Ain Bailey
 (2014, section 1.1).

 4.3 Contributions to the economy and society in the context of national and international research
 priorities

 All our research directly addresses national and international research priorities, such as climate
 change, sustainable development and the sustainable development goals (SDGs), gentrification

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and liveable urban communities, biodiversity crises, migration and exile, Brexit and COVID-19
 (see below). In addition, the positive impact of our work on society is embedded through actively
 co-producing knowledge with stakeholders.

 In Cities, Housing and Home, Butcher and Watt’s work on urban transformation, gentrification and
 regeneration in east London has led to impact with local councils. Ackah is Chair of the
 Transatlantic Roundtable on Religion and Race, and Senior Research Fellow at the African
 Diaspora Consortium. Barker’s research on governance and biosecurity was harnessed by the
 House of Lords EU Energy and Environment Sub-Committee inquiry into impacts of Brexit on UK
 biosecurity (2018), being broadcast on Parliament TV and part of a publication that received a
 government response. Harris’s collaborative work on pop-up social housing in Lewisham, rapid
 build housing in Dublin, and families living in hotels in Dublin has contributed to policy debates,
 including encouraging Dublin City Council to make rapid build housing permanent for social
 housing tenants and a submission to the Irish committee on children and youth affairs on the
 Impact of Homelessness on Children. Cox is an acknowledged expert on au pairing, for example
 influencing the British Au Pairs Agencies Association to change their definition of au pairs to
 reduce abuse of the scheme. Cox has also provided expert testimony for a case being brought by
 the Anti-Trafficking and Labour Exploitation Unit. In December 2020, the case was won, ruling that
 family workers should be paid the minimum wage, and with an ongoing campaign for change in
 legislation. Cox has also advised the EU and the Flemish parliament on au pairs in the context of
 Brexit.

 In Environment, Landscape and Climate Change, staff address biodiversity and climate crises.
 Pooley is in the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Crocodile Specialist
 Group and member of the IUCN Task Force on Human Wildlife Conflict since 2016, preparing
 standard guidelines for international conservation policy and practice (SDG15 ‘Life on land’). He
 has ensured snakes were added to the IUCN critical list and advised the Forestry Department of
 Belize and Uganda Wildlife Authority on their human-wildlife conflict policy. Foley’s current NERC-
 funded project (SDG 13 ‘Climate action’) has drawn together researchers from academia,
 Government, (Cook Islands), and NGOs (Scottish Natural Heritage), taking a holistic approach to
 climate adaptation on islands. The NERC-funded BLUEcoast consortium (Brooks, section 1.1)
 contains a number of stakeholder partners, including the UK Environment Agency and the Centre
 for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science (CeFAS), as well as the Norfolk and Suffolk
 Coastal Partnership (NSCP), the British Geological Survey and the National Trust.

 In International Development and Social Justice, Wells’ recent British Academy grant (section 1.1)
 (SDG4 ‘Quality education’) works with teachers in the global South.Gideon has worked with
 Eurodad (European Network on Debt and Development) on several policy briefs on public private
 partnerships in health (SDG3 ‘Good health and wellbeing’).

 4.4 evidence of the unit’s contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 As a broad-based Geography Department, our understanding of ‘discipline’ embraces
 interdisciplinarity: from cross-departmental supervision and training of PGR students (sections
 2.2.1 and 2.2.4), to our engagement with the multiple Birkbeck Research Institutes (section 1.4)
 and working with colleagues in other Schools (section 4.2), to national and international
 collaborations. In addition, we contribute to furthering theoretical understanding of
 interdisciplinarity, e.g. Pooley keynotes at Society for Human Ecology conference (2018) on




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interdisciplinarity; and at a workshop ‘Interdisciplinary challenges in the study of human-animal
 interactions’ (2017).

 Brooks is involved in supporting secondary school level Geography teaching, giving multiple talks
 over the REF period, including the keynote at the Geographical Association (GA) annual
 conference in 2015. Brooks is also a member of the editorial board of the GA journal Geography,
 winning a prize for her 2017 review article. The national and international recognition of our
 methodological expertise in specific areas is also demonstrated in invitations to train PGR
 students, e.g. Engels co-organises INTIMATE (INTegrating Ice-core, MArine and TErrestrial
 records) summer schools, training in sampling and environmental analysis from lake sediments;
 Butcher presented on visual methods training at Bard College, Berlin (2015) and Trento
 International Summer School in Ethnography (2017).

 Departmental colleagues are members of 17 professional bodies and are active in a number of
 sub-groups of the Royal Geographical Society (Cox, Chair of Gender and Feminist Research
 Group, recently producing guidelines for funders on how to fund childcare for fieldwork; Ballatore
 and Barros, GISc Research Group). Colleagues are also active in the Development Studies
 Association (Gideon), Quaternary Research Association (Briant), Black Studies Council (Ackah),
 British Society of Gerontology (Vera-Sanso) and GISRUK (Ballatore, Barros), INTIMATE (Engels)
 and the IUCN (Pooley).

 We have made a strong contribution to recent initiatives within Geography to ‘decolonise the
 curriculum’, with Ackah a leading expert in the field, speaking regularly at other universities as well
 as influencing wider curriculum development within Birkbeck, e.g. his 2015 talk on ‘Why Isn’t My
 Professor Black?’, Bristol University Student Union, and 2018 keynote, Leeds workshop,
 ‘Challenging Academic Debates Situating Decolonial Science, Art and Faith in the Syllabus’.
 Wilson was invited in 2018 to co-found the working group on Decolonising Development Studies
 Network, based at Erasmus University of Rotterdam.

 4.5 indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 Colleagues have supported the research production process within Geography and related
 disciplines during this REF period on the editorial boards of 25+ journals (e.g. Gideon, Chief Editor,
 Bulletin of Latin American Research; Cox, Editor, GEO: Geography and Environment) and reviews
 for at least 100 journals, including Transactions of the IBG, Quaternary Science Reviews,
 Environment and Planning B, Earth Surface Processes and Landforms, Nature. Colleagues are
 on peer review colleges for ESRC (Maclean, Vera-Sanso), GCRF (Butcher, Vera-Sanso), UKRI
 Future Leaders (Cox). In addition to the Leverhulme Research and Early Career Fellowships and
 Fulbright Scholarship gained in the period (sections 1.1 and 3.1), we hold Visiting Research
 Fellowships at Oxford, Kwa-Zulu Natal (Pooley), Tokyo, Kwansei-Gansuin (Shiode) and Rutgers
 (Wells).

 In total, we have given 40+ invited keynotes, e.g. Ballatore (Association of Geographic Information
 Laboratories in Europe, Sweden, 2018), Butcher (Urban / Extra-Urban Conference, Heidelberg
 2018), Pooley (World Environmental Health, Gujarat, 2019), Wells (EU Society for Residential and
 Family Care, 2018); 80+ lectures and 140+ conference papers. We have organised 40+
 conferences and workshops and chaired and organised 20+ conference sessions, nationally and
 internationally, e.g. Gideon ran the 250-attendee 50th Anniversary Society of Latin American
 Studies in 2014, Ballatore and Barros co-organised the 180-attendee GISRUK 2020 online with


                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UCL, Ackah organised the Transatlantic Round Table on Race and Religion in 2014, 2017, 2019
 and Engels co-organised the EGU-funded INTIMATE Galileo workshop in 2018.

 In addition, many of our colleagues regularly engage with diverse media channels, including print
 media, BBC radio and TV, e.g. Cox on au pairs (BBC, Guardian); Butcher and Watt on housing in
 London (The Times); Maclean on microfinance (The Guardian); Ackah on the Windrush
 Generation (BBC); Brooks on cliff erosion and coastal flood risk (BBC); Ballatore on the geography
 of new media (The Independent, Slate, VICE, >60k views); Pooley on wildlife conflict (CNN, BBC
 World Service).




                                                                                           Page 17
