Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Bath

 Unit of Assessment: 11 Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Unit of Assessment (UoA) provides a vibrant, inclusive, supportive and effective
 environment for a broad range of computer science research. Highlights during this REF period
 include:
 Recruitment of excellent staff in areas of strategic importance, with 38% growth in the staff
 base and establishment of critical mass in Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence since
 2014;
 Capture of significant funding to support research, totalling over £25M in awards, including
 a recently established UKRI Artificial Intelligence CDT, a further CDT in Digital Entertainment,
 and an EPSRC/UKRI Digital Economy Centre;
 Investment in physical and technical infrastructure, worth over £8M, providing a newly
 refurbished building housing the UoA, new research labs, dedicated high performance
 computation servers, and a new off-site space for engagement with industry; and
 A collegiate and supportive environment that nurtures, recognizes and rewards the effort
 of our staff to deliver high quality research with impact.


 Structure
 For this exercise, the Unit of Assessment coincides with the Department of Computer Science;
 note that at previous exercises this UoA has returned staff from other departments at the
 University.
 The UoA is structured in four groups:
        •   Artificial Intelligence (AI): classical and statistical approaches to the creation,
            application and evaluation of intelligent machines and their integration into larger
            systems and society;
        •   Human-Computer Interaction (HCI): theoretical, empirical and practical aspects of the
            design, development and evaluation of interactive systems to support activities of
            individuals and groups;
        •   Mathematical Foundations: using mathematics to understand programs,
            programming languages, systems and their components, and developing systems to
            do mathematics;
        •   Visual Computing: automatic interpretation of photographs and videos and
            recombination with graphic elements, with applications in graphics, films, games and
            the entertainment and education industries.
 We lead several funded research centres that enhance the cross-disciplinary and industry-facing
 focus of work in the UoA:
        •   CAMERA, the Centre for the Analysis of Motion, Entertainment Research and
            Applications: an EPRSC-funded Digital Economy Research Centre, hosting work
            combining visual computing with health and sports science research, funded in 2015,
            renewed in 2020;
        •   ART-AI, the UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training in Accountable, Responsible and
            Transparent AI, funded in 2019;
        •   CDE, the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Digital Entertainment, founded in
            2009 and re-funded in 2014.



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Organisation
 Research in the UoA is overseen by the Department of Computer Science Research Committee,
 chaired by the Director of Research, who sits on the Department Executive. Each group is
 represented by a group lead, appointed by the Head of Department. Current group leads are all
 mid-career (Senior Lecturer or Reader) level. Impact is overseen by an Impact Director.
 Research infrastructure development is managed by the Computing Liaison Committee,
 including our technical team; the academic chair of this Committee sits on Executive.


 Objectives and strategy
 The development strategy indicated in REF2014 focused on the establishment of expertise in
 Machine Learning, with the goal of delivering a coherent spectrum of research strength drawing
 together all our groups and reflecting a significant refocusing of our research direction,
 consistent with our achievements and strengths but looking towards future applications in both
 fundamental research and impact delivery. Particular synergies between AI, HCI and Visual
 Computing were envisaged. These goals have been achieved. We have built on preexisting
 strengths in Computer Vision to recruit new staff in Machine Learning; we have grown the
 department by 38%. This growth, guided by a proactive approach to equality, diversity and
 inclusion, has increased the diversity of our academic staff as detailed in Section 2 below.
 Sustainability is underpinned by income from strong MSc provision and buoyant undergraduate
 recruitment.


 Synergies between AI, Visual Computing and HCI are already coming to fruition, within the
 University (where they are key in nurturing interdisciplinarity) and more widely, including
 internationally. We have established two interdisciplinary research centres: REVEAL, the Real
 and Virtual Environments Augmentation Labs centre, directed by Lutteroth, which hosts
 collaboration between staff in the Departments of Computer Science and Psychology and the
 Department for Health; and MAD, the Centre for Mathematics and Algorithms for Data, co-
 directed by Campbell, supporting collaborations with staff from Mathematical Sciences. The
 ART-AI CDT further expands this interdisciplinarity and international reach, with partners in
 institutions in 10 countries. Submitted outputs include collaborations with researchers at
 prestigious institutions across Europe (e.g. Paris 7, Max Planck Institute, TU Darmstadt, TU
 Munich) and worldwide (e.g. Berkeley, Stanford, MIT, Princeton, Tsinghua, Auckland, IIT
 Hyderabad).


 UoA Research Groups
 Artificial Intelligence (Chen, De Vos, Golbabaee, Haines, Isupova, Li, Padget, Şimşek)
 The AI group has expanded significantly since REF2014 (from 2.3 to 8 FTE, with further
 recruitment in progress), substantially increasing the capacity and breadth of AI research in the
 Unit. From a primary focus on AI ethics, multi-agent systems, knowledge representation, and
 reasoning, the staff additions to the group, mostly Early Career Researchers (ECRs), work in
 machine learning and its intersection with fields such as robotics and natural language
 processing. Our expertise in AI ethics and our increased research capacity underpinned Bath’s
 successful bid for the UKRI Doctoral Training Centre for Accountable, Responsible, and
 Transparent AI (ART-AI). The group is currently working towards enabling the establishment of
 the research identities of its ECRs as well as developing strength and collaborations around
 areas such as Bayesian machine learning (Haines, Chen, Isupova), reinforcement learning
 (Simsek, Li, Namboodiri), and knowledge representation and reasoning (Padget, de Vos), with
 questions around AI ethics, transparency, responsibility, and accountability deeply embedded in
 all research.


 Human-Computer Interaction (Alexander, Fraser, Jones, Lutteroth, O’Neill, Payne, Watts)
 The HCI group’s research includes innovation in the areas of immersive, virtual and augmented
 reality technology; mobile, wearable and ubiquitous computing; fabrication of functional devices;

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and social computing. The group broadly studies the relationship between people and new
 interfaces and technologies in order to generate theory for the field and positive user
 experiences for the real world. Much of the work of Jones, Lutteroth, O’Neill and Watts is
 directed towards digital healthcare monitoring, interventions and assistive tools, such as gaze-
 based interactions and the use of VR in Exergaming and patient rehabilitation. Alexander and
 Fraser bring a hardware-directed focus, including work on fabrication, wearable devices for
 gesture detection, tangible interfaces, and shape-changing displays. A strong indicator of the
 international excellence of the HCI group at Bath is its consistent presence at the largest and
 most prestigious international conference, the ACM Conference on Human Factors in
 Computing Systems (CHI). The group stands amongst the top 40 institutions worldwide by
 number of publications at CHI, each year from 2017-2020. Fraser holds an EPSRC Fellowship
 and Alexander holds an ERC Starting Grant.


 Mathematical Foundations (Bradford, Davenport, Guglielmi, Heijltjes, Laird, McCusker, Powell,
 Vorobjov)
 The Mathematical Foundations (MathFound) research group has a dual focus on Logic and
 Semantics (Guglielmi, Heijltjes, Laird, McCusker, Powell) and on Computer Algebra (Bradford,
 Davenport, Vorobjov). The group prizes highly original and creative research and promotes the
 ongoing UoA focus on excellence in fundamentals. The Logic and Semantics team are well
 known for the Deep Inference project of Guglielmi, a broad and highly successful re-imagining of
 the entire field of structural proof theory, and for work in proof nets (Heijltjes), denotational
 semantics (McCusker, Laird) and applied proof theory (Powell). An emerging theme across
 Logic and Semantics is the use of graphical reasoning techniques (proof nets, string diagrams.)
 Work is regularly published in the top conferences in the field (LICS, CSL). In Computer Algebra,
 a focus is the technique of Cylindrical Algebraic Decomposition, which can be used to tackle
 quantifier elimination problems and satisfiability modulo theories, with many applications in
 verification. Bath research has been incorporated in the Maple computer algebra tool, one of the
 internationally most respected general-purpose computer algebra systems.


 Visual Computing (Campbell, Cosker, Hall, Namboodiri, Richardt, Yang)
 The visual computing group conducts research at the intersection of Computer Vision and
 Computer Graphics, with overlapping interest in Machine Learning and Human-Computer
 Interaction. The group’s high-quality research is regularly published in top venues, including 10
 papers in the flagship ACM Transactions on Graphics in this assessment period as well as over
 20 papers in leading vision conferences CVPR, ECCV and ICCV. Illustrative achievements
 include Campbell and Li’s Roto++ accelerated rotoscoping tool (SIGGRAPH 2018); Cosker and
 Richardt’s advances in unsupervised image-to-image translation (NeurIPS 2018); and
 Namboodiri’s work on speech-to-lip generation (CVPR 2020). Cosker is the director of the
 CAMERA centre; Hall directs the Centre for Digital Entertainment; Cosker and Campbell
 received Royal Society Industry Fellowships and Richardt holds a UKRI Innovation Fellowship.


 This growth and focus within the UoA supports our broad strategic aims:


        •   to conduct rigorous research in the theory and practice of computing, leading to the
            advancement of knowledge, encompassing both deeper understanding and more
            effective application of theories and techniques in computing;
        •   to train and develop researchers in computing to ensure the continued advancement
            of knowledge;
        •   to disseminate the results of our research to stakeholders worldwide, including
            academia, industry and government, and to engage with them to deliver impact and
            develop insight.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic development over the next five years will assist the UoA in delivering on these aims.
 Our significant growth has developed a cohort of early career academics centred around AI and
 Machine Learning but spanning across all our research groups. The excellent work that this
 cohort are contributing to this REF demonstrates the potential for an exciting new generation at
 Bath. Our future strategy is to nurture a new departmental culture and identity from the shift of
 focus brought by this cohort. We are excited to enable our ECRs to establish themselves both
 individually and as contributors to the cohesive spectrum of work we do. As we embrace these
 developments we will take steps to enhance our long-term aspirations, our multi-institutional and
 multinational activities, and the impact of our research in tackling major societal challenges, as
 follows.


   •   Refining Research Culture. We have put in place a series of cohort-building and peer
       mentoring schemes to enhance the culture we encourage in our ECRs: focus on research
       that matters, prizing quality over quantity, leading to academic, societal and economic
       impact. Our development activities provide an opportunity for mid-career and senior
       faculty to mentor and lead. We emphasise long-term character, exemplified by existing
       foundational activities such as Deep Inference, and sustained application through our
       larger centres such as CAMERA.
   •   Growing International Focus. Increasing emphasis on longer, larger collaborative
       projects requires a more outward facing attitude within and beyond the UK, leading and
       participating in teams between institutions where appropriate. It is a timely moment to
       consolidate links to partners in North America, Europe, and emerging new regions of
       strength in Computer Science. To support this goal, we will significantly enhance our
       international outreach, by championing enhanced provision of sabbaticals, visitor
       programmes and involvement in major conference organisation. A step change in our
       social media presence will be enabled by employing a new designer, embedded in our
       research team, to create online materials communicating our work and to prototype ways
       of visualising and communicating research ideas as they develop. This will target this
       work to online tech communities, instructables, industrial forums and showcases.
   •   Joining Up Impact. To ensure our impact network can accommodate larger scale
       planning and thinking, we will invest in making industrial opportunities greater than the
       sum of the parts across our portfolio. Our successful network includes numerous CDT
       partners, large-scale industrial work through centres such as CAMERA, student-facing
       activities such as prominent industrial placements at Bath, our significant alumni
       community, and the SetSquared spinout incubator and wider entrepreneurship networks.
       The Impact Director’s role will be extended to take overall responsibility for all these
       activities, supported by a new impact committee with dedicated budget. We will continue
       to build infrastructure to support broader cross-disciplinary teams, with a second
       materials-focused hackspace currently under construction to enhance collaboration
       between computer science and engineering partners.


 Approach to Impact: Activities, Case Studies and Future Opportunities
 The approach to delivery of impact in the Unit centres around an increasing culture of co-
 creation of research and impacts in partnership with industry and third sector organisations. We
 recognize the enabling nature of computer science work, and during the REF period have been
 increasingly creating the conditions for our refocused research growth and excellence to have
 impact by:
        •   developing close, long-term relationships with research users, exemplified in the
            Impact Case Studies on Design and Evaluation of Digital Technologies and on
            Artificial Intelligence & Ethics. Our staff and research students (notably our CDE
            EngD students) undertake secondments and placements with industry partners; staff
            from the Unit have been continuously on secondments throughout the assessment
            period, building on a long history of such relationships with Vodafone, DSTL,
            Foundry, DNEG, HP Labs and others; research student placements are detailed

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            below. As an example, Campbell’s Royal Society Industrial Fellowship delivered a
            Rotoscoping tool (Roto++), developed with partner The Foundry, that has been made
            freely available for non-commercial use in post-production.
        •   providing access to our research, its products, and our expertise. Perhaps the
            highlight here during the REF period is the ready access to our visual computing
            research provided via the CAMERA studio’s outward-facing activity, detailed below
            and exemplified in the Facial Performance Capture and Animation Impact Case
            Study. O’Neill’s work with the cultural heritage sector has included co-production of
            interactive museum installations (National Trust, Ruhrmuseum) and running
            workshops to educate curators in the use and value of digital interactions based on
            the Unit’s research, while new gaze tracking methods (Lutteroth; actigaze) are
            enabling users to control electronic devices using their eyes;
        •   collaborating broadly with researchers in other disciplines. Advances in computer
            science can lead to impact via incorporation in research led by other disciplines. As
            detailed briefly above and in more detail in section 4, our UoA collaborates with every
            Faculty and School at the University of Bath as well as extensively worldwide.
            Impact-related activities in this area have included motion capture work in
            rehabilitation (including with amputees) with our Department for Health, and with the
            UK Skeleton Bob team, with colleagues in Sports & Exercise Science.
        •   engendering future collaboration through public engagement activity, including
            local, national and international events and collaborations with the creative industries
            and arts sectors.
        •   enhancing the regional digital economy. More recently, the Unit’s influential role in
            the digital economy (spearheaded by the CAMERA Centre) has been deployed
            increasingly in the regional context. CAMERA has expanded its facilities into the
            Bottle Yard Studios in Bristol through a European Structural Infrastructure Fund
            (ESIF) award, supporting the creative industries sector in the region in collaboration
            with Bath Spa University, Radium Audio Ltd and Bristol Old Vic Theatre School. The
            Unit is also a partner in the Bristol and Bath Creative R&D Cluster, a £6.8M regional
            academic-industrial collaboration established in 2018. The UoA and its strong digital-
            focused research is key in a number of strategic regional research opportunities
            being pursued by the University, including the I-START initiative to be located in a
            new development close to Bath City Centre.


 This culture is underpinned by a number of formal, funded activities:
        •   The Centre for Digital Entertainment (CDE) is an EPSRC Centre for Doctoral
            Training, founded in 2009 and re-funded in 2014 in collaboration with the University
            of Bournemouth. Since 2014 the Centre has received £4.6M in EPSRC funding plus
            investments from industry partners of £700k, and University investment of nine four-
            year doctoral studentships. Research engineers studying for an EngD in the CDE are
            placed with industry partners for up to three years. The portfolio or thesis that they
            submit must demonstrate the impact of their research. Such work underpins a
            number of impact-generating activities from the Unit, including: O’Neill’s work with
            Research Engineer and later PDRA De Angeli on digital cultural heritage noted
            above; Bath research jointly patented with Disney (US2014267306); and a
            collaboration with CDE partner DNEG, where underpinning Bath research was taken
            forward by a CDE alumnus and delivered effects that were incorporated into high
            grossing films including Ant Man and Tenet;
        •   The CDE’s activities are further amplified by the Marie Skłodowska-Curie action
            Fellows with Industrial Research Enhancement (FIRE) programme which provided
            £800k funding to support 10 research fellows pursuing doctoral degrees who again
            have industrial research engagement embedded in their programme of study. We
            note that our long-standing culture of extended engagement with industry partners at


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            the PGR and staff levels is complemented by similarly active placement programmes
            for UG and PGT students, amplifying the reach and range of our partnerships;
        •   The CAMERA Centre supports development activity to deploy the results of research
            in industrial applications and engagement with industry to launch further development
            projects e.g. via InnovateUK funding applications. CAMERA works alongside
            ImmerseUK, the UK’s immersive technology network, to run workshops promoting
            the co-creation approach to research and impact with a range of partners. CAMERA
            is funded to provide consultation and access to technology and expertise free of
            charge to local SMEs. The ICS on Facial Performance Capture and Animation
            derives directly from work within CAMERA.


 The impact culture in the Unit is supported by the academic role of Impact Director, established
 during the REF period. The Impact Director has responsibility for nurturing impactful research to
 delivery and for the documentation of impact. Impact is a standing item on staff and research
 meetings within the Unit. The Impact Director holds a dedicated budget, devolved from the
 departmental operating budget, to support activity that promises to lead to delivery, or
 documentation, of impact. Funds were used, for example, to support interaction between
 academics and museums and between the Unit and standards committees (Bryson; AI & Ethics
 ICS).


 University-level support is also provided for the delivery and documentation of impact. The
 Research and Innovation Services (RIS), our research development and support department,
 has worked closely with all the impact case study authors to elucidate the impact, as well as
 supporting the project bids (CAMERA, InnovateUK bids, Royal Society Industry Fellowships, etc)
 that underpin our impactful work. We have accessed the EPSRC-funded Impact Acceleration
 Account to conduct work taking our research towards impact; in the case of Campbell’s work
 with The Foundry this led directly to his Royal Society Industry Fellowship. RIS also provides
 advice and guidance on appropriate protection of Intellectual Property rights, particularly
 valuable when academics work in partnership with industry.


 Approach to Interdisciplinary Research
 The subject of Computer Science is inherently interdisciplinary. This is reflected in the
 backgrounds of our academic staff which range across mathematics, engineering and
 psychology as well as Computer Science. We see no barrier to interdisciplinary work and as a
 result are leaders of several large cross-disciplinary efforts:
        •   The CAMERA research centre involves members of the Departments of Computer
            Science and Psychology and the Department for Health
        •   REVEAL, the Real and Virtual Environments Augmentation Labs centre, is a Faculty
            of Science Research Centre for interdisciplinary work on VR and AR led by our staff.
            Its members include staff from Health, Psychology, Physics, and Engineering
        •   MAD, the Centre for Mathematics and Algorithms for Data, is a Faculty of Science
            Research Centre for fundamental and applied work aligned to data science, again led
            by our staff and bringing together Computer Scientists and Mathematicians.
        •   Our doctoral training centres in Digital Entertainment (CDE) and Artificial Intelligence
            (ART-AI) are designed to be interdisciplinary; ART-AI’s leaders are drawn from
            Engineering, Education and Social and Policy Sciences as well as Computer
            Science.
        •   The Institute for Mathematical Innovation (IMI) is one of the University’s flagship
            Institutes, an outward-facing entity which uses the power of mathematics to address
            challenges in other areas of activity. We participate in and lead IMI activity: Simsek
            served as Deputy Director of the IMI; Bryson and Davenport led an IMI thematic
            semester on AI Ethics; and Chen enjoys a funded IMI secondment,

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        •  The Bristol and Bath Creative Industries cluster is an AHRC funded collaboration
           between Bath, Bath Spa, Bristol and UWE involving the Computer Science
           department plus Psychology and AHRC disciplines across the institutions.
 Many exemplars of the extensive range of collaborative and interdisciplinary work arising from
 these and other efforts are detailed in Section 4.


 Open research environment
 The Unit benefits from a strong cultural commitment to open research, including open access to
 publications and open data. This is supported from the highest level in the University. The
 University of Bath Library was one of the first to establish a permanent data management
 service. This mature service supports Computer Science researchers in the planning, curation,
 preservation, and publication of research data, software and data access statements. Our
 expectations on researchers are aligned with the Concordat on Open Research Data and the
 FAIR principles and set out in our internationally recognised Research Data Policy. To
 implement this, we provide managed data storage to all research projects. These measures
 have allowed us to publish experimental data as supplementary material to papers e.g. in HCI.
 We also take advantage of external services such as GitHub to make source code available,
 enabling reproducibility of our work. Within the unit, local code and data repositories are
 maintained for sharing across our research community. Our Doctoral Skills training provision
 includes courses on research data handling, analysis and management. Information Security
 Awareness training is also provided by the University and is mandatory for all staff.


 The Library’s Open Access Team supports researchers in ensuring their research can be made
 available via open access. The University’s Open Access Publications Deposit Mandate,
 published in 2011 and updated in 2017, requires full versions of all outputs to be made available
 via our institutional research repository. The Director of Research receives monthly reports on
 the open access status of publications; compliance in computer science is typically close to
 100%.


 Research Integrity
 Integrity and a proactive approach to research ethics are fundamental to our research culture.
 The unit has been a national leader in promotion of the consideration of ethical issues around
 Artificial Intelligence, including our establishment of the ART-AI Doctoral Training Centre. We
 embed ethics and integrity throughout our work: there is mandatory research integrity training for
 all staff and research students, and formal documentation of ethical considerations is required
 for all research projects, including work undertaken by taught students. Scrutiny of these
 documents is the responsibility of the Department Ethics Committee, with escalation available
 through the University Ethics committee structures. The Departmental Research Ethics Officer
 reports to the Research Committee and leads discussion on ethics and integrity at the
 Departmental Staff meeting.


 2. People

 Staff Development Strategy
 Mentoring and training
 Our recruitment and growth strategy rests on attracting and developing ECRs to become the
 research leaders of the future. New recruits are supported with a bespoke package of funding on
 arrival. Faculty-funded PhD studentships are also made available. New academic staff are
 supported throughout a three-year probationary period. Workload is reduced in the first two
 years and time allocated to a centrally provided development and training course introducing key
 aspects of teaching, research development and career management, leading to FHEA status.
 Successful completion is a formal requirement for all probationers. Mentoring is offered to all

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff. Probationary staff have a mentor from the senior staff of the department, nominated by the
 Head of Department and typically chosen to have related research expertise. Allocation of
 mentors outside probation is handled by a Mentor Coordinator who works with staff to identify an
 appropriate mentor for their needs. This has been especially popular with postdoctoral research
 staff wishing to take an academic career to the next level.
 An innovation within this unit is our Early Career Lunches, a monthly cohort-building exercise for
 our early career staff, where issues related to career development are discussed. The sessions
 are organised and run by the ECRs themselves, with funding from the department; senior staff
 attend by invitation to provide insight.
 Staff appraisal is via "Career Conversations", a novel approach centering on the individual
 academic and their career horizons rather than the traditional annual performance lifecycle.
 Career conversations focus on strengths and development rather than performance
 management (handled separately where needed). Senior staff receive dedicated training to
 conduct these coaching-like conversations.
 The University offers a broad range of development and training opportunities for all staff; the
 UoA funds training where the University offering does not cover needs, e.g. for our in-house
 technical support team. Staff have taken advantage of almost 400 sessions of training during the
 assessment period, including Project Management, Effective Meetings, Funding Opportunities
 for Women, and Mental Health and Wellbeing. Within the Unit, annual awaydays provide
 opportunities for cohort-building and sharing of best practice, including sessions dedicated to
 development of collaborative research projects.
 In 2015 the Faculty of Science introduced a series of development programmes for PDRAs,
 aimed at assisting them to obtain Fellowships or Lectureships. Access to these programmes
 was competitive across the Faculty. We proposed four candidates, all successful. All have gone
 on to permanent academic positions: Jones is a member of this UoA; the others hold
 Lectureships in Management at Bath and in Computer Science at Coventry and Middlesex. For
 more senior staff, the University’s Academic Leaders Programme recruits 12 staff per year
 across the University and develops strategic leadership skills over a series of workshops;
 Cosker, De Vos and McCusker have all taken advantage of this training; De Vos also
 participated in the Advance HE Aurora programme to develop female academic leaders.


 Staffing and recruitment
 This REF period has seen considerable change in our staffing profile. Of the 24 staff returned in
 2014, four retired (H. Johnson, P. Johnson, Power, Willis), two left the UK to take academic
 posts overseas, and one moved to a commercial position (Brown, to Google). Three staff
 entered in this UoA in 2014 were not members of the Department of Computer Science and will
 be returned in other UoAs in this exercise. We have recruited very successfully: new staff are
 Alexander, Campbell, Chen, Fraser, Golbabaee, Haines, Isupova, Jones, Kim (now at UNIST, S.
 Korea), Li, Lutteroth, Namboodiri, Powell, Richardt, Simsek, and Yang. This represents net
 growth of five FTE staff in the UoA since 2014, and an increase of eight staff in the Department
 of Computer Science, growing from 21 to 29 staff: 38% growth in the Department. Our new
 staff increase the diversity of the UoA, coming from China (3), Iran, Turkey, Germany (2), S.
 Korea, India, New Zealand and Russia as well as the UK (5). All our category A staff are on
 long-term, open-ended contracts.
 11 of the staff recruited in the assessment period are in Machine Learning or Visual Computing,
 implementing our strategy of developing strength in these areas and their interface; a further four
 are in HCI, again consistent with strategy. Two were recruited at Senior Lecturer level and two at
 Professor; the remainder were appointed as Lecturer. Our commitment to development of ECRs
 has led five of these to achieve promotion to Senior Lecturer or Reader in this period. Our
 strategy has resulted in a more balanced demographic with a range of levels of seniority in all
 areas. Our quickly-progressing early-career staff influence the running of the Unit: three of the
 research group leads and the Computing Liaison Committee Chair are among the recent recruits
 (Campbell, Jones, Richardt, Simsek) and sit on the Department Research Committee and
 Executive. Further evidence of the quality of our recruitment is that four of the new recruits hold

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 prestigious individual research awards (EPSRC Fellowship, UKRI Innovation Fellowship, ERC
 Starting Grant, Royal Society Industry Fellowship).


 Research leave
 The University’s sabbatical scheme supports leave of one semester per 3.5 years’ service for
 staff out of the probationary period. Sabbaticals are awarded on a competitive basis: applicants
 must demonstrate the value that research leave will bring, for example in developing
 collaborations, delivering impact, or deepening research. All applications from the UoA have
 been successful: Bryson - Princeton; McCusker - Paris VI; Guglielmi - Paris VII (12 months),
 Lutteroth – Auckland; Willis – a number of locations in China and Australia. For opportunities
 which did not fit this scheme, we have made local arrangements to facilitate extended research
 visits by reducing teaching and administrative commitments: Laird held a visiting Professor
 position at Marseille, Davenport a Fulbright Fellowship to NYU.


 Industry/academic exchange
 Secondment to industry is common in the Unit, from research student level up. Our EngD
 research student cohorts spend significant time embedded with their industrial partners. Formal
 relationships include P. Johnson’s long-term 0.4FTE secondment to the Defence Science and
 Technology Laboratory, Campbell’s Royal Society Industry Fellowship which places him with
 Foundry, a world-leading supplier of software tools to the Post-Production and Creative
 Industries, and Cosker’s RS Industry Fellowship placing him at DNEG, an internationally
 acclaimed post-production company that has won four academy awards.


 Recognition and reward
 The University operates a flexible workload model which recognizes the effort required to
 conduct research and deliver impact. We provide full buy-out for all funded projects, and
 allocated time for non-funded research and impact work including underlying scholarship and bid
 development. Our approach to promotion is inclusive and based on transparent criteria. Explicit
 research- and impact-related criteria reward impact, research recognition, public engagement
 activity, and major grant capture. The department’s promotion committee actively encourages
 and develops applications. All staff who have indicated interest in promotion have been
 supported to develop their applications and all but one application in the period have succeeded.
 Within the Unit, we actively publicize and recognize success in research outputs and funding
 bids: staff are publicly congratulated via news bulletins and announcements at staff meetings.
 The Faculty and University take time to congratulate winners of significant research funding at
 Faculty Research Committee, at Senate, and via the website. We also recognize the value of
 preliminary efforts to establish new activity, and make use of departmental funds to seed
 research projects or investigation of possible avenues for impact.


 Research Students
 Recruitment
 Our body of research students is growing, with a mean of 11.45 graduations per annum in this
 REF period, compared to 9 per annum in the previous exercise. Recruitment of research
 students is a robust process with at least two staff members involved in all decisions, and all
 offers derived from interviews by a panel of at least two academic staff trained in diversity and
 unconscious bias. The process is overseen by the University’s Doctoral College. All our
 advertisements include a statement of our commitment to diversity and particularly encourage
 female applicants as part of our work towards gender balance. We encourage a diverse range of
 applications by engaging early with promising candidates and assisting them in preparing their
 applications, rather than expecting a polished research proposal. Our efforts in respect of gender
 equality have been successful: our PGR cohort is now 35% female, on a continual rising trend
 from 23% in 2013/14; this should be contrasted with the UK-wide undergraduate figure of 17%.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In our EngD cohort, 17% has a disclosed disability (vs UK population of adult of working age
 19%).


 Studentships from major funding bodies
 Significant studentship funding has been a feature of this UoA for over a decade. Since 2009 we
 have hosted the EPSRC Centre for Digital Entertainment doctoral training centre, in
 collaboration with the University of Bournemouth. In 2019 we won £7M funding for the UKRI
 Centre for Doctoral Training in Accountable, Responsible and Transparent AI (ART-AI), directed
 by O’Neill. We also hold £800k of funding from EU H2020 for the Marie Skłodowska-Curie action
 Fellows with Industrial Research Enhancement; research fellows funded under this scheme
 pursue PhDs in the Computer Science department. In addition to these major awards we hold
 EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership studentships.


 Monitoring
 Postgraduate research student progress is monitored via 6-monthly reporting which engages the
 student, their supervisory team and the PGR director of studies, with scrutiny and
 support/intervention from the University-level Doctoral College where required. Formal
 milestones include PhD status confirmation at 12 months, to that ensure students have engaged
 actively with an appropriate research project and are on course for timely completion. This also
 requires the completion of our Academic Integrity Training and Test. Support for disabled
 students is coordinated with the University’s Disability Services who help to produce bespoke
 Disability access plans for each student in conjunction with supervisors and DoS. A feature of
 our EngD programme is the placement of students in industry. Students on placement receive
 pastoral visits to ensure the success of their placement.


 Skills support for PGR students
 The University implements the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, supporting PhD
 students in areas including research governance, public engagement and impact. We provide a
 wide range of skills training for PGR students, and encourage and monitor the uptake of training
 via the regular monitoring reports, with an expectation that all students take 10 days’ training per
 annum. Areas covered include management of time and career, teaching, communicating
 research, academic writing, and public engagement. Our Masters level Entrepreneurship module
 is available for all PGR students and compulsory for EngD students on the HCI route.
 In the visual computing area, students receive practical training on imaging and motion capture
 and analysis from the CAMERA team, including training on popular industry tools. CAMERA also
 has a student technician team who are being trained to perform motion capture and will work on
 commercial and research projects.
 The embedding of EngD students in industry allows them to develop relevant skills while
 conducting their research. Evidence shows that they become highly valuable: one third of EngD
 graduates gain employment with their host companies.
 Students are encouraged and enabled to develop organisational skills by running events for the
 benefit of one another and the department. This includes specialist reading groups and seminar
 series, and larger events such as the annual PGR student conference in Computer Science.
 This typically includes events centred on preparation for a career, e.g. keynote talks from
 graduated PGR students on their early career experience. Until 2020 the monthly department-
 wide seminar was run by and for our PGR students. The Doctoral Training Centres coordinate
 buddying and mentoring between research students, both to support newly arrived students and
 to develop the leadership skills of the more established ones.


 Equality and Diversity
 We are working actively to increase equality and diversity throughout our research environment,
 recognizing in particular a historic gender imbalance in the subject and our UoA. We have a

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 departmental Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity committee, who also oversee our Athena SWAN
 submission and monitoring; we were awarded Athena SWAN Bronze in 2015. The ART-AI CDT
 has its own ED&I committee. Partner companies of ART-AI demonstrate their commitment to
 diversity by signing up to the Tech Talent Charter. Our own commitments and initiatives include
 the following.


 In recruitment we ensure a gender balance on all recruitment panels and insist that members
 are trained in recruitment policy and about unconscious bias. Should an all-male shortlist arise
 from a selection process, this must be justified in writing by the panel. All job advertisements
 contain wording describing our commitment to equality and encouraging female applicants. We
 have engaged a professional copy-writing service to make our advertisements more accessible
 and have positive (anecdotal) evidence from applicants that this is effective. Monitoring of the
 diversity of our recruitment processes indicates that since January 2019, of the 30 positions in
 Education and Research filled in the department (including teaching positions and PDRAs) the
 gender balance is exactly 50-50. We support staff in taking parental leave including shared
 parental leave. Staff are supported throughout their leave with “Keep in touch” days and on
 return to work by considered management of their workload to ensure a smooth return to work
 and to active research. We negotiate bespoke contracts and working arrangements for staff
 wishing to work part-time or flexibly, for example enabling remote working (including teaching)
 for a staff member whose family commitments moved them away from Bath (pre-Covid). To
 accommodate the needs of staff with childcare or other caring responsibilities, it is our policy that
 all formal meetings are scheduled within core hours 10am – 3pm. Staff may request particular
 hours of the day or week to be blocked out of their timetables to accommodate caring
 responsibilities. We have offered fully-funded short-term childcare to enable researchers with
 care responsibilities to attend a research workshop held at Bath.
 We actively support staff and research students with disabilities, including the installation of
 a bespoke automatic door for a PDRA with reduced mobility and specialized office furniture and
 IT hardware to accommodate physical needs for several staff; we develop personal evacuation
 plans for disabled users of our building and provide training on how to approach assistance dogs
 for all staff.
 To address gender and generational barriers to career progression, we promote role models
 including the award of an honorary degree to Gillian Arnold, former chair of BCSWomen and
 now BCS Vice-president; and run transparency events to demystify the University’s promotion
 and progression routes.
 In preparing our REF submission we adopted consistent, transparent and accountable
 processes, conducted in an inclusive manner in accordance with our institutional values and
 policies, including Equality and Diversity policies and the University’s Code of Practice. Staff
 involved in the output selection process undertook appropriate training including a full day
 session on reviewing outputs for REF. Our process assessed outputs on research quality only.
 We note that inclusion of an individual’s outputs in the REF submission plays no role in the
 University’s probation and promotion processes.
 We encourage a collegiate environment via social events including weekly staff coffee and cake,
 a corresponding event for PGR students, and an annual (secular) Christmas event.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The UoA has benefitted from significant infrastructure investment and increased research
 income in this assessment period. Since 2014 the Department of Computer Science has
 occupied an entirely refurbished building in the centre of the University campus. Total
 University investment in this building was £21M. The building houses individual offices for all
 academics, shared office space for PGR students and PDRAs, dedicated labs for Visual
 Computing and HCI work, the CAMERA studio, and labs for our taught students. The HCI lab
 includes a high-frequency eye-gaze tracker, panoramic screen, and multi-channel video
 recording system for remote monitoring and recording of user behaviour. The visual computing

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 lab offers a full 3D scanning facility and associated analysis hardware. The CAMERA studio is a
 state of the art specialized motion-capture studio, with its own technical support manager, and
 equipment valued around £500k. Facilities include marker-based, markerless, and inertial
 motion capture, force-plates for kinetic measurement, VR/AR equipment, handheld 3D scanners,
 face/body 3D capture, 4k video recording, and professional creative software. Beyond this
 building, a further Maker Lab includes fabrication facilities (laser cutting, soldering, PCB etching,
 3D printing) enabling the construction of specialist devices for research including HCI and
 robotics. From Spring 2021 this will be augmented with an additional 110m2 lab providing new
 fabrication capabilities to support research projects that involve hardware development and
 physical prototyping, with equipment investment of £60k from the University. A significant
 addition to our physical space from Spring 2020 is the establishment of a 600m2 off-campus
 studio dedicated to engagement with industry associated with the CAMERA project. This
 new facility, located in the heart of the Bristol-Bath creative quarter at the Bottle Yard, is
 supported by £900k from the European Structural and Investment Funds, leveraging a further
 £900k investment from the University. The studio is fitted with equipment valued at £380k
 including a state-of-the-art motion capture system and instrumented treadmill.


 Our shift towards Machine Learning research has led to an increase in computation-intensive
 work. To meet demand, we established in 2019 an in-house compute cluster, with 20 GPUs,
 14TB of solid-state storage and 24TB of magnetic storage. This facility is available to staff, PGR
 students and appropriate taught students, and has already supported the computation needs of
 research projects leading to outputs in Machine Learning and Visual Computing.


 Fundamental to our strategy on the use of this infrastructure to support research is an inclusive
 attitude that invites participation from people at all levels, from Professor to Undergraduate. Lab
 spaces are not owned by particular groups but are available for all appropriate research use.
 Opening our labs to UG and PGT project use amplifies the research value of University
 investment and our success in attracting students. Students have contributed to several outputs
 in this period, across multiple research groups.


 Mean annual research income in this assessment period is 60% greater than in REF 2014.
 Awards supporting research activity total more than £25M in this period. The CAMERA awards
 are a centerpiece of our current portfolio: CAMERA was inaugurated with a £4M EPSRC award
 in 2015 and has recently received a further £3.4M EPSRC award and an £880k Horizon 2020
 award. Research throughout the department is supported by regular funding from a number of
 sources including the Royal Society, InnovateUK, AHRC, EU H2020 and ERC as well as
 EPSRC which is our principal funder, and industrial awards from Axa, Google and DSTL. Our
 two Centres for Doctoral Training received awards of £11.5M in this period. ART-AI has
 additional funding from industry partners of £380k with a further £438k pledged; CDE has
 secured £708k of income from industry partners. Our research awards reflect and benefit from
 the diversity of the UoA. For instance, the group of investigators on the CAMERA awards
 exhibits diversity across nationality (UK, China, S. Korea, Europe), career stage (Professor to
 ECR) and gender.


 Support for grant proposals
 We offer support for preparation of funding bids at all levels. Information and analysis of funding
 opportunities is provided by the Director of Research and by the University-wide Research and
 Innovation Services, including Department-wide awaydays devoted to analysis of the funding
 landscape, University-level information days about access to particular funders, and online
 resources. The Research Committee oversees development of grant proposals and assembly of
 teams to address funding calls. We work closely with investigators, particularly ECRs on first
 grants, conduct internal peer review to assure and increase the quality of bids, and organise
 mock panels and interviews to prepare applicants. Successes include Richardt’s award of a
 UKRI Innovation Fellowship early in his career with us. Additional support for industrial funding

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bids, including InnovateUK, is available from the CAMERA management team; InnovateUK
 successes include the Rheumatoid Arthritis Flare Up Profiler, a project with the Royal United
 Hospital, Bath; and the HMC for Augmented Reality Performance Capture with the Imaginarium
 as well as projects reported in our Impact Case Studies. The increased research power arising
 from our success in attracting funding in this period has led to a marked increase in research
 outputs including publications in the prestigious SIGGRAPH and CHI conferences, with multiple
 Best Paper awards.


 Organisational infrastructure to support research
 The research organisation of the Department of Computer Science is set out above. At Faculty
 level, the Science Faculty Research Committee comprises an Associate Dean (Research) and
 the Directors of Research from the departments in the Faculty. It oversees research across
 Science, including establishing and monitoring the performance of research centres such as
 REVEAL and MAD. At University level, Research and Innovation Services offer support for grant
 management, accessing university funds e.g. studentships, equipment funding, and
 commercialisation contracts including KTPs.


 Technical infrastructure
 Over the REF period the UoA has benefited from two dedicated systems support staff entirely
 devoted to specialist computer science activity, as distinct from commoditised activity such as
 email and standard software support. They specify, purchase, install and maintain all research
 equipment, including the local cloud hardware and a diverse range of machines and devices. An
 additional technical manager supports the CAMERA motion capture studio.
 Further support for research is available from the CDE, ART-AI and CAMERA support teams
 who handle, among other things, the annual Digital Entertainment conference, and support the
 monthly departmental seminar.


 Scholarly infrastructure
 The University Library is a central part of the scholarly infrastructure supporting the UoA. It offers
 24-hour access to its collection of texts and journals, electronic access including IEEEXplore, the
 ACM digital library and electronic journal subscriptions, and a wide range of support services. Its
 work in supporting open access and open research has been described above. We make
 regular use of its research analytics service, to obtain bibliometric and other quantitative
 analyses of the research performance and behaviour of our UoA and comparators.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our open and supportive research environment engenders a broad range of research
 collaborations, engaging with and contributing to the scientific, economic and societal needs of a
 diverse range of researchers, users, and publics. We routinely seed or revitalise collaborations
 with in-house research funding. Budget for this is held by the research committee, regularly
 advertised at departmental staff meetings, and has been sufficient to fund all requests to date.


 Collaborations
 Our staff engage in a wide range of collaborations, throughout the University, and with partners
 nationally and internationally. This includes supervision of PhDs at Max Planck, TU Berlin, Cork,
 Porto, Beijing Jiao Tong University, Tsinghua, and Hong Kong University; hosting extended
 research visits from University of Hong Kong, CNRS Lyon, Xi’an university, Technische
 Hochschule Köln, and TU Braunschweig; and made visits to Tsinghua, Aix-Marseille and
 ongoing transfer arrangements with Cambridge and NII Tokyo.



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The change in working arrangements caused by the Covid-19 pandemic led to innovations
 supporting collaboration. Moving research seminars online enabled broad participation from
 outside the university; for example, our Mathematical Foundations seminar attracts audience
 members from France, Italy, Luxembourg, Finland, and Lithuania.


 Engagement with business and third sector
 We have extensive engagement with partners in industry and the third sector as research
 collaborators and users. Partnerships range from significant formal relationships with
 commitment of funds and in-kind benefits, including those associated to our research grants and
 doctoral training centres, to individual researcher-to-partner collaborations. Exemplars of
 research detailed in our submitted outputs that was produced in collaboration with or has had
 direct influence on industry includes Jones’s personal informatics work, which has informed the
 exist.io platform, the main product of Melbourne start-up Hello Code, and Hall’s woven fabric
 model, used by KiSP/Yulio in their VR products for architectural design. We have over 50
 industry, public- and third-sector partners engaged in active, funded projects and initiatives.
 These range from SMEs – e.g. FatPebble, Wonky – and local organisations and companies –
 e.g. NHS trusts in Bath and Salisbury, Wessex Water – to national and multinational
 corporations – e.g. BBC, Disney, DNEG, Sony Interactive, Samsung, Shell, PwC, DeepMind,
 Aardman, Bank of England, National Trust and UNICEF. The CAMERA commercial team also
 develops industry collaborations and enables the use of the CAMERA studio for them; the
 number of partners involved in CAMERA work has grown from 8 at the founding of the Centre to
 22 at the time of the successful CAMERA 2.0 follow-up bid.


 Interdisciplinary research and engagement with research users
 Our staff maintain active collaborations with researchers from every Faculty and School in the
 University and a wide range of industry and third sector partners as co-creators and users of
 research. We support formal structures for interdisciplinary work, including the MAD and
 REVEAL centres; Simsek was deputy director of Bath’s Institute for Mathematical Innovation; De
 Vos is a core member of Bath’s Centre for Therapeutic Innovation.
 We present examples of interdisciplinary work and engagement not detailed elsewhere. In
 healthcare: Cosker and Campbell work with the NHS to develop an AI system to profile
 Rheumatoid Arthritis; Campbell is developing computer vision and ML techniques for arthritis
 and malaria detection; Jones works on personal informatics for healthcare, with NHS
 collaborators from the Royal United Hospital; Lutteroth and Watts pursue multiple projects using
 Virtual Reality techniques for healthcare interventions, including “exergaming” to encourage
 patient engagement with therapeutic exercise regimens and VR interventions to support patients
 recovering from brain injury, with collaborators from the NHS and associated charities
 (Designability, Brain Injury Rehabilitation Trust). In sport: the CAMERA team works with British
 Athletics, British Skeleton and the Lawn Tennis Association on analysis of elite sports
 performance using computer vision and motion capture. In the performing arts and culture:
 CAMERA has delivered workshops with Bristol Old Vic Theatre School training actors in using
 motion capture; Watts works with Jean Abreu Dance Company on the place of robots in dance
 production; O’Neill pursues collaboration with the National Trust on interaction design for cultural
 heritage, developing interactive installations bringing cultural heritage to life. In finance:
 Simsek’s Machine Learning work, drawing on and contributes to cognitive science, developed
 psychological heuristics for portfolio decisions and methods for financial crisis prediction in
 collaboration with the Bank of England and European Central Bank. In the environment: Padget
 works on air quality monitoring with staff from Architecture and Civil Engineering, and via the
 EPSRC Enliten project, with Psychology and Engineering on the effect of interventions on
 energy-related social behaviour; Isupova works on detection of environmental factors from
 satellite imagery, including identification of elephants, prediction of crop yield, and detection of
 seismic faults, with zoologists and earth scientists at the University of Oxford; and Chen uses
 machine learning approaches to produce seismograms and detect microseismic events in
 collaboration with Shell and researchers at Cambridge. We note that these examples of


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborative activity include staff spanning the full range of career stage, nationality and gender,
 working with partners from diverse sectors.


 Our staff pursue public engagement activity, with diverse local, national and international
 audiences. Exemplars include Richardt’s public talks at Bath’s Pint of Science events, at the
 Bath Royal Literary and Scientific Institution 2019 and Royal Photographic Society 2018;
 Cosker’s presentations at the Royal Society summer science exhibition 2016, Times Science
 Festival Cheltenham 2015 and Bath Science Festival 2016; Isupova at British Science Week
 2015. Davenport and Bryson led a Thematic Semester on Artificial Intelligence Ethics in Feb-
 May 2018, culminating in a public debate with over 100 people, mostly external to the University,
 and before/after polling indicated a significant shift in attitudes. Haines used his data science
 expertise to analyse the UK government’s approach to A-level grading for the Covid-19 affected
 2020 cohort; his analysis led to appearances on BBC News, in the Financial Times, and as a
 panelist on Turkish television. His original tweet on the topic was viewed over 25,000 times.


 Responsiveness to National Priorities and Initiatives
 The UK’s Industrial Strategy placed Artificial Intelligence at the centre of UK development. We
 responded to this by assembling the team and successful bid for the ART-AI Centre for Doctoral
 Training, as well as a successful UKRI Innovation Fellowship (Richardt). Our pedagogical
 expertise, including research in computer science pedagogy, underpinned our leadership of the
 consortium that runs the national £40M Institute of Coding, headquartered in Bath and engaging
 members of the UoA, notably Davenport on 0.5FTE.


 Indicators of influence
 Our staff serve on and chair assessment panels for the major funders including EPSRC, AHRC,
 ESRC, EU and in the EPSRC peer-review college. At least ten of our staff hold editorial
 positions on journals including Human-Computer Interaction, Journal of Experimental
 Psychology, Computer Graphics Forum, Frontiers in Virtual Reality, Mathematical Structures in
 Computer Science, IEEE Computer Graphics and Applications, and IEEE Pervasive Computing.
 We routinely contribute to and lead international conference and workshop organisation with
 programme committee and chair activity in over 50 events including SIGGRAPH, CVMP, CHI,
 BMVC, AAAI, CVPR, IJCAI, AAMAS, ISSAC; our staff led two Dagstuhl seminars; De Vos is
 treasurer for the Association of Logic Programming. Powell organises the international online
 Proof Theory seminar.
 We influence policy making via work with the Office for AI, The Department of Culture, Media
 and Sport, the Cabinet Office, All-Party Parliamentary Group meetings on AI, the Office for
 National Statistics, British and IEEE Standards organisations; we influence funders via the
 Royal Society Science, Industry and Translation (SIT) Committee, ESPRC HCI Roundtable, the
 EU ITN Scientific Evaluation Group, EPSRC Digital Economy Centre Directors group, AHRC
 Creative Cluster Executive Committee, RS Industry Fellows College.


 Fellowships
 Several of our staff hold prestigious individual fellowships and awards, including: Richardt’s
 UKRI Innovation Fellowship; Fraser’s EPSRC Established Career Fellowship; Alexander’s ERC
 Starting Grant; Campbell and Cosker’s Royal Society Industry Fellowships; Lutteroth’s
 Association of Commonwealth Universities Information Technology Fellowship; Davenport’s
 Fulbright Cyber Security Scholarship.


 Prizes and invitations
 Research in every group in our department has won awards in this assessment period.
 Highlights include two Best Papers and three Honourable Mentions at CHI in 2020 and 2019
 (Alexander, Fraser, Lutteroth, Payne); an IEEE LICS Test of Time Award in 2018 (McCusker);

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Best Paper at NeurIPS 2018 Workshop on Machine Learning for the Developing World
 (Isupova); Best Short Paper at CVMP 2018 (Richardt). Lutteroth’s Actigaze technology won the
 New Zealand HealthTech Award 2016 and 2020 Best Assistive Technology Developers award at
 the APAC Business Awards
 Our researchers are regularly invited to speak at local, national and international research and
 industry events. Examples include Fraser at the EPSRC Connection Nation Showcase 2015, De
 Vos at the ICLP Women in Logic Programming 2020, Chen at the Society of Petroleum
 Engineers Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition & Conference 2017, Namboodiri at
 Samsung’s Technology and Advanced Research (STAR) Labs, US, Cosker at Facebook Reality
 Labs in 2020, and Powell at Logic Colloquium 2019.




                                                                                         Page 16
