Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Dundee

 Unit of Assessment: UoA17 Business and Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Introduction
UoA17 has developed rapidly over the REF2021 assessment period as a critical element in
shaping the University of Dundee School of Business. The refreshed vision, structure and culture
have yielded a step-change in performance since 2014 in respect of: i) number of new research-
active staff, ii) vitality of the research, knowledge exchange and impact (RKEI) environment, iii)
focus on peer-reviewed outputs in international journals, (iv) collaborations with external
stakeholders, and (v) impact beyond the academy.

Context and Structure
Business and management research has deep-rooted traditions of excellence in the University of
Dundee (UoD) extending back to the 1930s when internationally significant economists like
Duncan Black and Nobel-laureate Ronald Coase were in their first academic posts. Since then,
business and management research and teaching have evolved through disciplinary identities in
the form of Accountancy & Finance (AF), Economic Studies (ES) and, latterly, Management &
Marketing (MM), which in recent years have increasingly converged to form the University of
Dundee Business School (UDSB) in pursuit of collaborative advantage. Arising from University
restructuring in 2015, UDSB was founded as a division of the larger multidisciplinary School of
Social Sciences, then 160 FTE, before being granted stand-alone status in 2019 in recognition of
its outstanding growth trajectory and central role in driving the enterprise culture of the University.
USDB’s internationally inspired and connected research mission has always aligned closely with
the University’s vision of transforming lives, locally and globally.

Since REF2014, there have been significant improvements in RKEI capacity and performance in
UoA17, achieved by concentrating on strengths and an ambitious recruitment programme,
which has targeted excellent research-active academics, and the creation of an integrated and
highly interconnected RKEI culture. A new management structure has enabled UDSB to: i) set its
own strategic direction as a research-led School, pursuing mutual excellence in teaching, research,
enterprise and impact, and ii) build interdisciplinary collaborations across the University, invest in
recruiting, developing and retaining high-potential staff, and develop an infrastructure to achieve
the School’s ambitions.

UoA17 is a rapidly growing unit reflecting the strategic importance of UDSB to the University
and has received significant investment to fuel further growth. There were 29 Category A staff
(28.6 FTE) at the REF2021 census date in Teaching and Research roles (T&R), equating to 75%
of the total academic staff base, with the remaining 25% holding Teaching and Scholarship (T&S)
positions. There is an equitable balance across the disciplinary sub-units; 33% within MM, 30% in
AF, and 37% in ES, including an energy economist from the School of Social Sciences. Further
strategic investment in staffing in academic and academic-related roles is ongoing, with
recruitment planning during the REF period leading to 10 additional T&R staff arriving in UDSB
since July 2020, and approval for five more appointments in financial year 2021-22.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research and Impact Strategy
The vision for UoA17 is the achievement of world leading impact through excellent research,
engagement and partnerships that transforms lives and creates significant public value – locally
and globally. To achieve this, we set ourselves four strategic priorities and formulated a
corresponding implementation plan:

•   Developing a vibrant and enabling research culture across all UoA17’s RKEI priorities,
    inclusive of postgraduate researchers (PGRs) and early career researchers (ECRs);

•   Steering attention to impactful, ‘engaged’ research, involving Advisory Board members,
    practitioners and policy makers, creating societal outcomes of public value;

•   Embracing collaborative approaches by bringing business and management perspectives
    into the University’s interdisciplinary research themes; and

•   Recruiting, developing and retaining the best academic and research support staff, taking
    a measured approach to capacity-building and ensuring sustainable growth.

Our strategic vision has been delivered through the following measures:

•   Adopting a thematic approach for UoA17 constructed around three complementary cross-
    cutting clusters, which frame our drive for excellence and embed RKEI into daily activities.

•   Prioritising recruitment of established research-active staff and introducing mechanisms
    to motivate, retain and build synergies across the research community.

•   Inducting academic staff and PGRs into a culture of high performance in line with the
    University’s strategic priority of excellence.

•   Active participation and leadership of cross-school collaborative endeavour aligned to the
    University’s vision of Transforming Lives.

•   Orientating our research and education mission towards the UN Sustainable Development
    Goals (SDGs) and UN Principles for Responsible Management Education (PRME).

•   Embedding a culture of continuous improvement in relation to research quality and impact
    by implementing the University Annual Research Review (ARR) and bespoke staff
    development plans.

•   Enhancing our reputation for RKEI with practitioners, the professions and policy makers by
    building on existing disciplinary strengths.

•   Increasing our public engagement activities to raise profile and impact on the national,
    regional and local economy.

•   Realising mutual benefits between research and teaching excellence.

•   Adopting the University’s policies on Open Research and signatory status to the Declaration
    on Research Assessment (DORA).

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Achievements in the Current Assessment Period
The ambition to grow the quality, volume and sustainability of world-leading and internationally
excellent research in UoA17 is being realised by strengthening leadership and academic culture in
UDSB. We have increased investment in academic staff numbers and increasing workload time
allocated for RKEI activities and growth of the Post-Graduate Research (PGR) community. Over
the assessment period, financial support for RKEI tripled and T&R staff numbers (FTE) grew by
53%, providing increased capacity and enabling research continuity as far as possible through the
COVID-19 pandemic. The result is a much stronger pipeline of peer-reviewed publications in
international journals, public engagement and impact, and growing esteem through public
appointments, journal editorships, and international and professional recognition.

Innovation and Interdisciplinarity
Our engaged research and public value ambitions are furthered by interdisciplinary collaboration
across the School and University. The School’s challenge-orientated approach is congruent with
the University’s commitment to transforming lives, locally and globally, as reflected in Dundee
ranking in the world top 20 for delivering the UN’s SDGs (THE Impact Rankings 2019). To
contribute to transforming lives, the School created three cross-disciplinary research clusters:

•   Health, Wellbeing & Education
•   Entrepreneurship, Innovation & Creativity, and
•   Markets & Governance

The clusters bring together UoA17 staff with policy makers, practitioners and academics outside of
business and management. As can be seen in Figure 1, they also interface with two larger
research support networks. The first of these is the Institute of Social Sciences Research
(ISSR), established in 2017 to foster greater synergies and critical mass of RKEI activities across
the Schools of Social Sciences, Business, Education & Social Work and Health Sciences. The
ISSR research themes are all relevant to the ambitions of UoA17 (Social Justice and Social
Change, Health and Wellbeing, Governance Policy and Regulation, Innovation in Methods
and Data Analytics, and Environment), with representation on the management group through
Schreven as Co-Director.

ISSR has driven considerable capacity building through supporting interdisciplinary research via
seminar programmes, incubator grants, hosting an annual research forum and supporting a Global
Scholars initiative, promoting international exchange visits. The second support network with which
UoA17 is prominently aligned is the University’s interdisciplinary themes of Health and Wellbeing,
Social Justice, Innovating Technology and Creativity and Design achieving strategic alignment
and connectivity with the University’s preeminent research within the Schools of Medicine, Life
Sciences and Art & Design (DJCAD). Clusters are open to academic and research staff beyond
UoA17 and staff can join more than one cluster.




                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 1: Alignment of UoA17 within ISSR and University interdisciplinary research themes


Health, Welfare and Education, led by Martin, integrates the work of nine staff (Allanson,
Beech, Bushfield, Fearfull, Farooqi, Morelli, Ulus and Zhu) with interests in healthcare
management, well-being and education, and in working with practitioners and policy makers. For
example, Allanson has played a lead role in the Scottish Health Economics network, which brings
together health economists from Scotland’s Universities, the NHS and Scottish Government to
explore the development and application of health economics at the national scale. British Medical
Association-funded research into changing leadership roles for hospital consultants resulted in
Martin’s appointment to Vice-Chair of the Board of NHS Tayside (NHST) and his co-development
of the clinically-led, managerially-enabled strategy, subsequently adopted by Leeds and York
Foundation Trust, the Academy of Medical Leadership and Management and a Swedish hospital
group. Zhu’s research on the graduate premium was extensively cited in the 2019 Augar review of
Post-18 education, followed by invitations to participate in expert panels for the Department of
Education, Department of Business, Innovation and Skills and the Resolution Foundation. Morelli’s

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research on funeral poverty led to his appointment to an expert panel of the Scottish Government
on Social Security and membership of the Dundee Commission on Poverty, while Ulus’ research
linked psychoanalysis to learning improvement in organisations. This research cluster reflects and
amplifies the themes of Health and Wellbeing and Social Justice of ISSR and their wider
University interdisciplinary equivalents and Innovating Technology.

Entrepreneurship, Innovation & Creativity, led by Arshed, unites seven UoA17 staff and their
PGR community (Chen I-S, Cordina, Dinnie, Geesin, Pathak and Schreven) in RKEI activity,
enabling entrepreneurship and innovation in start-ups, scale-ups and large-scale organisations.
Cordina has explored early stage venture capital investment in SMEs in collaboration with the
University’s Centre for Entrepreneurship to develop its research priorities. Arshed was appointed
as independent advisor on women’s enterprise policy to the Scottish Government Minister for
Business, Fair Work and Skills. Her research with female entrepreneurs and enterprise agencies
informed new structures of support being introduced nationally in 2020-21, and also resulted in her
being awarded a prestigious nine-month Scottish Parliamentary Fellowship in September 2020.
Expertise in place-based marketing fuelled Dinnie’s advisory role with ‘Brand Scotland’, a joint
initiative between the Scottish Government, Scottish Enterprise and VisitScotland, on innovative
practices in service development and construction of new national narratives. He is now leading
regional marketing within the £300 million Tay Cities Deal, in which UoD features prominently with
£40 million of investment in biomedical and forensic science innovation. Pathak has raised his
international profile showing how psychology and experimental design produces significant
practical value for food marketing and packaging companies. Collectively, the cluster aligns to the
University’s themes of Social Justice and Innovating Technology and to the ISSR themes (Co-
Director Schreven) of Social Justice and Social Change, Governance, Policy and Regulation
and Innovation in Methods.

Markets and Governance, led by Burton, integrates the largest cluster of UoA17 researchers
(Ahmed, Allanson, Altman, Auxtova, Chen Y-F, Cordina, Dunne, Emvalomatis, Fifield,
Kwiatkowski, Lambert, Mazibas, Mu, Paramati, Power and Rambaccusing) in the pursuit of
knowledge and impact on how firms operate in markets, their governance arrangements and
effectiveness. Burton, Fifield, Kwiatkowski, Mazibas, Power and Rambaccusing have common
purpose examining the efficiency of financial markets and the pricing of securities individually and
as part of a portfolio. The cluster has also adopted a sector focus analysing performance in the
tourism sector (Cordina and Paramati), efficiency in the banking sector (Kourtzidis) and
promoting optimisation techniques in agriculture and energy markets (Emvalomatis, Allanson and
Mu). Funding through the EU Horizon 2020 programme enabled Burton and Bergmann to
examine the potential of alternative-finance (or crowdfunding) on renewable energy markets.
Burton, Dunne and Lambert have examined governance in business, the third and public sectors.
Their work has impacted upon EU policy on the role of crowdfunding in financing renewable energy
investment, and on the corporate governance and sustainability reporting of the finance industry.
Altman’s work on behavioural economics and ethics in market economies and the role of
cooperatives has been highly cited. The cluster is elucidating linkages between markets and social
media (Burton and Power), and through Rambaccussing’s work predicting gambling outcomes
drawing on social media, which has featured extensively in the UK press and radio. Auxtova is
examining the impact of advertising governance on marketing ethics and is organising the PRME
network in UoA17. This cluster has strong links to the University themes of Social Justice and
Innovative Technologies and to the ISSR themes of Social Justice, and Governance, Policy
and Regulation, Innovative Methods and Environment.



                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Promoting collaboration across the social and economic sciences, UoA17 staff have been active
participants in the ISSR, co-chaired by Schreven. Business and Management themes have
featured prominently in the ISSR annual conference, attracting internationally renowned speakers,
including Robert Gray (St Andrews) on accounting ethics, Colin Mason (Glasgow) on
entrepreneurship, and Will Harvey (Exeter) on management. It also fostered collaborative
proposals involving interdisciplinary teams, for instance to study the effects of COVID19 on the
local region. Drawing from a wider academic community has had many positive outcomes for
UoA17 staff and PGRs, particularly in relation to novel research methodologies in social sciences
such as autoethnography. It has also led to successful applications for seed funding for impact
work (Arshed, Martin) and to successful joint bids for PhD funding (Morelli with Searle from
Geography). UoA17 staff have also been invited speakers in the ISSR seminar series and annual
conference (Altman, Arshed, Martin and Schreven).

How UDSB’s Strategy will be taken forward over the next five years
UoA17 seeks to extend the reach of our impact further to achieve an increasingly significant
contribution to the UN SDGs. We believe our ambitions are best achieved through working
together in our porous thematic clusters, gaining greater critical mass through engagement with
ISSR and the University’s interdisciplinary themes. We are prioritising staff development and will
intensify engagement with external business and practitioner networks locally, nationally and
internationally to strengthen the impact of our research and create public value for society.

Beyond our growing interdisciplinary profile, we remain committed to advancing our RKEI strategy
by driving depth in our disciplinary domains. UoA17 will grow our research and consultancy income
over the next five years to support the sustainability of Business & Management. We will respond
to new opportunities in UK, EU and other international funding to contribute to the priorities of the
UK Government Research & Development (R&D) Roadmap and the Missions-led approach of
UKRI and Horizon Europe. Examples of opportunities supported by our research networks
underpinning the future direction of our strategy, include:

•   As part of the Scottish Universities Entrepreneurship Network, we are extending our
    research on nurturing scale-ups and the importance of place-based innovation (Arshed). In
    collaboration with the University’s Centre for Entrepreneurship, we maintain strong links with
    local employers and offer a wide range of dedicated services to assist SMEs with their training
    and skills needs. A suite of research-led Taught Post-Graduate Programmes were initiated in
    2017; these draw on the University’s experience in life science and other spin-outs with
    UoA17’s expertise in innovation and company formation, thus enhancing Knowledge
    Exchange and impact.

•   Extend international collaborations through the Centre for Qualitative Research in Finance
    (CQRF), wherein Burton and colleagues (e.g., Power and Dunne) are pioneering the use of
    qualitative methods in financial market research, including the CQRF seminar series and the
    world’s first conference devoted to this research field in Dundee in June 2019.

•   Deepen collaboration with NHS Tayside and the local Joint Integration Health and Social Care
    Boards through key Board appointments as non-executive Director (Beech) and Vice-Chair of
    the Board of NHS Tayside (Martin) and aim to establish a Centre for Medical Leadership
    and Engagement with NHS Tayside’s clinical directorates and UDSB.

•   Cultivate international research networks to extend our global reach through collaborative
    RKEI, academic exchange and advisory services. Productive collaborations currently include
                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Tshinghua University’s International Advisory Panel (China), Centre for Global HRM at the
    University of Gothenburg (Sweden), the School of Business at UTS (Australia), the Business
    School at the University of Twente (Netherlands), Bergamo University (Italy), Monash and
    Macquarie Universities (Australia) and the International Cooperative Alliance (Brussels).

•   Create a post-Covid-19 international alliance on cooperatives and employee-owned
    enterprises. This emerged as a strategic opportunity following a highly engaging two-day
    Workshop on Institutions and Sustainable Socio-economic Development, led by Altman in
    July 2020 with contributing international HEIs connected with UoA17 through joint-educational
    programmes. The initiative will focus on social entrepreneurship as a driver for sustainable and
    equitable economic regeneration.

To enhance our PGR environment, led by Director of Doctoral Studies Dunne, we will increase the
alignment of UoA17 with the University’s recently established Doctoral Academy (2019) and the
Scottish Universities Doctoral Programme in Management to complement existing involvement in
the Scottish Graduate Programme in Economics, for which Emvalomatis is the PhD Director and
Convenor of Executive Committee.

The Business Advisory Board
RKEI activities will benefit greatly from the establishment of our Business Advisory Board in 2020,
comprising members with academic, corporate, public and third sector backgrounds, many of
whom are appointed as Honorary Professors and Research Fellows of UoD. The Board meets four
times a year to discuss and advise on RKEI and other issues and has recently established a series
of short-life groups to examine how impact can be enabled. Individual members will work with
academics to co-develop pathways to impact and contribute to impact seminars. Existing
relationships with the members of the Board have led, for example, to joint PhD funding from NHS
Tayside and Getinge AB to research post-COVID leadership and work organisation implications.

Open Research
UoA17 works within the University’s open research policy and follows the guidelines of the
Concordat on Open Research Data. All outputs and datasets are recorded in the University’s
Discovery Research Portal, enabling access to research beyond basic REF compliance. For
example, this involves, publishing reports and discussion series papers via Discovery and
assigning them DOIs to boost discoverability and reuse. UDSB has a Working Paper programme
providing public access to working papers authored by UoA17 staff and students. Staff are also
encouraged to liaise with the library and publishers to ensure that book chapters, otherwise out of
scope with the REF OA policy, are made openly available whenever the publisher permits. For
unfunded research, where funding for open access articles is not available, the School has worked
with library staff to make increasing use of read and publish deals, so that work that would
otherwise be hidden behind a subscription paywall can be published via open access. UoA17
welcomed the University becoming a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research
Assessment (DORA) principles for selection and assessment of staff. Martin contributed in 2020 to
a short-life working group of the British Academy of Management to examine the potential role of
the Chartered Association of Business School’s Academic Journal Guide in supporting open
research.

Research Integrity
Consistent with the University’s strong support for the Concordat to Support Research Integrity,
UoA17 is committed to embedding good research practice in all its activities. A Research Integrity
Lead supports the School jointly with the School of Social Sciences and is responsible for

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
promoting a culture of research integrity and provides an independent and impartial source of
advice on the responsible conduct of research, including any concerns about potential research
misconduct. The University’s online research integrity training, ‘Responsible and Ethical Practice in
Research and Publication’, is provided for all staff and is mandatory for PGRs, who must complete
the training successfully before their PGR registration.

All research involving human participants by staff and students is subject to ethical review,
ensuring that all interviews, surveys and observations are undertaken to appropriate standards.
Ethical review is undertaken by a School Research Ethics Committee (joint with the Schools of
Social Sciences and Humanities), which reports to the University Research Ethics Committee.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
Our staffing strategy aims to build a sustainable high-performance research community focused on
our research clusters to support our research strategy.

    (i) Balancing recruitment and development
Our strategy is to grow UoA17 RKEI capacity by recruiting and retaining research-active academic
staff with four characteristics: potential and proven research excellence; potential and proven
collaborative and interdisciplinary working; a spirit of collegiality and concern for researcher
development; and potential and proven expertise in impact and knowledge exchange. Over the
assessment period, UoA17 welcomed 14 new lecturers: Ahmed, Auxtova, Chen-S-C, Farooqi,
Geesin, Kim, Kourtzidis, Li, Mazibas, Schreven, Ulus, Wang and Wu. Paramati and Pathak
were part of this cohort and promoted to Senior Lecturers. Arshed, Dinney and Emvalomatis
were promoted to Senior Lecturers, whilst Dunne and Mu were promoted to Readers. Two
professorial appointments were made through Grant and Altman, as Director and Dean of UDSB,
respectively.

Our recruitment strategy aims to develop and maintain a healthy diverse demographic to underpin
our future sustainability and succession planning. On 31 July 2020, the profile of our Category A
staff was as below (Table 1).

Table 1: EDI profile (age, ethnicity, gender) at census date

 Age              30-39            40-49            50-59           60+
                  24%              45%              24%             7%

 Ethnicity        white            BME              other
                  62%              35%              3%

 Gender           male                              female
                  69%                               31%

Recruitment planning for longer-term sustainability in the REF period reflected our commitment to
equality and diversity; 50% of the 10 new appointments made in August 2020 are female and 80%
from BME backgrounds. All Category A staff are on permanent contracts. Further plans are in
place to strengthen our strategic research areas over the next three years with five new posts



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
committed for 2021/22, including SL/Reader/Professor and preliminary approval from UoD to
appoint new T&R staff in 2022/23 (see section 2.3).

    (ii) Developing capabilities
To nurture and retain the talent we recruit, our research environment is designed to be supportive
throughout people’s careers. The annual Objective Setting and Review (OSaR) is the centrepiece
of our staff development process and all staff have an annual meeting focused on identifying their
development needs. All new starts have a 36 months’ probation in line with University policy,
during which they are provided with clear objectives, resources and support.

The University is compliant with the revised Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers and has held the HR in Excellence with Research Award since 2011. This has
informed the comprehensive Occupational and Professional Development (OPD) programme
mapped to Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. ECR and PGR communities benefit
further from a programme of UoA17-specific writing workshops established in 2015. All ECR and
mid-career academics seeking support are assigned a mentor. ECR staff can be assigned two
mentors if they wish, one of whom is externally appointed through the cross-institutional
Teaching, Research & Academic Mentoring (TRAMk) Scheme, now in its 14th year.

Discipline RKEI leads provide support networks to help staff deal with decisions from journals and
review grant applications. These seminars continued online during the period of COVID-19 related
closure. A series of impact seminars was introduced in early 2020 to help develop an impact
culture and encourage staff to focus on impact in their work. Both series, delivered online,
achieved high levels of staff and PGR attendance and will be continued in this format post
pandemic.

   (iii) The Annual Research Review (ARR)
Since 2016, Schools in the University conduct an ARR to ensure transparent and consistent
management of research excellence across the University. The ARR panel, appointed and
overseen by UDSB RKEI committee, evaluates output quality, funding profiles, impact, PhD
supervision, public engagement and esteem. Convened by the Associate Dean for Research
(ADR), the panel comprises six members drawn from UoA17, including the Impact and Public
Engagement Champion and an external ADR. EDI considerations inform the membership the
panel.

Our approach to the audit of outputs and advising staff on which outputs to submit to the
University’s ARR process is deliberately wide-ranging and in line with DORA. These outputs
include peer reviewed journal articles, research monographs, book chapters in research
collections, refereed full papers published in the proceedings of prestigious conferences, a series
of discussion papers in Economic Studies, policy documents and published reports.

Over its period of operation, the ARR has evolved, focussing on staff to reflect on the previous
year’s performance and set goals for the future. Feedback is provided to staff to incentivise
outstanding performance and build capabilities of ECRs and other staff who benefit from extra
support, including further mentoring, making links with established researchers and additional time
in the workload allocation to get their research careers back on track. The ARR provides important
contextual information for the OSaR and informs the triggers for rewards or for developmental
support.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   (iv) Workload Modelling
A consistent workload allocation model (WAM) was implemented across the University in 2017-18.
WAM sets a baseline of 30% research time for all staff on T&R contracts. The ARR informs
decisions on additional research time allocation to incentivise staff with outstanding performance
and potential to achieve excellent outputs with additional time, or to enable staff to focus on
research and impact activities at times when they require extra support.

    (v) Impact
Encouraging and facilitating impact forms part of UDSB’s staffing strategy. The Impact and Public
Engagement Champion (Dinnie, then Arshed), has a 33% workload allocation for this activity, and
leads on the development of an impact culture to enhance the School’s reputation for locally and
globally engaged research. The University’s Public Engagement Forum provides wider support for
this activity and our excellence in Public Engagement was recognised by the award of a Gold
Engage Watermark from the National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement. The Impact
and Public Engagement Champion provides advice to colleagues seeking to maximise the impact
of their research, invites external trainers, and oversees a seed-fund to incentivise impact
activities. Examples of seed-funding leading to potential impact case studies included work by Zhu,
Burton, Martin, Arshed and Morelli, three of which were selected for submission to REF2021,
along with impact activity involving Patak and Dinnie.

To incentivise the focus on RKEI, a seed fund for research and impact activities is available which
was increased from £1,500 to £4,000 per member of T&R staff per year. It supports conference
attendance, small seed-corn funding for new staff, and impact related activities (e.g. building
networks and public engagement). It aims to facilitate engaged research and recognises the
importance of staff presenting papers and networking at conferences, ranging from specialist
practitioner-oriented events such as professional accounting, Chartered Management Institute and
Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development conferences to refereed full papers at
prestigious international conferences in the US such as the Academy of Management. This
increase has allowed more staff to attend such conferences, which are key to developing a RKEI
excellence culture and networks with academics and practitioners.

    (vi) RKEI performance
Research performance (outputs, income and impact) is a key criterion for promotion for all staff on
T&R contracts. The University has an annual round for staff to apply for promotions, which is
supported by a process within UDSB. The Dean, in conjunction with the Associate Dean for
Research and relevant Discipline Lead, is required to assess candidates’ potential for promotion
and to support appropriate candidates through the University process. Prior support and mentoring
are given to staff who seek promotion. Based on the OSaR and ARR performance, staff are
encouraged to apply and EDI profiles are monitored. Four UoA17 members were promoted during
the assessment period - Patak, Paramati and Emvalomatis to Senior Lecturer, and Dunne to
Reader.

2.2 Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs)

Strategy for Enhanced Vitality and Sustainability
UoA17 embraces the view that vibrancy and vitality in its research culture are strongly contingent
on the recruitment and development of postgraduate researchers (PhD and Professional
Doctorate). Through the establishment of its Doctoral Academy (DA) in 2019, UoD has positioned
growth in quality and volume of its PGR community as a key strategic priority, along with
enhancing University-wide support for PGRs and supervisors. Dunne led UoA17’s involvement

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with the DA and associated initiatives, including the introduction of the Doctorate in Professional
Practice, which incorporates the Doctorate in Business Administration (DBA). It is aimed at
experienced practitioners wishing to extend their professional development with a practice-oriented
doctorate. We aim to grow PGR numbers further, consistent with the growth of T&R staff numbers
outlined earlier.

Postgraduate Researcher Community
In UoA17, all postgraduate researchers (PhD and Prof Doc) benefit from a bespoke training
programme involving Research Methods, Quantitative and Qualitative Analysis and Directed
Reading. PGRs can also choose from a range of modules from our taught postgraduate masters
portfolio based on an Individual Training Needs (ITN) assessment.

During the assessment period, 67 PhDs were awarded, equating to 66.5 FTE within UoA17,
including one shared supervision with another UoA (see Table 2).

Table 2: Annual PhD completions (FTE) in during REF2021 assessment period

 Year         2014       2015       2016        2017        2018      2019      2020      Total
 PhDs         16         12.5       9           10          8         9         2         66.5


There were no research-based professional doctorates awarded in the assessment period.

At the census date, we have a buoyant community of 66 PGRs evidencing increased recruitment
activity throughout the REF period and a healthy pipeline of talented PGRs for future completions.
We are a member of the ESRC’s Scottish Graduate School for Social Sciences (SGSSS)
Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) and currently have one PhD candidate on that programme.
Most of our PGRs are self-funding; five are funded through University studentships and one by
NHS Tayside.

Dunne is the Director of Doctoral Studies, spanning disciplinary PhD pathways and the Doctorate
in Business Administration (DBA). The academic lead position has a 30% workload allocation to
manage strategic and operational performance supported by the UDSB’s RKEI administrative lead.
Currently, we have 14 students on the DBA programme, with ambitious plans to expand our
external partnership network. Disciplinary pathway coordinators - Kourtzidis, Pathak and
Rambaccussing provide specialised domain-specific support and bring the community together in
regular seminars.

Support for PGRs
a) UoA17 provides high levels of supervisory support to all PGRs, enhanced by the University-
   wide support for the student experience and training for supervisors through the Doctoral
   Academy. All PGRs are allocated two (occasionally three) supervisors with expertise in their
   area of study. All first supervisors are committed and highly experienced, with successful
   completions, are EDI trained and well versed in the University’s Research Code of Practice
   and the Research Degrees Quality Code which is reviewed annually. Second supervisor roles
   are a vital means by which early career staff gain experience. Each student meets with the
   Thesis Monitoring Committee (TMC) on a bi-annual basis to monitor progress and address
   any concerns or problems that the student is experiencing at an early stage. They also seek to
   provide pastoral care and nurture and inspire students during their academic journey. All full-
   time, self-funded students are provided with dedicated office space in the same building as


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    their supervisors, high-spec computers, a conference allowance of £600 annually which they
    are encouraged to supplement with external funding and a £250 allowance for research-
    related expenses, such as training, field work and consumables. On arrival, new students
    meet with their supervisory teams and complete a Training Needs Assessment form, which
    guides much of their training and development needs. This form is designed to be a live
    document and is formally reviewed at all TMC meetings.

b) The ESRC Scottish Graduate School of Social Science (SGSSS), gives all PGRs the
   benefit of the training and development provided by the DTP. Students and staff take part in
   and contribute to the annual SGSSS Summer School, allowing students to network with others
   from Scottish Universities. Discipline-specific events are also supported with, for example,
   accounting and finance students presenting at the Scottish Doctoral Colloquium (ScotDoc),
   the annual International BAFA Conference, and the annual conference of the Scottish
   Graduate Programme in Economics (SGPE). UDSB also organises a yearly weekend
   retreat for doctoral candidates. These advanced-level training events centre on a particular
   aspect of the doctoral experience such as writing for publication, exploring notions of theory,
   research dissemination and funding.

c) UoA17 aims to ensure that PGRs are an integral part of the research culture. All are invited
   to the regular staff seminar programme and several have co-authored high quality research
   with Unit staff. PGRs are invited to showcase their work in several ways. The annual UDSB
   School Forum affords doctoral candidates the opportunity to present their work either by
   means of presentation or the creation of a poster. We also hold twice-yearly Doctoral
   Presentation days where students can present their research to larger audiences from across
   the social sciences under the aegis of ISSR; these events foster interdisciplinarity and expose
   students to theoretical conceptions and experimental methodologies that are new in the field.
   Plans are also in place to establish a student journal, complete with an editor from the staff.
   Going forward, our intention is to foster stronger interdisciplinary connections within UoA17
   and realise the huge opportunities of working across the institution, with supervisors from
   different disciplines. Evidence of the growing appetite for such interdisciplinary collaborations
   is shown in active co-supervision of PGR projects by Mu and Macatangay (CEPMLP) on
   natural gas trading, Morelli and Searle (Geography) on funeral poverty, Arshed with Ianetta
   (James Hutton Institute) on transition to plant-based foods, and Schreven with Doherty (NHS
   Tayside) on clinical culture change.

2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
UoA17 is committed to promoting equality, diversity and inclusion for all our community in
line with the University’s EDI policies. The University is a member of the Race Equality Charter
and there is strong representation (35% of Category A) from BME staff in the submission. We hold
an Athena SWAN bronze award received when part of Social Sciences and look forward to
refreshing this part of UDSB’s vision.

We will prioritise the drive towards gender equality in terms of career progression for our significant
community of female Category A staff (31%). This is reflected in the appointments made between
2017 and the census date with females appointed to two of three senior lecturer positions and five
of nine lectureships; BME staff are represented in four of these appointments. 50% of our ten new
appointees in August 2020, which resulted from recruitment policy and activity predominantly in the
REF period, were female and 80% BME.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
To ensure we comply with the Equality Act (2010), and that inclusion and diversity are embedded
within the working culture of the School, all staff must complete online modules on ‘Diversity in the
Workplace’ and ‘Disability’. Additionally, a module on Recruitment and Selection is taken by staff
involved in those activities. EDI is a regular agenda item at School Research and Knowledge
Exchange Committee meetings to ensure that all research and research-related matters are
considered in that context. The School has appointed an EDI Officer (Farooqi), whose role is to
promote EDI in all activities undertaken in the School, including RKEI. We also draw on our domain
research, e.g. Ulus’ powerful critiques of workplace emotions in postcolonial spaces to support our
progressive ambition.

The OSaR and ARR processes ensure that research expectations are adjusted for individual
circumstances (e.g., parental leave, caring responsibilities, long-term illness). This includes flexible
working patterns, research leave, additional workload allocation and internal research funding. For
example, research leave is available under the University’s Periodic Leave (‘research leave’) policy
to enable staff to further their research and impact activities and to build and support capabilities
for early career researchers and staff returning from periods of absence, or who may need
concentrated periods of leave to get their career back on track. This policy allows staff to apply for
up to a semester leave every three years, with shorter periods possible on a more frequent basis.

In preparing its REF submission, UoA17’s Planning Group was guided by the University’s
REF2021 Code of Practice, which framed our decision-making in the context of the principles of
equality, diversity and inclusion. The Planning Group made its decisions on outputs and
attributions in a manner that aimed to maximise the overall quality profile for the submission, based
on a thorough process of internal and external evaluation. Comparisons based on protected
characteristics suggest no bias in output selection. Staff were invited to propose potential impact
case studies. The submitted case studies reflect the Planning Group’s view of UoA17’s strongest
demonstrable research impacts during the reporting period. All members of the Planning Group
completed mandatory unconscious bias and information security training prior to the decision-
making process.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research income and investment in infrastructure and facilities are essential to the vision and
sustainability of RKEI in the School and address our strategic objectives.

3.1 Research income
All T&R staff are encouraged to apply for research funding. This is monitored through the ARR.
We support the development of grant writing skills and encourage even small amounts of research
income which enable staff to gain experience in applying for funding and have been translated into
significant outputs, knowledge exchange and impact. Examples of awards, which generated
significant academic and practical impact, include: £253,040 from the ESRC to investigate Chinese
National Oil Companies and the Economic Development of African Oil Producers (Bergman),
£214,779 from the EU as part of a consortium researching the potential of Crowdfunding for
Renewable Energy (Klaes); £19,712 from Scottish Government for Tackling Funeral Poverty in
Dundee through Social Enterprise (Morelli), which supported an influential report on alleviating
funeral poverty, recommended Scottish Government and UK government regulation over the
funeral sector, led to the establishment of the charity Funeral Link and a ESRC/SGSSS
studentship; £31,356 from the British Medical Association Scottish Consultants Committee
(Martin) resulting in three outputs, including an impact case study on medical leadership and
engagement in the NHS, appointment to NHS Tayside Board and invited presentations to

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
academics and medical practitioners in England, Australia and Sweden; £119,229 from the AHRC
for participation in the Creative Industries Cluster InGAME – Innovation for Games and Media
Enterprise (Beech), an academia-industry consortium which aims to enhance the sustainability
and innovation potential of the creative and computer gaming sector.

Our strategy for generating research income has been to capitalise on our discipline RKEI
strengths and on wider RKEI collaborations. UoA17 has been successful in gaining research
income of £667,780 over the REF period from the ESRC, Department of Education, the British
Academy, the European Commission Horizon 2020 programme, British Medical Association,
Scottish Medical Education Research Consortium and the Chartered Institute of Personnel and
Development. Research funding is centrally supported by Research and Innovation Services (RIS)
with advice on funding opportunities and support for bid development, and we have access to up-
to-date funding opportunities via RESEARCHconnect. Training is provided by the University’s
Occupational and Professional Development (OPD) programme and application and award
management is resourced by Research Finance Services (RFS).

Going forward, UoA17 aims to diversify its funding streams and win a small number of larger
collaborative grants by joining wider consortia with colleagues across the University and with
external partners who are experienced in grant capture, including the Schools within the
University’s Health & Wellbeing Theme and the other Social Sciences Schools brought together
under the ISSR. UoA17 staff benefit from the University’s Dundee Interdisciplinary & Innovation
Forum (DIIF), coordinated by RIS, which facilitates collaboration on major funding opportunities.
The EU Horizon 2020 CrowdFundRES consortium (Klaes, Burton) is an example of successful
ISSR collaboration, drawing energy economists (Bergmann, Mu) from the University’s specialist
energy centre CEPMLP into UoA17. We also aim to pursue Knowledge Transfer Partnerships as a
vehicle to enhance our collaboration and impact with UK businesses, and are currently establishing
a strategic partnership with NHS Tayside to co-fund PhD students and collaborate on research.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

Physical infrastructure: UoA17 is situated in a listed building in a prominent campus location,
fully refurbished in 2019 to meet the expectations of staff, PGR and external collaborators. It
contains high quality seminar and meeting rooms, and spaces designed to facilitate informal
dialogue and knowledge sharing. It includes a Financial Trading Lab with Bloomberg data
terminals and a Decisions-Making Lab to enhance research capabilities. To enable growth,
advanced plans are in place to completely renovate and extend the existing buildings on the main
campus.

Office accommodation plays an important role in creating integration among disciplines and in
developing new ideas. All staff are given individual rooms located in the same building that has
ample space for interaction. To encourage interdisciplinary working, we have allocated the space
to mix up disciplinary backgrounds. PGRs share office space with staff in the same building to
encourage interaction within our research community. Two coffee rooms provide informal meeting
spaces and are widely used by staff and PGRs to discuss research-related issues.

Staff and PGRs have access to a state-of-the-art library, IT facilities and rooms for meetings, which
are closely located near the existing UDSB building and the proposed extension to accommodate
our rapid growth. The library is fully equipped with the necessary online databases relevant for
business and management research and with dedicated study space for PGRs. They have access
to specialist financial and economic databases to conduct secondary research. A dedicated Library

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Liaison Officer to the School, provides advice on all aspects of library and information services.
Each year, UoA17 undertakes a review of software, subscriptions and databases to reflect
continuing and changing RKEI requirements and make a case for new journals, while proposals to
purchase books are sought by the library on a continuous basis.

Digital infrastructure: UoA17 actively embraces the University’s online Research Information
System, Discovery, which is fully supported by the Library and Learning Centre (LLC) and
provides a public open access institutional repository of outputs, data and activities, including
media interactions and worldwide collaborations and impact, linked to staff and PGR webpages.
We are guided by compliance with the Concordat for Open Research Data which is centrally
supported by LLC and IT with tailored storage solutions and support for Data Management
Planning underpinned by the University’s Policy to Govern the Management of Research Data.

Human infrastructure: Research leadership is provided by the Research and Knowledge
Exchange Committee (RKEC), chaired by the Associate Dean Research (ADR, Martin)
responsible for shaping the RKEI strategy and overseeing researcher development and
achievements of UoA17. The role forms part of the community of ADRs reporting to the University
Research and KE Committee (URKEC), chaired by the Vice-Principal (Research, KE and Wider
Impact) and member of the University Executive Group. The ADR is supported by a Research
Administrative Lead, an Impact and Public Engagement Champion acting also as Depute ADR
(Arshed) and a Director of Doctoral Studies (Dunne) to oversee the recruitment and leadership of
PGRs. The ADR and Depute ADR have completed the CABS/BAM Development Programme for
Directors of Research (DPDoR). The wider support includes a School Manager, Operations
Manager, a Marketing Manager, and two senior administrators who focus on employability and
knowledge exchange. The UDSB RKEC oversees the governance of RKEI activity including
allocation of internal funding and support for PGRs. The ADR is a key member of the UDSB
Executive, which meets on a weekly basis, and participates in the URKEC five times a year
formally and, more frequently, through informal University ADR meetings.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration, Networks and Partnerships
UoA17 has engaged in extensive collaborative RKEI activities with colleagues across the
University and externally. These include close relations with the Academy of Medical Royal
Colleges’ Faculty of Medical Leadership and Management; a Key Technology Partnership with
UTS in Sydney for staff and PGR exchange; the Centre for Global HRM at the University of
Gothenburg; the Centre of Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Strategy at the University of Twente;
the University of Bergamo Business School; Newcastle University, New South Wales; the Dundee
City Branding Group, the Scottish Universities Branding Group, NHS Tayside and the Tayside
Health Sciences Institute, and the Cooperative College UK.

Our strategy to widen and deepen our partnerships has been supported by the introduction of the
Industry Advisory Board. Academic collaboration with NHS Tayside is supported by the Academic
Health Science Partnership (AHSP), established in 2014 as a catalyst to deliver healthcare
improvement research in collaboration between the University and NHS Tayside. Discussions are
currently ongoing to involve business and the social sciences more effectively in this partnership.
Collaborations are evidenced by the high proportion of external co-authored papers submitted to
REF2021 by UoA17, accounting for more than 70% of all outputs, and positions held which
include, amongst others, visiting Honorary Professorships and Fellowships in Gothenburg, UTS,
Monash, Macquarie and Newcastle NSW.

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Contributions to the Discipline
UoA17 staff have been engaged in a broad range of activities contributing to the development of
business and management in Scotland, the UK and internationally, thereby enhancing public
value. Research outputs have regularly been published in international journals, shaping and
contributing to major debates and, in some cases, having important policy and practical impact.
Notable contributions include:

•   Organising/co-organising national/international conferences, including the British Academy of
    Management (BAM) annual conferences (Beech, Martin), Academy of Management and
    EGOS Symposia (Schreven, 2020), the Conference for Qualitative Research in Finance
    (Burton), UDSB international partners conference (Paramati, 2020), all of which have resulted
    in widened research networks and outputs.
•   Keynotes on new developments in HR, including the Annual Conference of the Centre for
    Global HRM, University of Gothenburg and on medical leadership at the Centre for Innovation
    and Change, University of Twente and BMJ (Martin).
•   Engaging in international research exchanges for collaboration over recent papers at UK and
    overseas universities, which have enhanced the reputation of UoA17 internationally and
    resulted in international cooperation (Auxtova, Chen, Power, Mu, Schreven, Ulus).
•   Editing/co-editing/guest editing international academic journals e.g., Qualitative Research in
    Financial Markets, European Journal of Finance (Burton), Journal of Organizational
    Effectiveness, European Management Journal (Martin), British Journal of Management
    (Beech), Journal of Business Models, Meditari Accounting Research, Business History
    (Morelli), Regional Studies (Arshed), Journal of Business Models, Medari and Accounting
    Research (Cordina), Review of Behavioural Economics, Perspectives in Behavioural
    Economics and Economics of Behaviour (Altman).
•   Serving on editorial boards, including the Journal of Family and Economic Issues, the
    European Management Journal, Journal of Organizational Effectiveness: People and
    Performance, British Accounting Review, Accounting Forum, Accounting, Auditing and
    Accountability, Critical Perspectives on Accounting, Accounting Forum, Accounting and the
    Public Interest, Accountancy, Business and the Public Interest, Journal of Financial Reporting
    and Accounting, International Journal of Financial and Accounting Studies, Management
    Learning, Scottish Journal of Political Economy, European Review of Agricultural Economics,
    Journal of Family and Economic Issues, Review of Behavioural Economics and Journal of
    Economic Psychology.
•   Membership of scientific review panels for major international conferences, e.g. IHEA
    (International Health Economics Association) World Congresses (Allanson), International
    Workshop of Applied Economics of Education (Zhu), International Co-operative Alliance,
    Society for the Advancement of Behavioural Economics, International Association for
    Research in Economic Psychology, Western Economic Association International (Altman).
•   Supporting disciplinary development through chairing and board membership of key
    associations. Notable examples include: Chair of BAM (Beech), BAM Council member
    (Martin), Advisory Board Member of the Centre for Global HRM, University of Gothenburg in
    Sweden (Martin), Research Advisory Board International Cooperative Alliance (Altman).
•   Supporting the work of UK and overseas research councils and funding bodies, e.g. ESRC
    (Dunne, Beech) and Innovate UK (Arshed).
•   Supporting the work of the Academy of Social Sciences (Beech).


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Visiting Professorships at Southern Denmark (Roslender), Gothenburg, UTS and Macquarie
    (Martin) and visiting Fellowships at UNSW (Zhu), Monash (Allanson). Nomination for
    Companionship of CIPD (Martin).

UoA17 has hosted visiting researchers from overseas to work with staff on research projects
including Dr Hongliang Zhang of Hong Kong Baptist University, Prof Alfonso Miranda of CIDE
Mexico, Dr Javier Vabuena and Professor Massimo Contrafatto (Bergamo University, Italy).

Contributions to the Economy and Society
• Arshed was appointed as Independent Adviser to the Minister for Business Adviser to the
   Minister for Business, Fair Work and Skills; expert panel member for the Department of
   Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy; and Scottish Parliament Research Fellow.
•   Burton and Bergmann secured grant income from the EU Horizon 2020 Programme for
    research into crowdfunding of renewable energy projects, which has led to the production of
    influential knowledge exchange events, for example, a European Policy Workshop for Crowd
    Funding Research, Brussels 2017, and published reports Guidelines for Crowdfunding
    Platforms Interested in Hosting Renewable Projects. This work is influencing policy makers
    and businesses who seek to use crowdfunding platforms for renewable projects, and to the
    production of high-quality journal articles.
•   Dinnie was appointed Director of Visit Dundee Ltd, Member of Dundee City Branding Group;
    Member of Universities Scotland International Committee Branding Group; Member of
    Tsinghua University Internationalisation Advisory Panel (Tsinghua University, China), which
    provides the basis for further impact.
•   Martin researched Getinge, a global medical supplies company based in Gothenburg, and
    Waracle, a local, scale-up company based in Dundee, over the period 2017-20. This led to
    strategic change in these organisations and further collaboration via Martin’s appointments as
    Visiting Professor at the University of Gothenburg’s Centre for Global HR and Chair of its
    Academic Advisory Board, collaboration with a large Swedish hospital and co-funding of a
    PhD with Getinge AB to evaluate changes in work organisations post-COVID19, as well as
    accolades of Academic Fellow and, more recently, nomination for Companion of the Chartered
    Institute of Personnel and Development in recognition of his contribution to research, policy
    and practice in HRM.
•   Martin and Beech appointed as Non-executive Board members of NHS Tayside, and Chairs
    of its standing committees on Staff Governance and the Remuneration Committees, and non-
    executive Board members of both Dundee’s and Angus’ Health & Social Care Joint Integration
    Boards. These public appointments have resulted in extensive cooperation and joint research
    projects in the field of healthcare and clinical leadership and culture change.
•   Morelli has Membership of the Scottish Government Expert Panel of Social Security and
    Dundee Community Commission on Poverty. His work has led to an influential report on
    alleviating funeral poverty, which recommended Scottish Government and UK government
    regulation over the funeral sector to protect vulnerable families. This work has resulted in the
    establishment of Funeral Link, a new charity in Dundee, and will be further developed by an
    ESRC/SGSSS studentship jointly supervised with Geography.
•   Power and Roslender were awarded Lifetime Achievement Awards from the British
    Accounting & Finance Association (BAFA) in 2020. This recognition is given each year to one
    or more individuals who have made substantial and direct contributions to the UK academic
    accounting and finance community over the course of their careers. With the award, they join


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    just over 50 other academics that have been accorded this accolade since its inception in
    2003.
•   Zhu participated in and organized multiple knowledge exchange events, including expert
    panels for the Department for Education, the Resolution Foundation Private Roundtable on
    returns to higher education and the Graduate Labour Market Ministerial Roundtable for the
    Department for Business, Innovation and Skills. The knowledge exchange events led to
    influential published reports and academic articles on labour market returns to education for
    the UK Department for Education, and on the benefits of STEM skills for individuals, society
    and the economy for the Royal Society.
•   Zhu undertook research for the Institute of Fiscal Studies and the Department for Education
    into the graduate premium, extensively cited in the Augar report.

UoA17 has experienced significant development over the REF period following a revised vision
and prioritisation of RKEI in the strategy and activities of UDSB. Its new structure and culture have
yielded a step-change in performance since 2014 in respect of: i) number of new research-active
staff, ii) vitality of the research, knowledge exchange and impact (RKEI) environment, iii) peer-
reviewed outputs in international journals, (iv) collaborations with external stakeholders, and (v)
impact beyond the academy to create public value. UoA17 is well set up to achieve its future
ambitions over the next REF cycle by investing significant resources in developing human, social
and intellectual capital to further enhance its reputation for RKEI internally, locally and globally.




                                                                                             Page 18
