Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Worcester

 Unit of Assessment: 20 Social Work and Social Policy

 1.     Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1    Context and structure

 This unit brings together staff from three Schools: Psychology (specifically the Department of
 Violence Prevention, Trauma & Criminology); Allied Health and Community (specifically the
 Department of Social Work and the Community); and Humanities (specifically the Departments
 of History & Sociology and Law).

 Prior to the academic restructure described in the institutional environment narrative (REF5a
 1.1), Psychology and Allied Health and Community were part of a single overarching
 organisational unit, the Institute of Health and Society. This means there is well-established
 collaboration between staff in these Schools which has been maintained and developed in the
 new structure, through co-publication and co-supervision. There has also been close
 collaboration between our sociologists and staff in Social Work driven by aligned interests in
 social justice and inequalities. This too has led to co-publication. There are emerging links
 between Law and Violence Prevention, focused on family law and specifically family courts.

 There are three distinct sub-units in this submission focused on: Violence Prevention; Social
 Inclusion; and Law.
     • Violence Prevention
         In 2014, the University established an education and research centre for the study and
         prevention of violence and abuse. The centre is focused on the prevention of all forms of
         violence, abuse and trauma, inclusive of culture, gender, sexuality, age, black minority
         and ethnic group, and social status. Its work spans the victim/survivor/bystander/
         perpetrator spheres. It seeks to develop innovative interdisciplinary methods through
         which social scientists (psychologists, sociologists, criminologists, social policy makers)
         join with colleagues in all relevant disciplines, such as health and education, to develop
         new ways of combating violence, abuse and trauma, or new ways of understanding
         violence and abuse in order to raise public awareness and/or engage broader public
         audiences in debates about violence prevention. Initially part of an Institute of Health and
         Society, following an academic restructure in 2018 (REF5a 1.1.4), the centre became
         part of the School of Psychology and sits within a Department for Violence Prevention,
         Trauma & Criminology. Staff in the submission who fit in this unit are: Bowen, Erol,
         Jones, Grubb, Taylor-Dunn, Richards.
     • Social Inclusion
         This sub-unit consists of staff from Psychology, Sociology and Social Work (Misca,
         Nehring, Sarbu, Sealey, Unwin). Its work is focused on exploring and confronting the
         circumstances that promote social exclusion, social isolation and oppression in UK and
         international contexts. It seeks to enhance its research by including those affected in the
         design and delivery of the research and to carry its work into practice by working closely
         with organisations that have the power to enable change. Its research has explored, for
         example, service user involvement in social work education, barriers for disabled foster
         carers, adoption by LGBTQ+ parents, disability in traveller and Roma communities, the
         impact of British family migration policies on transnational couples and challenges for
         children growing up in military families.
     • Law
         The School of Law opened in 2016, its first cohort of students graduating in 2019. A
         small department, reflecting its stage of growth, with a nascent but vibrant research
         culture, the decision was taken to return the small number of staff in this area
         (Mongahan, Price) in UoA20 rather than seek an exception from submission for small
         units. The sub-unit has an emerging focus on family law, fraud and criminal trials.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Overarching leadership of research falls to Heads of School. They work closely with the College
 Director of Research & Knowledge Exchange (who sits on the School Senior Leadership Teams
 for all Schools in a College) to drive forward the Research and Knowledge Exchange agenda.
 Research Group leads and PhD Course Leaders from Schools sit on the College-level RKE
 Committee, chaired by the College Director. This provides opportunity for the unit to inform and
 influence college-level strategic and operational developments.

 1.2    Research and Impact Strategy

 Unit’s strategic research objectives during the assessment period

 The University has not previously submitted to “Social Work and Social Policy”. A small number
 of staff with a focus on domestic violence were submitted to UoA3 in REF 2014 and this was
 identified as an area of strength in sub-panel feedback on that submission. The unit’s objectives
 have thus emerged in the assessment period.

 The objectives for the Violence Prevention and Social Inclusion sub-units flow from the
 University’s Research Strategy 2014-2019 (REF5a 2.1) - and its overarching aspiration “to
 develop excellent research with social, cultural and economic impact” – through the Institute of
 Health and Society’s Research Strategy 2014-20 (as noted above, both Psychology and Social
 Work were then part of this overarching academic unit).

 At the core of the Institute’s Research Strategy (2014-2020) was the ambition to expand its
 existing research groups and to develop new groups within the University’s four Areas of
 Distinction identified in the Research strategy. Groups would be expected to:
     • Produce excellent research with potential for rapid application in real world settings
     • Work closely with stakeholders and users in the development and delivery of research
     • Establish an RKE income generation strategy to support its growth and development
     • Disseminate their research widely to academic, stakeholder and user audiences

 A series of events were held in 2014/15 focused on the Areas of Distinction in the University
 Strategy to support the development of research groups. These events were designed to bring
 researchers together from across the University whose research aligned with or across these
 areas with the aim of highlighting existing areas of strength, establishing new collaborations, and
 developing cross- and interdisciplinary responses to problems. Through this process, Violence
 Prevention emerged as a key area for development and commitment was made to recruit in this
 area to support its growth. The process also identified a number of other areas of aligned
 strength with a shared focus on the area of social inclusion. This area was not developed as a
 formal research group but staff in this area have worked closely together over the assessment
 period.

 The strategic research objectives for Law were established at the point the new School was
 opened in 2016. The focus has been on developing a research culture in the sub-unit and on
 seeking alignment with existing areas of research strength in the University.

 The unit, as a whole, has met its objectives, as is demonstrated through this narrative and the
 wider submission. It has produced excellent applied research in the areas of Violence
 Prevention and Social Inclusion which has been developed in partnership with NHS trusts, public
 bodies, charities and user groups (see sections 1.2 and 4.3). It has also been successful in
 winning research funding (see section 3.1).

 It has also developed a culture where staff are supported to disseminate their research
 externally and frequently come together to share ideas with internal and external audiences at
 university seminars, conferences and other events:
     • Each School actively supports external conference attendance and presentation (national
         and international).
     • Each College runs a cross-disciplinary seminar series for internal and external speakers.

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   The centre for Violence Prevention has held a series of international conferences with
        the following themes: Violence and Abuse: Cross Cutting Issues (June 2015); The
        Dynamics of Sexual Violence and Abuse: Local, National and International Perspectives
        (June 2016); The Impact of Violence and Abuse on Children and Young People (June
        2017) in partnership with the Institute of Violence, Abuse and Trauma, San Diego;
        Violence Prevention at the Intersections of Identity and Experience (June 2018) which
        linked academics with speakers from the police, prison services, health trusts and not-
        for-profit organisations, both UK and international (Australia, USA, Malawi, India,
        Morocco, Zambia and Malta).
    •   The centre has also run a series of events which set out to inform public and community
        of its work. These included public lectures and initiatives such as 16 days of Action
        Against Gender-Based Violence (November 2017) and 'Not in my backyard' Challenging
        Domestic Abuse in Worcestershire (November 2018).
    •   The School of Law has run its own regular Research Seminar series since 2016 which
        draws on internal and external speakers both academic and professional. It has also held
        thematic discussion panels on, for example, Article 50, Women’s Legal History and
        Chagos litigation, composed of high-profile researchers in the field and experts from the
        legal profession. Further, it held a workshop on the Fraud Act in 2006 which led to the
        development and publication of a collected volume (Monaghan, C. and Monaghan, N.
        (eds.) (2018) Financial Crime and Corporate Misconduct: A Critical Evaluation of Fraud
        Legislation, Routledge.

 Impact Strategy

 As noted, research in the unit is primarily applied in nature. Its research is often commissioned
 by key stakeholders with the ability to change policy and practice. These have included: HMIC,
 West Mercia Police, Worcestershire County Council, Cavell Nurse’s Trust, and Anawim (a
 Birmingham based women’s charity). It is also frequently developed in partnership with
 stakeholders and users such as NHS Trusts and disabled user groups such as Shaping Our
 Lives.

 The unit has adopted a number of approaches to enabling the impact of its research:
    • Engaging strategically with stakeholders such as charities and not for profit
        organisations. Some examples of this: Forces in Mind Trust (FIMT) in relation to research
        with military families; Foster Care Cooperative a not-for-profit ethically based foster care
        agency in research
    • Working closely with user groups in the development of research projects and to
        disseminate research findings more widely in society. A key component in this approach
        is the University’s own IMPACT group. The group has 40 members including care-
        leavers, those affected by mental illness and domestic violence, carers, physically
        disabled and older people. They provide input to the development of research projects
        and to learning and teaching, curriculum design and validation processes. In 2019/20,
        IMPACT members contributed 1800 hours to the University. Evidence of the
        effectiveness of IMPACT is shown by articles co-produced by staff in the unit and
        IMPACT members, for example: Rooney, J., Unwin P. and Shah P. (2018) Keeping Us
        Grounded: Academic Staff Perceptions of Service User and Carer Involvement in Health
        and Social Work Training. Journal of Further and Higher Education; Rooney, J., Unwin,
        P. and Osborne, N. (2016) Gaining by giving? Peer research into service user and carer
        perceptions of inclusivity in Higher Education, Social Work Education; Parkhill, L and
        Wall, K. (2020) The journey to care – reflections of a service user, Disability & Society,
        35:3, 506-510.
    • Using a “dual publication” strategy, i.e. presenting research in practitioner focused
        journals as well as academic journals
    • Presenting regularly at conferences with practitioner audiences

 The selected Impact Case Studies show many of these approaches in action:
    • ICS1 - Promoting the inclusion of marginalised groups in social justice

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        The underpinning research was developed in close partnership with organisations and
        users with direct interest in the findings; impact was enabled through a dual
        dissemination strategy and through direct communication with stakeholders
    •   ICS2 - Improving the police response to Stalking and Harassment in England and Wales
        The initial research was commissioned by HMIC. The researchers have engaged directly
        with Police and Crime Commissioners to implement recommendations from the research.

 Interdisciplinary Research

 As indicated above, the University Research Strategy 2014-19 set out to develop
 interdisciplinary research in its four Areas of Distinction. The University’s College Structure was
 developed as a further enabler of interdisciplinary research (REF5a 2.5). College Directors of
 RKE are tasked with identifying and developing interdisciplinary opportunities across Schools in
 a College but also between Colleges where appropriate.

 Open Research

 The University is committed to an Open Research Environment evidenced by its resourcing of
 this important area (dedicated Open Access Advocacy and Support Officer; Open Access
 Funding) and its policy development (on Open Access and Open Data) (REF5a 2.6). This
 commitment is further reflected in its new Research & KE Strategy which identifies developing its
 Open Research environment as one of 5 underpinning principles of the strategy (REF5a 2.3.4).

 Staff in the unit have worked closely with the Open Access Advocacy and Support Officer to
 raise awareness of the Open Access agenda, for example, through running dedicated training
 events as part of School Away Days. This has fed through into a very small number of outputs
 (just seven) authored in the unit over the assessment period being non-compliant.

 Staff in the unit have also received funding for APCs through the Open Access Fund (£2,466),
 publishing in journals such as Frontiers in Psychology.

 Research Integrity

 At University level, the University’s Research Integrity & Governance Committee has oversight
 of policies and procedures to support research integrity and its Chair (Bowen) is the University’s
 Research Integrity Champion. The champion is expected to embed a culture of integrity across
 University through developing training and support for staff but also raising its profile.

 At College level, Research Ethics Panels are responsible for review of all staff and research
 student projects to ensure they are conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards. Panel Chairs and Vice Chairs are
 experienced researchers whilst panel reviewers are drawn from across the College; lay
 reviewers are also recruited to the panel. Training is provided to all reviewers before they
 engage in the role. There is an annual audit of reviews to ensure the Panels are fulfilling their
 role. All staff submitted in the Unit are reviewers, whilst Taylor-Dunn is a Research Ethics Panel
 Vice-Chair. This ensures there is a strong culture of research integrity in the unit.

 Future Strategic Aims

 The University’s new RKE Strategy 2020-25 was approved in summer 2020 (REF5a 2.3). The
 expectation is that Schools’ strategic objectives will flow from the University strategy but will also
 reflect disciplinary priorities, with Schools required to develop a strategy implementation plan
 accordingly. Inevitably, the Covid-19 pandemic has impacted on the development of this plan
 and aims set out here are consequently preliminary.

 The unit will continue to focus on applied research which has the potential to change policy and
 practice in public bodies, social care organisations and the voluntary sector and to improve

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 quality of life for marginalised groups. As such, it aligns itself both with the “Health and
 Wellbeing” and “Social Exclusion and Identity” Challenges set out in the University strategy.

 It will build on its strengths in violence prevention; it will seek to establish more focused research
 groups in the wider area of social inclusion, with a likely focus on military families and on
 marginalised groups; it will develop its research in family law, to feed into violence prevention
 and social inclusion research. It will do this through developing its current staff, recruiting
 researchers in key areas, increasing its PGR numbers and through a focused approach to RKE
 income generation.

 2.     People

 2.1    Staffing strategy and staff development

 Recruitment

 In line with the University’s overarching strategy (REF5a 3.1.1-3), the approach of each of the
 sub-units to recruiting staff to standard academic contracts is focused on meeting current needs
 of UG and PGT programmes in the School, enabling curriculum development and addressing
 RKE objectives at school level, in particular seeking to recruit staff whose research feeds into
 existing strengths and areas identified for development. There has been an increased emphasis
 on aligning these imperatives, i.e. ensuring that there is a clear synergy between teaching and
 research.

 Recruitment to research only posts in the period has been driven primarily by the desire to grow
 new areas of strength aligned with institutional and unit-level objectives. A further element of the
 strategy has focused on maintaining and developing research leadership within the unit.

 In recruiting to standard academic contracts, the unit has increasingly used open-
 ended/permanent contracts not fixed term. This has also been the case for the research staff
 posts outlined below. No Category A eligible staff on the census date were on open-
 ended/permanent contracts.

 Five of the twelve staff returned in this submission were recruited in the assessment period:
     • Dr Holly Taylor-Dunn was appointed as a researcher in violence prevention in 2014. Two
         professors were subsequently recruited to this area: Professor Elizabeth Gilchrist in 2015
         to lead the centre and Professor Erica Bowen in 2016. Both were subsequently (in 2018)
         appointed to College Director of RKE roles. Hazel Kemshall was appointed Visiting
         Professor in Community and Criminal Justice in 2017. In addition, three staff have been
         seconded to Violence Prevention in the assessment period (Erol, Gilbert and Richards).
     • As noted above, the School of Law opened in 2016 and seven staff have been recruited
         to the School over the period.

 Progression and succession planning

 Of the seven staff already in post at the beginning of the assessment period none were returned
 to REF 2014. The unit has actively supported the development of these staff through research
 leave (see below) and other financial support; two of these staff are currently receiving
 mentoring for professorial applications.

 Table 1 shows the balance between contract levels in the unit for both Category A Eligible and
 Submitted staff (see REF5a 3.1.6 for institutional comparison). The majority of staff are at SL
 level (which is reflected in the University’s overall profile). There are minor differences between
 the eligible and the submitted proportions at J0 and I0.




                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                               % Category A            % Category A
                                               Eligible                Submitted
  Lecturer/Research Fellow (K0)                6                       8
  Senior Lecturer/Senior Research              71                      59
  Fellow (J0)
  Principal Lecturer/Principal Research        17                      25
  Fellow/Head of School (I0)
  Professor (F1)                               6                       8
                            Table 1: Proportion of staff by contract level

 Staff Development

 Staff in the unit have been supported to develop as researchers. At appraisal, staff with SRR are
 asked to present a 3-year research plan (as set out in the REF2021 Code of Practice) which, as
 well as articulating plans for project development, dissemination and funding applications, also
 identifies training needs.

 These training needs can often be met through the University’s Researcher Development
 Programme which is designed to support staff at all career stages (REF5a 3.2.4). Workshops
 are delivered by senior researchers and professional staff at the University, including staff in the
 unit (Bowen, Gilchrist, Unwin) but also draws on external presenters and utilises resources
 offered through Vitae and other professional development organisations. Staff in the unit have
 consistently engaged with the University’s Research Leadership Programme, its Research
 Supervisor Development Programme, Bid Development training and Impact and Engagement
 training.

 However, staff are also supported to access external training where the University programme
 does not meet needs, particularly specialist methods or data analysis training. The unit has
 further developed School-level training where it has in-house expertise (e.g. research and social
 media, power calculations). Since 2019, this has been delivered through monthly Research
 Cafés run by Research Groups.

 Staff can also access the University’s Research Mentoring Programme (REF5a 3.2.4). Five staff
 in the unit have accessed the scheme. They can do so at any point from appointment onwards
 and at any career stage. This programme has also offered an opportunity for Mentors to develop
 their skills, with all mentors receiving dedicated training for the role.

 ECRs have received active support for their development, examples of which are:
   • Taylor-Dunn who was an ECR at appointment has received a period of research leave,
       and been awarded a PhD studentship in the assessment period.
   • Gilbert is currently receiving funding for doctoral study

 The University was granted the HR Excellence in Research award in 2016 and is a signatory to
 the new Researcher Development Concordat. Staff in the unit have sat on the University’s
 Concordat Implementation Group from when it was set up early in the assessment period and
 have thus informed the development of the institutional action plan, whilst also feeding back on
 its development into the School.

 Staff have opportunity to present their work in progress at College-level seminar series which
 provide a supportive, cross-disciplinary audience to test out new ideas and approaches.

 Staff in the unit are able to access the University’s research leave programme (see REF5a
 3.2.3). Four staff in the unit were awarded leave in the assessment period (Misca, Sealey,
 Taylor-Dunn, Unwin). This has enabled them to develop their research, publish and extend the

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact of their research. Notably, both Taylor-Dunn and Unwin have used their leave period to
 develop the work articulated in the unit’s Impact Case Studies.

 2.2    Research students

 The unit has established a PGR community over the assessment period. There are 14 current
 research students located across the unit (Directors of Studies: Bowen, Erol, Misca, Taylor-
 Dunn, Unwin), the first whom was recruited in 2016; hence there have not yet been any
 completions, although two students are approaching submission

 Recruitment to doctoral programmes is overseen by School-level PhD Course Leaders who
 work closely with the central Research School (REF5a 3.3.2-3). The unit’s success in growing its
 PGR numbers has been underpinned by:
    • Increasing supervisory capacity: nine staff in the unit are now on the University’s register
        of approved supervisors.
    • Winning University-funded PhD studentships. Staff in the unit have been awarded three
        over the assessment period: The Family Courts and victims of intimate partner abuse:
        experiences and perceived impact of special measures (Bowen); Character strengths of
        people working with IPV (Taylor-Dunn); Social-Prescribing in rural areas (Unwin).
    • It has specifically focused on growing numbers within Violence Prevention (6 of the 14
        current students are in this Research Group).

 PhD Course Leaders also play a core role in oversight of research student progress. They sit on
 the University’s Research Degree Board and are responsible for annual monitoring of student
 progress within the School.

 Schools work closely with the Research School to ensure that research students are embedded
 within both the subject and wider research culture:
     • Research students in Violence Prevention are attached as affiliate members to the
         Research Group. They are invited to present their research at the student-led conference
         that forms part of the Group’s MA in Understanding Domestic and Sexual Violence and
         are also invited to deliver teaching sessions on this course relevant to their research
         area.
     • They are encouraged to attend and to present at College-level research seminars.
     • A school-level Research Student representative sits on the College RKE Committee.

 The Research School is responsible for research student life, i.e. for the wider development and
 wellbeing of research students. It provides a dedicated work and social space for students. The
 Research School team, co-located in the student space, provides advice and guidance for
 students on their programmes, and, working closely with other student-facing departments such
 as the Disability & Dyslexia Service, the student mental health team, careers service, also offers
 pastoral and wider support. The Research School has developed comprehensive support and
 guidance for students and supervisors on mental health.

 Research students in the unit are required to engage with the central Research Student
 Development Programme (REF5a 3.3.4-6). The programme has been mapped against Vitae’s
 Researcher Development Framework. The programme offers a suite of modules, short courses
 and workshops, delivered face-to-face or online, some of which are compulsory for all doctoral
 students, focused on the following core areas: planning and managing research; academic
 writing; research methods; data analysis; research integrity and ethics; dissemination,
 engagement and impact; careers and employability. The University also supports students to
 engage with external training where this is specialist and not available through the University’s
 programmes. Students are also able to access training offered through the GuildHE Research
 network. As part of the programme, students may also engage with Level-7 subject specific
 methods modules in the unit.



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Beyond the programme, the Research School offers a number of additional development
 opportunities. Research Students have opportunities to teach, particularly those on a PhD
 studentship and can access modules and workshops to develop their skills in this area, with the
 opportunity to gain associate or full fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. The University
 offers research student-specific dissemination opportunities including an annual “Images of
 Research” exhibition and student-led PGR Conference. Further the University provides funding
 opportunities for students to attend and speak at external conference and events and separate
 funds to support students to develop inter and cross-disciplinary networks, seminar series,
 conferences and events. The University is also a member of the Brilliant Club, a charity focused
 on improving access to University, which provides opportunities for doctoral students to go into
 schools and deliver tutorials in their area of expertise. The Research School also provides more
 ad hoc opportunities: for example, in 2019 the lead for the development programme worked with
 a student team to deliver a University programme for Pint of Science.

 All supervisors are required to complete the University’s Research Supervisor Development
 Programme (REF5a 3.3.8-9). The programme has been in place for some 20 years but was
 rethought and relaunched in 2018/19. The programme offers a wide range of support for
 supervisors at various career stages on themes such as: introduction to supervision, supervisory
 styles, regulations and processes, supervising international students, PGR mental health and
 wellbeing, supporting student progress. New supervisors must complete the whole programme
 but more experienced supervisors must also engage with core elements and all supervisors are
 required to engage in regular refresher training (every 3 years). The programme is
 complemented by supervisor lunches that bring together supervisors to discuss key topics and
 challenges in supervision. The programme is aligned with UKCGE’s Good Supervisory Practice
 Framework.

 2.3    Equality and Diversity

 The University has a fundamental commitment to equality and diversity (REF5a 3.4). It seeks to
 consider and apply equality and diversity principles in all that it does, from recruitment and
 selection, to appraisal and promotion, to staff development to flexible working and support for
 health and wellbeing. Its policies and processes are designed to disadvantage no-one and are
 subject to ongoing equality impact assessment to ensure this is the case.

 The unit’s approach flows from this, with Heads of School ensuring that the University’s
 principles and policies are fully enacted.
     • Recruitment of staff follows the institutional process, which require all those involved in
         the selection process to have undertaken equality training.
     • Internal recruitment to positions of research responsibility, such as research coordinator,
         PhD course leaders, Research Group lead also follow a formal application process to
         ensure equality of treatment.
     • Line managers are sure staff are aware of and are supported to engage with, for
         example, the University’s flexible working policy, its parental leave policies, its policies
         which support carers (such as its Critical Illness Policy) and its staff wellbeing initiatives
         (see REF5a 3.1.9).
             o Several staff in the unit have benefitted from the University’s flexible working
                 policy (REF5a 3.1.8), moving to part time or compressed hours.
             o Staff in the unit have taken parental leave in the assessment period. They have
                 received active support to transition back to work after the leave period, through
                 “keeping-in-touch” days, phased return, mentoring. It is ensured that where a staff
                 member takes parental leave this does not impact on research leadership or
                 supervisory roles.

 The unit is committed to the wellbeing of its staff and research students. To support this, both
 staff and research students have access to the university-wide mental health and well-being
 support, including (for research students) access to the support offered by the disability service,


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the counselling and mental health teams, and (for staff) the Employee Assistance Programme
 which provides counselling and 24 hour support.

 Staff in the unit are committed to equality and diversity. Staff in the unit were members of the
 University’s Athena SWAN self-assessment team; the University received its institutional Bronze
 Award in April 2018 and is committed to making departmental applications in the next 2 years.
 Staff are also engaged with various staff networks focused on protected characteristics and with
 the LGBTQ+ Allies scheme.

 In preparing this narrative, it was recognised that there are opportunities to enhance practice at
 unit-level. There has been no equality impact assessment of local funding processes (e.g.
 support for conference attendance) and, whilst there is no suggestion that any group is
 disadvantaged, this is a clear area for development.

 3.     Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 The unit has increased its research funding significantly over the assessment period from £12K
 in 2013/14 to £247K in 2019/20. This has largely been driven by the success of the Violence
 Prevention Research Group but more recently by Unwin’s success in winning funding from
 DRILL (Disability Research on Independent Living and Learning). The unit have been supported
 in this success by the central Research Office and, since the academic restructure, by a College
 Director of RKE and RKE Facilitator. The Director’s role is to provide leadership and guidance
 for Research Groups in developing their strategy, whilst the Facilitator works with Research
 Group leads to develop a bespoke funding opportunities service for members. Staff have also
 accessed training, general and bespoke, on bid development.

 The unit has won funding from a variety of sources: NIHR, European Commission, British
 Academy, Home Office, DRILL, local authorities, police forces, and third sector organisations.

 Major funded projects include:
    • Jones, Co-I, Enhancing police responses to child sexual exploitation, through
        collaborative working between academic and policing at both national and regional
        levels, Police Knowledge Fund (2015-16) led by University of Bedfordshire.
    • Nehring, PI, Transnational Chinese-Western couple relationships in Beijing and London,
        British Academy Small Grants (2016-17)
    • Gilchrist, Co-I, Full Cooperation: Zero Violence, European Commission, Rights, Equality
        and Citizenship Programme (2016-18), led by Ministry for Social Dialogue, Consumer
        Affairs, and Civil Liberties, Malta with the University of Malta.
    • Gilchrist, Co-I, ADVANCE - Advancing theory and treatment approaches for males in
        substance misuse treatment who perpetrate intimate partner violence, NIHR (2016-21)
        with KCL as lead in collaboration with South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation
        Trust, University of Bristol, University of Manchester, University of York, Rochester
        Institute of Technology (USA) and RESPECT.
    • Taylor-Dunn, PI, The Victim Journey - A participatory research project seeking the views
        and experiences of victims of stalking and harassment, HMIC (2016-17).
    • Unwin, PI, Mutual Benefits – The potential of disabled people as foster carers, DRILL
        (2018-20) in partnership with Shaping Our Lives and Foster Care Cooperative.
    • Unwin, PI, Missing voices – listening to Disabled people in Gypsy, Roma and Traveller
        communities, DRILL (2019-20) in partnership with Shaping Our Lives.

 Projects undertaken for police forces, local authorities and third sector organisations include:
 Evaluation of Healthy Relationship Programmes in Worcestershire Schools (Worcestershire
 County Council); Recognising and responding to vulnerability training - pilot evaluation phase 1
 & 2 (West Mercia Police); An Exploration of Healthcare Professionals’ Personal and Professional


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 experiences of Domestic Violence and Abuse (Cavell Nurse’s Trust); Domestic Abuse:
 Assessing risk in West Midlands Local Policing Units (West Midlands Police); Exploring the
 impact of the service user involvement worker (ANAWIM); Examining the impact of the EDNA
 project on the provision of services to older victims of domestic violence (West Mercia Women's
 Aid); Evaluating the impact of the DRIVE programme in West Mercia (West Mercia Police and
 Crime Commissioner); Ambulance staff experiences of domestic violence and abuse (The
 Ambulance Staff Charity); Domestic Abuse Cyber Stalking Pilot Project (Northumbria Police and
 Crime Commissioner).

 3.2 Infrastructure

 The University has significantly expanded its institutional infrastructure for supporting research
 and impact over the assessment period, establishing a RKE Directorate consisting of a
 Research Office, Research School and College RKE infrastructure (REF5a 4.1). It has also
 expanded support for researchers offered by Library Services.

 Its RKE Directorate provides wide-ranging support and guidance for researchers around
 identifying funding (including access to funding databases, such as Research Professional), bid
 development, KE and impact generation (including use of Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker),
 project delivery (including contract negotiation, liaison with partners, financial and other
 reporting) and research governance (including data management, data sharing, protecting and
 exploiting IP). It also provides access for researchers to a current research information system
 (PURE).

 The University has established robust Pre- and Post-Award processes for externally funded
 projects (approved in 2018/19 and subject to evaluation and review in 2020/21). These
 processes scaffold the Research Office support systems set out above and ensure good
 governance for bids and for projects.

 It has been recognised that the processes need to incorporate Equality Impact Assessments at
 various stages of both pre- and post-award. In lieu of this broader development, the University
 has adopted the BBSRC EIA guidance and template for reviewing research bids. It has also
 been agreed to undertake a review of bidding over a 5-year period from an equality perspective
 and this will be completed in 2021. The review will inform the development of support
 mechanisms for bidding.

 Library Services maintains a publication repository (WRAP – Worcester Research and
 Publications) and provides access to major citation databases (Scopus and Web of Science), as
 well as subject-specific databases such as such as PsycARTICLES, PsycINFO, PTSDpubs.
 Library services also offers support and guidance around Open Access and data management,
 archiving and sharing.

 The University offers a range of research support schemes designed to support researchers at
 all career stages and, variously, to pump prime projects, develop international collaborations,
 advance existing areas of work (REF5a 4.1.6). Staff in the unit have been awarded funding as
 follows:
      • PhD studentships: as noted above (2.2), staff have been awarded three fully-funded full
         time PhD studentships in the assessment period.
      • Vacation Research Assistantships (VRAs): staff in the unit have been awarded 3 VRAs
         over the period for projects on: the link between domestic violence and pet abuse;
         trafficking; and the impact of student placements on criminal justice organisations.

 Funding is also offered at School and College-level (formerly Institute-level). This has taken
 three forms: funding to support skills developments, such as training around psychometric
 scales; seed-corn funding to support the early development of new projects and output
 facilitation funding to support staff to publish.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.3 Facilities

 The Hive, the joint University and Public library (REF5a 4.2.2), provides a significant space for
 researchers to disseminate their research to the public, through public lectures, and other
 events. Staff and research students in the unit have delivered public lectures (e.g. Bowen) and
 contributed to the University’s annual Images of Research exhibition.

 Staff and research students in the sub-units have access to a range of facilities. Monitoring
 laboratories are available for observational studies, equipped with one-way mirrors and audio
 and video recordings, and smaller test cubicles are available for studies of individual participants
 in controlled environments. Bookable research space includes a human performance laboratory
 equipped with computerised testing equipment.

 Staff and research students can also access video capture, editing, and analysis facilities
 including Tracksys and Transana software packages for transcription and analysis of video
 footage, and bookable video cameras and dictaphones. Data analysis and experiment building
 software includes SPSS, NVivo and AMOS (Versions 24-27), GPower, and OpenSesame.

 Staff in the unit also have access to a psychological test library which includes free-to-use,
 public domain and restricted (licensed) psychometric tests. Staff in the School of Psychology
 hold occupational testing qualifications and are able to support the use of different types of
 psychometric test use. This library is managed by a psychology technician with occupational
 testing in ability and personality qualifications.

 There are currently two technicians in Psychology who support the use of all spaces and
 equipment listed above, including providing tutorials and advice on technology and software.
 One of the technicians further supports the Psychology Research Participation Scheme (or
 ‘Sona Systems Research Management System'). This system allows staff and research students
 within SoP to screen and recruit participants for a wide range of study formats including lab-
 based experiments and online surveys.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1    Collaboration

 Research collaborations with other Universities include:
    • Dr Grubb has worked with Dr Young at the University of Lubbock, Texas, USA, since
       2013. During this time, she has travelled to Lubbock to collect data from American
       hostage negotiators and is in the process of collaborating on a cross-cultural Anglo-
       American research project to compare UK and US negotiators.
    • Dr Sealey has co-published with colleagues from Perm University, Russia.
    • Professor Bowen has worked with colleagues in a number of Universities to develop and
       undertake research projects, including: University of Kent (ESRC research bid),
       University of Nottingham (ESRC research project on suicidality in people with autism),
       Coventry University (EU Daphne funded project).
    • Dr Misca has worked with the King's Centre for Military Health Research, King's College
       London; the Centre of Excellence for Children, Families and the Law, William James
       College, Boston, USA; and AUT University, Auckland, New Zealand on a collaboration
       regarding LGBT parenting in adoption.

 Research collaborations with NGOs and public sector organisations include:
    • Dr Grubb has worked with the National Negotiator Group (NNG) on a project to advise
       and inform on the development of the first centralised National Negotiator Deployment.
    • Professor Bowen has collaborated with the NHS community forensic learning disability
       service.
    • Dr Erol has worked with MOPAC (Mayors Office for Policing and Crime in London)
       collaborating on an evaluation of Domestic Abuse Perpetrator Panels.

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       •   Dr Misca was an invited research adviser to the Ministry of Defence on a review
           commissioned by the Defence Secretary to step up support for the needs of military
           families in UK.
       •   Dr Unwin has worked with ‘Shaping Our Lives National Disability Network and Foster
           Care Co-Operative’ on the development of two funded research projects; 'Mutual
           Benefits' - The Potential of Disabled People as Foster Carers and 'The Missing Voices of
           Disabled People in Gypsy, Roma and Travelling Communities'.

 4.2       Contribution to the research base

 Memberships of Learned Society’s and professional bodies: Staff within the UoA are
 members of a variety of Society’s and professional bodies, including; British Psychological
 Society (BPS) Division of Forensic Psychology Training Committee (DFPTC) (Grubb); Fellow of
 the Royal Geographical Society/Institute of British Geographers, Member of the Irish Social
 Science Platform, Member of the AAG (Association of American Geographers), Member of
 European Society of Rural Sociology (Price); UK Council Member British Association of Social
 Workers (BASW), Member of Austerity Action Group (BASW), Chair BASW Worcestershire
 (Unwin).

 Memberships of National and International Research Groups: Professor Bowen is a
 member of the Emerald Impact Council (Bowen) and Dr Misca is a member of the AFCC
 (Association of Family Conciliation Courts, USA); a founding member of AFCC-Europe network;
 and an international member of the AFCC taskforce advising on the use of social sciences
 research in family court decisions.

 Keynote presentations: Professor Bowen was invited to give keynote presentations at the
 Cumbria University Hidden Victims of Domestic Abuse conference, University of Lancaster
 (2018) and the VIA conference, University of Coventry (2017). Dr Erol was invited to give a
 keynote presentation at the Alzheimer’s Show in London (2015) and Dr Misca was invited to give
 a number of keynote presentations at the following: All Party Parliamentary Group for
 Strengthening Couple Relationships, Palace of Westminster (2018), International Conference on
 Adoption Research, Auckland, New Zealand (2016); Redefining Family Conference: Growing
 families through adoption, donor conception and surrogacy, Auckland, New Zealand (2016);
 Invited expert to the International Forum on Intercountry Adoption & Global Surrogacy in The
 Hague, The Netherlands (2014); New Zealand Law Society Conference, Wellington and
 Auckland, New Zealand (2014).

 Invited presentations: In addition to invited keynote presentations, staff have been invited to
 give presentations at a number of national and international conferences, including: World
 Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology, Paris, France (Sealey); The Hellenic
 Observatory Research Seminar, London School of Economics (Sealey); Conference of the
 European Sociological Association, Athens, Greece (Sealey); East China University of Science
 and Technology, China (Sealey); Gender and Violence: Rethinking peace and reconciliation,
 Coventry University (Bowen); Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children, University of
 Bristol (Bowen); Developing an evidence-based response to perpetrators of image based sexual
 abuse, Coventry University (Sealey); Shaping the Future, 9th International Conference on Social
 Work in Health and Mental Health, University of York (Unwin), International Perspectives on
 Evaluation of Patient & Public Involvement in research, Newcastle University (Unwin), Higher
 Education & Leadership in a Transforming Society, Athens Institute for Education and Research,
 Greece (Unwin).

 Invited public lectures: Our close working relationships with NGOs and public services has
 resulted two of our staff (Misca and Taylor-Dunn) being invited to present at numerous public
 lectures. Dr Misca was invited to present at : A Pint of Science Festival Worcester (2019);
 Parenting in the Military Family (public lecture, co-presenter Prof M Nolan), The Hive Public
 Lectures Series (2018); Modern families, modern family justice: supporting family relationships in
 intact and separated families in fast changing socio-political-economic climates, St George

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 House Consultation, Windsor Castle, UK (hosted by RELATE, UK and AFCC, USA) (2018);
 Better decisions in private family law: building an interdisciplinary approach, Nuffield Foundation
 (2018). Dr Taylor-Dunn was invited to present at: Safer Places Stalking Service launch event
 (Essex, 2019); West Midlands Police Stalking Conference (2018); Black Country Women’s Aid
 Stalking Service Launch (2018); Victims’ Voices Conference Stoke (2018).

 Editorial Positions: Four members of staff have held editorial positions, including; book review
 editor for the Journal of Sexual Aggression (Grubb); guest co-editor for Family Court Review and
 Social Work Review (special edition) (Misca); editorial board for the Journal of Criminological
 Research, Policy and Practice, editorial board for the Journal of Sexual Aggression (Grubb);
 editorial board Child Abuse and Neglect (Bowen); editorial board Family Court Review (Misca);
 book review editor - British Journal of Social Work 2019 (Unwin).

 Journal reviews: Staff in the UoA have reviewed for over 70 journals and publishers during the
 assessment period. Journals include: Journal of Sociology and Criminology, Psychology, Crime
 and Law, Police Practice and Research: An International Journal (Grubb); International Journal
 of Sociology and Social Policy, The Economic and Labour Relations Review (Sealey);
 International Review of Victimology, Violence Against Women (Taylor-Dunn), Trauma, Violence
 & Abuse, Violence and Victims, Psychology of Violence (Bowen); Crime Prevention And
 Community Safety: An International Journal (Erol); Adoption & Fostering, The Howard Journal of
 Criminal Justice, Children and Youth Services Review (Misca); Sociologia Ruralis, Gender,
 Place and Culture (Price); British Journal of Social Work, Social Work Education, Disability and
 Society (Unwin).

 Reviews for funding bodies: Staff have reviewed over 30 applications for funding bodies,
 including; Social Inclusion Through Protecting Rights of the Child (SoRight), Estonian Research
 Council 2019 (Sealey), National Institute of Health Research 2018 (Bowen); Economic and
 Social Research Council (ESRC), NSPCC, Big Lottery Fund Research Program, UK Arts and
 Humanities Research Council (AHRC), Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of
 Canada (SSHRC), US-UK Fulbright Commission (Misca).

 Awards and Fellowships: Dr Misca was a recipient of the Fulbright Research Scholar Award
 (2015-16) and has the following visiting research fellowships: King's Centre for Military Health
 Research, King's College London (2019-2022); Centre of Excellence for Children, Families and
 the Law, William James College, Boston, USA (2015-17); Centre for Children, Families, and the
 Law, Department of Psychology, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, USA (June 2016);
 Institute of Child Health, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ, USA (2016).

 Support for research degree programmes: Staff have acted as external examiners at the
 following institutions: University of Birmingham (Grubb), Manchester Metropolitan University
 (Taylor-Dunn); Cardiff Metropolitan University, University of Birmingham, University of Kent,
 University of Central Lancashire, University of Huddersfield (Bowen). Two members of staff
 have acted as external PhD supervisors, one at the University of Coventry (Bowen) and the
 other at University of Lancaster (Misca). In addition, Professor Bowen is an external
 Professorial member of the Research Degrees Board at Northampton University.

 4.3    Contribution to economy and society

 Staff in the unit are continuing to make significant contributions to economy and society beyond
 that described in the unit’s ICS. For example:
     • Misca has co-authored a review commissioned by the Ministry of Defence examining the
         needs of UK Armed Forces families and setting out recommendations for the Prime
         Minister, Home Office, MoD and Armed Forces among others. The report has been very
         well received by the military, third sector organizations and the Government who have
         responded to it and pledged to implement the 110 recommendations made. The report will
         now inform the MOD’s 2021 UK Armed Forces Families Strategy (to be published in
         Summer 2021).

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Erol co-authored a global research review of women and dementia commissioned by
        Alzheimer’s Disease International, an organisation committed to focus global attention on
        dementia, maintain it as a global health priority, campaign for better policy from
        governments and encourage investment and innovation in dementia research.

 Staff in the unit are also members of advisory panel for a range of public sector bodies and
 charities including: Police National Negotiator Group (Grubb); West Midlands Crown Prosecution
 Service Violence Against Women and Girls Scrutiny Panel (Taylor-Dunn); Corrections Service
 Advice and Accreditation Panel, Ministry of Justice, Scottish Advisory Panel on Offender
 Rehabilitation, Scottish Government (Bowen); ACE Regional Adoption Panel (Unwin).




                                                                                         Page 14
