Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Plymouth

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 13 Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and Structure
 We are a thriving and productive unit, with highly motivated researchers attracting significant
 research funding income. Our high-quality research addresses social and environmental
 challenges through cross-disciplinary methodologies and civic and industry partnerships. This
 approach has enabled the Unit to achieve significant growth income in high quality funded
 research, with four projects in the area with a full value of between £1 and £3 million; EU Cobbauge
 (PI Goodhew value £3.5 million), EPSRC EViz (PI de Wilde value £1.5 million), EU Energware (PI
 Fuertes value £1.4 million) EU Green Minds (CoI Willis value £3 million). Alongside these major
 grants, we have a buoyant and diversely funded range of smaller, prestigious grants from funders
 including AHRC, ESRC, EPSRC, UKRI and European Cultural Foundation. Staff actively
 participate in research networks and collaborations; all indicative of a productive, engaged and
 dynamic research culture. For example, since 2014, academics have produced over 50 peer-
 reviewed Journal Papers, 5 Monographs, 4 Edited books, 15 Book Chapters, 35 Conference
 Papers, 2 Journal Special Issues, 57 other research outputs and 5 reports. Our high-quality
 research is supported by a wide range of collaborations and partnerships including from the energy
 and sustainable materials sector such as EDF Energy (France), the Eden Project, Hudson
 Architects and from the civic sector such as The British Red Cross, The National Trust and Citizen
 Consumer and Civic Action Group (India). The Unit is underpinned by a research strategy that is
 forward-thinking and inclusive and is focused on building our research through securing funding
 income, supporting our ECRs and PGRs to be future research leaders and building sustainable
 and productive research partnerships through networking and collaborations. This is shown by the
 fact that 100% of eligible staff are being REF returned (13 FTE). Diversity and gender equity are
 integrated into the School research strategy and the Unit is proactively working towards achieving
 several ambitious gender and diversity targets.

 The research in Unit 13 is supported within the School of Art, Design and Architecture by the UoA
 Coordinator (Willis) and Area Research Leads (deWilde, Willis), responsible for mentoring and
 overseeing future researcher development and led by Associate Head of School for Research
 (Goodhew). The unit is structured into two research areas that have distinct profiles, both of which
 are described in more detail below;
     • An established and leading research environment in the Built Environment (BE)
     • A thriving, diverse and ambitious research area in Architecture (ARA)

 1.1.1 Built Environment Research Area (BE)
 BE conducts research in the areas of building performance simulation, measurement and
 monitoring, and construction innovation, connected by a common environmental agenda. The
 main research concentrations of this group are in the fields of building performance analysis and
 sustainable construction. Projects deal with a breadth of sub-topics, including: building
 performance simulation; thermography; laboratory and in-situ measurements of thermal and
 humidity properties of building materials; building operational conditions and control (including
 occupant behaviour and climate change).

 The research is recognised as world-leading in methods to visualise the thermal performance of
 buildings that address the relationship between building physics and occupant behaviour. The BE
 area’s focus on energy visualisation has enabled multiple aspects of the complex interaction
 between people and buildings to be better understood, bringing together occupant behaviour and
 choices with the thermal properties of buildings, simulation design, and housing management. De
 Wilde is a recognised research leader in the field of building performance simulation and serves
 as board member and secretary of International Building Performance Simulation Association-
 World (IBSPA-World) (2014-present). Goodhew’s building physics research uses thermal probes

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and thermal imaging informs the development of sustainable building materials and wider
 challenges in relation to the energy use in buildings. Evidence of the recognition of the leading
 nature of the research was a prestigious first place for the Cobbauge research project in the 2019
 European Commission Regiostars Awards: Europe’s awards for the most innovative, regional
 projects in Europe.

 The research area has built, and maintains, close links with other research groups within the
 University, such as the Sustainable Earth Institute (SEI) and the School of Psychology’s
 Sustainability Group. Internationally the BE research area has partnered and co-authored outputs
 with the Polytechnic University of Catalonia (5 outputs), UNIVPM - Universita Politecnica delle
 March, Ancona, Italy (1 output), Beijing University of Technology (3 outputs), Leiden University (3
 outputs), the University of Hong Kong (3 outputs) and the Vienna University of Technology (2
 outputs). National research collaborations include Newcastle University, University of Bath,
 University of Birmingham, Edinburgh University and Loughborough University, Funding projects
 include the Interreg EU CobBauge 1 and 2, EU Energaware, ESPRC e-Viz and two KTP projects.
 (BE researchers: Goodhew, Basavapatna Kumaraswamy, Bruce-Konuah, Fuertes, Jones, de
 Wilde) (f=2, m=4) Research Lead: de Wilde (m).

 1.1.2 Architecture Research Area (ARA)
 Researchers in the ARA area investigate the ways in which we inhabit space, and how this is
 shaped by social, technological, geopolitical and cultural spatial factors. Areas of work include
 critical approaches to spatial challenges around spatial displacement; smart cities and inclusion;
 and the role of placemaking and ICTs in the Global South and research on film and practice. The
 research typically takes a cross-disciplinary approach to address these topics and is characterised
 by engagement with the wider civic and cultural contexts of architecture. Consequently, the
 research is also characterized by collaborations with a diverse range of industry and third sector
 organisations in the UK and internationally. Staff have successfully published several major
 monographs in the last five years, primarily with publisher Routledge. Two volumes by Willis and
 Aurigi are key texts in the Smart Cities field and Bobic’s monograph on Balkanization and Global
 Politics is cited as a ‘powerful inquiry into the way global politics are enacted spatially through
 architecture and urban design’. The work in the smart cities field has also delivered outcomes at
 policy level through invited evidence to policymakers such as UK Greater London Authority (GLA),
 European Innovation Partnership (EIP) – AGRI, UK Department of Work and Pensions and
 Openreach (Willis). National research collaborations include outputs and research partnerships
 on funded projects with UCL, University of Edinburgh, Cardiff University, University of Durham and
 Oxford Brookes University. Funded projects include: EU Urban Innovation Actions: Green Minds;
 AHRC ‘Whose Right to the Smart City’; ESRC ‘Augmented urbanity and smart technologies’;
 European Cultural Foundation ‘Creative Recovery: Mapping Refugees’ Memories of Home as
 Heritage’ and the UKRI Enhancing Place -Based Partnerships for Public Engagement.
 (ARA researchers: Aurigi, Bobic, Brown, Murrani, Troiani, Veliz Reyes, Willis) (F=4, M=3)
 Research Lead: Willis (f)

 1.2 Research Strategy
 Our research strategy over the REF period has been to support high-quality research, to enable
 collaborations and networks and to develop capacity for interdisciplinarity and can be broken down
 as follows:
     • High-quality research that addresses societal challenges
     • Collaborations and Partnerships with industry and public sector
     • Capacity building through inter-disciplinary research and methods
     • Research culture of Inclusivity, diversity, ethics

 The Unit has undergone some major developments over the REF period. In 2016 the School of
 Architecture, Design and the Built Environment was restructured and combined with the School of
 Art and Media to create the current School of Art, Design and Architecture. Concurrently, at
 University level, there was a change in strategic objectives led by the new Vice-Chancellor and
 the increased institutional support for research together with the wider school research base
 enabled a step-change in our research activity. In REF 2014 our focus was to ‘to create a

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sustainable, research-rich environment within the School’ and ‘to build a reputation outside of the
 School for world-class research’, both of which objectives have been delivered over this REF
 period.

 The Unit research and impact strategy over the REF period as defined above has been actioned
 in the following ways:

 1.2.1 High-quality research that addresses societal challenges
 A core aim of research in the area is to address societal challenges such as climate change,
 sustainable and smart cities through high-quality research. Underlying this is the University ethos
 of a ‘Civic University’ where we seek to address real-world challenges to effect social and
 environmental change. These goals are also closely linked to the University’s Research Strategy
 which aims to ‘embrace real-world challenges’, and to ‘advance and translate knowledge’.
 Impact pathway: Informing both policy and practice in national and international industry and civic
 sectors.

 1.2.2 Partnerships with industry and public sector partners for Impact and Innovation
 A strategic concern has been to expand collaborative projects with industrial and civic partners
 and this research strategy has contributed to impact with reach and depth. Our research is
 increasingly engaged in collaborations and partnerships with other universities and industry
 partners. Research funding secured over the REF period has at least one external non-academic
 partner and a number of projects have multiple partners from across civic society and industry.
 Impact pathway: partnerships with stakeholders to deliver significant long term impact.

 1.2.3 Capacity building through Inter-Disciplinarity
 Researchers in Unit 13 aim to tackle the most challenging research issues within the built
 environment – and it is recognised that much of this work sits on the boundaries between
 conventional disciplines, and thus requires methodological and conceptual innovation. A total of
 c.75% of our research income comes from jointly-funded projects and a growing proportion of our
 research outputs are being co-authored with colleagues in other academic institutions. Research
 collaborations and knowledge exchange with researchers from the disciplines of Engineering,
 Psychology, Geography, Mathematics, Computer Science and Urban Planning.
 Impact pathway: cross-disciplinary methods such as co-design, participatory practice and
 developing tools for industry that have societal benefit.

 1.2.4 Research Culture: Inclusivity, diversity and ethics
 The research areas are committed to supporting diversity and inclusivity in the research culture.
 In May 2019 the School of Art, Design and Architecture was awarded Athena Swan Bronze. Our
 Athena Swan Action Plan, which we are implementing across the School in a four-year plan that
 informs our research strategy and planning. Impact pathway: championing inclusive and ethical
 research practice

 1.3 Impact strategy
 Impact underpins work across the Unit, with researchers addressing societal challenges including
 climate change (BE) and inequality and spatial displacement (ARA) which is underpinned by a
 track record of excellent research. Pathways to impact have both reach and significance through
 long term work with stakeholders over the life cycle of their research programmes, from identifying
 the need for research and formulating research questions, to co-creation of new knowledge,
 evaluating and communicating the research findings, following and evidencing the uptake and
 resultant benefits in society. Our impact strategy is embedded within our research strategy (See
 Section 1.2).

 Through the deployment of this strategy, researchers in the Unit have developed pathways to
 impact with a wide range and number of non-HEI partners. World-leading energy visualisation
 research in BE has informed household engagement strategies for energy efficiency by
 Influencing the UK Government guidance on energy efficiency advice to households; directly
 informing Vancouver City Council’s Greenest City Action Plan; through a gamified energy tool

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 developed with EDF (France) changed domestic energy saving behaviours (Goodhew, de Wilde,
 Fuertes, Jones and Bruce-Konuah) (see also Section 4.2.1). Digital Placemaking and smart cities
 research in ARA has informed policy in UK and EU; achieved social inclusion through long term
 partnerships with rural communities in South West UK and internationally in Brazil and India; and
 worked with at scale with civic sector and local government partners to address health inequality
 (Willis, Aurigi) (see also Section 4.2.2).

 Through our wider commitment to the Civic University strategy staff are involved with a wide range
 of ongoing engagement activities including yearly participation in the University Research Festival
 and through annual events as part of the ESRC Festival of Social Science (see also Section 4.2.3).

 1.4 Five Year Future Research and Impact Strategy (2019-2024)
 The School of Art, Design and Architecture revised their five-year strategy in 2019 with a new aim
 of ‘Sustain a vibrant research culture across the School with clear frameworks and processes that
 raise both the confidence and ambition of the School’s research active staff and encourage a
 greater volume of grant capture and partnerships.’

 This aim is divided into four actionable objectives:
    • Generate research of the highest quality that benefits the advancement of our own fields
        of practice or makes valuable contributions to other disciplines through interdisciplinary
        research collaborations.
    • Partnerships and Knowledge Exchange: Partnerships with industry and public sector
        partners to enhance impact, income generation and knowledge exchange activities
    • Interdisciplinarity and research collaborations to increase large scale grant capture
    • Equality and Diversity: Promote diversity and equal opportunity in research and enable (or
        create opportunities for) people from all backgrounds to contribute to the research
        excellence of the School; so that the research we undertake has equal benefits for all.
    • Research Leadership: Increase the research intensity of School staff and optimise the way
        staff currently use their time to undertake research.

 These objectives align with University of Plymouth strategic objectives to be a ‘broad-based,
 research-intensive university, delivering excellent interdisciplinary research, and civic
 engagement’.

 1.5 Research Governance
 1.5.1 Research Management
 Research in the Unit is structured around the two research areas which align with staff research
 topics and are supported by Research Area leads (de Wilde, Willis) who report to the Associate
 Head of School for Research (Goodhew). The REF Unit Co-ordinator works with the HoS
 Research and is responsible for managing the REF process and submission. Both the AHoS and
 the Unit Research Co-ordinator sit on the Faculty Research and Graduate Committee. The Faculty
 Research and Innovation team support the management and administration of research activities.
 Research committees at the level of Faculty and School produce plans that are reviewed annually.
 This structure ensures alignment of research strategy across the Faculty. Research activities are
 a standing item subject area in team meetings, which facilitate a collective awareness and
 ownership of the Unit’s research strategy.

 1.5.2 Research Governance
 Researchers in the Unit are committed to the highest level of research integrity, as part of the
 University research governance structure that maintains and promotes standards of integrity and
 probity in scientific research. The University is a signatory to the Universities UK Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity and has a set of fundamental principles to ensure good scientific
 practice (including publication ethics, general principles of data confidentiality and access) across
 all research activities. The University is working towards compliance with the Concordat on Open
 Research Data.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All staff and research students are committed to and responsible for ensuring that their work
 complies with the University Code of Practice on Ethics and Data Integrity as well as subject-
 specific ethical guidelines. All research that involves human subjects requires ethical approval
 from the Faculty Research Ethics and Integrity Committee (FREIC). The University Research Data
 Policy provides guidelines for good practice in research data management and open access to
 research data. Staff and PGR students are required to submit a Research Data Management Plan
 (RDMP) prior to the commencement of the research project, and the University works with the
 National Digital Curation Centre (DCC) to build skills for research data management. The
 University operates an open access research repository (PERL) that comprises Symplectic
 Elements, deployed to manage and publish as part of an open research culture that maps on to
 the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Dedicated Information Specialists in the
 University Library Team provide discipline-specific advice on a broad spectrum of open research
 matters, including funder policies, open data, open author profiles and open licensing.

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 2.1.1 Research Leadership
 There has been an expansion of research-related roles and responsibilities for ECRs and junior
 staff and new research-active appointments and promotions for current staff to recognise
 researchers growing profiles. This is reflected in the fact that 100% of our eligible staff members
 are being submitted to REF 2021 (REF submitted staff FTE=13), and demonstrates the
 commitment with which we have been proactively nurturing staff in regard to their research
 potential. Of the thirteen staff submitted, 100% are on permanent contracts, five are ECRs (38 %
 of submitted staff FTE) and we have been proactive in supporting our ECRs over the REF period
 to be included in our REF2021 submission.

 The HESA contract level profile of our REF submission is:
    • Professor – 6* (Aurigi, Brown, Goodhew, Troiani, de Wilde, Willis. *Miles retired in 2018)
    • Senior Lecturer/Associate Professor – 2 (Fuertes, Murrani)
    • Lecturer – 5 (Basavapatna Kumaraswamy, Bobic, Bruce-Konuah, Jones, Veliz Reyes)

 In the last five years since REF 2014, we have made six strategic new research appointments,
 five at Lecturer level (Jones, Bobic Bruce-Konuah, Basavapatna Kumaraswamy and Veliz Reyes)
 and one Professorial appointment (Troiani), each of which strengthens our international research
 profile and supports existing and emergent research themes. Over the same period, the support
 for staff development of staff research has led to three promotions; one from Lecturer to Associate
 Professor (Murrani), two from Associate Professor to Professor (de Wilde, Willis). The University
 of Plymouth has fully implemented the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, and members of the Unit engage fully with its requirements. The School’s staffing
 policy has been devised both in response to a research strategy review and University of Plymouth
 Human Resources policies, guidelines and procedures.

 2.1.2 Early Career Researchers
 The staffing strategy of the unit in this REF cycle has focused on ways to embed and commit to
 specific research leadership programmes and career progression of new staff, especially ECRs.
 Since REF 2014, we have taken on more ECR staff, with c.50% of new appointments during the
 REF period at Lecturer grade (Bruce-Konuah, Bobic, Jones, Veliz-Reyes) and with a balance in
 female/male recruitment, and all are being returned to REF. While the School has no formal
 system for PGR students to transition to post-doc work or other academic posts, three of our post-
 docs (f = 1, m = 2, both in the Built Environment area) have been appointed following the end of
 their fixed-term contracts on external funding projects.

 2.1.3 PGR students
 Our PhD students are supported at a University level by the Doctoral College (DC) which facilitates
 doctoral work across a range of disciplines by fostering rigorous and genuinely enriching doctoral
 training, in line with national and international best practice and guidelines. The Doctoral College
 facilitates cross-disciplinary work and exchange and provides an international profile to facilitate

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 externally funded studentships. Skills and career development training in Arts and Humanities
 Research is managed and provided by the Faculty, which offers over thirty hours of workshops
 each year. These activities complement the research skills training sessions offered by the
 University’s Doctoral College Researcher Development Programme, which is mapped against
 Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework and offers approximately 160 sessions per year. As
 our PGR community has expanded, we have developed methods of peer-peer support within the
 unit, with workshops on research-in-progress led by students, for students.
 The School offers competitive funding opportunities for PGRs to attend conferences and training
 events and to undertake primary and/or collaborative research. All PGR students have access to
 a work-space including desk space, a lockable space for personal items, computing (a personal
 netbook), printing and photocopying facilities.

 2.1.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 The School of Art, Design and Architecture was awarded the Athena Swan Bronze Award in May
 2018 (with the University of Plymouth holding Bronze since 2013). The School Athena Swan
 submission provided detailed analysis of the gender and diversity issues in the Unit including a
 detailed review of our REF 2014 and future REF strategy. Of our REF2021 returned staff, 40%
 are female and 60% are male (f=6, m=8), with the gender balance being more equal at ECR level.
 The Athena Swan Action Plan in the School includes several specific actions related to research
 which are being proactively implemented and are embedded within the Unit and School Research
 Strategy as KPI’s (see Section 1.2.4 and 1.4 above). These include a target of gender balance for
 staff on leading funding bids and assessing internal research funding to ensure gender balance in
 how it is distributed.

 The School refreshed its Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee in 2018 with representatives
 from across the School, and in 2020 a new role of Associate Head of School (EDI) was created
 which reflects the commitment to diversity and inclusion at a senior management level. The School
 works closely with HR to provide support and advice governed by policies such as the University
 of Plymouth’s Equal Opportunities Policy on recruitment and promotion, and the Flexible Working
 Policy, which also incorporates University of Plymouth’s statutory responsibility to consider
 requests for flexible working to enable staff to care for young children or dependent adults. All staff
 are required to complete Unconscious Bias training and are offered a range of diversity training
 opportunities.

 We recognise that we can do more to raise diversity across the staff cohort as BAME staff
 represent only 30% of REF staff (BAME= 3, non-BAME=10) (UoP benchmark is 8%), and this is
 part of our future research strategy and recruitment practice. We do have cultural diversity and
 staff representing a range of ethnicities including Iraqi, Spanish, Chilean, Italian, Australian,
 American and Dutch (c. 70%) with only two members of staff identifying as White British (c. 15%).
 Several staff have published research in a second language and also build on their cultural
 backgrounds to enable research collaborations internationally. We monitor and report on equality
 and diversity data for visiting lecturers and guests and aim for a gender and ethnicity balance to
 ensure that there is diverse representation in visiting academics.

 According to the University of Plymouth Gender Pay Gap Report (2019), the University has a
 larger proportion of women in both professional service and academic roles compared to the
 sector. However, the mean hourly rate of pay for women at the University of Plymouth is 19.5%
 lower than men, and the median hourly rate of pay for women at the University of Plymouth is
 24.6% lower than men. This does vary across pay grade and the Mean Pay Gap in Quartile 2 is
 3.4% in favour of men, in Quartile 3 is -0.2% in favour of women, and in Quartile 4 is 3.6% in
 favour of men. The University is addressing this in its Athena Swan Action Plan through a number
 of actions including improving the numbers of females in our senior roles within Quartile 4.

 2.2 Staff development
 Staff development takes place at various levels and includes mentoring, access to School
 research funding through a competitive application process, and research support for funding
 applications and impact through two dedicated School Research Assistants. The support structure

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 covers four areas as follows:

 2.2.1 Researcher support programme and mentoring
 In 2017 the School Introduced two Research Area Lead roles, who mentor and support staff in the
 respective research areas (BE and ARA). The School operates a mentoring system for research
 staff, and ECRs and new researchers are assigned an appropriate mentor aligned with their
 research topic. All researchers are required to produce and regularly update a Five-Year Research
 Plan with clearly identified REF objectives, facilitating planning of Teaching Relief and workload.
 Research plans are reviewed with the Research Area Leads and then discussed as part of the
 annual Performance Development Review (PDR) and objectives prioritised with teaching and
 management responsibilities. Research Away days aimed at training and development are held
 at Subject, School and Faculty levels, and the staff development budget is held at a school level,
 to support staff research development.

 The introduction in 2016 of a sabbatical programme, that enables structured Teaching Relief, has
 been instrumental several ECRs achieving higher quality outputs and an elevated success in
 funded grant applications. Staff can access the funding for a dedicated six-month period to work
 on research through a competitive internal process. Three members of staff have taken a period
 of Teaching Relief (f=2, m=1) which has enabled them to achieve research successes including
 producing monograph books (Bobic), writing and publishing Journal Papers and securing research
 funding (Murrani, Basavapatna Kumaraswamy). As a result of the development of her research
 profile, Murrani was promoted to Associate Professor in 2018.

 The University has instituted a research leadership programme, which ran for the first time in 2018.
 This year-long programme consisted of an intensive three-day summer course, followed up by
 four half-day workshops, and a series of one-to-one phone meetings with the instructors across
 the year. Two members of Unit 13 were accepted for the programme (f=1; m=1), and are now
 recognised as Research Leadership champions in the Faculty. In addition, staff development
 workshops for PGR supervision, grant applications and sources of external funding among other
 subjects are offered at a University level.

 2.2.2 Funding income generation and Impact
 The organisation of research activities under the umbrella of School Research and Graduate
 Committee (Chair; Goodhew) facilitates flexible directing of resources targeted in accordance with
 the School research strategy. The Committee manages the Teaching Relief programme and
 competitively awards a pot of funds (c.£40K p.a.) to support conferences, research trips,
 publication costs, and other individual, collaborative and Centre research initiatives. This
 competitive internal funding is managed mirroring AHRC application, peer review and reporting.
 In addition, the Research Areas have dedicated funds to support a range of research such as
 networking activities and conference attendance (c. £4K per research area). Within this
 institutional framework the research areas are supported by the university’s Research and
 Innovation Office, which advises on grants; and provides administrative support for conference
 organisation, PGR support, funding and grant applications. The University finance and legal teams
 provide administrative guidance on delivering and managing grants and research partnerships.
 Grant application rates have benefited from the support offered, and this has significantly
 increased the number of bids submitted as well as the range of staff submitting funding
 applications. Application rates in 2020 were gender equitable and there is a year-on-year growth
 in the number of overall applications.

 As a result of investment in training, and with the support of the Faculty Impact Case Study Officer,
 the Unit has developed and deployed impact delivery methods that meet the specificities of each
 case study. This has included a range of training and workshops around capacity building to
 deliver highly impactful research.

 2.2.4 Supporting Inter and Cross Disciplinarity
 At a Faculty level, The Arts Institute organises and delivers a wide programme of training sessions
 for Arts and Humanities researchers (catering for people at all stages of their careers from PGR

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to Professor), which extended from REF strategy, impact and Open Access through grant writing,
 impact training, publication, social media and presenting research on the TV and radio, and
 podcasts. These sessions have either been delivered internally or by external trainers, working in
 collaboration with the Doctoral College, as well as other UoP institutes, and has been part of UoP
 wide inter-institute workshops on impact and public engagement. The Arts Institute has developed
 a series of cross- and interdisciplinary research which receives financial and administrative
 support from the AI and includes the Displacement Studies Research Network led by Murrani
 (ARA); an interdisciplinary network of researchers, policy-makers, academics and aid workers
 whose work covers the many facets of displacement. The Urban Dialogues Network led by
 Professor Brown (ARA) is a network that brings together both internal, academic partners and
 external community-based partners to share and enable best practice and identify and develop
 synergies on community-based learning.


 2.3 Postgraduate Research Student (PGR) development
 2.3.1 PGR Profile
 In the current REF census period, 14 PhD awards have been made (f = 9, m = 5). This represents
 a 180% increase on PGR completions in REF2014 (REF 2014 = 8 PhD completions). At present,
 we have a total of 12 FTE PhD students enrolled. This growth in PGR numbers was achieved
 through a range of initiatives; through staff support and through securing externally funded
 studentships, and the support of a new Associate Head of School for Graduate Affairs who was
 appointed to oversee PGR students in the School in 2017. The Faculty of Arts and Humanities
 introduced a Doctoral Training Award (DTA) enabling PGR students to have their fees supported,
 and 2 PGR students were awarded DTA scholarships in 2017 and 2018. We have secured 2
 industry-funded studentships from a KTP/ Innovate studentship with Wates Construction (2012-
 2016), a Superfast Cornwall Postgraduate PhD studentship (2013-2017). We aim to ensure PGR
 supervisory and examining teams have gender and diversity balance.

 2.3.2 Integrated Research Culture
 Postgraduate students are fully integrated into a rich research culture of specialist seminars,
 conferences, public lectures and reading groups at the subject, School and Faculty level. In 2015
 The ARA hosted the Architectural Humanities Research Student symposium which was led by
 Murrani and co-organised with the PhD cohort. A successful workshop Flows of Entanglement
 2019, initiated and organized by the PGR cohort was co-located with the Association for the Study
 of Literature and the Environment’s Biennial Conference at University of Plymouth. Doctoral
 students are active members of the research areas and cross-disciplinary research strands within
 the Faculty and also benefit from interacting with students in the wider University.
 Research students are provided with a Director of Studies and at least one other supervisor, with
 whom they work closely in developing their projects. Supervisory team members are active
 researchers within their field and are well-placed to provide relevant support. Where possible
 supervisory teams also include an ECR member. Cross disciplinarily is further supported by
 including supervisors from the wider Faculty and other faculties in supervisory teams. In the Unit,
 postgraduate researchers have research teams including supervisors from Geography,
 Psychology and Education who provide valuable interdisciplinary expertise.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income
 Our research strategy has led to a significant increase in our research income over the current
 REF period. We have invested in research support for funding bids, and developing staff capacity
 which has resulted in a significant increase in research activity and in particular grant income over
 the last five years. As a result, we have more than doubled the value of FEC research funding
 secured to ca. £5.5 million FEC over the REF period, up from a figure of £2.5 million from the
 previous REF period. This represents research income to the value of £1,281,820 distributed
 across seventeen research projects (Table 1). There is an international and national collaborative
 nature to funded research projects with European and International partners from a range of
 academic, industry and third sector organisations.

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Table 1: Funding Awards 2014-2020 ordered by FEC value.

 3.1.1 Research Income: Cross disciplinarity and Innovation
 We have diversified and broadened the range of funding bodies through which we secure income,
 in part through our strength in cross disciplinary collaborations (See Table 2). From primarily
 AHRC and EPSRC funding in previous REF period, we now have secured grants from a diverse
 range of UKRI (AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC), EU (Horizon 2020 and Interreg/ERDF), external Funding
 bodies (European Cultural Foundation) and Industry (KTP/Innovate UK and a Cornwall
 Development Company (Superfast Cornwall) PHD studentship) (see Table 2).




 Table 2: Research Income 2014-2020 by funder, value and PI/CoI

                                                                                          Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Income from the EU made up a large proportion of our grants (by value), notably:
     • Interreg Cobbauge (Phase 1) (BE – PI Goodhew) (FEC £1,413,527, Award value £501378)
         2016-2021
     • Interreg Cobbauge project (Phase 2) (BE – PI Goodhew) (FEC £956,039, Award value
         £456,920) 2017-2023
     • EU Urban Innovation Actions: Green Minds (ARA- PI Willis) (FEC £3,463,841, Award value
         £205,000) 2019-2023
     • EU Horizon 2020 Energaware (BE- PI Fuertes) (FEC £1,200,00, Award value £278,151)
         2014-2018
     • EU FP7-PEOPLE-2012-CIG, LINC-UPS: Local Inclusion in Networked Communities (ARA
         - CoI Willis) (FEC and Award value £86,693) 2014-2017
 We have secured grants from UKRI across three research councils:
     • EPSRC Eviz (BE – CoI De Wilde) (FEC £637,619 *, Award CoI Value £161K. *Please note
         that this sum is not included in the REF reported income for Unit 13, but in REF Unit 4 as
         PI was Pahl) 2011-2016
     • AHRC AH/N004264/1 Whose Right to the Smart City? International Research Network
         (ARA -PI Willis) (FEC £40,633, Award Value £35,276) 2016-2018
     • ESRC ES/N000013/1 Augmented urbanity and smart technologies (ARA-CoI Aurigi) (FEC
         £60,000, Award value £18,623) 2016
     • EPSRC Network Plus: Computing Craft (ARA- CoI Veliz Reyes) (Award value £2,822)
     • EPRSC Network Plus: HDI Beyond Smart Cities (ARA-PI Willis) (FEC £18,630, Award
         value £14,400)
     • UKRI Pop Up centre for health technology in Stonehouse (ARA- PI Willis) (FEC £32401.00
         Award value £51311)
 This is balanced by funding from public organisations:
     • European Cultural Foundation (ARA-Murrani) (FEC and Award value £8,333)
     • Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB) (ARA-Veliz Reyes) (FEC and Award value £7,235)
 Industry-led funding has also developed from industry collaborations including:
     • KTP Wates project (BE-Goodhew), KTP (FEC and Award value £146,702)
     • Cornwall Development Company PhD studentship (ARA-Willis) (FEC and Award value
         £40,000)
     • Research England South West Creative Technology Network (ARA-Veliz Reyes). (FEC
         and Award value £16,000)

 The funding breakdown by value shows the distribution of funding sources, which shows an
 average income value over the REF period of £252,000 year on year (Table 3) with a weighting
 towards EU due to the relative size of grants secured (Table 4 ).




 Table 3: Research Income 2014-2020 by funder and value




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Table 4: Research Income 2014-2020 by number of projects, project value and funder

 3.1.2 Research Income: Research Partnerships with industry and public sector partners for Impact
 and Innovation
 Partnerships include national, European and global academics, Industry and third sector. Both the
 BE and ARA have built strong and long-term partnerships with partners across the city of Plymouth
 and the local region. These include social housing providers (EU EnergAware - Devon and
 Cornwall Housing), Plymouth City Council (EU Green Minds), civic organisations (ECF Mapping
 Memories as Cultural Heritage) and Industry (Superfast Cornwall).

 The BE Research Area has a sustained success with large scale funding bids in the field of energy
 visualisation and thermal performance of building materials that address the challenge of climate
 change:
     • Goodhew- PI Interreg CobBauge Phase 1 and Phase 2 (Ecole Superieure D'ingenieur des
         Travaux de la Construction de Caen (ESITC), Syndicat Mixte du Parc naturel régional des
         Marais du Cotentin et du Bessin (PnrMCB), Earth Building UK and Ireland (EBUKI) and
         the Université Caen-Normandie (UCn), PI UKRI DeViz Defect visualisation via
         thermography (University of Oxford, Oxford Institute for Climate Change), KTP (Wates
         Group).
     • Fuertes – PI EU Horizon 2020 EnergAware (Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, Instituto
         Superior de Engenharia do Porto, Advanticyc , Devon & Cornwall Housing, FremenCorp)
     • De Wilde – PI EPRSC eViz (Newcastle University, University of Bath and University of
         Birmingham), PI Innovate UK Smart Grant – HOSP (TCC-Casemix Limited, Salford Royal
         NHS Foundation Trust).

 The AR Research Area has a diverse range of UKRI and EU funding with a strong international
 set of collaborations primarily with Global South and ODI countries. There is a growing focus on
 innovation-driven research through industry partnerships linked to investment in knowledge
 exchange:
     • Willis – CoI EU Urban Innovation Actions (National Trust, Devon Wildlife Trust, Plymouth
         City Council, The Data Place, RIO, PCA); UKRI Enhancing Place Based Partnerships for
         Public Engagement (Nudge Community Builders, Plymouth City Council, Plymouth
         Community Homes, Crowdfunder), PI Whose Right to the (Smart) City? (with UCL,
         UFMG(Brazil) and CAG (India)); PI Superfast Cornwall PhD studentship (BT/ Superfast
         Cornwall), PI EU Marie Curie Integration Grant.
     • Murrani – PI European Cultural Foundation: Creative Recovery: Mapping Refugees’
         Memories of Home as Heritage (with British Red Cross).


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Aurigi – CoI ESRC Augmented urbanity and smart technologies ( University of Durham,
        PUCPR (Brazil), University of Salvador (Brazil)).
    •   Veliz Reyes – CoI EPSRC (University of Cardiff), PI South West Creative Technology
        Network (SWCTN) Automation Fellowship.

 3.1.3 Research Income: Equality, Diversity, Inclusion
 There is a gender balance in success rates across the externally funded research projects secured
 (f=8, m=8). By award value, there is a slightly higher value for male staff compared to female, with
 female staff securing 40% over of overall funding income compared to male staff at 60% (f= £694K
 m= £1,148K). Grant application success rates have fluctuated over the individual years, and for
 the last two academic years, grant application success rates for male members of staff have been
 higher than for female members of staff. However, there is a disparity in average award values,
 with value for award higher for male applicants (f= £86K, m = £191K).

 3.2 Research Income: Innovation and Knowledge Exchange
 The School of Art, Design and Architecture has established a broader culture of research
 innovation aligned to the UK Industrial Strategy. These knowledge exchange activities are
 supporting researchers in access to funding partners from industry, developing innovative
 technical methods and access to research networks. The School has secured a £3.5 million
 Cultural Development Fund (CDF) (2017-22) to develop the use of immersive and digital
 technologies to drive growth in the local creative economy and bring to life the cultural programme.
 The project is a partnership with Plymouth City Council, Destination Plymouth, Mayflower 400,
 Plymouth College of Art and the Real Ideas Organisation (RIO) and is to help the city’s creative
 sector realise its potential, offering new opportunities, creative spaces and skills. The funding has
 enabled the creation of a dedicated specialist Knowledge Exchange team and resource; The
 Bridge (funded through the DCMS Cultural Development Fund). The Bridge provides a
 professional, business-facing infrastructure for knowledge-exchange and impact-related activities
 and is a nexus point for research staff across the faculty and external partners.

 The School is a partner in a £6.5 million Research England funded project (2017-2021) the South
 West Creative Technology Network (SWCTN) with UWE, Falmouth and Bath Spa. This projected
 aims to expand the use of creative technologies across the south-west of England. The SWCTN
 network offers three one-year funded programmes around the themes of Immersion, Automation
 and Data and supports cohorts of researchers, creative producers, industry partners and young
 entrepreneurs. Several academics in the School have benefitted from funding for research through
 SWCTN in a competitive, peer-reviewed bidding process.

 3.3 Research Infrastructure and Facilities
 As part of the School future research strategy, there has been investment in building future-facing
 research infrastructure and facilities and the School has invested in a £1.5 million Digital
 Fabrication and Immersion Lab that opened in September 2019. The Lab has state-of-the-art
 digital fabrication and virtual reality suites and is also open to use by industry and civic
 organisations to support our partnerships in the city and regionally.

 The University’s Charles Seale-Hayne Library is located close to the Roland Levinsky Building on
 the main campus; Architecture and Environmental Building have a dedicated subject librarian and
 an allocated acquisitions budget. The library also has extensive online resources including e-
 books, image and map archives and subscribes to leading e-journal and online archive services
 (for example: Eighteenth-Century Collections Online, Environment Complete, JStor, Oxford Art
 Online, RIBA Catalogue, Times Digital Archive, Web of Science, Wiley Online Library, Science
 Direct). The library provides regular e-resource training sessions for staff and students and has
 1,000 study places and 176 workstations.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Contribution to the Research Base
 Researchers in BE and ARA are fully engaged with the industry bodies, third sector partners and
 academic societies. They conduct extensive peer review and external examining processes,
 generate discourse by organising and participating in conferences and pursue many other modes
 of dissemination and knowledge exchange inside and outside academia.

 From 2014-2020, our thirteen staff held leading roles in 15 Professional Bodies, 11 roles as
 Conference Organisers, 6 Journal Editorships, 28 External Examiner roles, and 6 roles on Peer
 Review Colleges. They were involved as Peer Reviewers for 28 separate journals/publishers.
 We work with academics nationally and internationally including long term collaborations with
 institutions such as Loughborough University, UCL, Durham University, Cardiff University, Federal
 University of Minas Gerais (Brazil), University of Caen and Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya
 (UPC).

 4.1.1 Service on Research Councils
 Researchers have carried out peer review activities for research councils, universities and other
 funding bodies. Five staff sit on UKRI peer review colleges including the AHRC (Aurigi, Willis) the
 EPSRC (Goodhew, de Wilde), the ESRC Global Challenges Research Fund (Murrani) and the
 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (Aurigi). In 2020 Willis was recognised for
 outstanding contribution to the work of the AHRC over the past year by Ian Henderson, Head of
 Operations at AHRC.

 Staff are invited reviewers for a range of UKRI, EU Funding Organisations that demonstrate the
 cross-disciplinary expertise of our researchers. Funding reviews completed include Horizon 2020
 Innovative Training Networks (Willis) EU Smart Cities and Communities (FP7 and Horizon 2020)
 (Willis), ESRC (Willis) EPRSC (de Wilde, Goodhew), AHRC (Aurigi, Willis, Murrani), The Royal
 Academy of Engineering (Goodhew), Europe ERC, ECF (Murrani), Austrian Science Fund
 (Murrani, Willis), NERC Canada, Leverhulme, SNF (Willis), Netherlands Organisation for Scientific
 Research (NWO) (Willis), NERC (Willis) and DFG (Willis).

 4.1.2 Peer review
 Staff hold positions on the editorial boards of Elsevier, T&F and Wiley Journals in the fields of
 Building Performance and Energy that reflect the specialisms of the BE area including, Applied
 Energy (Elsevier) (deWilde), Advanced Engineering Informatics (Elsevier) (deWilde), Journal of
 Building Performance Simulation (Taylor & Francis) (deWilde) and Journal of Building Appraisal
 (Springer) (Goodhew). Staff have significant review contributions for the following Journals in the
 fields of Energy Efficiency, Construction, Building Performance, Computing and Architectural
 Technology. Journals include: Advanced Engineering Informatics, Applied Energy, Automation in
 Construction, Building and Environment, Building Services Engineering Research and
 Technology, Journal of Building Performance Simulation, Journal of Performance of Constructed
 Facilities, Energy and Buildings, Environment and Planning A and D, Advances in Building Energy
 Research, Energy Policy, Facilities and Energy Efficiency, Renewable & Sustainable Energy
 Reviews, Journal of Cleaner Production, Measurement Science and Technology and the Journal
 of Low Carbon Technologies.

 In ARA, staff contribute to peer-reviewing for a wide range of Journal and book publications in the
 fields of Architecture, Urban Studies and Geography. Troiani was co-founder and Lead Editor of
 the Journal of Architecture and Culture (2012-2017) and regularly contributes to editing special
 issues of the Journal. Other peer reviewing activity includes Space and Culture, City, Environment
 and Planning A, and Taylor and Francis Journals including Social and Cultural Geography,
 Architecture and Culture, Journal of Urban Technology, Migration and Society, Third World
 Quarterly, Interacting with Computers, Architectural Theory Review, Architecture and Design and
 Urban Science as well as Routledge volumes.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff sit on advisory boards for funding projects such as the AHRC "Smart Cities in the Making:
 Learning from Milton Keynes" (Oxford University), the AHRC-GCRF ‘Interdisciplinary Network on
 Displacement, Conflict and Protection’ (INDCaP)(University of London) and AHRC ‘Gendering the
 Smart City’ (KCL).

 4.1.3 Conferences
 Staff have given keynotes and invited talks internationally at Harvard University, University of
 Cambridge, University of Murcia, Tsinghua University, TU Berlin, Beijing University of Technology,
 Oxford Brookes University, Utrecht University, UFMG, City University of Macau, ESITC Caen,
 National University of Singapore and University of Malta.

 Researchers in ARA have organised a number of conferences including the AHRC Right to the
 Smart City (AHRC Research Network) Conference 2018, Media City 2015, the AHRA Doctoral
 conference (2017), Flows of Entanglement 2019 (PhD organised) and Political Matters (2019).
 In BE Staff have organised the Cobbauge Conference 2018, IBPSA-England/CIBSE SW
 Symposium ‘High Performance Buildings', Plymouth, UK, May 10, 2018 and sessions at the
 CUE2015Applied Energy, Symposium and Summit, Fuzhou, China, November 15-17 2015.

 4.1.4 External examination of Doctorates
 Staff are invited nationally and globally to act as external examiners on PhD externals including
 University of Bath, Salford and Brunel (Goodhew), Queensland University of Technology (Willis),
 University of Oulu (Aurigi), Politecnico di Milano (Aurigi), UCL (Murrani, de Wilde, Willis),
 Loughborough University (de Wilde, Goodhew), Georgia Tech (de Wilde), City University Hong
 Kong (de Wilde, Goodhew), University of Edinburgh (Willis) and University of Nottingham (Willis).

 4.2 Contribution to society and economy
 As part of both our research impact and the Civic university strategy, we have established and
 grown collaborative partnerships to address societal challenges and contribute to civic society
 and the economy:

 4.2.1. Climate Change and Sustainability
 BE Research has informed household engagement strategies for energy efficiency adopted by
 UK Department of Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and Vancouver’s Greenest City
 Action Plan. Jones was an Expert Advisor to the former Department of Energy and Climate
 Change (DECC) on Costing Monitoring Equipment for a Longitudinal Energy Survey (2015). The
 research developed through the EU CobBauge project (PI Goodhew) was recognised at the
 European Commission Regiostars Awards 2019: Europe’s awards for the most innovative,
 regional projects. CobBauge was voted winner in the Category: ‘Connecting green, blue and grey’.
 Staff in BE have long term collaborations with civic organisations such as Eden Project and have
 been instrumental in the start up of initiatives such as the CIC ‘Art and Energy’ which engages
 people and children around climate change.

 4.2.2 Professional Bodies
 In the Built Environment area (BE), staff have made significant and long-term contributions to
 professional bodies, including CIOB (Chartered Institute of Building), RICS (Royal Institute of
 Chartered Surveyors), IBPSA (International Building Performance Association) and EG-ICE
 (European Group for Intelligent Computing in Engineering). Goodhew was a drafting member of
 ISO9869 'Thermal Insulation-Building Elements, in situ measurement of thermal resistance and
 transmittance'. De Wilde is Chair of EG-ICE and Secretary of the Executive Committee of the
 IBPSA-World Board of Directors.

 In the Architecture Research Area (ARA), Brown serves and contributes several RIBA committees
 including the RIBA Education Committee (2014-), RIBA Research Grants Committee, Chair (2014)
 and RIBA Validation Panel (2010). He contributed to rewriting the RIBA professional validation
 criteria (2016-2020) as part of the Education Committee which has an increasing emphasis on
 ethics and governance. Brown is Chair of Research Grants panel, which funds 3-4 projects a year


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through the main award, and others through PhD research, and contributed to the restructuring of
 the research awards enabling research to be more impactful.

 4.2.3 Public and Third Sector; a Civic University
 As part of our civic commitment to transferring benefit from our research, we work with the
 approach of the ‘Civic University’ that is a key strategic priority at the University of Plymouth. The
 University is one of the first universities to commit to putting in place a Civic Universities
 Agreement and supports the ways in which the University, working closely with key city partners,
 can benefit the city. Our public and third sector partnerships at city level include Plymouth City
 Council, Real Ideas Organisation (RIO), The Data Place, the Refugee Council, The British Red
 Cross (Plymouth), Plymouth Community Homes and Nudge Community Builders, all of whom are
 partners on funded projects bringing direct benefit to the city.

 This strategy is exemplified by the Centre for Health Technology Pop-Up project, funded by a
 grant from UKRI, 2019-2020 (PI Willis) that partnered with community organisation Nudge
 Community Builders, Plymouth City Council and Plymouth Community Homes to create a digital
 and eHealth hub in Stonehouse (one of the most deprived communities in the country). Also in the
 city, Murrani’s ECF project: Creative Recovery worked with the Plymouth branch of the British Red
 Cross to engage with refugees in the city and resulted in a public exhibition as part of British
 Refugee Week in 2018.

 4.2.4 Innovation and Economy
 Industry collaborations and partnerships include EDF Energy, Cornwall Development Company
 (Superfast Cornwall), C3 Resources and Freemencorp and Wates Construction around building
 energy use and climate change, as well as with professional partners including Hudson Architects
 and Earth Building UK. eViz research was key to the development of local company C3 Resources
 and theC3NTINEL’s software platform. As a result, C3NTINEL gained industry recognition and in
 December 2015 the company was acquired by ENGIE, a global benchmark group in low carbon
 energy and services, employing over 170,000 people and located across the globe. C3NTINEL is
 now being used globally to deliver Engie Management and Energy Efficiency.

 The digital game interventions developed through the EU EnerGAware research project with
 energy provider Électricité de France (EDF) and the software company Fremencorp included the
 game EnergyCat, which led to the development of EkoSmart for the domestic market.




                                                                                               Page 15
