Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: 7 – Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1. Overview
 UoA7 research at Birmingham sits within the School of Geography, Earth & Environmental
 Sciences (GEES), one of four constituent Schools within the College of Life & Environmental
 Sciences; GEES also includes UoA14 (Geography & Environmental Studies). There are
 significant synergies between the two UoAs, including shared facilities, research initiatives, staff
 training, and focus on inclusivity. Our collaborative ethos and breadth of expertise together drive
 our emphasis on interdisciplinary research examining the processes affecting our planet and its
 people. Our activity cuts across the natural and anthropogenic, operating at scales from the
 nano to the global. The strength, impact and vitality of UoA7 (30.8 FTE) research since 2014 is
 demonstrated by:

    •  Receiving and renewing an Athena SWAN bronze award, with new recruitment policies
       driving major increases in staff applications from and appointments of women, including
       three in Earth Sciences, which had no female staff at REF2014.
    • >1000 Scopus-listed research publications, attracting >20,000 citations, representing
       ~50% per FTE average increase in annual output from REF2014.
    • ~78% of our research publications include international collaborations, involving
       researchers in more than 70 countries.
    • Leadership of the new £30m Birmingham Institute for Forest Research (BIFoR) [REF5a
       4.2.3], including the northern hemisphere’s only free air carbon enrichment experiment.
    • Creating the Birmingham Environmental Research Facility, with ~£5m internal and
       external investment, including a new flume mesocosm facility (EcoLaboratory), new air
       quality supersite, meteorological facilities, and new controlled environmental chambers.
       [(REF5a) 4.2.3]
    • Leading two scheduled and one completed major international marine expeditions with
       involvement in 13 others, worth ~£15m in direct and indirect funding.
    • £27.2m of research income, including ~£23.9m from EU and UKRI, ranging from early
       career fellowships and doctoral training to leadership of international programmes.
       Examples include:
      • Co-leading, with UoA14 researchers, the joint-largest NERC Doctoral Training
           Partnership (CENTA2; £8.1m), expanded by 50% at renewal in 2019.
      • Winning a Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarships programme (Forest Edge; £1m).
      • Leading the £5m NERC West Midlands Air Quality Improvement Programme, as part
           of substantial impact activity in environmental pollution.
      • Leading a £3.7m NERC large grant to study carbon and nutrient dynamics in
           temperate forests.
      • Winning three European Research Council grants in nanoparticle pollution, tree
           mortality and deep time diversity changes together worth €5.3m.
    • Scientific leadership of the £2.7m redevelopment of the Lapworth Museum of Geology,
       shortlisted for the largest museum prize in the world in 2017, and underpinning our
       programme of impact through public engagement and education[REF5a 4.3].

 There has been major institutional and external investment in UoA7 since 2014, including
 >£55m facilities investment and a 50% increase in the number of eligible academic staff
 within the two research groups that now comprise UoA7. We have achieved sustained
 increases in annual research income, from £3.38m in 2013/14 to £4.13m in 2019/20. This
 represents an average 53% increase per FTE from our research income for 2008–2013.

 Our research in UoA7 is structured in two groups (Table 1): Environmental Health Sciences
 (EHS) and Earth Sciences (ES). Research themes within these groups are shaped by bottom-
 up discussion; group members are responsible for establishing their research priorities within the

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 overall School research strategy. Many of our researchers explicitly sit across themes or groups,
 facilitating interdisciplinarity. Research groups feed into School-level research strategy via the
 School Research Committee.

 Table 1. Breakdown of career stages of UoA7 submitted staff.
             Professor Reader          Senior      Lecturer Birmingham Independent
                                  Lecturer/Senior              Fellow    Research
                                     Research                             Fellow
                                       Fellow
  EHS (13        8         1             1            3
   FTE)
  ES (17.8       2         2             8            3         0.8         2
   FTE)

 Environmental Health Sciences excels in atmospheric chemistry, biosphere-atmosphere
 interactions, air pollution, environmental nanoscience and persistent organic pollutants.
 Research combines the pursuit of fundamental process-based understanding alongside the
 development of research applications with impact, utilising our advanced instrumentation and
 facilities. There has been substantial investment and growth in research facilities since 2014
 (Section 3.3). Research highlights include:
     • Quantitative understanding of the sources and processes leading to chronic air pollution
          problems in global megacities, driving policy measures to improve air quality and
          wellbeing for tens of millions of people;
     • Enhanced insights into how chemicals from consumer products are transferred through
          the environment and, by dermal absorption, to humans, leading to changes in
          international environmental regulations;
     • Systems-level understanding of the impacts of manufactured nanomaterials on the
          environment, and leading Europe-wide research with industry into reduction of impacts
          by particle design;
     • Globally unique large-scale experiments (BIFoR FACE) [REF5a 4.2.3] and modelling to
          improve future carbon sequestration projections and evaluate climate change risks to
          forest ecosystems and their services.

 Earth Sciences excels in tectonics, palaeoclimatology and palaeobiology. Cross-cutting themes
 address the co-evolution of life and the planet, with particular focus on links between tectonics
 and climate, changes in biodiversity, and natural hazards. The ground-breaking nature of this
 research is evidenced by high-profile publications with substantial media coverage (e.g. reach of
 72m people and advertising value equivalent of £1.38m for research on dinosaur evolution).
 Research highlights include:
    • Experimental evidence of how the first continents formed from oceanic crust four billion
        years ago;
    • Development of fundamental new theories and models of continental breakup and
        seafloor spreading;
    • Novel deep Earth modelling showing that sustained magmatism caused Earth's largest
        quantifiable CO2 emission burst;
    • New modelling of the global methane cycle unlocking the significance of trace gas
        climate forcing for warm intervals through deep time;
    • Cutting-edge imaging and biomechanics revealing the fundamental role miniaturization
        played in the evolution of the mammalian body plan;
    • Innovative macroevolutionary analyses demonstrating that space, not time, primarily
        controls Phanerozoic marine diversity.

 Staff development is a key priority. Current UoA7 staff include three externally-funded early
 career staff (two Leverhulme Early Career Fellows, one Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow),
 five staff formerly funded (in this cycle) by externally-awarded independent fellowships, and five
 staff recruited through the Birmingham Fellowships scheme, an internally funded programme

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 providing a permanent academic position and protected research time for outstanding early-
 career academics [REF5a 3.4.1]. Our proactive career support is reflected through promotions,
 notably five to chair since 2014. Our staff have been our key priority through COVID-19 (Section
 2.1).

 Equality, Diversity & Inclusivity (EDI) is a priority for the School, which achieved Athena SWAN
 Bronze status in 2014 and 2019, and we strive to be inclusive in all aspects of School life. The
 EDI Committee covers all protected characteristics and comprises academic and professional
 services staff and postgraduate researchers. EDI is embedded in all operational and
 decision-making activities and is a standing item on all School Committees. Our staff
 initiate and lead grassroots EDI initiatives with national and international reach: examples
 include work on inclusive education, developing a primer about toilet stops for field-based
 teaching that has been implemented internationally (Greene, Edgar, Giles); and work on issues
 of bias against underrepresented groups in PhD recruitment (Greene, Giles; see Section 2.2.1).

 Our investment and growth has been maintained since the start of COVID-19, with new
 appointments (including Esquivel Muelbert) being made, promotions processes operating as
 normal (but taking COVID-19 impacts into account), and capital spend on facilities such as the
 Molecular Sciences building (see Section 1.2.1) continuing, albeit with minor delays.


 1.2. Research objectives
 1.2.1. Achieving our 2014–2021 research strategy
 At REF2014 our goals were to: (i) enhance our research power, through recruitment,
 infrastructure investment, building international partnerships, and staff mentoring; (ii) sustain our
 financial strength and use it to build activity in key strategic areas; (iii) support enhanced impact
 and engagement activities; and (iv) to be the institution of choice for students and staff. Building
 on REF2014 feedback, as well as the broader Birmingham 2026 strategy of the University
 [REF5a 2.1], we refined and expanded our goals, underpinned by a reorganisation of research
 group structures. This led to activity being guided by five core objectives, all with embedded EDI
 considerations.

    1) Enhance interdisciplinary collaborations. Our interdisciplinary research strategy
       (Section 1.4) has increased collaborations between research groups, between UoA7 and
       UoA14, and across the College and beyond, underpinned by interdisciplinary initiatives
       and infrastructure such as BIFoR [REF5a 4.2.3] and strategic appointments of new staff
       working across research groups and UoAs (e.g. Hopcroft, spanning ES and EHS; Pugh
       and Esquivel Muelbert, crossing into UoA5 and UoA14 research within the University).

    2) Invest in areas of strength and critical mass. Our College-recognised research ‘hot
       spots’ (Environmental Sciences, BIFoR) have received significant investment including
       unique new facilities such as BIFoR FACE, the Birmingham Air Quality Supersite and
       Wolfson Glasshouses environmental chambers (Section 3.3), accompanied by three new
       academic staff (Section 2.1). Earth Sciences investment includes recruitment of six new
       academic staff (Section 2.1) and the redevelopment of the Lapworth Museum (Section
       3.3).

    3) Develop high quality international collaborations. We have led or contributed to 16
       completed or scheduled international marine geology expeditions worth >£15m of direct
       and in-kind income (Section 4.1). We have expanded our strategic international
       partnerships in Brazil, India, China, North America, the EU, Chile and East Africa
       (Section 4.1). We have been highly successful in obtaining major funding, including
       ~£11.3m in EU income, to support those collaborations (Section 3.1).

    4) Enable our staff to achieve their potential. We have focused on mentoring,
       development and promotion of our early and mid-career staff (Section 2.1) and
       embedding EDI in our research culture. We have reorganised teaching to facilitate

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        research leave, increased internal pump-priming funding, and improved pre-submission
        review of grant applications (Section 3.2). This has led to substantial increases in
        income/FTE from a highly diverse range of funders (Section 3.1), as well as the hosting
        of NERC, Royal Society, Leverhulme and Marie Curie fellows. Our growing influence and
        leadership is evidenced through wider esteem and prestige, exemplified by major awards
        (e.g. Harrison – Elected Fellow, Royal Society; Valsami-Jones – Wolfson Fellowship,
        Royal Society; Section 4).

    5) Increase support for high-quality impact and engagement. We have increased
       funding for impact acceleration and hold regular events facilitating cultural changes
       needed to realise influence (Section 1.3). Our environmental science work has led to
       changes in environmental pollution policy and practice from local to international levels,
       ranging from air pollution to persistent organic pollutant and nanomaterials regulations.
       Public engagement and education has been driven by the redevelopment of the
       Lapworth Museum, led by our researchers and now attracting over 60,000 visitors per
       year [REF5a 4.3], and our involvement in the NERC Engaging Environments
       Programme, NERC’s flagship public engagement investment. We have instigated new
       academic engagement with a poorly served sector of UK industry (forest management),
       initiating the process that secured the £14.5m Future of UK Treescapes programme
       (NERC) and engaging the Defra Chief Plant Health Officer as a Director of BIFoR to
       support engagement.

 1.2.1. 2021–2026 research strategy
 Our significant growth and successes since 2014 will enable us to address the increasingly
 challenge-led research agenda to 2026 and beyond, whilst supporting genuinely research-
 intensive teaching across our educational portfolio. This aligns with the wider University of
 Birmingham strategy [REF5a 2.1] to undertake ‘research that matters’; significantly increasing
 the quality of research outputs, delivery of impact and enabling research income as we emerge
 from the uncertainties of COVID-19. To achieve these aspirations, we aim to:

    1) Grow our research activity and influence. We will focus upon areas of demonstrable
       excellence and critical mass, as well as areas of emerging significance, through targeted
       staff and facilities investment. For example, we will build on the success of BIFoR
       through a new commitment of £5m charitable and £5m matched internal investment,
       covering the period 2023–2027, beyond the £30m investment to date. Our rising profile in
       deep time evolutionary research will be supported by the transformation of our
       palaeobiology laboratories. This will continue our strong trajectory of growth in research
       income/FTE.

    2) Expand our leadership of interdisciplinary programmes within the University and
       beyond. Key emerging areas that we aim to develop include collaborations between our
       palaeobiologists and researchers in social science and humanities to address
       palaeontological ethics, geoconservation, and science communication; leadership of
       themes (Clean Air, Resilient Cities, Pollution Solutions) within the University’s Institute of
       Global Innovation (Section 1.4); a coherent body of research, teaching, and continuing
       professional development to link air pollution and urban planning practice; and
       environmental toxicology research involving collaborations with bioscientists.

    3) Fully exploit opportunities for new lab space and instrumentation provided by the
       forthcoming Molecular Sciences building. This new £80m facility (groundworks
       underway, delivery slightly delayed due to COVID-19) [REF5a 4.2.1], joint between the
       GEES and the School of Chemistry, will include space for ~10 UoA7 academic staff, and
       ∼90 associated postdocs and doctoral researchers from GEES. UoA7 staff have provided
       senior-level academic direction to the building design, with interdisciplinary challenge-led
       environmental research one of four underpinning research foci, expanding capacity and
       facilitating new research (and training) collaborations.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    4) Develop our community networks, industry and third sector engagement. We will
       use sector-facing projects such as WM-Air, BIFoR and Engaging Environments (Section
       1.3) to build and expand our partnerships with a diverse range of groups and
       organisations outside of higher education. We will use the University’s new city centre
       building, The Exchange [REF5a 4.2.2], as a catalyst for a range of city and community
       activities, initially around the theme ‘The Air We Breathe’.

    5) Build on Equality & Diversity progress made during this REF cycle, and increase
       staff numbers from underrepresented groups. In particular, we will use proactive
       recruitment policies, mentoring, and support for promotion applications increase our
       overall proportion of female and BAME researchers, and their representation at senior
       levels. We are implementing our Athena SWAN Bronze action plan, and aim to achieve a
       Silver award.


 1.3. Impact strategy
 1.3.1. Leadership. Impact continues to be of central importance to our research culture. In 2014
 we appointed a dedicated Director of Impact and Innovation to support UoA7 and UoA14
 (Chapman, returned to UoA14). Chapman has also served as a member of the NERC
 Innovation Advisory Board and is College Deputy Director of Research and Knowledge Transfer.
 He has oversight and responsibility for impact across the College, supported by a College-based
 team of research facilitators, a research planning partner, a charitable funding partner and a
 business engagement partner [REF5a 2.1.3].

 1.3.2. Training. We provide impact training to staff via dedicated sessions at bespoke
 workshops as well as regular sessions at school meetings and away days. A variety of
 mechanisms are used to develop new partnerships, ranging from Discovery Days on campus to
 tailored visits to individual organisations. The approach is successful, with researchers engaging
 actively with >400 different end users and organisations from across the private, public, charity
 and NGO sectors during the period 2014–2020 and is evidenced by ~8% of our research
 publications with academic-corporate collaborations.

 1.3.3. Pump-priming. Our researchers access Impact Acceleration Accounts held centrally at
 the University as well as School- and College-level pump priming funds to facilitate face-to-face
 meetings with partners (with an “always open” rapid turnaround mechanism). For example,
 Jones used pump priming funding to meet with industrial seismic imaging contractors, leading to
 an InnovateUK grant on applications of machine learning to seismic datasets for natural
 resource exploration. Consultancy work, managed by University of Birmingham Enterprise
 [REF5a 4.1], provides a means to kickstart impactful relationships with end-users; each staff
 member is permitted 30 days annually (examples include work with Merlin Energy, ION
 Geophysical, and the Environment Agency). Overall, by making relationships with end users
 central to our grant application process, we have an impact pipeline to achieve mutually
 beneficial long-term relationships.

 1.3.4. Embedding impact in postgraduate research training. CENTA2 exemplifies our
 approach: led by Birmingham, it involves 19 external partners ranging from industry to NGOs
 and governmental agencies, supporting a coordinated approach to end-user input and benefit.
 These partners contributed to the strategic development of CENTA2 and provide an in-kind
 contribution of ~£3m. Their contributions range from project and student selection, co-
 supervision and training delivery, to supporting individual studentships through CASE awards
 (~20% of all studentships) and placements to provide experience outside academia.

 1.3.5. Impact examples. An outstanding example of our approach is the £5m West Midlands
 Air Quality Improvement Programme (WM-Air), secured through the NERC Regional Science
 of the Environment (RISE) innovation scheme, which runs 2019–2023. UoA7 lead this initiative
 which applies environmental science expertise to improve air quality and human health across
 the West Midlands. The project involves over 20 formal partners committing over £1.4m in

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 additional support, ranging from political bodies (e.g. West Midlands Combined Authority,
 Birmingham and Coventry city councils) through to infrastructure organisations (e.g. HS2,
 Transport for West Midlands, Network Rail), public services (e.g. Birmingham & Solihull NHS
 STP), consultancies (e.g. Arup, Amey), and SMEs.

 Our involvement in transformative and cutting-edge engagement practice is demonstrated by our
 role in NERC’s flagship Engaging Environments programme, which runs 2019–2022. This
 public engagement investment (£1.3M) involves a national consortium of partners including five
 universities, charities and environmental science organisations. This brings together storytelling,
 community centred citizen science and community organising to share learning, create tools and
 connect environmental science with citizens. We are working with Citizens UK to combine
 environmental science with social justice issues (such as air quality, crime, transport, housing)
 and have been actively engaged in local community leadership around health, the Birmingham
 2022 Commonwealth Games, and employment opportunities for young people.


 1.4. Interdisciplinary research
 1.4.1. School-level. Interdisciplinary research is nurtured strategically through institutes and
 facilities such as BIFoR and EcoLaboratory, pump-priming support, and education links
 alongside organic initiatives between individual staff. To increase interdisciplinary activity, a
 School-level seminar series features speakers who span our research groups in UoA7 and
 UoA14: in 2014–2020 >50 speakers from 10 countries gave seminars, with gender balance of
 speakers achieved from 2018 onwards. Two key examples exemplify our approach:

 BIFoR is a key focus for interdisciplinary research: led by UoA7 together with UoA5 researchers
 it integrates >50 researchers across GEES and Biosciences and the wider University, and hosts
 five BIFoR Interdisciplinary Leadership Fellows spanning climatology, ecocriticism, water
 sciences, atmospheric science, and history. The Leverhulme Forest Edge doctoral training
 programme linked to BIFoR, and led by UoA7, involves collaborations across the physical,
 biological and social sciences, as well as the humanities.

 The Urban Initiative (UI) generates original and transformative research and creative thinking
 through interdisciplinary collaborations in urban planning, environmental, ecological and health
 sciences. A virtual centre bringing together GEES researchers across UoA7 and UoA14, it
 currently comprises over 50 academic members, doctoral and postdoctoral researchers and
 involves international partnerships in countries such as Brazil, India, China, Australia and
 Mexico. The UI has been a catalyst for interdisciplinary collaborations in the area of
 environmental changes. For example, we lead the ASAP project (A Systems Approach to Air
 Pollution; funded by DFID 2017–2020), which brings together >20 UK and East African experts
 in air pollution, urban planning, economic geography, public health, social sciences and
 development studies to provide a framework for improved air quality management in cities in
 Kenya, Ethiopia and Uganda.

 1.4.2. College-level. Within the College, links with Biosciences (UoA5) are of particular
 importance. Examples include sequencing proteins in pollen and their modification by air
 pollution, and ecotoxicology where collaborations have developed around the Environmental
 Omics Sequencing Facility and use of the keystone species Daphnia magna (waterflea). This
 work has generated new understanding of the role of proteins and other macromolecules in
 mediating nanoparticle uptake by and impact on biological systems.

 1.4.3. Institutional-level. At University level, the Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS)
 promotes bottom-up interdisciplinary research by combining expertise to address cross-cutting
 themes that are important, relevant and timely [REF5a 2.3.2]. Our researchers led three IAS
 workshops in 2014–2020 on synchrotron scanning, the BIFoR project, and plant-pathogen-
 environment interactions, and IAS supported six distinguished visiting fellows to BIFoR. The
 Institute for Global Innovation (IGI) also actively supports researchers to build challenge-led
 multi-disciplinary collaborations around four main and four emerging themes, especially with

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Low- and Middle-Income Countries, through provision of seed funding, convening of workshops
 and sandpits, and support for travel and logistics [REF5a, 2.3.3]. We lead the Environmental
 Pollution Solutions emerging theme which draws together Birmingham researchers from
 Environmental Sciences, Economics, Civil Engineering, Law and Social Work & Social Care,
 among others. Our researchers also contribute significantly to two other key themes (Resilient
 Cities, Water Challenges), as well as leading the latest emerging theme, Clean Air.


 1.5. Open Research
 Our researchers are active leaders in the opening up of the research process: for example,
 leading a major European Union funded programme to create a community structure for
 reproducible science in the nanoscience area (Lynch), or publishing community standards
 and recommendations for maximising open data in digital studies of biological morphology
 (Lautenschlager). Other specific actions include:

       (1) Maximising Open Access to our publications by mandating Green self-archiving of
          all research outputs on our institutional repository PURE [REF5a 2.2] (100%
          compliance for outputs submitted to REF2021), strongly encouraging Gold open access
          where feasible, and encouraging posting of pre-prints in appropriate subject-specific
          repositories such as bioRxiv;
       (2) Training our staff on how to openly share data in a citeable form via subject-specific
          repositories (e.g. Dryad, Zenodo) and the University’s Research Portal [REF5a 2.2];
          how to manage data in line with the Concordat on Open Research Data; and making
          data from facilities such as BIFoR FACE open after a specified period;
       (3) Enhancing understanding of Open Research among our staff, via training
          opportunities at staff away days and School meetings, as well as highlighting examples
          of staff engagement with Open Research via our internal School bulletin. Doctoral
          researchers are trained in Open Research practices and their intersections with
          research integrity, producing mandatory data management plans at an early stage in
          their studies.


 1.6. Research integrity
 Research integrity and ethical practice are central to all our research activity. All new research
 projects/grants and postgraduate research projects, and all research involving human subjects
 or other potential ethical issues (e.g. work with animals), must pass a robust ethical review, in
 line with the central University Code of Practice for Research [REF5a 2.2]. Undergraduate and
 taught postgraduate research projects all undergo ethical review at School level. Doctoral
 researchers are provided with extensive guidance and training opportunities: for example, our
 NERC CENTA doctoral researchers attend a ‘Research Integrity’ training day.

 Research involving the use of chemical or biological materials, manual handling, or fieldwork all
 require hazard and risk assessments to be completed, checked, and held centrally. Ethics
 review and monitoring ensures, for example, that field samples (e.g. fossil, geological) are
 collected following local and international guidelines and regulations on land access, sampling
 and custodianship of natural heritage. Where appropriate, such samples are subsequently
 accessioned into the Lapworth Museum of Geology, ensuring future public and scientific access
 to them.

 2. People
 2.1. Staffing strategy and overview
 Our staffing strategy focuses on:
    (i) Strategic recruitment in areas of critical mass and where our expertise is globally
          recognised;
    (ii) Ensuring development, retention and promotion of existing talent;
    (iii) Enhancing female and BAME staff numbers in all roles through recruitment strategies and
          tackling barriers to career development and promotion;

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (iv) Increasing our population of independently funded research fellows.

 Our significant strategic staffing investments in UoA7 since 2014 (4F, 6M) have focused on
 building and enhancing areas of research strength, with four new academic staff in EHS
 (Abdallah, Esquivel Muelbert, Pugh, Pfrang) and six in ES (Edgar, Giles, Greene, Hopcroft,
 Lautenschlager, Maffione). To recruit Hopcroft, we used the University’s Birmingham Fellows
 scheme [REF5a 3.4.1]. Although appointed prior to 2014, four other current UoA7 staff (Butler,
 Dunkley Jones, Pope, Shi) also held Birmingham Fellowships and benefited from enhanced
 support during this REF cycle, with three promoted to Chair by 2020. These investments have
 boosted research in areas including vertebrate palaeobiology, palaeoclimates, tectonics,
 persistent organic pollutants, atmospheric chemistry and pollution, and forest ecology.

 GEES was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze status in 2014, renewed in 2019. Policies put in
 place as part of this have ensured that shortlisting and appointment panels pay enhanced regard
 to EDI questions. This includes:
     • Targeting female, BAME and other underrepresented candidates through subject
        networks;
     • Use of gender-neutral language;
     • Contextualising outputs/achievements in relation to career breaks during shortlisting and
        interviews;
     • Only approving shortlists if there is realistic gender balance;
     • Unconscious bias training for panel members;
     • Adding an EDI statement to all job adverts, including a named female staff member to
        contact informally.
 The University is a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
 (DORA) [REF5a 2.2], and we follow its principles in our assessment of academic job applicants.
 At School level, these new policies resulted in a doubling in applications from and shortlisting of
 women since 2015 (gender parity reached 2017), and 320% increase in women appointed. Our
 proportion of women (19% of submitted staff) and BAME (6% of staff) researchers remains low,
 and improving in these areas is a key priority for the School and the Unit.

 We have also increased our successful support of externally funded independent
 fellowships (e.g. Halliday, Clements, Leverhulme Early Career Fellows in Palaeobiology; Giles,
 Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow and proleptic Senior Research Fellow in Palaeobiology).
 Staff retention has been high since 2014, evidencing our attractive research environment.
 94% of our submitted staff are employed on open-ended contracts.

 97% of our submitted staff are employed full-time. The career pathways for part-time staff are
 equivalent to full-time staff. Promotions panels evaluate the quality of the inputs/outputs of staff
 and quantity only in relation to their working hours.

 Staff on parental and adoption leave remain on mailing and School bulletin lists (without
 expectation of messages being read) and use ‘keep in touch’ days to attend research events
 and specific meetings. Tailored support is provided for career progression of academic staff
 returning from leave, and long-term changes can be made to working hours to accommodate
 caring responsibilities.

 Wherever possible, we provide opportunities for flexible and remote working, and have
 improved information to staff about these options. We schedule core meetings and research
 seminars within core working hours. We survey staff annually to collect flexible working requests
 that may affect timetabling of lectures. In 2018/19 and 2019/20, all such requests (7 and 9) from
 UoA7 staff were supported.

 EDI training opportunities used by our staff have included training on unconscious bias,
 inclusive development, chairing inclusive meetings and being an LGBTQ+ ally. The weekly
 School bulletin has highlighted positive role models around work/life balance and caring, and
 information on events such as Women in Science, Black History Month and staff LGBT and

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 BAME networks [REF5a 3.4.5]. Regular EDI events involving UoA7 and UoA14 staff have
 included topics such as International Women’s Day and Equality and Justice in a Changing
 World. In 2020, ES staff, postdocs and doctoral researchers established an anti-racism reading
 group, which has played a key role in driving EDI actions at School level.

 We provided extensive support for our staff and doctoral researchers through the COVID-19
 pandemic, including reduced workload expectations for those with caring responsibilities
 (principle of ‘best endeavours’), explicitly taking impacts into account in annual performance
 reviews and promotions, and maintaining a sense of community through online seminars,
 doctoral supervisions, online away days, virtual meetings and coffee breaks, many organised
 organically at research group level.

 2.1.1. Staff development strategy. We provide our staff with a comprehensive system of
 induction, probation, annual appraisal, mentoring and training. Academic probation is typically
 three years, and comprises a Personal Development Plan outlining agreed objectives, ongoing
 mentoring, and an annual Performance Development Review (PDR) with the Head of School
 [REF5a 3.4.3]. Our researchers can achieve promotion while still in the probationary period
 and/or complete probation early when progress is exceptional (4 staff in 2014–2020). We have
 revised the annual PDR process since 2014 to include discussions of personal development,
 research leave, career breaks, and promotion.

 We offer mentoring and coaching to all staff, including compulsory probationary mentoring,
 peer-to-peer mentoring, and coaching, the latter being provided by the University’s central
 People & Organisational Development team. Four UoA7 staff benefited from coaching in 2014–
 2020.

 Diverse training opportunities are enthusiastically embraced by our researchers. We
 developed a new induction programme to support our academics: this model has now been
 adopted as a model of best practice for the wider College. This programme aims to build a
 cohort identity and provides a focused introduction to the current Higher Education landscape,
 alongside personal development skills. All those with teaching responsibilities complete the
 Postgraduate Certificate in Higher Education (PGCHE). Our researchers use continuing
 professional development opportunities [REF5a 3.4.4] including the cross-University Research
 Leaders’ Programme (5 staff in 2014–2020), Emerging and Senior Leadership programmes (6),
 and the Aurora Leadership Programme for early-career female academics (1), as well as the
 College-level Rising Stars Programme (1). Our staff are encouraged to take on broader
 leadership roles outside of the School, with three holding such roles since 2014 (e.g. Sansom,
 College Director of Education).

 We have nurtured disciplinary leadership throughout this cycle with promotions to Chair
 (Bloss, Butler, Lynch, Pope, Shi), Reader (Pugh), and Senior Lecturer/Senior Research Fellow
 (Dunkley-Jones, Edgar, Giles, Stevenson, Watt). Our proportions of both BAME staff and senior
 female staff remain relatively low (e.g. ~18% of chairs within UoA7 are women, falling below the
 national benchmark of 24%). We have introduced specific actions to address this including:
 changes to recruitment policies (see above); improving the PDR process to include explicit
 discussion of promotion criteria; enhanced guidance on promotions processes through
 dedicated workshops; proactive Head of School encouragement of female and BAME promotion
 candidates; mandatory EDI and unconscious bias training for promotions panels; appointment of
 an EDI representative to the School promotions panel. Future promotions will also account for
 COVID-19 impacts on research and other activity.

 These changes have led to increases in this REF cycle in female applicants and success
 rates for promotion. Across the School, female staff have been disproportionately (positively)
 represented in successful promotion applications through 2014–2020, with 69% success rates
 for women versus 54% for men. We recognise that we have more to do in this area. Increasing
 our proportion of BAME and female research staff, particularly at senior levels, is a priority for
 the next five years, and embedded in our Athena SWAN action plan.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.2. Early-career researchers (ECRs). We have a vibrant community of ECRs (Table 2).
 Independent research fellows are treated as academic staff and receive training and mentoring
 as part of induction and probation (Section 2.1.1). Where possible, we support research fellows
 into open-ended staff positions, with eight making this transition in 2014–2020. Full promotion
 opportunities are available to research fellows (e.g. Giles to Senior Research Fellow). ECRs are
 involved in School governance via explicit representation on Research and other committees.

 Table 2. Counts of internally and externally funded research fellows/PDRAs, 2014–2020
                                                                         UoA7
                        Birmingham Fellows                                 6
                Leverhulme Early Career Fellows                            3
             Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellows                         3
                   NERC Independent Fellows                                4
                        Marie Curie Fellows                               12
                               PDRAs                                      78

 The College PERCAT (Postdoctoral and Early Researcher Career Development and Training)
 initiative [REF5a 3.3] is led in the School by ECR representatives and provides our ECRs with
 training courses, career advice, funding opportunities, workshops and seminars. PERCAT
 provided 48 such events in 2014–2020.

 2.1.3. Research leave policy. Wherever possible, we concentrate an individual’s teaching into a
 single semester to reduce time fragmentation. Our researchers also have access to a formal
 research leave programme [REF5a 3.4.3] to provide up to one semester to develop their
 research profile (taken up by 8 staff in 2014–2020). Applications are particularly encouraged
 where staff with significant caring or other responsibilities wish to enhance their research activity.
 For example, Bendle used his research leave to build collaborations in the USA leading to joint
 grant applications and fieldwork in the USA, Vietnam and Laos.

 2.1.4. Recognition for staff delivering research and impact. Our workload model calculates
 research, impact, teaching and administrative load, using weightings based on best practice
 elsewhere in the UK. Data are gathered on an ongoing basis and inform discussions in PDR
 meetings. Our workload philosophy with respect to research is that where new grant or
 impact activity has been secured, teaching and admin roles are redistributed accordingly.
 In doing so, we acknowledge the particular strengths of the individual to provide ring-fenced time
 for both research and impact activities. The model also includes a standard tariff for citizenship
 duties and implicit FTE-adjustments for part-time staff, and is monitored annually for gender
 bias. Data show that, since the introduction of this model, there is an equitable workload
 gender balance.

 In line with the Knowledge Exchange Concordat, impact has equal importance to frontier
 research in recognition and reward and is reflected in promotion criteria [REF5a 3.4.6].
 We acknowledge the need for continuous improvement in this area and so to assist staff
 development in impact, we provide training in public engagement, policy and commercialisation.

 2.1.5. Supporting staff and postgraduate researcher wellbeing. Our staff have access to the
 Employee Advice and Listening Service, as well as counselling, harassment advice, and
 disability support and mediation services [REF5a 3.4.5]. Postgraduate researchers have access
 to equivalent services provided via the Student Hub. An annual workplace wellbeing week is
 held to raise awareness of these centrally provided services. Our researchers have received
 bespoke training on mental health support during fieldwork.

 Our researchers use a dedicated Equalities Travel Support Fund, launched by the College in
 2019, which covers costs related to childcare or caring responsibilities incurred when travelling
 for research or impact, or when hosting incoming researchers. Up to £500 can be applied for
 each year by an individual staff member (two awarded to UoA7 in first year of operation).


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2. Research students
 2.2.1. Recruitment and funding. Our postgraduate researchers (PGRs) are funded through six
 primary pathways: UKRI-funded doctoral training partnerships (DTPs) and Centres for Doctoral
 Training (CDTs); a Leverhulme Trust doctoral scholarships grant (Forest Edge); Marie Curie
 training networks; funded positions within major research grants and fellowships; overseas
 scholarships; and self-funding.

 Three primary DTPs/CDTs fund UoA7 students: NERC CENTA DTP; NERC Oil & Gas CDT; and
 ESRC-NERC Big Data and Risk (DREAM). During the 2014–2020 period, 100 PGRs completed
 their doctoral studies in UoA7. This represents a 50% increase in PGR completions/year
 compared to the last REF cycle. NERC CENTA is led by the School, with UoA7 researcher
 Bendle acting as Director throughout the first funding cycle.

 All staff advertise externally for self-funded students or those with externally awarded
 scholarships, and PGR recruitment is also supported via the University’s international office, with
 focused activity in China, India and Brazil. PhD funding is also provided through College-level
 resources, including match-funding for DTPs and strong strategic cases, and University
 schemes such as Elite Overseas Scholarships and Global Challenges Studentships.

 We have seen increased female representation of PGR students since 2015 (current
 numbers: 41% female; 59% male), and across UoA7 exceed the HESA benchmark (37%
 female; 63% male). Male PGR applicants substantially exceed female applicants, although
 female applicants are more likely to receive and accept offers of places. UoA7 researchers
 (Giles, Greene) have been leading work to assess the EDI impact of the approaches used by
 DTPs/CDTs in recruiting students from marginalised and underrepresented groups across the
 UK higher education sector, including an open letter to UKRI in 2020. This work contributed to a
 radical overhaul of the CENTA2 recruitment processes to improve diversity (e.g. ringfenced
 BAME studentships) in 2020.

 2.2.2. Monitoring and support mechanisms. Students complete a Development Needs
 Analysis form annually to identify skills gaps and training opportunities. Supervisions take place
 at least monthly with a formal record of progress and agreed actions logged. Twice annually
 PGRs have a formal review meeting with the PGR lead for their research group, their mentor
 and supervisory team. These meetings ensure that the project is on track and that the
 supervisory team is working effectively and in the interest of the PGR. Non-completion rates for
 PGR degrees are very low (less than 5%).

 This support continued throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, with supervisory meetings and
 Postgraduate Boards taking place online. Impacts of COVID-19 on research progress were
 recorded on a monthly basis, in order to build cases for studentship extensions where possible
 and appropriate. PGRs also engaged extensively with, and in many cases led the organisation
 of, social support structures through this interval (see Section 2.1).

 2.2.3. Skills and career development. Training needs are fulfilled through courses running both
 on campus and regional courses made available via DTPs. Campus-based courses are curated
 by the University Graduate School [REF5a 3.2], and include generic skills training, such as
 communicating research, transferrable and employability skills. Support for international
 students is provided by the International Students Advisory Service, the Counselling and
 Guidance Centre, and English skills through the Birmingham International Academy.

 Our PGRs use College-level funds to organise internal workshops, and a travel fund for
 conference attendance. In addition, our PGRs organise an annual School-level postgraduate
 conference, where in year 1 they give a poster presentation, in year 2 an oral presentation and
 in year 3 chair a session. This enhances interdisciplinary interactions amongst and between the
 PGR and staff communities.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3. Approach to EDI in construction of the REF submission
 We have prioritised consideration of Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity issues in constructing our
 REF submission, following the University’s Code of Practice for REF2021, including the use of
 equality impact assessments in both the process of identifying staff who are independent
 researchers and in the final selection of submitted outputs. Equality impact assessments,
 overseen by the Head of School and Head of Research, compared the contributions of staff with
 protected characteristics and at different career stages to the submitted output portfolio with their
 representation in the Unit as a whole. Our submission reflects the diversity of our research Unit,
 and our equality impact assessments show no evidence of biases with respect to any particular
 cohort or combinations of protected characteristics. All submitted staff have seen and have had
 several opportunities to comment on the environment template.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1. Research income
 Crucial to our research grants strategy has been focusing resources within centres of excellence
 and strengthening our interdisciplinary and international links. Support for funding bids has been
 provided by an integrated research support office at College-level which helps identify
 opportunities, assists in drafting applications, works with the University’s Business Engagement
 and Development and Alumni Relations teams [REF5a 4.1] to bring external partners on board
 and organises mock panel interviews for larger consortium grants. This technical support works
 together with a rigorous system introduced during this REF period of mentoring and internal
 peer review of applications undertaken at research group level.

 The success of this strategy is demonstrated by major increases in research income.
 Research income for UoA7 researchers at REF2014 was £11.53m between 2007/2008 and
 2012/2013. Our total research income was £27.24m during 2013/2014 to 2019/2020,
 representing an absolute annual increase of 67%, and an average 53% increase per FTE.
 Income data show sustained increases, from £3.3m in 2013/2014 to £4.13m in 2019/2020.

 This income was generated from >60 different funders, including €11.3m from European
 funders and £12.6m from UKRI (primarily NERC). Selected major awards include the West
 Midlands Air Quality Improvement Programme (NERC, £5m), the QUINTUS project on carbon
 and nutrient dynamics in temperate forests (NERC, £3.7m), and three European Research
 Council grants (€5.38m in total).

 Additional significant research-linked income includes:
   • £15m donation by the JABBS Foundation (with matched internal resource) to inaugurate
        the Birmingham Institute of Forest Research (BIFoR);
   • ~£3.5m income-in-kind from access to NERC and other national facilities;
   • ~£15m of direct and income-in-kind for international ocean research expeditions;
   • £1.6m income-in-kind for structural geology software (MOVE);
   • Involvement in £1.3m funding for public engagement through the NERC Engaging
        Environments Programme;
   • ~£3.4m from Heritage Lottery Fund, Arts Council England, DCMS, Wolfson, University
        alumni, Research England Museums Fund and National Archives to redevelop the
        Lapworth Museum and provide subsequent support for enhanced public engagement
        and research activity.

 Since 2014, our improved processes have helped increase the success rate of research grant
 applications led by women, leading to substantial increases in total and average annual
 research grant awards to our female staff.


 3.2. Infrastructure supporting research and impact
 New internal processes to support excellence in research and a vibrant research culture were
 introduced following a strategic review of the outcomes of REF2014. Rigorous internal grant
 peer-review is now the norm. A pitch-to-peers ~4–6 months pre-deadline critiques proposals,

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and a ‘mock panel’ meeting ~6 weeks out assesses full proposals. Bids over £250k typically
 require formal peer review within research themes, ensuring quality control. The College
 Research Support Office [REF5a 4.1] provides high quality support aiding these activities. Better
 outputs are also enabled via research leave to address specific deliverables (see Section
 2.1.3).

 A School pump-priming fund initiated in 2015 allocates funds (£2–5k) to proof-of-concept
 research and translational activity (11 UoA7 staff received funding). We have also provided an
 annual research allocation of £500 per staff member to support activity. Furthermore, our staff,
 ECRs and PGRs actively use a diverse range of University- and College-level international
 networking and research funding, including for targeted activities in India, China and Brazil,
 as well as through the Institute for Advanced Studies and Institute for Global Innovation (Section
 1.4) [REF5a 2.3]. Ten staff benefited from such internal funding (totalling ~£17k) since 2014. We
 also use institutional funding schemes that target specific strategic partners [REF5a 2.1.8] such
 as the BRIDGE initiative with the University of Illinois Urbana Champaign (5 staff benefited from
 funding totalling ~£30k) or the Universitas 21 network of universities (4 ECRs received funding to
 visit research partners in Canada, Australia and China) [REF5a 2.1.8]. Our Equalities Travel
 Support Fund supports research-related travel for those with caring responsibilities (Section
 2.1.5).

 Our researchers make active use of dedicated School, College and University-level impact
 and enterprise funds (Section 1.3). Our researchers are actively involved in the internal panels
 for this activity. All our submitted impact case studies benefited from these funds. Dedicated
 professional services support for impact activity is available and includes a College-based
 Research Communications officer and a Business Engagement Partner. Broader support for
 impact at an institutional level covers activity ranging from Public Engagement to Enterprise.

 Individual research groups run weekly seminar series with internal and external speakers, and
 additional seminar series and discussion groups are organised at subtheme level. These
 continued remotely through the COVID-19 pandemic, with an increased number of international
 speakers. This is in addition to fortnightly evening lectures organised by our researchers through
 the Lapworth Museum bringing in leading Earth Scientists (10 per year) to present research to
 the public.

 We host numerous international research visitors: >155 during this REF cycle from >20
 countries, particularly China and India. Our research visitors are often in receipt of prestigious
 external funding (e.g. Sageman, Fulbright Scholar Award, 2019), and we also use internal
 funding such as the University’s Brazilian Visiting Fellows scheme.


 3.3. Facilities and investment
 We have leveraged >£55m of facilities investment through this REF cycle (including our share of
 the Molecular Sciences building [REF5a 4.2.1] – groundworks underway), through internal (e.g.
 annual College-level fund for equipment, alumni campaigns) and external sources. Investment
 has been targeted to support our key objectives (Section 1.2) of enhancing interdisciplinary
 collaborations and growing our key areas of research strength and critical mass. Details of our
 key facilities (Fig. 1) are provided below.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Fig. 1. Some key existing and forthcoming UoA7 facilities. A, Lapworth Museum of Geology. B,
 BIFoR FACE. C, EcoLaboratory. D, under-development Molecular Sciences building.

 The Birmingham Institute of Forest Research (BIFoR) was established in late 2013 as an
 interdisciplinary unit providing a step-change in UK forest research. BIFoR’s flagship facility is a
 Free Air Carbon Enrichment (FACE) experiment, which came on-stream in 2017 supported
 by a £15m donation from the JABBS Foundation, matched by in-kind investment of >£15m by
 the University. BIFoR FACE is only the second such facility worldwide, and the only one in the
 Northern Hemisphere. It is set in mature, unmanaged, temperate woodland to assess the impact
 of rising CO2 levels on forest ecosystems. BIFoR is led by UoA7 researcher MacKenzie and
 supports >50 ongoing research projects including involvement of ~15 academics plus postdocs
 and doctoral researchers from UoA7, as well as UoA14, UoA5, and numerous external
 institutions, including the Met Office, Earthwatch Institute, and ~15 European universities.
 Interdisciplinary research cuts across UoA7 and UoA14, as well as into the College of Arts and
 Law and Schools of Biosciences and Psychology. This is evidenced by the £1.04m Forest Edge
 initiative providing Leverhulme Doctoral Scholarships funding to 20 doctoral researchers across
 physical, biological and social sciences and humanities. BIFoR has generated £2.5m in further
 philanthropic donations and >£8m in UKRI funding, including a £3.7m NERC research grant
 (QUINTUS) to study carbon and nutrient dynamics in temperate forests to understand the
 implications for carbon sequestration in a high carbon dioxide world.

 The Lapworth Museum of Geology [REF5a 4.3] (see submitted Impact Case Study) has
 collections and archives including c. 300,000 objects internationally renowned for their scientific
 significance: the entire collection is designated as ‘outstanding’ by Arts Council England, and
 receives Research England funding to help it support the research community. The collections
 are used extensively by UoA7 researchers, particularly within Palaeobiology, and provide an
 outstanding venue to engage the public with research. A £2.7 million redevelopment of the
 Lapworth from 2014–2016 tripled visitor numbers to >60,000/year, as well as receiving
 international recognition via shortlisting for Art Fund Museum of the Year, the world’s largest
 museum prize. Our research is showcased in the permanent galleries of the museum as well as

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in temporary exhibitions, including on changing scientific and artistic depictions of dinosaurs, and
 the International Ocean Discovery Project and climate change. The Lapworth is a key venue for
 EDI activity, for example hosting the 2017 exhibition Raising Horizons, showcasing key historical
 and modern women in geology and palaeontology (including UoA7 staff and PGRs).

 The Birmingham Environmental Research Facility [REF5a 4.2.3] was created during this
 REF cycle, comprising the Environmental Change Outdoor Laboratory (EcoLaboratory), the
 Birmingham Air Quality Supersite, the Wolfson Glasshouses environmental chamber facility and
 the Meteorological Observatory, all co-located on the University campus close to the main GEES
 buildings. EcoLaboratory is a new £1.2m investment by the University into experimental water
 environments, comprising over 100 parallel flume, open-air mesocosms that allow high
 replication and real-time monitoring. The facility provides environmentally relevant conditions for
 assessing the impacts of nanomaterials and microplastics. It is used by our researchers
 including Lynch, and has facilitated £2.5m of external funding across UoA7 and UoA14.

 The Birmingham Air Quality Supersite (BAQS) is one of three national air quality research
 supersites, developed through >£1m of NERC investment (alongside c. £100k support from the
 University). UoA7 staff lead BAQS, which includes advanced instruments to characterise
 gaseous and particulate components of the urban atmosphere, and identify anticipated and
 unexpected trends in atmospheric composition. Data from BAQS is open access, fed into the
 national supersite network repository, made locally available via the University website, and
 contributes to Birmingham City Council’s monitoring network. The site also hosts instruments
 operated by external partners (including Cambridge and York universities and sensor
 development companies). Adjacent to the BAQS site, our Meteorological Observatory is
 integrated into the UK Met Office network. The BAQS facility has directly facilitated >£500k of
 additional external funding to date, and supports the £5m WM-Air Programme.

 The Wolfson Glasshouses environmental chamber facility, due to reopen in 2021 (delayed
 from 2020 by COVID-19) following a £1m Wolfson Foundation award as part of a total £2.7m
 investment, will provide controlled environmental chambers to study the interactions of plants
 and biological systems with environmental stressors, such as enhanced CO2 levels or the
 presence of new plant pathogens. The facility represents a collaboration between UoA7
 researchers and the School of Biosciences (UoA5).

 We have conducted pioneering work with aerial robotics. From 2013–2018, our academics led
 NERC Summer School training in the use of mini- and micro-unmanned aerial systems. We
 have deployed ultra-light drones to conduct aerial photogrammetry, but also pushed the
 technological envelope through much larger platforms for in-situ sensing of greenhouse gases
 above the trade-wind inversion, within volcanic plumes, and for the first deployments of a
 spectrometer to measure solar-induced fluorescence from photosynthesis. Our research on the
 miniaturisation of environmental sensors includes deployment of meteorological payloads on
 birds for measurements in settings unsuitable for drones. As a direct result of our scoping work,
 our researchers participated in NERC-funded research using the world’s largest aerial robot, the
 NASA Global Hawk.

 Instrumentation within EHS has been enhanced since 2014, including: a 2-Dimensional Gas
 Chromatography linked with a Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometer (ERC funded), one of only two
 in the UK used in atmospheric science applications, which has allowed elucidation of the
 chemical composition of diesel exhaust particulate matter in unprecedented detail; a Chemical
 Ionisation-Atmospheric Pressure Inlet-Time-of-Flight Mass Spectrometer (NERC funded), also
 one of only two in the UK, which has underpinned the identification of a novel mechanism of new
 particle formation within the Antarctic atmosphere; a quantum cascade laser system for
 monitoring atmospheric gases (NERC funded); an organic and elemental carbon analyser for
 atmospheric particles (NERC funded); and two high resolution proton transfer reaction mass
 spectrometers (JABBS and University funded). New instrument development is a focus of
 activity, including systems to measure in situ atmospheric ozone production rates, halogen
 atoms, and atmospheric total organic reactivity (all three NERC funded).

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Facility for Environmental Nanoscience Analysis and Characterisation (FENAC) was
 originally established as a NERC facility to support environmental nanoscience and
 nanotoxicology research, and from April 2020 has been run as a self-sustaining independent
 facility. The facility has supported >30 research projects including involvement of ~23 academics
 as well as postdocs and doctoral researchers from UoA7, UoA14, UoA5, and numerous external
 institutions, including the British Geological Survey, Centre for Ecology & Hydrology and ~18 UK
 universities.

 Other facilities include an industry-standard 3D seismic processing, interpretation, and
 reconstruction facility and a stable isotope laboratory, providing state-of-the-art continuous-flow
 isotope-ratio mass spectrometry for the investigation of environmental, biological and geological
 samples. The Paleomagnetic Unit and Magnetic Anisotropy (PUMA) facility was relaunched
 in 2017 and is equipped with instruments for palaeomagnetic and magnetic fabric analysis.
 Under development are plans for a new integrated Palaeobiology Laboratory that will include
 wet and dry fossil preparation and processing spaces, state-of-the-art microscope facilities, high-
 power workstations for virtual fossil visualisation, and 3D scanning and printing facilities.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1. Research collaborations
 Our focus on challenge-led interdisciplinary research inherently recognises that key, outstanding
 issues to be addressed in the Earth and Environmental Sciences are global in nature, may
 require access to specialised facilities or infrastructure not present in the UK and that many of
 the challenges and topics we address operate across international boundaries. In addition to
 flagship examples of leadership in regional and national collaborations (see section 1.3), we
 therefore also have extensive leadership of international networks, as evidenced by co-
 authored publications with researchers from more than 70 different countries (Fig. 2). We
 have also sought to take advantage of specific opportunities afforded by the strategic University
 goal of strengthening links with Brazil, China, India, and North America [REF5a 2.1.8]. Each has
 a dedicated University team responsible for promoting engagement alongside central schemes
 to pump prime activity (Section 3.2), including a hub in Brussels to ensure strong engagement
 with European partners. Some specific highlights are illustrated below.




 Fig. 2. Our UoA7 academics co-authored papers with researchers from 73 overseas countries
 and territories from 2014–2020 (warmer colours = more collaborations). The largest numbers of
 collaborations were with the USA, Germany, China, Saudi Arabia, Spain, France and Australia
 (data from SciVal).

 Environmental challenges do not respect borders hence policy needs to operate at an
 international scale. For example, in regards to the threat from persistent organic pollutants,
 Harrad has shown exceptional leadership with numerous partners worldwide by co-ordination of
 three major EU-funded Marie Curie Initial Training Networks and two Marie Curie International
 Research Staff Exchange Scheme projects. These collaborations have led to changes in
 international regulations on halogenated flame retardants and other pollutants. Likewise,
 Valsami-Jones and Lynch are international leaders in the field of nanotoxicology and play a

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leading role in the translation of scientific advances towards the global regulation of nano-
 enabled products by bringing together teams of researchers, as evidenced by their coordination
 of or participation in eight major EU (FP7 and Horizon2020) funded projects.

 Another key driver of our international collaborations has been through unique facilities essential
 for tackling global issues that cannot be constrained to a single laboratory or field site. This is
 perhaps best evidenced by our role in international marine expeditions. We have led NERC
 expedition JC132 to the Mid-Atlantic Ridge, been involved in five other NERC or similar cruises
 (each costing ~£1m), participated in or been involved in eight International Ocean Discovery
 Program (IODP) expeditions, and currently lead IODP Expedition 388 and IODP Proposal 943,
 awaiting re-scheduling/scheduling respectively.

 Finally, our international collaborations are always undertaken with regard to building meaningful
 two-way partnerships that will grow and develop over time. This has been a key strength of the
 Air Pollution team who have led multiple projects with partners across China, India and East
 Africa (e.g. £2m Air Pollution Sources in Beijing project, overall science coordination for the
 APHH-China programme, leadership of the £1.5m Sources of Air Pollutants in Delhi project, £1m
 DFID-funded project ASAP-Africa and the £1.6m NERC Highlight Topic project SEANA). For
 example, the ASAP project (Section 1.4) has the goal of co-creating and producing innovative
 solutions to East African air pollution (focused on Addis Ababa, Kampala and Nairobi) that build
 local social networks based on trust and collaboration. The new knowledge generated will spur
 the development of these coalitions and furnish them with the information required to
 understand, regulate, monitor, and manage air pollution for the long term.


 4.2. Contribution to the discipline
 UoA7 researchers have organised or hosted >15 academic conferences in Birmingham in
 2014–2020. We also organised numerous symposia at external professional meetings, including
 key international conferences such as the American Geophysical Union, European Geosciences
 Union, and Goldschmidt, and two consecutive Faraday Discussions on Air Pollution. In 2017 the
 Lapworth Museum hosted the Embodied Geographies symposium, organised by and involving
 UoA14 and UoA7 researchers, which explored and developed learning about how EDI issues
 and questions of fairness work through the academic disciplines within the School. Furthermore,
 to help inspire the next generation of scientists we hosted the 2019 Earth Science Teachers’
 Association annual meeting at the Lapworth, showcasing our research activity and sharing new
 teaching resources.

 UoA7 researchers have been extensively involved in committee and leadership roles in 14
 key professional societies covering all our subject areas, including the Royal Society, Royal
 Society of Chemistry, Royal Meteorological Society, Aerosol Society, Geological Society,
 Micropalaeontological Society, Palaeontological Association, Society of Vertebrate
 Palaeontology, Volcanic and Magmatic Studies Group, University Geoscience UK, and the Solid
 Earth Geophysics Forum.


 4.3. Wider influence and esteem
 UoA7 researchers serve on multiple NERC panels, including the Advisory Network, Peer Review
 College, Discovery Science Grant panels, International Opportunities Fund panel, and Large
 Grants panel. Other externally significant roles held by UoA7 researchers include:
     • Steering Committee and Grants Panel for the UK Prevention Research Partnership of the
        Medical Research Council, member (Harrison);
     • EU Clean Air Prize, evaluator (Harrison);
     • Defra Air Quality Expert Group, member (Harrison);
     • Department of Health committees on Medical Effects of Air Pollutants and Toxicity,
        member (Harrison);
     • Advisory Committee for the NIHR Programme Human Health Aspects of Chemical
        Hazards, chair (Harrison);

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Community of Experts of the European Science Foundation, member (MacKenzie);
    •   NERC Strategic Programme Advisory Committee and Joint Capital Advisory Group,
        member (MacKenzie);
    •   NERC Advisory Network (Mackenzie, Shi);
    •   Evaluation Panel for the EU's Marie Skłodowska Curie individual fellowships, vice-chair
        2014–2017 (Harrad);
    •   Clean Air Advisory Panel for Wales, member (Bloss);
    •   National Isotope Facility panel, chair (Fairchild);
    •   Stratigraphic Commissions for the Precambrian (Cryogenian) and Quaternary
        (Anthropocene), member (Fairchild);
    •   IODP-Laboratory Working Group, member (Edgar);
    •   TALENT Policy Commission, assessing higher education sector’s future need for
        technical talent, member (Edgar);
    •   Paleobiology Database, executive committee (Butler).

 Significant external prizes awarded in this REF cycle include:
    • Elected Fellow, Royal Society (Harrison);
    • Wolfson Fellowship, Royal Society (Valsami-Jones);
    • John Jeyes Award, Royal Society of Chemistry (Lynch);
    • Environment Prize, Royal Society of Chemistry (Harrison);
    • Coke Medal (Fairchild), Murchison Fund (Watt) and Lyell Fund (Giles), Geological
        Society of London;
    • Arne Richter Award for Outstanding Young Scientists, European Geosciences Union
        (Watt);
    • Stensio Award, International Symposium on Early and Lower Vertebrates (Giles);
    • Distinguished Lecturer Award, Mineralogical Society (Valsami-Jones);
    • Distinguished Lecturer/Medallist, Royal Society of Chemistry (Valsami-Jones);
    • Exceptional Lecturer Award, Palaeontological Association (Lautenschlager).

 UoA7 researchers served on the editorial boards of 30 journals covering all our subject
 areas from atmospheric chemistry (e.g. Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics) to palaeobiology
 (e.g. Journal of Vertebrate Palaeontology). Key examples include Harrad as Editor-in-Chief of
 Emerging Contaminants (2014–present) and Harrison as joint Executive Editor of Environmental
 Technology (1980–2016) and Editor-in-Chief of the NPG journal Climate and Atmospheric
 Science (2016–present).


 Concluding remarks
 Our research environment has grown substantially stronger since 2014. We have invested in
 people, enhancing our vibrant community of researchers through targeted recruitment, and
 supporting, developing and promoting our staff. We have developed new initiatives focussed at
 staff induction, study leave, pump priming funds and internal grant review. The success of these
 measures is evidenced by low staff turnover, high grant capture and increase in independent
 fellows joining and staying with us. This in turn has allowed us to draw down strategic internal
 and external investment to underpin flagship initiatives such as BIFoR, Lapworth Museum,
 BAQS and EcoLaboratory, allowing us to address new and exciting research challenges. We
 have embedded new processes to recognise and promote diversity throughout our activity, as
 reflected by our Athena SWAN Bronze awards, but recognise that we still have much work to do
 going forward. Our increased focus on impact, demonstrated by excellent doctoral training
 programmes such as CENTA2, has greatly increased our influence beyond higher education. All
 of this has allowed us to deliver on and exceed our REF2014 ambitions. With the £80m
 Molecular Sciences building due to open in 2023, our research environment is set to deliver
 world-leading research that matters, now and into the future.




                                                                                          Page 18
