Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Winchester

Unit of Assessment: 34 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information
Management

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit Context and Structure
Research in Unit 34 at the University of Winchester is organised by the Culture-Media-Text (CMT)
Research Centre and is led by academics primarily based in the School of Media and Film, and the
Department of English, Creative Writing, and American Studies. Both departments are located in
the Faculty of Arts, and their members work closely together at research, postgraduate and
undergraduate levels, with two submitted researchers (Davies, Mason) located fractionally across
both departments. Giles, one of two researchers specialising in celebrity culture, is located in the
Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences. Research students and Visiting Fellows are affiliated
with CMT, whose convenors are elected annually by its members, and are allocated time to fulfil
developmental, organisational, and mentoring functions. Because the Centre’s membership also
includes researchers working in Unit 27, separate working groups are charged with developing
research in each Unit.

Members of the Unit share an affiliation with cultural studies, broadly defined, and with ‘the
significance of culture (in historical perspective) for identity construction, social change, and
political debate’ (a central focus of the Unit’s REF 2014 strategy). Continued vitality and
collaboration, stretching back to the RAE 2008 submission, has guided the decision to re-submit
this area to Unit 34. While some overlap with Unit 27 has necessitated some cross-referencing of
outputs, work in Unit 34 is clearly distinct from the institution’s first-time submission to Unit 27 in
REF2021, which is grounded in English Language and Creative Writing.

1.2 Present Strategy
In terms of research areas, strategy for this REF cycle focused in part on sustaining and
developing existing areas of strength, and growing in selected new areas where the appointment of
new staff (see section 2) followed increasing undergraduate recruitment. Existing areas of vitality
have matured to generate positions of international influence, best exemplified by Mounsey’s
internationally influential work on ‘variAbility’, a methodology for understanding bodies in culture
which avoids negatives (dis-ability) and binaries. Mounsey’s trajectory, from monograph and
conference organisation to edited collections, further monographs, and editorship of two book
series, is echoed in the maturation and development of: research on place, space, and
globalisation (Allen on Australian cinema; Bakari on African film; Bryden on cultural geography;
Esan on Nigerian television, and Davies on the USA-based Theodore Dreiser), and on horror film
(four essays in an edited collection on zombies in contemporary popular culture; Hubner’s
monograph and other outputs). Davies and Hubner have also consolidated their influence in the
field by each editing a book series. Alongside building on these established strengths, the Unit
strategically expanded research into new areas such as celebrity studies, where the published
work of Ewen and Giles is supplemented by both researchers’ collaborative work, and the
emerging field of data centre studies, through new appointee Taylor. (Details of work summarised
in this paragraph are given in section 4).

As in previous REF submissions, while the Unit’s main focus is on contemporary or recent culture
in the form of film, media, television, images, and written texts, its research ranges historically from
the eighteenth century, and occupies a spectrum from the borders of media sociology (Leaning) to
research on literary and other mediations of issues such as disability (Mounsey), ethnicity and
national identity (Bakari, Gilbert), and gender and child welfare (Davies).

The realisation of this strategy is evident throughout this document, specifically addressing the
Unit’s post-REF2014 research strategy as follows:
   (1) The integration of research culture through organising collaborative symposia leading to

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          publication, and the prioritisation of key external collaborations (detailed in section 4)
         includes:
   •     The four VariAbilities conferences, in Winchester (2015), London (2017 and 2018) and
         Florida (2020, postponed due to Covid) and resulting three edited collections
   •     Zombie Renaissance in Popular Culture (2015), edited by Hubner, Leaning and Manning
         following a pre-period conference Zombosium, and which assembled the Unit’s work on
         film, television and literature, with external contributions
   •     Screening the Tortured Body: The Cinema as Scaffold (2016, ed. De Valk)
   •     Allen’s co-edited collection Narratives of Place in Literature and Film (2018)
   •     Esan’s involvement in successive African Media conferences and founding editorship of the
         journal Communication Cultures in Africa
   (2)   Improvement in the visibility and recording of impact (detailed later in this section)
   (3)   Increasing external income generation (detailed in section 3)
   (4)   Increasing recruitment at postgraduate research (PGR) student level (detailed in section 2)
   (5)   The further strategic integration of research with student learning down to undergraduate
          level was realised both through Winchester’s hosting of the British Conference for
          Undergraduate Research in 2015, and through the Unit’s extensive involvement in the
          Winchester Research Apprenticeship Scheme (WRAP; see section 4 and
          REF5a, 3.5).

The Unit’s infrastructure has been robust enough to deliver these successes against a backdrop of
significant staff turnover. Eight out of fifteen members of staff submitted in REF 2014 remain in
post (Bakari, Bryden, Davies, Gilbert, Hubner, Leaning, Mason, Mounsey). Those retiring,
moving to another institution, or having died in service, included four Readers and two Professors.
However, new appointments (see section 2), mentoring and the more effective targeting of
resources to specific projects, have seen publication of monographs, articles and book chapters
increase markedly since 2014. The current submission draws from 11 monographs, 7 edited
collections, 2 journal special issues, 37 journal articles and 35 book chapters.

1.3 Embedding and Realising Impact
A new impact strategy, written by the Unit in 2013-14, has been implemented through allocating
research funding to support the documentation of impact and through the development of
individual researcher impact plans. Individual impact planning is embedded in the University’s
internal funding application and research reporting processes (annual approval of a Research
Planning Form for staff allocated hours for research).

In addition, the Unit has provided support through seminars and training programmes with external
experts from Bulletin who ran workshops on generating and gathering impact data (directed at
early career researchers (ECRs)) and on working with the media. A new software package
(Vertigo Ventures) for gathering impact data, and associated training, was made available to all
staff in 2017, and an impact consultant/research assistant was employed in 2018-19. Bryden and
Davies have attended sector wide updates on the development of impact that have been shared
through individual mentoring and workshop sessions.

The process of identifying potential Impact Case Studies (ICS) began by conducting an evaluation
of the potential for impact of all research, focusing on the importance of the work in the
social/public sphere. The Unit offered funding for time and assistance to create pathways for
enhancing and gathering evidence of impact. The submitted case studies were selected from three
developed as models, each of which extend the scope of the Unit’s central research interests
outside academia. Bakari’s archival and policy interventions on behalf of African and Afro-
Caribbean film instantiate in the public sphere the Unit’s research interest in the significance of
culture (in historical perspective) for identity construction, social change, and political debate.
Several aspects of McCaw’s multifaceted impact projects, his engagements with museum visitors
and with secondary school children, relate directly to the Unit’s interest in situating literary
materials within a cultural frame. This is, made explicit in McCaw’s archival research on Victorian
detective fiction and the digital humanities, as well as in Mounsey’s work on the eighteenth

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
century, Bryden’s on the nineteenth, and Davies’ on the early twentieth. In the third ICS
developed, Leaning used his research on media literacy to develop educational practices to
enhance digital skills and critical practices in engaging with information, and to assist students in
dealing with fake news and similar issues in social media.

1.4 Future Strategic Aims
The Unit’s Strategy is aligned with the Faculty and University Research and Knowledge Exchange
(RKE) Strategies 2020-30, which are integrated with the University’s Strategic Vision, oriented
around social justice and sustainability.

With sustainability in mind, the Unit’s research objectives for the next five years develop from the
four relevant principles of the University’s Strategic Vision for 2030; that is, ‘to deliver world-leading
and internationally excellent research’, ‘to create demonstrable impact on a global scale’, ‘to
increase our external research income’, and ‘to have a growing and thriving community of research
students and staff.’

In the short and medium term this means the continuation of the Unit’s current strategic priorities
(see section 1.2) in order to build on areas of research strength and develop new ones. In
particular, infrastructures of support and advice (utilising internal and external mentoring and
networks) are key to enabling the production of high-quality research.

The Unit’s plans for increasing PGR student numbers link to its aim to increase income, for
example through factoring support for PGR students into external funding bids. The strategy for
income generation also includes utilising internal funding as seedcorn funding to allow individuals
or small teams to develop partnerships and to undertake research pilots, integrated with external
funding bid preparation. In addition to setting up tailored funding alerts, using Research
Professional, members of the Unit will be mentored to develop individual bidding plans. Projects on
representation in cinema in light of recent social justice movements (Varndell) and a media history
of the data centre industry (Taylor) are planned for submission to the British Academy/Leverhulme
Small Grants scheme. The Unit also plans to utilise internal funding to buy-in external consultancy
as appropriate, to complement the support provided by the University’s Research Funding
Manager (REF 5a, 4.3; section 3).

In developing ICS for this REF the Unit became increasingly aware of a reverse dynamic, back
from impact to research, such that research was enlisted in the service of social goals and
education outside the academy. For example, it recognised that Bakari’s archival and advisory
agenda is informed by social goals bound up with pan Africanism and the preservation and
honouring of Black British heritage; and that McCaw’s impact project took on its own momentum,
as its focus shifted from the archive, to the museum, to the travelling exhibition, to the secondary
school.

These insights will be developed further particularly by researchers at comparatively early stages
of their career, appointed during this REF cycle: for example, Taylor’s interviews with data centre
workers generate insights which inform the bringing together of theoretical positions.

Building on Leaning’s example in the area of media literacy and education, the Unit also aims to
increase its influence on policy, an aspect of impact where Taylor is also expected to be a
significant future contributor, in the short term via his ongoing ‘Datafied University’ research project
which is aimed in part at increasing the data transparency of HE institutions when it comes to the
information they process on students.

1.5 Interdisciplinarity
Due mainly to the Unit’s small size and wide spectrum of research, its vitality has been sustained
internally by dialogue between members over shared issues underpinning cultural studies, taking
place in an annual themed work-in-progress symposium run by CMT (for example ‘Work’, ‘Money’,
‘The Body’, ‘Space and Place’), and in larger, public conferences such as the ‘Zombosium’ which
gave rise to the Zombie Renaissance collection jointly edited by three Unit researchers. As a

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
result, interdisciplinarity is a dynamo for the cross-fertilisation of ideas evident in many
submissions, especially in work by Bryden, Davies, Gilbert, Leggatt, McCaw and Mounsey.
Collaborative work reaching outside the institution undertaken by each Unit researcher is detailed
in section 4.

1.6 Open Access
Unit researchers are obliged by University policy to post pre-publication versions of journal articles
and book chapters on the University’s open access (OA) research repository; researchers are
encouraged to submit to gold OA publications, and a fund is available for processing fees.

The Unit has actively promoted OA principles through its leadership of Winchester University Press
(WUP; see REF5a, 2.2), with Unit members Bryden and McCaw occupying the roles of Chair of
the Press’s Management Board and Commissioning Editor respectively. Since 2018 WUP has
published the OA journal Communication Cultures in Africa, whose founding editor Esan was a
member of the Unit before her retirement in 2019. In 2017-18 work by Unit staff led by McCaw
secured a partnership with Ubiquity Press, bringing capacity for further OA publications, including
monographs and, through the Ubiquity Partner Network, providing the infrastructure and services
to enable the sustainability of WUP. Funding is in place to ensure that forthcoming editions in the
Theodore Dreiser Edition (of which Davies is General Editor) - the Plays, Critical Writings, and
European Diaries - will be made available as OA electronic publications as well as hard copy
volumes.

Davies was funded by the Unit to participate in the initial workshop (November 2019), organised
by Springer Nature, the OAPEN Foundation and the University of Glasgow, on the development of
support materials for OA book publishing. Davies contributed to the subsequent drafting of the
OAPEN Foundation’s OA toolkit for researchers and academic book authors. The toolkit is a free-
to-access, stakeholder-agnostic resource that aims to help authors better understand OA for
books, increase trust in OA book publishing, and provide guidance on the process of publishing an
OA book.

1.7 Research Integrity
The University’s Research Code of Practice and Research Ethics policy and procedures ensure
the ethical scrutiny of all research proposals. The Unit supports this culture of research integrity by
providing mentoring and holding annual training on research ethics. It liaises with the central
University Research Ethics Committee via a Faculty representative (currently Davies). In 2017
members of the Unit participated in an ethics training session, run by the Association for Research
Ethics, which focused on `training the trainers’. This was then adapted as a staff development
session for the Unit and Faculty, led by the Faculty Head of RKE (who has oversight of ethics in
the Faculty). Supervisors attend training sessions on ethics and also ensure that their PGR
students follow the University procedure for obtaining ethics approval.


2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
In this REF cycle the University moved to a system with three defined role profiles: Teaching and
Scholarship (T&S), Teaching and Research (T&R), and Teaching with Enhanced Responsibility for
Research (TERR) (see REF5a 1.2).The roles come with differentiated hours for research, with
T&R and TERR roles having 400 and 500 hours respectively. The hours benefit Unit members by
providing time to engage in a wide range of research-related activities, as described further in
section 4.

The Unit has benefited from the recruitment of new staff (Ewen, Leggatt, Taylor, Varndell) with
expertise in celebrity culture, digital technology, and literature and film, replacing senior staff who
retired, took voluntary severance, or died in service (Esan, Gilbert, Grist, Manning, McCaw). A
vibrant and sustainable research culture has emerged which has enabled the Unit to continue to
grow modestly in terms of FTE from 12.75 (REF 2014) to 14.15, and from 13 to 15 headcount.

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

This process of transition has been managed to create opportunities for newer researchers to take
leadership or committee roles within the Unit and Research Centre, with a view to staff
development and succession planning. Two of the five members of the Unit’s Working Group were
ECRs earlier in the reporting period (Ewen, Varndell), and the submission includes another ECR
(Taylor), demonstrating an increase from none submitted in REF 20214. In 2018 CMT’s leadership
structure was changed so as to include two co-convenors (Ewen, Gilbert) as well as the convenor
(Davies), with hours split between them. The latter, and other roles such as departmental
representatives on Faculty RKE committee, are elected positions. Thus, the interests of
researchers at all stages of their careers and across departments are represented.

Newer members of staff are encouraged to join PGR supervision teams via a transparent process
which has worked very effectively to maintain the number of research supervisors at 14.

In collaboration with CMT and the Faculty RKE Committee, the Unit provides regular training and
development sessions, open to all staff and PGR students. The backbone of this programme is
provided by the Faculty Research Seminars, the annual work-in-progress symposium (see section
1), and the external and collaborative events listed in section 4. Typical development events in this
REF cycle included introductions to research processes and building a research profile (primarily
for newer researchers and ECRs)); dissemination of materials and feedback from an AHRC
workshop on peer reviewer tips for grant applications, media training (delivered by Bulletin), and
development sessions on impact from Faculty, University-wide and external providers (Bulletin and
Vertigo Ventures).

The Unit also supports individual researchers who are not on the payroll via the University’s
Visiting Researcher Fellowship schemes for both early career and senior researchers. Fellows are
granted access to research facilities and contribute to research seminars and other events. In this
REF cycle the Unit’s research culture was enhanced by two Visiting ECR Fellows (in the areas of
film, and cultural and creative industries) and two Visiting Research Fellows (in the areas of
literature and journalism).

2.2 Support for Early Career Staff: Mentoring
Noting that the existence of robust systems for staff support and development had been
recognised in REF 2014 sub-panel feedback, alongside institutional help with workload for early
career staff, the Unit helped implement the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers, with a strategy for fostering staff at all stages of their careers through internal and
external mentoring. At first members of staff were assigned a research mentor from among the
Readers and Professors (allocated 50 and 75 hours pro rata annually for mentoring). From 2016
this was supplemented with the opportunity for all staff members to apply for internal funds to seek
external mentoring. Mentors can be provided according to need, encouraging all researchers to
seek new, interdisciplinary, collaborative or innovative modes of research throughout their careers.
This was in addition to the initial University-wide mentoring scheme developed with the University
of Sheffield (REF5a, 3.4).

In addition to the research reporting procedures referred to in section 1, the University Individual
Review and Development Scheme (IRDS) assists all staff with short and longer-term research
planning and feeds into discussions around workloads. The Unit has ensured that Teaching
Fellows are enabled to undertake research and where appropriate to move on to workloads with
time for research, as has happened with Taylor.

2.3 Research Leave
All staff members have equal access to apply either for buyout from teaching individual modules or
for a period of research leave on a project basis. These applications are equitably assessed
against published criteria, and where initially unsuccessful developmental feedback is given, often
leading to successful resubmission. During this assessment period semester-length research leave
was awarded to Davies, via a centrally funded University Research Fellowship, for work as
General Editor of the Theodore Dreiser Edition (2016-17), and to Grist, Hubner, Mounsey and

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Varndell for the completion of monographs (submitted in REF 2).

2.4 Research Students
Since Winchester is a small institution most of the structures for supporting PGR students and
ensuring good practice among supervisors, such as the Postgraduate Supervision Training
Programme and the Postgraduate Research Training Programme (consisting of three Level 7
modules that support PGR study and prepare students for research careers), are provided
centrally rather than at the Departmental or Faculty levels. Supervisory teams are involved in the
PGR Training Programme as markers, to assess student work, to comment annually on progress,
and to alert Research Degrees Quality Committee (RDQC) to any concerns they have about
research students. Other forms of centrally organised support include annual PGR symposia and
a fund for PGR expenses to support research activities such as presentations at conferences. The
Vice-Chancellor’s award for excellence in research has been won by the Unit’s students four times
in this REF cycle.

Vitality of the research student community is also assured by collaboration both across disciplines
and in connecting research students to academic and local communities. Hence in the period three
PhD completions included a creative writing element and were co-supervised with English (Unit
27). One of these students, Gradidge, went on to win the Richard and Judy ‘Search for a
Bestseller’ competition. Other cross disciplinary PhDs have involved Sociology, History, and
Theology, and co-supervision has also taken place with Professional Doctorates in Education. Four
students won fully-funded University studentship awards, while another (Spencer) was match-
funded and co-supervised with the Culture Unit of Eastleigh Borough Council to produce a thesis
on the cultural and creative industries in the region. On completion Spencer was appointed a
Visiting ECR Fellow, went on to be involved in the set-up of Creative Industries Research Network
South and is currently Executive Director of Winchester BID.

A physical base for the Faculty’s PGR students was provided throughout the period, initially in the
form of a dedicated PGR Study Room, located in the same building as the Faculty Office. In 2018
this was re-purposed when expanded, and a new University-wide PGR Study Space in the Library
was made available.

The importance of supporting and expanding PGR provision was identified as a Unit objective in
REF 2014. At the beginning of the period, recognising the needs of self-funded, often part-time
PGRs, funding was targeted to support PGR students presenting papers at UK and international
conferences and was awarded as a bursary to post-upgrade research students to expedite
completions. In 2016 this initiative was multiplied with University support, with the launch of PGR
Studentships. In the first instance, the Unit won two of ten fully-funded studentships offered across
the entire institution in celebration of its 175th anniversary. Both students completed successfully.
One has published three articles or book chapters and has now moved on to teach at University
College London, while the other is also working as an HE lecturer. In subsequent years the number
of open studentships fell slightly, but one fully-funded PGR was recruited to the Unit, with a
successful viva held in February 2021. Further support offered by the Unit included workshops on,
for example, ‘tips for completing’ and academic publishing, both led by post-doctoral students and
targeted at both PGR students and ECRs.

Members of the Unit have also involved PGR students in co-organising symposia, conferences and
panels at conferences. For example, Mounsey and PGR student Booth co-organised the Queer
Bodies symposia (2014, 2016) and the VariAbilities conferences (2015, 2017, 2018).


2.5 Equality and Diversity
As a small university, strategy in relation to supporting and promoting equality and diversity is
centralised and covers all aspects of the institution’s operations. It is led by the HR Department
and the Director of Equalities and Staff Development. The Unit is committed to the University’s
values in supporting and promoting equality and diversity in research careers. As a relatively small
Unit, data which could potentially identify colleagues with Protected Characteristics cannot be

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
included in this statement. However, moving forwards, we will be working closely with HR and the
RKE Centre to address any equality and diversity issues arising from the REF Equality Impact
Assessments.

In compliance with the REF 2021 Code of Practice (p. 2), all members of the Unit Working Group
took part in bespoke mandatory training in conscious and unconscious bias in relation to REF. This
was led by the Director of Equalities and Staff Development and was in addition to online training
in Equality and Diversity which all staff are required to undertake. The Unit Working Group has
annually revised Terms of Reference that sit alongside the centrally produced guidance notes to all
Unit Leads and the REF Code of Practice. The processes of developing the submission have been
overseen by the Faculty Head of RKE, who has ensured transparency of process among the three
Units in the Faculty. In conformity with this system, the REF submission has been developed using
an arm’s length assessment process for both outputs and impact case studies.

The Unit has taken equality and diversity considerations into account with regard to support for
submission of funding applications and access to internal funds (section 2 above; section 3). It has
also provided training opportunities which address issues around equality and diversity. For
example, it funded a media training session (run by Bulletin) on media skills for mid-career women
in academia, the aim of the training being to enhance confidence and to equip participants with the
necessary tools for sharing their expertise on television and radio (an area where there is an
acknowledged gender imbalance).

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
In this REF cycle the Unit was awarded a British Academy/Leverhulme Small Research Grant
(£8,645) for research on ‘The Jewish Gothic’ (PI Gilbert, 2018-19). This research project, which
was in collaboration with the University of Southampton, brought together researchers from a
range of arts and cultural disciplines to engage in a programme of academic and public events
exploring the idea of the `Jewish Gothic’. It built on and extended Gilbert’s previous funded work to
jointly set up a research network on British Jewish Contemporary Cultures.

The Unit has also generated income from sources not in the HESA return:
External consultancy on cultural heritage from Portsmouth City Council (£4,686)and Eastleigh
Borough Council (£155) (McCaw, 2017-18)
Funding for travel and expenses for a PGR student to carry out archival work at the University of
Pennsylvania Library, from the Theodore Dreiser Edition Fund at the University of Pennsylvania
Library (£1,476 [USD1,800]) (Davies/King, 2108-19).
£5,000 in matching funding from Routledge for the 2020 Celebrity Studies conference (Ewen,
2019-20). (The conference was subsequently cancelled due to Covid).

3.2 Strategies and Support
Strategies for increasing external funding included the encouragement of staff to work together on
applications to both internal and external funding sources, as a means of pump-priming and
gaining experience; encouragement of collaborative research which seeks strategic links and/or
partnerships with other HE institutions and organisations; mentoring of staff newer to submitting
bids by those experienced in gaining external funding; and a programme of staff development
workshops on external funding sources and processes.

At University level, income generation is supported by a Research Funding Manager and a Post-
Award Funding Officer (see REF5a, 4.1). In the early part of the REF cycle, an External Funding
Incentive Fund was established to provide a modest research bursary for researchers submitting
external funding applications.

In order to support and improve successful access to external funding, the Unit organised
mentoring, and advice sessions from the Research Funding Manager and external consultants,
while allocating funding to time support for researchers to write bids. In addition, staff in the Unit

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have participated in networking events, to facilitate opportunities for increasing the impact and
visibility of research, and with a view to this increasing potential for attracting external funding. One
such event was the Engagement and Impact with the UK Parliament Day run by its KE Unit (which
provided training and resources on how to facilitate research influencing policy).

3.3 Strategy for Income Generation: beyond 2021 (see also section 1)
The Unit’s strategy integrates a variety of complementary activities. Mentoring, both internal and
drawing on external expertise, has been important and will become more so. The Unit will identify
groups and foster collaborative working. Development and training sessions will be maintained and
extended, as will the use of online support and resources. The Unit will work with the Research
Funding Manager and Faculty Head of RKE to further explore generating income via KE, in
particular drawing on staff expertise in remote technologies and distance learning.

3.4 Sharing Expertise and Collaborating for Impact (see also section 1)
Achieving impact from research is promoted through the internal funding schemes and the Unit
Strategy. Funds have been awarded for research assistance to gather and evaluate impact data,
for consultancy and training in generating impact, and for mentoring in writing impact case studies.

Strategy and support for the generation of impact, data-gathering and reporting are documented in
section 1. The Unit’s arrangements described there have created a strategic framework for
maximising the impact of high-quality research by improving the synergy between outputs, public
engagement, and actions to enhance impact. As well as the development of the chosen ICSs, the
major development in this REF cycle has been the embedding of impact in research across the
Unit. Pathways to impact range from, for example, dissemination of research via WUP projects
such as the Theodore Dreiser Edition and the e-journal Communication Cultures in Africa to the
use of WRAP projects focusing on dissemination of the Civil Rights intensive project and short
articles for US Studies Online (see section 4).

3.5 Organisational Infrastructure
The Unit has a designated Working Group, chaired by a Unit Lead, to develop and manage its
strategy. The Unit Lead is a member of the Faculty RKE Committee, whose Chair, the Faculty
Head of RKE reports to and from Senate RKE Committee. The Unit Lead is also a member of the
University REF Working Group. The Faculty RKE Co-ordinator is secretary to the Faculty RKE
Committee and maintains records of spend, reported at each meeting of the Committee.

Faculty RKE Committee considers all applications for internal research funding from the three
Units in the Faculty in relation to the Unit Strategies, and refers them on with its recommendations
to RKE Grants Committee, which makes final decisions. The Faculty Head of RKE has executive
and strategic responsibility for RKE matters and also reports to and from Senate RKE Committee,
RDQC, the University REF Management Group, and the Faculty Management Group. The
University Director of RKE (the Chair of SRKE) reports to the First Deputy Vice-Chancellor
Academic. These lines of communication ensure a good balance between self-determination and
accountability.

3.6 Internal Funding
Internal funding has been used by the Unit primarily to buy out time (whether in the form of
teaching relief from individual modules or full-semester research leave) for completion of research
outputs; presentations at conferences; research assistance, and to prepare external funding bids.

During this assessment period funding was allocated to the Unit in order to facilitate strategic
planning of funding applications. Annual allocations of £3,000 were made to the Unit for each
individual researcher who had been entered in REF 2014. From 2018-19 new role profiles were
implemented as described in section 2. This was coupled with a new system which pre-allocated
internal research funding to Units, enabling them to manage resources more effectively.

3.7 Research Infrastructure
The Martial Rose library supports staff research activities with research reading rooms, 300,000

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
books and 8000 journal subscriptions, as well as digital resources including Box of Broadcasts and
the usual research aggregators. Researchers have also worked in specialist archives, notably
Davies, and research student King, in the Theodore Dreiser Collection at the University of
Pennsylvania Library.

Unit members and their students are the primary users of the University’s Multi-Media Centre,
which incorporates industry-standard facilities: a computerised radio station/studio; two HD TV
studios and galleries, with green screens and state-of-the-art cameras, and facilities for multi-track
audio recording. A purpose-built, industry-standard newsroom is the hub for WINOL (Winchester
News online website). State-of-the-art sound recording and post-production studios and control
galleries, designed by acoustic architects Veale Associates, were `launched' by the Mercury Prize-
winning group alt-J in 2018. These facilities are supported by qualified technicians.


4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
Recognising the importance of new research initiatives and collaborative work to create and
sustain research networks, the Unit places a high value on leadership and collaboration to develop
new forms of knowledge and innovative research topics. Supported by internal and external
funding, its members have played prominent roles in paradigm-shifting conferences, organisations,
and publications, both journals and edited collections.

Mounsey’s work on variAbility was recognised at the beginning of this REF cycle as ‘shifiting the
paradigm of Disability Studies from an objective to a subjective study’ (Rosemarie Garland-
Thomson, Plenary Lecture, VariAbilities conference, Emory University, Atlanta GA, 6 July 2013).
This was achieved, in part, through establishing the Disability Caucus at the American Society for
Eighteenth-Century Studies, for which Mounsey ran regular panels annually until 2019, and
through his collaboration with Queer Bodies: a symposium on all aspects of the body (2014, 2016,
2020).

Mounsey has organised or co-organised a succession of variAbilities conferences, initially in
Winchester (2015), then London (Birkbeck, 2017, Senate House, 2018) and Florida (2020,
postponed due to Covid), giving rise to three edited collections (submitted as outputs alongside
Mounsey’s monograph). This influence is further consolidated by Mounsey’s launching of two
book series; in the field of disability studies, Peculiar Bodies (University of Virginia Press, co-edited
with Wendy Turner [Augusta University] and Carolyn Day [Furman University], for which four
volumes are either published, in press, or contracted), and, in the field of Bioethics, Routledge
Advances in the History of Bioethics (Routledge, contracted in June 2019, with four volumes
initially planned).

Having led this paradigm shift, Mounsey participates in its public dissemination via public lectures
exploring the subjective and historicist aspects of variaAbility, as in ‘Fribs, Tribs and a deaf tyre
smith: A brief history of Androgyny’ given as part of the exhibition of the work of Claude Cahun at
the Sidney Cooper Gallery in Canterbury in 2017. He was also a contributor to the BBC Radio 4
series Disability: A New History, re-broadcast in December 2020.

Two members of the Unit, Ewen and Giles, make significant contributions to the health and vitality
of celebrity studies. Both members of the editorial board of Celebrity Studies (Routledge), they
work with international collaborators to foster the development of work on celebrity across the
spectrum of cultural studies to its borders with qualitative sociology.

A major element in Ewen’s contribution to the research base is his activity as an editor exploring
emerging themes in celebrity culture: joint-editing the book collection First Comes Love: Power
Couples, Celebrity Kinship, and Cultural Politics (Bloomsbury Academic, 2015), and two journal
special issues – ‘Friends Reconsidered: Cultural Politics, Intergenerationality, and Afterlives’
in Television and New Media (18:8, Sage, December 2018) and ‘National Populists: Right-wing

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
celebrity politicians in contemporary Europe’ in Celebrity Studies (11:3, Taylor and Francis, 2020).
Another book collection, Capitalism, Crime and Media in the 21st Century (Palgrave Macmillan),
forthcoming in March 2021, was the product of a conference co-hosted in April 2016 by the School
of Media and Film and the Department of Criminology. In each case, Ewen has collaborated on
instigating the project and writing introductions; he contributed substantial essays to two of the
collections. Since 2015, Ewen has edited the Cultural Report section of Celebrity Studies, home to
dossiers of original short articles that interrogate cultures of celebrity which have yet to receive
adequate critical attention. Dossiers on Black Lives Matter and celebrity, Turkish celebrity, and
complicating Queer celebrity, are forthcoming. The format and focus are deliberately aimed at
facilitating not only work on emerging topics but also work by early-career scholars, and to
disseminate more widely scholarship from and on non-Anglophone mediascapes.

This work led to invitations for Ewen to contribute to the development of the international research
base in celebrity culture, resulting in his 2019 joint keynote address at the Power and Politics in
Contemporary Culture and Media symposium at the University of Amsterdam, followed by acting
as an expert respondent in a PhD Masterclass. This led to invitations to become an affiliated
member of the Amsterdam School for Cultural Analysis and to be a co-investigator on a large,
multinational, Amsterdam-based Cost Action grant proposal on post-national celebrity culture, to
be developed and submitted in 2021, which would allow the creation of a global research
infrastructure aiming to train PhDs and ECRs.

Giles meanwhile has also helped shape the infrastructure of celebrity studies, chiefly by journal
editing and conference plenaries in addition to research. He is a co-founding editor of the journal
Qualitative Research in Psychology (Taylor & Francis, USA), currently co-edited with Brendan
Gough (Leeds Beckett ) and Antonia Lyons (Massey), while he also serves on the editorial board
of the Journal of Cultural Analysis and Social Change (European Sociological Association). Giles
is also a co-founder of an international multidisciplinary research network called MOOD
(Microanalysis of Online Data) along with Wyke Stommel (Radboud) and Trena Paulus (East
Tennessee State), which organises regular workshops and conferences around Europe (UK,
Netherlands, Switzerland), attracting delegates from communication, linguistics, psychology,
sociology and media studies. Through MOOD Giles has collaborated on joint articles and edited a
special issue of Pragmatics. Giles was also an ad hoc member of the Social, Political and
Communication Sciences panel of the Flanders Research Foundation (FWO) from 2016 to 2019.

Giles’s keynote addresses include Parasocial relationships in the age of Twitter at Etmaal van de
Communicatiewetenschap (2015 annual conference of Flemish/Dutch communication science
scholars), University of Antwerp, Belgium; Social media and the audience-celebrity relationship, at
the third biennial conference of Celebrity Studies (University of Amsterdam, 2016); Celebrities,
audiences, fans: to what extent do social media dissolve the boundaries? at the 17th International
VAKKI Symposium, University of Vaasa, Finland (2017); and Jung, theories of self and digital
culture, at the first International Persona Studies conference, University of Newcastle (2019).

In addition to these external contributions, the Unit has hosted a string of conferences and
symposia during the period, reflecting both its commitment to expand the scope of research and
involvement, and specific research. Aside from the second VariAbilities conference (2015), held in
conjunction with the Queering Paradigms conference, other conference highlights include the
CREST symposium on War, Terror and Trauma (May 2017), on which Leggatt collaborated with
Dr Waleed Al-Bazoon from Chichester University; and most recently ‘The Analogue Idyll’, a one-
day symposium investigating discourses, narratives, practices and imaginaries of digital
disconnection and offlinism in contemporary social life, organised by Taylor, in July-August 2020,
which ironically was moved online due to Covid. Covid also forced the cancellation of the 2020
Celebrity Studies conference that Ewen had been leading, with financial support from the Unit.

4.2 Engaging with Diverse Communities and Publics
Across the Unit’s broad engagement with culture, its members share a deep commitment to
making available cultural heritage to wider publics in collaboration with international, national, and
regional cultural stakeholders, often via the presentation of archival material. Both ICS involve

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
bringing material out of the archive to address the needs and interests of differentiated publics.
McCaw’s three Sherlock Holmes exhibitions were staged in ways that interpolated Portsmouth City
Museum visitors differently from the travelling versions in Japan and Canada. Bakari’s global
perspective on African cinema spans work with government agencies in Africa, and work with
archives around the UK (thus far in Bristol, Birmingham, with others to follow) in association with
his role as a member of the Advisory Board of the June Giovanni Pan African Cinema Archive
(JGPACA), and as a collaborator in research and organising public events. Most recently he
chaired a series of webinar discussions convened by JGPACA in partnership with the Africa Centre
in London, SOAS University of London and the African Foundation for Development (AFFORD) to
commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of the film You Hide Me; and to explore views and ideas
around the central consideration of the prevailing movement for the restitution of African art held in
various museums and collections outside of Africa.

Further collaborations with national cultural stakeholders include the British Film Institute and the
British Library. The BFI featured Hubner’s interactive talk ‘Philosophical Screens’ at its Ingmar
Bergman Centenary ‘Study Day’ (February 2018) to a sold-out audience of 300 HE students,
lecturers and members of the general public. The British Library collaborated on and hosted the
Dreiser Edition’s public event ‘Theodore Dreiser: from Transatlantic Censorship to Scholarly
Editions’ (British Library, May 2016).

During this REF cycle the Faculty forged strategic cultural partnerships, on behalf of the University,
with key arts organisations in Winchester and the region: for example, with the Live Theatre
Winchester Trust, the Winchester Film Festival and Winchester Poetry Festival. In this context the
Unit has been involved with events such as `Two Hundred Years of Autumn’, held at the Theatre
Royal Winchester (October 2019), as part of a series of public events to celebrate the bicentenary
of John Keats’s stay in Winchester. This event was in collaboration with Hampshire Writers’
Society, Winchester Poetry Festival, Winchester Writers’ Festival and the Hampshire Cultural
Trust.

This ethos also feeds back into the nature of research undertaken. For example, Hubner’s new
book series for WUP, Iconic Movie Images, develops from a blog with the same title initially
directed at students and staff, publishing short articles about an indelible image from a film. The
series traces the life of the image from the film to its new incarnations. With the forthcoming
inaugural book of the series Hubner was prompted to return to the work of Swedish film director
Ingmar Bergman by the mass of celebrations for his centenary in 2018, during which Hubner gave
a number of keynote talks, including one at the prestigious Ingmar Bergman 100 Years Conference
(Sweden, 2018) and another at the University of Evora, Portugal.

In parallel, Taylor’s work on data centres deliberately seeks out the perspective of the people who
work in these buildings, using interviews and photography. Some of the photographs were
exhibited at the Department of Social Anthropology at the University of Cambridge from June 2017
to June 2018, and one won the Royal Geographical Society’s annual photography competition for
the Developing Areas Research Group (DARG), subsequently being featured in their summer 2019
newsletter and showcased on their website. A consultant for Channel 4 on the Dispatches
documentary ‘Is Your Online Habit Killing the Planet’ (broadcast November 2020), Taylor runs and
contributes to a blog 'Digital Exhaustion: Techno Aftermaths of the Coronavirus Crisis' which uses
his research and collaborations to address public concerns. Under the terms of his Byrne-Bussey
Marconi Fellowship (originally from August 2020, now extended until 2022 due to Covid), Taylor is
investigating the history and science of wireless communication and the wireless industry in
relation to communications disruptions due to 'space weather’, using the Marconi Archives at the
Bodleian Library. Dissemination plans include work with the History of Science Museum to launch
an exhibition and communications infrastructure on space weather through their objects,
integrating documents from Marconi's archives, and programming a series of talks and a film
screening.

Unit members are heavily involved in disseminating research through traditional and emerging
platforms, including media appearances, public lectures, and blogs. Charles and Leggatt

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
regularly contribute short essays to The Conversation, on topics ranging from ‘five sitcoms to
get you through lockdown’ to audience reactions to a Black Dr Who, to the role of social media
in the 2019 UK elections, to ‘How Hull went from crap town to City of Culture – and what it
says about Brexit Britain’. Charles frequently speaks on radio and television about media
issues (27 appearances in the period) and blogs on the Peter Lang Publishing site.

Serving its local community, through the CMT Research Centre the Unit has co-hosted the
annual Winchester Film Festival, at which its researchers introduce and present screenings.
Similarly, members of the Unit have given pre-show talks to audiences at the Theatre Royal
Winchester. Staff also share their research at `Tavern Talks’, an initiative launched in 2018
providing a series of discussions on cultural topics open to the public and held in a local pub.
Inaugural lectures by Bryden, Charles and McCaw attracted three-figure attendances and
local media coverage.

Reflecting the Unit’s commitment to expand the scope of research and involvement in it, in
2015 its members helped instigate the inaugural British Conference for Undergraduate
Research, held at the University. This commitment has been realised through the period
through participation in the WRAP scheme, whereby an average of 5 undergraduates per year
are inducted into research culture by being funded to investigate, for example, software for the
production of scholarly editions, the publication of inaugural lectures, and to evaluate the
learning experiences of students visiting the American South to engage with the legacy of the
Civil Rights movement.

Central to maximising individuals’ and groups’ ability to benefit from research is improved
media literacy, and here Leaning’s work has been noted to be highly influential in the design
of new media and information literacy courses in the UK, the USA (notably Blackburn College,
Illinois), and in Jamaica and Costa Rica. Wider dissemination was achieved by Leaning’s
interviews with national newspapers (The Jamaica Gleaner), public lectures (in Costa Rica,
2018) and through the delivery of a training workshop to 62 librarians from 57 Costa Rican and
Nicaraguan libraries at a workshop run at the National Library of Costa Rica (Costa Rica,
August 2018).

In addition to the Unit’s collaborations detailed throughout, it has prioritised the development of
WUP as a means of leading collaboration in research with a commitment to OA (see section 1). In
addition to the roles of Bryden, Davies, Esan and McCaw, Hubner is editor of the new series
Iconic Movie Images. The Dreiser Edition is sponsored by the University of Massachusetts and the
University of Pennsylvania Library, which holds the largest collection of Dreiser’s papers. It is a
truly collaborative project, in which Davies has worked with volume editors from the USA (Roark
Mulligan, on the 2015 WUP edition of The Titan, and Keith Newlin and Frederick Rusch on the
2020 edition of the complete Plays) – and Germany (Renate Bardeleben on the forthcoming edition
of the European Diaries).

4.3 Other Indicators of Wider Influence
Unit researchers regularly give plenaries, organise conference panels, and review book proposals
and manuscripts for publishers such as Oxford University Press, Manchester University Press,
State University New York Press, Berg, Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge and Bloomsbury, and for
journals such as New Formations, Postmodern Culture, The Journal of Eighteenth-Century
Studies, The Scriblerian, Journal of Religion and Film, Open Library of Humanities, Interdisciplinary
Literary Studies Journal, Deleuze and Guattari Studies, and New Review of Film and Television.

In addition, Bryden and Hubner serve as panel members reviewing grant applications: Bryden for
the Research Council for Culture and Society, Academy of Finland (2016-18) and the Trans-
Atlantic Platform, Social Innovation Call, and Hubner for the AHRC’s Research Grants (Standard)
Scheme.

Since 2013 Charles has been co-convenor of the Political Studies Association Media & Politics
Group, in which capacity he has organised two annual conferences (University of Chester, 2015;

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University of Hull, 2017).


Davies is on the Editorial Board of Studies in American Naturalism (University of Nebraska Press)
and the Theodore Dreiser Bibliography (University of Pennsylvania Library).

In addition to the Bergman-themed activity described above, Hubner’s international collaborations
include with Fairy Tale Media and Cultures Today, a project led by Professor Pauline Greenhill
(University of Winnipeg) and supported by a partnership development grant from the Social
Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (2014-2017). Hubner’s output ‘The Fairy-
Tale Film in Latin America’ (submitted in REF2) was written in association with that partnership and
published in the volume Fairy-Tale Films Beyond Disney: International Perspectives (eds Zipes,
Greenhill, and Magnus-Johnston) which won the US Children's Literature Association Honor Book
for an edited collection (2018). Hubner’s essay ‘Dream of Escape’ was included in Ingmar
Bergman’s Cinema (The Criterion Collection, 2018), winner of the best box-set award at the Il
Cinema Ritrovato Festival in Bologna (2019).

Leaning’s work on media literacy led to his being awarded an HEA National Teaching Fellowship
in 2017-2018 and appointments as Visiting Research Fellow at the University of Limerick in 2014-
2015, and Visiting Professor of Information Literacy and Inter-culturalism at the University of Costa
Rica in 2018-2019. Mounsey’s monograph Sight Correction has been shortlisted for the
Gottschalk Prize offered by the American Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies, 2021.




                                                                                             Page 13
