Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: De Montfort University
 Unit of assessment: 3
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 Research in UOA 3 at DMU spans activities in the Schools of Allied Health Sciences, Nursing
 and Midwifery, and Pharmacy in the Faculty of Health and Life Sciences. It is focused on the
 unifying theme of health and well-being with the aim of being responsive to challenging
 opportunities within areas that utilise our interdisciplinary research expertise to support regional,
 national and international health and social-care needs. The research is conducted within three
 research units:
 •   the Institute for Health, Health Policy and Social Care (HHPSC; 10.5 FTE staff returned)
 •   the Institute of Allied Health Sciences Research (AHSR; 19.8 FTE staff returned)
 •   the Leicester Institute for Pharmaceutical Innovation (LIPI; 29.8 FTE staff returned).
 The institutes were created in the current census period in recognition of the need to move
 beyond small research groupings and develop an environment that promotes collaborations and
 interdisciplinarity. They provide the organisational structure and support mechanisms required
 to deliver research in prioritised areas of strength that extend from Nursing and Midwifery
 through to Pharmaceutical Technologies, and to laboratory-based cellular and molecular
 research and Biochemical Health. Research-active staff, while members of an institute
 representing their main research focus, are encouraged to work flexibly across institutes and
 beyond the boundaries of School and Faculty, in order to develop interdisciplinary research.
 1.2 RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY
 1.2.1 Research Strategy
 Our research strategy as projected in our submission in 2014 is to (1) further develop a culture
 that encourages our staff to undertake innovative and rigorous research; (2) develop new
 collaborations with strong partners at home and abroad; (3) progress commercialisation and
 maximise impact; and (4) grow our postgraduate research (PGR) student numbers within the
 Unit and enhance their experience. The strategy builds on the Unit’s vision to focus its expertise
 and continue to develop original and distinctive research that provides benefit to people’s health
 and well-being globally. Our progress against the research strategy is as follows:
 1      We have significantly increased our pool of research-active staff and we are returning
        60.1 FTE Category A staff which reflects a 91.4% increase from the 31.4 FTE returned
        in 2014. The current submission comprises 27 professors and associate professors, 20
        lecturers and senior lecturers, and 16 Vice-Chancellor 2020 (VC2020) lecturers and
        Early Career Academic Fellows (ECAFs) (see REF5a), reflecting a strong senior
        research leadership base with a critical mass of potential future research leaders in the
        pipeline. The VC2020 lectureships are an additional career pathway introduced in 2013,
        specifically targeting the recruitment of academics with potential to develop into our
        future research leaders. The ECAF scheme, introduced in 2017, targeted those at a
        much earlier stage in their careers and are appointed to the Unit to support research
        development around the theme of health and well-being, but with the opportunity to
        subsequently progress to tenured lectureships upon successful completion of a one-year
        probationary period (REF5a).
        We have enhanced our research culture and engagement with research through
        promotions and have bolstered our mentoring programme, monitored through the
        Faculty Research and Innovation Committee, to ensure support for staff at all stages of
        their careers (see 2.1). In addition, a number of honorary appointments have been
        made, allowing esteemed individuals from other institutions and clinical practice from
        home and abroad to mentor and work with researchers within the Unit on joint research
                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       activities of mutual benefit. For example, in Health, Health Policy and Social Care, Karen
       Harrison-Dening, a nurse specialist in dementia, and Head of Research and
       Publications for the charity Dementia UK, joined DMU as Honorary Professor in
       Dementia Research, supporting one international and six national research studies
       within the Institute. In the pharmaceutical sciences, there have been several honorary
       research positions including 7 research fellows and 2 visiting professors (Marc Brown,
       former Chief Scientific Officer, MedPharm and Gordon Muirhead, President, GMPharma
       Ltd) from within the UK and abroad that have contributed to the mentoring of staff and to
       the development of research projects and outputs. In the basic sciences, Professors Ken
       Farrington, Consultant Nephrologist, Lister Hospital, and Jeremy Pearson, Associate
       Medical Director (Research) at the British Heart Foundation support research within the
       cardiovascular and cell-signalling research groups, with Farrington offering guidance
       and support around NHS ethics and research governance more widely to the Faculty.
 2     We have achieved the objective of developing new collaborations with strong links at
       home and abroad through collaborations with European and other international partners
       by joining EU NETWORKS such as COST 15203 and COST 16227 with over 33
       participating countries in each, including some from outside the EU. These networks
       have resulted in internationally co-authored publications with over 400 authors. The
       MITOEAGLE (Mitochondrial mapping: Evolution - Age - Gender - Lifestyle -
       Environment) network (COST 15203) has reviewed and published the ‘Mitochondrial
       Physiology’ concepts and definitions, and submitted its vision on specific protocols and
       nomenclature to Nature Metabolism.
       We have used our Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF: £97,205 allocated) to
       establish wider collaborations with developing countries through engagement with
       universities and other institutions as well as health services and departments (see 4.1)
       on projects that include enabling hybrid autonomous non-conventional energy integrated
       water/wastewater treatment system for remote African communities (Katherine
       Huddersman), co-creating handwashing education to improve personal hygiene,
       particularly in children in underprivileged areas (Katie Laird), developing strategies for
       addressing childhood malnutrition in Tanzania (Bertha Ochieng), developing patient-
       centric approaches to drug development for neglected tropical diseases (Mingzhong Li),
       and developing evidence based approaches to improving health through identifying non-
       adherence to cardiovascular medications in Iraq and Kenya (Sangeeta Tanna).
       We have specifically targeted strategic partnerships with local and national NHS Trusts
       in primary, secondary and tertiary care; voluntary, private and charitable sectors; local
       councils; universities and other groups and organisations nationally and globally on
       projects of direct translational significance (see 4.1). These have enabled staff to
       successfully engage either as principal investigators or as co-investigators on
       prestigious projects that utilise their expertise and interdisciplinarity in health-related
       research to contribute to societal impact at the regional, national and international level
       (see 4.1). Of note is the collaboration initiated in 2019 between the University and Arts
       Council England on the jointly funded £2,800,000 groundbreaking Talent25 longitudinal
       intervention study to investigate the influence of arts and culture on the health and well-
       being of infants and children throughout their development into adulthood (see 4.1).
 3     Commercialisation and maximising impact of our research has seen some significant
       developments achieved by entering into strategic partnerships with external
       organisations to create exploitable solutions (see 4.1). For instance, we have contributed
       to the production and marketing of safer culinary oils (Martin Grootveld) which has
       received in excess of £100,000 in commercial income from various sources, including
       the International Trade Centre, Weston A. Price Foundation, Green Pastures Products
       Inc., and HEIF Networking Award. We have developed a novel non-invasive multiplexed
       process analytical technology (multi-PAT) to assist biopharmaceutical businesses
       develop freeze-dried drugs and vaccines (Geoff Smith). The technology, which has
       generated £401,642 from three collaborative R&D Innovate UK grants (Biostart, AtalsBio
       and FastLyo), has been trialled at the Centre for Process Innovation (Darlington) and
                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        now installed in a freeze-dryer at the National Institute for Biological Standards and
        Control (South Mimms), facilitating and accelerating the development of more robust and
        energy efficient production methods. We have also developed processes for producing a
        catalyst in several formats (Huddersman) with HEIF funding for development (£25,022),
        as well as funding from the US military ($150,000), DSTL (£70,000), and Schlumberger
        Foundation (£60,000) among others. The project, which has been scaled up to meet
        industrial needs, has generated an exclusive licence in the ophthalmic area to the US
        company Better Vision Solutions for use with the one-step hydrogen peroxide contact
        lens cleaning solutions. A worldwide patent (WO2017151604A1) has been taken out by
        the licensee in Japan, USA, EU, China, Canada, Brazil and Australia.
 4      Overall PGR student recruitment during the census period increased by 66.7% since
        2014 (93 in 2013/14 compared to 155 in 2019/20) and completions have more than
        doubled (40 in 2014 compared to 81 in 2020), meeting our objective of growing PGR
        student numbers. The increase in completions is evidence of the support and
        supervision provided for our students, which is further demonstrated by our PRES
        results in 2020 that showed our supervision and research training for students was
        particularly strong, with 88.5% (sector 86.7%; benchmark 87.6%) reporting to be happy
        with their supervision and 93.1% (sector 91.4%; benchmark 91.6%) reporting that their
        supervisors have the skills and subject knowledge to support their research while 90.3%
        (sector 85.8%; benchmark 86.8%) expressed overall satisfaction with their research
        skills, and 94.4% (sector 89.5%; benchmark 89.9%) claiming their skills in applying
        appropriate research methodologies, tools and techniques have developed during their
        programme. Recognition of the appreciation of the supervision provided is further
        demonstrated with Grootveld (School of Pharmacy) being one of the five finalists from
        over 100 nominations for the national award of PhD Supervisor of the Year (2020) run by
        FindAUniversity.com for his dedication and determination, with his work being described
        as outstanding and of an extremely high standard.
        To expand the diversity and scope of our student base, the Unit has successfully
        implemented its innovative collaborative PhD scholarships with University Hospital
        Leicester NHS Trust and the Leicester Partnership Trust to enable full-time NHS staff to
        enrol with fee-waiver part-time PhDs while also teaching our undergraduate and
        postgraduate taught students. This has brought the three institutions closer together and
        facilitated working on high-quality research that is meaningful to patients while building
        upon clinical academic capacity and providing practical experience for the students.
 1.2.2 Impact strategy
 Our impact strategy is fivefold, with aims to:
 •   enable impact generation to inform our recruitment policy, with appointments targeted at
     areas of existing strengths;
 •   develop staff through workshops on impact and knowledge exchange;
 •   include impact generation in the mentoring of staff, particularly those at the early stages of
     their research careers;
 •   create partnerships across the world, including Europe, the USA, Asia, Africa, and Brazil to
     ensure our impact is not restricted by national borders (see 4.1); and
 •   adopt a participatory approach with stakeholder involvement to co-design and co-produce
     research as well as support delivery and facilitate the influence of our research on
     education, policy and product development, the healthcare services, practitioners, service
     users and the public.
 These approaches ensure that pathways to impact are incorporated into research proposals
 right at the early stages of planning. Moreover, impact informs our internal funding policy for
 seed-funded projects and we support staff during our annual rounds of research and innovation
 time allocation to enhance their engagement with change-making research that generates

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact. This feeds into the annual appraisal process where performance against deliverables
 identified for research time allocation are reviewed.
 Progress against impact strategy
 The results of the strategy are demonstrated by our impact case studies, which we will continue
 to develop beyond the census period. These include influencing change in regulation and policy
 for maternity care (Tina Harris), improving the experience of people living with dementia (Andy
 Northcott), informing the production and marketing of safer culinary oils (Grootveld),
 developing DNA barcoding methodology to enable stronger regulation of the herbal medicines
 industry (Tiziana Sgamma), and developing a novel minimally invasive assay for better
 management of adherence to cardiovascular medications (Tanna).
 To enhance wider reach and engagement with our research, we organise promotional events,
 including a Pharmacy Innovation Showcase focused on exhibiting innovative research across
 the discipline; an Antibiotic Awareness Day to raise understanding on antibiotic resistance;
 workshops in collaboration with the International Society for Pharmaceutical Engineering (ISPE)
 UK Affiliate on the practical application of Quality by Design, including hands-on practical work
 and classroom training sessions. Stakeholder involvement, public consultation and user
 engagement with our research are promoted through events such as: Dementia Research Café
 Conversations with medical practitioners, carers and patients with neurodegenerative disease;
 Alzheimer’s Society Studentship Showcases with carers of patients with neurodegenerative
 disease; DMUlocal volunteering activities with Diabetes UK to raise awareness and reach out to
 diverse communities at risk; and Children’s Cancer and Leukaemia fundraising, increasing
 public awareness of cancer in children. We also take a proactive approach in engaging with a
 dedicated University Media and Communications team to ensure timely dissemination to the
 public, and screen media coverage of our most impactful findings, enabling us to monitor and
 evaluate the difference our research is making in the real world. Workshops on dissemination
 and public engagement are part of our annual calendar of events to support staff increase their
 external media profile.
 1.3 OPEN ACCESS AND RESEARCH INTEGRITY
 Researchers adopt a policy of adherence to the University’s Ethics and Research Integrity
 guidelines with specific commitments to open research and culture. This is promoted by making
 research outputs accessible through the Green Open Access route on the DMU open research
 archive (DORA) within three months of acceptance. They also ensure that data is deposited on
 Figshare, our data repository system, to demonstrate transparency and share with the wider
 community in order to generate greater potential benefit. Some outputs are supported for
 publication through the Gold Open Access route using central funds when available.
 Outside of the formal institutional facilities, individuals are encouraged to promote their outputs
 through media platforms. In other cases, staff take opportunities to write opinion or discussion
 pieces for open access publishers such as The Conversation as well as blogs.
 Going forward, we will be promoting publications through the University’s own press (DMU
 Press) in support of its mission to make journals and books free at the point of access in digital
 format, enhancing free global access and the widest possible dissemination.
 1.4 SUMMARY OF PROGRESS AGAINST 2014 OBJECTIVES
 Research within our UOA at DMU has undergone substantial transformation since 2014 both
 structurally and in scale. We have moved to structured thematic interdisciplinary institutes which
 have provided the catalyst for growth and success. We have been able to consolidate our
 research and expertise, resulting in a significant expansion in our partnership and networks,
 which extend across the globe (see 4.1). Our research environment has been enhanced and the
 research culture strengthened through our far-reaching collaborations, underpinned by strategic
 staffing policies, which included new recruitment of leading senior researchers, appointment of
 renowned external academics and clinicians to honorary positions within targeted disciplines,
 creation of a pipeline of future research leaders through the VC2020 and ECAF schemes,


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supporting the promotion of our staff, and their participation in the Future Research Leaders
 programme specifically developed by the University for staff deemed as ‘highflyers’ (see 2.1).
 The impact of our transformation is reflected in (1) a significant increase in our staffing research
 capacity and return to REF 2021; (2) a striking proliferation in outputs with a 104% rise in
 publications of various forms, including journal articles, books, book chapters and conference
 proceedings; (3) a significant growth in PGR student recruitment and percentage completions;
 and (4) a notable increase in the number of high-profile national and international multimillion-
 pound projects involving our staff (see 4.1). These achievements show promise and give
 confidence to our aim to strengthen our research leadership in the core areas of excellence,
 enabling further growth and success.
 1.5 FUTURE STRATEGIC AIMS AND GOALS FOR RESEARCH AND IMPACT
 We aim to continue to build on our research progress, expanding our strategic priorities to
 ensure that we are responsive to changes in the funding and political landscape so as to
 maintain our influence, not just within national boundaries but globally. Our research strategy
 going forward will therefore be underpinned by the principles of (1) improving competitive
 external-income generation, (2) generating high-quality outputs, (3) maintaining sustainability
 through a pipeline of research-active staff, (4) increasing research visibility and impact, and (5)
 supporting continued recruitment of high-calibre PGR students. The delivery of these principles
 is outlined below (1.5.1 to 1.5.5):
 1.5.1 External-income generation
 Income from external sources is increasingly focused on generating excellence recognised
 nationally and internationally. We will therefore ensure that we continue to consolidate our
 research in areas of excellence in health and social care and in the lab-based sciences to be
 competitive in income generation. In parallel, we will select future programmes in response to
 national and international demands, prioritising interdisciplinary research that provides potential
 for future growth with demonstrable impact. For instance, we will exploit emergent opportunities
 for health care created by Covid-19 which will include building on Laird’s research on laundry
 and the coronavirus (see 4.1) with the aim of developing textile antimicrobial laundry
 supplements and establishing a test standard to determine the efficacy of laundry to be used
 globally. We will also maximise on other opportunities such as Daniel Sillence working
 alongside the University of Oxford to repurpose existing licensed medicines including select
 inhibitors of glycolipid metabolism for treating Covid-19, Maitreyi Shivkumar developing broad-
 spectrum antivirals for rapid deployment against corona and other future new viruses, and
 Kathryn Hinsliff-Smith along with Jayne Brown leading a UK-wide Covid study exploring the
 experiences of families, carers and residents in care homes during the pandemic to improve
 care services.
 Within Health and Social Care, we will continue to support the multimillion-pound Talent25 and
 ‘Crying Babies’ projects (see 4.1). We will also be growing our research on dementia through a
 multi-institutional study looking at the everyday use of restraint on people living with dementia in
 hospital; and will build on our research into mental health by exploring access to perinatal
 mental health services for first-generation migrant through the ADRIFT study.
 There are two further major initiatives we aim to develop as part of our focus on health
 outcomes and quality of life across the life course. The first will develop a partnership with
 Willows Health, the largest GP practice in Leicestershire, which will lead to the creation of a
 Willows-DMU Centre for Primary Care Research. This will combine our expertise together with
 those of primary-care clinicians to carry out transformational research, including collaborating
 with DMU’s Digital Health Technology Unit to identify and develop technologies that will have a
 positive impact on improving the care provided to patients. Furthermore, the research activities
 will be extended to exploring mental health provision in Leicestershire (particularly in the wake
 of Covid-19), asthma care, diabetes management and the link between Covid-19 and other
 complications. Opportunities for generation of quality outputs and external-income to drive wider
 adoption of care solutions will be central to our engagement within the Centre.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The second initiative aims to expand our research into Applied Global Health following the offer
 of an appointment to Tine Van Bortel as Professor of Global Health in Allied Health Sciences in
 July 2020. Van Bortel’s expertise in Global Mental Health and Well-Being, and Determinants of
 Health and Well-Being provides new opportunities to extend our research in these areas
 together with local and global partners and networks already developed. Van Bortel will
 broaden the scope of our research in several areas including the development, application and
 evaluation of enabling technologies, creative solutions, and social innovations to overcome
 barriers to health and wellbeing, and to address inequalities. This will complement planned
 engagement with the Willows-DMU Centre for Primary Care Research and build synergies not
 just within our three institutes but with others across the Faculty, such as the Mary Seacole
 Research Centre which focuses on Mental Health and Resilience in migrant communities. The
 research conducted in this Centre is largely policy-based at this stage and its members are
 therefore being returned into UOA 20.
 Further initiatives to enhance our income streams will focus on our industrial interface which will
 be advanced principally through our Pharmaceutical Technologies and Nanomedicine, the
 Chemistry for Health and Environment, and the Bioanalytical Sciences research groups. We will
 build on the established work of Smith, Grootveld and Huddersman (see 1.2.1) by developing
 new avenues of high-profile research, specifically in neurodegenerative disease, led by Nicoleta
 Moisoi. This will be a major programme of research within the Unit for which some funding has
 already been secured from Alzheimer’s Research UK (ARUK; £212,624) and commercial
 partners (confidential information) funding the project via the Dementia Consortium (part of
 ARUK). The programme of research will focus on two aspects, the first on validation of novel
 targets and drugs for Parkinson’s disease using both murine and induced pluripotent stem cell
 derived models of the disease. This research aims to identify viable therapeutic approaches for
 Parkinson’s that will be taken forward for further validation and/or commercialisation with the
 consortium. The second focus will be on neuroimmune interactions in Parkinson’s and this
 aspect is being developed in collaboration with the University of Verona and the National
 Institute for Physics and Nuclear Engineering in Romania. An application has been submitted
 (May 2020) to the Michael J Fox Foundation totalling over US$4,000,000.
 Li’s research on neglected tropical diseases is another priority area for growth and will be
 developing a patient-centric approach for the treatment of malaria. Another project funded by
 the EPSRC (£906,253) within Li’s group will also aim to develop a patient-centric
 supramolecular formulation of new anti-leishmanial drugs for Indian communities.
 In January 2020, DMU joined a £26,000,000 BBSRC- and Innovate UK-funded consortium,
 established to catalyse collaboration between academics and industry partners working on
 biofilms through the National Biofilm Innovation Centre. We will utilise this initiative to provide a
 stimulus for researchers in UOA 3 to identify industry partners for the development and
 commercialisation of innovative products and approaches for biofilms, including developing
 molecular imprinted polymer coated central venous catheter (collaboration with Kimal PLC), and
 developing new disinfectant surface wipes (collaboration with PAL International).
 1.5.2 High-quality outputs
 We aim to increase the quantity of high-quality outputs through refinement of our publication
 and dissemination policies. In line with this, we will support all research-active staff through
 mentoring where needed, and with adequate time allocation and funding to produce, on
 average, one high-quality (3*/4*) peer-reviewed manuscript annually. We will aim to target at
 least 70% of publications to the top 25% of journals within our respective disciplines while
 ensuring a minimum of 40% are with international collaborating partners. Our policy of ensuring
 outputs are on DORA within three months of acceptance will be carefully monitored and we will
 continue to support open access publication of high-quality outputs to maximise the visibility and
 reach of our research.
 1.5.3 Staffing sustainability and succession planning
 Developing our own future research leaders is central to our culture for sustainability and
 succession planning and we anticipate changes in our staffing due to the retirement of several

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 senior members of the Unit. We are mindful of the impact this will have on our research and the
 risk this will pose in weakening our research excellence in the areas led by our senior
 researchers. We will therefore continue to build on the strengths of our pipeline future leads,
 ensuring appointments continue in areas at risk of maintaining the sustainability of their
 research activities, and support the progression through promotions of staff deemed excellent.
 We will further develop talented staff by facilitating opportunities to advance through national
 and international fellowship schemes. We have had some success in the Faculty in supporting
 staff to apply for fellowships, such as Esmee Hanna’s (submitted into UOA 20) NIHR Advanced
 Fellowship. We will now build on this by creating a Faculty Research Fellowships Mentoring
 Group that will provide a network of experts who will assist researchers to develop skills for
 competitive fellowship applications. Through this, we aim to increase success in the number of
 fellowships awarded to our staff from the early career researcher (ECR) stage through to senior
 levels with at least one in every institute within the UOA over the next REF cycle. To further
 strengthen our commitment to developing our ECRs going forward, we will apply to gain
 admittance to the Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard Scheme so that staff within the
 first five years of their academic post in our Unit will have the opportunity to apply for up to
 £100,000 over two years to support their research on health-related themes. These staff will
 have access to the Academy’s acclaimed mentoring and career development programme.
 1.5.4 Enhance research visibility and impact
 The co-production of research and generation of impact will continue to be central to our funding
 policy and we will monitor our strategy for impact in line with funding applications both internally
 and externally. We will strategically prioritise internal funds, annually ring-fencing one third of
 our research development budget to accelerate projects that include impact and engagement
 activities. We will ensure researchers build and strengthen mutually beneficial relationships with
 external partners who will contribute to the planning for potential impact, facilitate evidence-
 gathering as well as delivering the benefits of our research to a range of beneficiaries.
 Maintaining stronger links with clinicians, applied health researchers and industry will be a
 focused objective to facilitate the translational elements of our research and we will continue to
 review and prioritise areas for development, and strengthen interdisciplinary working. We will
 also include alignment of our research with the key priorities of the United Nations’ Sustainable
 Development Goals (SDGs) relevant to the UOA. This will be in fulfilment of the University’s
 commitment to the 17 SDGs for which it was awarded Global Hub status for SDG 16 on a three-
 year tenure that started in 2019 (REF5a). We embrace the commitment to the SDGs, with
 particular focus on 3 (good health and well-being), 4 (inclusive and equitable quality education),
 6 (clean water and sanitation), 9 (industry, innovation and infrastructure), 10 (reduced
 inequalities) and 17 (partnership for sustainable development).
 To further raise the visibility of our research and generate impact, we will continue to promote
 our findings to a wider global audience through online events and commemorating international
 and national awareness days, including World Hospice and Palliative Care Day and National
 Handwashing Day.
 1.5.5 PGR student recruitment
 We have made good progress in enhancing our PGR student cohort, increasing numbers by
 almost 67% during this census period with 107 currently registered on various degree
 programmes. It is now our ambition to build on this critical mass and increase our cohort by a
 further 50% over the next REF cycle in line with supervisor capacity, and we will work with our
 Associate Dean, International, and with the International Office to specifically target the
 international market with potential for research growth. This will be in line with our recruitment
 strategy which includes improved web presence with a virtual tour of our research facilities,
 including laboratories, library resources and PGR study rooms. For prospective candidates who
 fall short of our PhD entry criteria, we will offer opportunities to enrol onto Masters programmes
 to develop their research and writing skills before embarking on a PhD. We will also continue
 developing our PhD programme with the NHS Trusts and will introduce ‘taster’ sessions for
 academics, clinical staff and others wishing to study for a higher research degree.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2. People
 2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 Our commitment to supporting the next generation of researchers and to developing a diverse
 group of high-quality research-active staff has driven our recruitment strategy. We prioritise
 attracting, developing and retaining staff with research potential and excellence. We have used
 new appointments to expand our research so that we can contribute to emerging global
 challenges and have further utilised new appointments and promotions as strategic levers to
 increase critical mass in order to strengthen our priority areas, enhance interdisciplinarity and
 increase our international networks. This has meant a number of strategic new recruits and
 promotions including the appointment of Anwar Baydoun as Professor of Cardiovascular
 Pharmacology and Associate Dean Research and Innovation (ADRI; 2018), advancing research
 leadership in the Faculty across institutes and centres as well as strengthening research in the
 cardiovascular areas. The recruitment of Kay de Vries as Professor of Older People’s Health
 (2017) and Ochieng as Professor of Integrated Health (2017) to the School of Nursing and
 Midwifery increases the School’s professorial appointments to four and has enabled a
 programme of outstanding-quality health research through the establishment of major
 collaborative partnerships on a series of high-profile projects locally, nationally and
 internationally (see 4.1). Graham Sewell’s appointment (2019) in the School of Pharmacy as
 Professor of Pharmacy Practice brings established expertise in the areas of cancer
 chemotherapy, occupational exposure of healthcare staff to hazardous medicines, and the
 environmental impact of drugs and their metabolites excreted by patients receiving
 chemotherapy.
 Apart from targeted new recruitments, the Unit’s staffing policy has enabled it to prioritise
 recognition of research excellence from within, and support a new generation of research
 leaders with exceptional talent and promise with rapid promotions to professors and associate
 professors. These include the promotion of Smith from Reader to Professor in Pharmaceutical
 Process Analytical Technology (2015); Zeeshan Ahmad from Reader to Professor in
 Pharmaceutics and Drug Delivery (2016); Li from Reader to Professor in Crystal Engineering
 and Drug Delivery (2019); Tanna from Reader to Professor of Pharmaceutical Analysis (2018);
 and Randolph Arroo from Reader to Professor of Phytochemistry (2019). Among the associate
 professorial promotions, Laird was promoted from Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor in
 Microbiology (2018), Moisoi from VC2020 Lecturer to Associate Professor in Pharmacology
 (2019), Nick Turner from VC2020 Lecturer to Associate Professor in Bioanalytical Chemistry
 (2019), and Sillence from Senior Lecturer to Reader (2015) and subsequently changing title to
 Associate Professor of Cell Biology in 2018. In Allied Health Sciences, Louise Dunford was
 promoted from Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor of Nutrition (2019), Avninder Bhambra
 from Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor in Biomedical Sciences (2019), Harprit Singh from
 VC2020 Lecturer to Associate Professor of Cell Signalling (2019), and Umakhanth
 Venkatraman Girija from VC2020 Lecturer to Associate Professor of Immunology (2019). In
 Nursing and Midwifery, Andrew Clifton was promoted from Senior Lecturer to Associate
 Professor in Nursing (2017), Jane Rutty (2018) and Harris (2017) from Principal Lecturers to
 Associate Professors in Research and Innovation and Deputies to the ADRI within the Faculty.
 These promotions are a result of succession planning to build a sustainable critical mass in our
 targeted priority areas going forward.
 Our succession planning strategy has also prioritised the next generation of researchers by
 recruiting through the VC2020 and ECAF schemes. Both schemes provide successful candidates
 with bespoke mentoring and an opportunity to establish a solid research career through dedicated
 research time (50%) and funding of up to £5,000 in their first year of appointment (REF5a). These
 targeted investments are enabling our future research leaders to establish strong foundations and
 develop their careers independently and through collaborations internally and externally with the
 outcomes illustrated in Figure 1.




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 We are particularly conscious of ensuring our pipeline talent have an influential voice within the
 Unit. We are therefore pleased that 77% of the VC2020 staff have been promoted to senior
 lecturers or associate professors and the ECAFs have been given tenure following successful
 completion of their probationary year. Both groups of staff are part of various decision-making
 processes, such as being included on faculty panels for reviewing and agreeing Research and
 Innovation Allowance (RIA) allocations to other staff. They also have representation on the
 Faculty Research and Innovation Committee, providing valuable opportunities, not only to
 contribute to decision-making at a senior level, but to also gain essential leadership skills and
 network with the Faculty’s senior research management team.
 Our Future Research Leaders programme, which provides mentoring together with a stipend of
 £1,500 for developmental activities, gives our rising research stars an opportunity to develop
 their research leadership skills, thereby setting out a path to senior positions. The programme
 seeks both to place this group as leading researchers in DMU and to equip them with the skills
 and the sense of responsibility to act as champions and inspire research in their own research
 groups, institutes, schools and faculties. Participation in the programme is an accolade and the
 size of the cohort is limited to 12 people per annum across the University but our Unit has been
 successful in supporting 6 staff through the programme since 2017.
 For all researchers, there is a University Professional Development Unit that provides dedicated
 specialist and transferrable skills aligned to the Research Development Framework and we
 ensure staff are supported in various forms throughout the different stages of their careers. The
 RIA (REF5a) is also open to all researchers and is on top of a 10% scholarship time awarded to
 all staff. Researchers can apply for RIA ranging from 320 to 640 hours per year, which equates
 to 1 to 2 days per week. Allocations are made on a transparent basis with each application
 considered on its own merits. Notification of outcomes is through the ADRI and, where RIAs are
 not allocated, developmental considerations form part of the feedback given with appropriate
 support identified, including effective mentoring, particularly for less-experienced researchers
 going through this process for the first time.
 We adopt both an informal and traditional approach to mentoring through the Faculty Research
 Mentorship Scheme which is facilitated by the Faculty Professoriate, other experienced
 researchers and external mentors brought in to give a broader perspective. The mentoring
 provides bespoke support that includes navigating through the career progression pathways,
 income and impact generation, and guidance around producing high-quality publications. These
 activities are also supported centrally through various events and workshops organised by the
 Researcher Development Team within Research Services. Institutes additionally organise their
 own activities, such as annual conferences, which are inclusive and offer opportunities for
 networking. Some of these events are facilitated from the research development budget
 administered by the ADRI to enhance cross-fertilisation of research ideas and to develop joint
 bids. We also support staff to develop their research and networks through the University
 Research Leave Scheme which is funded centrally on an annual basis (REF5a).
                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 TRAINING AND SUPERVISION OF PGR STUDENTS
 The Unit has a large and vibrant PGR student population from home and abroad, adding to our
 diverse culture within the Faculty. They are supported through various funding streams including
 DMU bursaries. In the census period, the University has provided 23 full bursaries and 25 fee-
 waivers to PGR students in the Unit. Others are recruited through externally secured research
 grants and through additional sources, such as EPSRC, Newton Fund or government-funded
 studentships including from the Egyptian Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research.
 As noted previously, we also recruit students from within the local NHS Trusts in order to help
 develop their professional needs and advance their clinical competence.
 All our students are fully integrated into our research institutes to ensure that they are part of a
 research-rich environment and we provide opportunities for peer-mentoring from within the PGR
 student cohort. To minimise disruption and facilitate easy access to supervisors when on
 campus, we have created designated research student offices with dedicated computer
 stations, a kitchen, seating area and lockers which are additional to the central library facilities.
 All students are supported through the Doctoral College which oversees the administrative
 aspects of their studies and monitors their progress from recruitment to completion. To assist
 with this process, DMU uses an online platform that allows research students, supervisors and
 the Doctoral College to track and record progression throughout the student’s lifecycle from
 registration, through regular periodic reviews, to viva and final award to ensure milestones are
 met on time. The Faculty Head of Research Students (FHRS) works with the Doctoral College
 to oversee student academic progression and is assisted by the Institute Heads of Research
 Students (IHRSs) to ensure students are supported by their supervisory team, consisting of at
 least 2 supervisors with completion experience and subject expertise among the team. All
 supervisors must complete DMU’s Certificate in Research Supervision in order to be eligible to
 supervise PGR students.
 Students within the Unit are provided with generic training through the Doctoral College. The
 Faculty additionally offers two Doctoral Training Programmes (DTPs), one in the applied social
 and applied sciences and the other in bioanalysis, pharmaceuticals and health. Both DTPs are
 designed to provide specialised training opportunities and support for students while
 undertaking their PhD to ensure a high-quality experience. In addition to supporting their
 academic development, we are also mindful of their well-being. We are therefore dedicated to
 creating an environment that focuses on students’ health and well-being by providing advice on
 finance, career and employability as well as mental health which, since March 2020, has
 included Doctoral College or Faculty virtual drop-in sessions with the FHRS/IHRS, PGR café for
 all students to catch up and talk about mental health, regular updates via the Faculty PGR
 Community Shell as well as central communications from the Associate Pro Vice-Chancellor
 and/or Pro Vice-Chancellor, Research and Enterprise. Where disruptions are inevitable due to
 the pandemic, we have provided a no-cost formal interruption to their studies.
 To assist with their career development, we make funds available on a competitive basis to
 support conference attendance, specific training relevant to their studies and provide a £2,000
 annual supplement for consumables for each laboratory-based project. Students are
 encouraged to be proactive in promoting their research and are provided with funds and
 administrative support through the Faculty Research and Innovation Office (RIO) to organise a
 student-focused annual Post-Graduate Research Conference, giving them an opportunity to
 acquire organisational skills as well as developing their presentation competencies. The
 conference is additional to several other events organised by the Institutes and/or Doctoral
 College, including the PGR lecture series, the three-minute-thesis and poster competitions.
 Furthermore, we recognise and incentivise our students through a number of prizes that are
 awarded yearly at the Faculty Research Awards and include an award for Excellence in PhD
 Student Contribution to the Research Community.
 2.3 SUPPORTING AND PROMOTING EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 Our UOA is committed to delivering the principles of equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) and
 is, therefore, fully aligned with the University EDI strategy, DMUfreedom. DMUfreedom is
 monitored and governed by the University EDI committee which reports to the Executive Board
                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which in turn reports to the Board of Governors. A core principle of DMUfreedom is equal and
 fair access of opportunity and outcome for all staff regardless of their employment status and
 protected characteristics. This principle, along with all others, is monitored and reported on at
 the University EDI committee.
 In addition, the Faculty monitors and reports on EDI opportunities and outcomes at the Faculty
 EDI committee which is chaired by the Deputy Dean and reports to the University EDI
 committee. The Faculty committee has representation from all schools and addresses issues
 that relate to EDI and, together with the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee and the
 institutional committee, monitors the current demographic profile of research academics in our
 Unit to support it in moving towards a well-balanced gender and ethnicity demographic.
 We are particularly pleased to have
 been able to narrow the gap between
 white and Black, Asian and Minority
 Ethnic (BAME) researchers in the
 current submission when compared to
 2014 (Figure 2) and have, overall, a
 fair gender balance for all the different
 categories of appointment within the
 UOA (Figure 3) with particular
 reference made to the increase in
 female professors (40% compared to
 25% in 2014) brought about by
 targeted recruitment during the
 current census period. The high
 proportion of female associate
 professors currently (Figure 3) will
 ensure we bridge the professorial
 gender gap even further as we move
 forward.
 Through DMUfreedom, we seek to
 further advance our EDI objectives to
 ensure our UOA is a diverse and
 friendly Unit to study and work within.
 We encourage all staff and students
 to feel the freedom to inspire and to
 succeed through the provision of
 training and operational frameworks
 that ensure active engagement
 beyond compliance with equalities
 legislation and University processes.
 Our further commitment in supporting EDI and ensuring fairness to all is demonstrated by our
 pledge to the Athena SWAN charter (REF5a). We have set up a Faculty-wide Athena SWAN
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Team, chaired by Rutty. This group is driving the principles of
 the charter and organises annual Athena SWAN conferences to promote equality and diversity
 across the Faculty. The School of Pharmacy secured a bronze award in 2019 and is now
 preparing to submit for a Silver award with the other two schools that form part of our
 submission also working towards achieving this goal.
 We have ensured that all staff within the Unit are supported with flexible working arrangements
 in line with DMU guidelines and policies. Family-friendly policies such as parental leave have
 also been supported throughout the census period, ensuring arrangements are put in place to
 cover tasks of staff on leave schemes. This includes making provisions not just for their
 teaching but also supporting PhD students under their supervision, and do so fairly without any
 bias.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 RESEARCH INCOME
 Income generation over the current census period shows a marginal fall to values submitted in
 2014 (£4,149,898 in 2019/20 compared to £4,406,671 in 2013/14). There was a declining trend,
 particularly between 2016/17 and 2018/19, which may be due to the drive to recruit VC2020
 Lecturers / ECAFs as part of the succession planning strategy. We have, however seen a
 reversal of this trend in the last year with our income streams rising from £422,277 in 2018/19 to
 £853,965 in 2019/20 (Figure 4) and expected to exceed £1,000,000 in 2020/21. Grants have
 been secured from a wide range of funding bodies, including Research Councils (BBSRC,
 EPSRC, ESRC), charities (CRUK, ARUK, NC3R, Wellcome Trust), UK government (NIHR,
 DASA), EU2020, other sources (Table 1, Figure 5), and excludes examples of commercial
 income given in section 1.2.1.
                                         Table 1: Income 2014–2020
            BEIS Research Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy and
                                                                                   £901,870
            the Royal Society of Edinburgh
            UK based charities (open competitive process)                          £402,248
            UK based charities (other)                                             £290,010
            UK central government bodies/local authorities, health and hospital
                                                                                  £1,084,297
            authorities
            Health research funding bodies                                         £464,500
            UK central government tax credits for research and development
                                                                                         £0
            expenditure
            UK industry, commerce and public corporations                          £267,799
            UK other sources                                                       £257,968
            EU government bodies                                                   £305,461
            EU based charities (open competitive process)                                £0
            EU industry, commerce and public corporations                           £11,031
            EU (excluding UK) other                                                  £9,662
            Non-EU-based charities (open competitive process)                       £16,758
            Non-EU industry commerce and public corporations                         £1,131
            Non-EU other                                                           £137,163
            TOTAL                                                                 £4,149,898




 It is pleasing that the larger share of our income is from esteemed competitive sources and it is
 encouraging that our conversion ratio of success has doubled from 9% in 2014 to 18% in 2020.
 We will maintain this upward trajectory and aim to realise a conversion rate of at least 20%
 going forward. To achieve this, we have introduced regular grant horizon scanning workshops
                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with institutes asked to identify specific funding opportunities as part of their annual research
 objectives mapped against their five-year strategic plans. Staff less experienced are paired with
 experienced researchers, including members of our professoriate, and supported through
 seminars and workshops aimed at writing good-quality grant applications. They are also
 provided with seed-funding from the research development budget for pilot studies that will lead
 to grant applications.
 Examples of key awards that reflect the success of the strategic approach now implemented
 include:
 •   J. Brown (NIHR HTA; £2,000,000 with £797,819 to DMU): cluster randomised controlled
     trial of a service to support the mental health and coping of parents with excessively crying
     infants;
 •   J. Brown (Lottery Fund and European Union Social Fund; £2,400,000 with £250,000 to
     DMU): evaluation of National Lottery application by Vista, Building Better Opportunities;
 •   Grootveld The Quantum Leapers (£100,000): optically detected magnetic resonance
     (ODMR) for early cancer detection;
 •   Hinsliff-Smith (Dunhill Medical Trust; £133,000): uncertainty in healthcare: a qualitative
     study of patients’ and clinicians’ experiences and co‐design of professional development
     and patient information materials;
 •   Hinsliff-Smith (National Lottery / Leicester Ageing Together, £52,000): Leicester Ageing
     Together evaluation report;
 •   Laird (Textile Services Association; £104,500): development of a standard test to determine
     efficacy of laundry;
 •   Li (EPSRC GCRF; £906,253, with £243,792 to DMU): patient-centric supramolecular
     formulations of new anti-leishmanial drugs for Indian communities;
 •   Moisoi (Alzheimer’s Research UK; £212,624): validating CLPP-dependent activation of
     mitochondria quality control signalling as a neuroprotective strategy in neurodegenerative
     diseases;
 •   Turner (EPSRC; £296,003): Exploration of Linking Chemistry in the Design of Aptamer-
     Molecularly Imprinted Polymer Hybrids (aptaMIPs);
 •   Turner (Cancer Research UK; £100,000): Analysis of Extracellular Vesicles using Impact
     Electrochemistry;
 •   Turner (Partnership for Clean Competition; £132,000): Comprehensive Steroid Detection in
     Urine Via Targeted Clean-Up and Fully Automated GCxGC-MS Analysis.
 3.2 RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE/FACILITIES
 Our research institutes are led by Research Directors who are senior academics with
 internationally recognised track records within their respective research fields. Directors have
 oversight and day-to-day management responsibilities of the activities within their units and are
 supported by an Institute Steering Group with responsibility for evolving the institute’s research
 strategy, monitoring its performance and ensuring effective implementation of the strategic plan.
 Membership of the steering group includes the director as chair, research theme leads,
 representative of the Faculty Professoriate, ECRs and IHRS.
 Each institute is further supported by the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee which
 approves targets and monitors performance against agreed objectives and deliverables,
 including grant applications, awards, income and postgraduate student registrations and
 completions. Membership of the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee includes the
 Associate Dean, Research and Innovation (ADRI), Institute Directors, the institutional Head of
 Research Services, the Faculty Research and Innovation Office Manager, Mentor Lead, ECR
 and ECR Champion, REF UOA Coordinators, and Faculty Head of Research Students. The

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dean and the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Enterprise, together with his deputy, are
 ex-officio members.
 Connections between institutes, Faculty and University are maintained through the ADRI who
 sits on the Faculty Executive Committee, University Research Management Group, and
 University Research and Innovation Committee. This ensures activities within institutes align
 with the key strategic objectives of the Faculty and University.
 The Faculty Research and Innovation Office, with its own dedicated staff headed by a RIO
 manager, provides wider support for the institutes and researchers, including managing, under
 the direction of the ADRI, the budget allocated to bench fees. They also provide administrative
 support and assist with organising various workshops, conferences and the Faculty Research
 Awards. Additionally, they produce a research newsletter highlighting the latest development
 and achievement in our research and support the ADRI in managing and processing various
 applications including those for RIAs as well as internal grant funding calls. The RIO manager
 sits on the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee and members of the team service the
 committee.
 Our research also draws on expertise from within the East Midlands Research Design Services
 for grant-application writing and other support, including patient involvement in proposed
 studies. Within the University, we get assistance centrally from Research Services who provide
 support for grant applications through a dedicated Faculty Research Development Officer
 (RDO). The RDO assists with identifying funding opportunities, provides guidance on
 requirements of different funding bodies as well as policy and governance. Research Services
 also assist with costings and with post-award management of successful grants. Our
 researchers additionally benefit from extensive resources in the University’s Kimberlin Library,
 with the Library and Learning Service providing guidance on open access and copyright.
 There has been significant investment in the University’s estates during the census period with
 a £136,000,000 Campus Transformation Project (REF5a) which has benefited our Faculty with
 £12,000,000 invested in refurbishing its buildings and upgrading its facilities for both teaching
 and research. The Faculty took the opportunity to integrate its laboratory facilities for research
 and teaching while maintaining bespoke specialist units dedicated to research alone. In this
 regard, we have modernised laboratories in the basic sciences, including upgrading our cell
 culture, HPLC, cell signalling and molecular biology suites. We have also acquired a high-
 resolution Jeol JNM-ECZR 600 MHz spectrometer for state-of-the-art solution-state research
 programmes, predominantly those involving multicomponent biomedical science investigations.
 This instrument has much improved signal resolution (specificity) and sensitivity with access to
 a large number of two-dimensional (2D) NMR techniques for solution-state structural
 elucidations (both uni- and multinuclear), including those for proteins. The investment has
 strengthened our very high level of expertise and experience in the areas of NMR-based
 experimental design, biometrics, chemometrics, metabolomics and data-mining, along with drug
 design, synthesis, characterisation and testing (both organic and metallodrugs).
 We have created a world-class industry-standard Laboratory for Rapid and Adaptive Medicine
 Development and Manufacture which has positioned our researchers as leaders in continuous
 secondary manufacturing using Quality by Design principles. The use of novel in-line Process
 Analytical Technologies (PAT), as an integral part of the facility, has accelerated the pace of
 manufacturing innovation through a better understanding of materials properties and process
 design. The Unit, led by Walkiria Schlindwein, will continue to scope opportunities with the
 pharmaceutical industry to translate early innovative development of medicines into actual
 scale-up production using efficient methodologies underpinned by an international regulatory
 framework of Quality by Design guidance.
 Our scanning electron microscopy (SEM) facility has also been upgraded by adding a sputter
 coater to enable the facility to apply a conductive layer of gold at a predetermined thickness,
 and have upgraded the EDX computer and hardware to the latest software platform (Aztec)
 which include Feature and Large Area Mapping to allow for samples to be analysed in
 automation and predetermined elements identified. These upgrades have provided

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities for wider external collaborations (see 4.1) and given researchers the advantage of
 the latest developments in SEM analysis.
 We have acquired a Reichert Surface Plasmon Resonance (SPR) system with electrochemical
 capabilities and have additionally invested in several mass spectrometry instruments to add to
 our existing Qualitative Tandem Liquid Chromatography Quadrupole Time of Flight Mass
 Spectrometry (LC-QTOF-MS/MS). The new instruments include an Agilent 6120 liquid
 chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and a 7900 inductively couple plasma mass
 spectrometry (ICPMS) as well as an Agilent 700D GCMS QQQ MS gas chromatography mass
 spectrometry (GC-MS). The facility is part of the Covid-19 Mass Spectrometry coalition and the
 Midlands Mass Spectrometry group with key research in the field of small molecule analysis,
 particularly in metabolomics, environmental forensics and biomarkers in health.
 We have invested in additional mid-range equipment including: 5 new HPLCs, X-ray powder
 diffraction (XRD), Ion Chromatograph, Oxygraph, Polar Bear Plus Crystal and Crystal 16, LI-
 COR Odyssey imaging system, Bench Top Bruker ESR, Cryostat, Vibratome, Critical point
 dryer SEM, Lyostat5 Freeze Drying Microscope, Pharma Test Dissolution Apparatus, VirTis
 AdVantage Plus XL, 2 shelf freeze-dryer. These are further to multiple smaller piece of
 equipment, which all together amounted to an additional investment of £1,124,000.
 Apart from the internal investment made, we have developed strategic partnerships with other
 institutions nationally and internationally that facilitate sharing of research infrastructure which
 have provided access to: the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico, USA, looking at
 catalyst structures (Huddersman); a 60L reactor pilot unit at SENAI, Brazil and a 80L reactor
 pilot unit at Scottish Water Municipal wastewater treatment site at Bo’ness in Scotland as test
 sites for the destruction of simulated produced water and pesticides (Huddersman); animal
 testing and microbiological facilities at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine
 (Li); Docking software and expertise with colleagues in Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey
 (Arroo); the EPSRC mass spec facility at the University of Swansea (Joan Taylor); proposal-
 based Beamtime (in-kind value of £65265) with the ISIS Neutron and Muon Source at the
 Rutherford Appleton Laboratory of the Science and Technology Facilities Council (Omar
 Mansour); the loan of a $40,000 Vacuum Metal Deposition (VMD)-360 from West Technology
 to research into the use of precious metals in the detection of fingerprints on biodegradable and
 compostable plastic bags (Kevin Farrugia); Living Lab for care-home resident health and well-
 being in Holland (Landelijke Prevalentiemeting Zorgkwaliteit; Hinsliff-Smith).
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 COLLABORATIONS, NETWORKS AND PARTNERSHIPS
 Researchers within the Unit collaborate extensively across all its disciplines and do so
 regionally, nationally and internationally. Our choice of collaborations, networks and partners is
 determined by our vision of developing impactful and innovative research which provides benefit
 to health and well-being. We have focused specifically on engaging with industries, government
 departments and policymakers, health- and social-care professionals, service users and carers.
 We have utilised various funding streams, including the faculty research development funds and
 the QR GCRF to pump-prime research that will develop collaborations widely. In establishing
 these links, we have ensured real use of our expertise to address the health, well-being and
 social-care needs of the local, national and global population, with examples of effective
 collaborations within the census period including:
 •   The DMU-Arts Council England Talent25 project, led by Ochieng in partnership with
     Leicester City Council, NHS England, The Mighty Creatives, The Spark, Mammas and
     Willows Health, to examining the impact of engagement in creative activities from birth to the
     age of 25 on the socio-economic status of the participants, including their well-being and
     abilities in later life; and identify interventions needed to increase beneficial cultural
     opportunities at the earliest possible stage in the development of infants and children. The
     project, with a 25-year timeline, will enable interdisciplinarity and impact on a global scale.
 •   Ochieng collaborating with Leicester City Council and Health Education England on the
     high numbers of underweight and overweight children in BAME communities to develop and
                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     implement a training tool for healthy weight maintenance to bring about change and better
     health to black minority groups. This research has been extended to Tanzania with Ochieng
     collaborating with Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences (Tanzania), the Ministry
     of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children (MoHCDEC, Tanzania)
     on developing culturally sensitive strategies for reducing malnutrition in children.
 •   J. Brown establishing a wide network of regional and national partnerships on ‘The
     Surviving Crying’ feasibility study which involves University Hospital of Leicester (UHL) NHS
     Trust, Leicester Clinical Trials Unit, Leicestershire Partnership NHS Trust, University College
     London, Leicester and Middlesex Universities and the charities National Childbirth Trust and
     Cry-Sis. The study was initially funded from the NIHR HTA Programme (£528,632) to design
     and deliver a first step towards developing and evaluating an intervention to be incorporated
     into routine NHS services to support parents of babies who cry excessively. A further
     £2,000,000 NIHR grant has been awarded and has developed further links with the
     universities of Cambridge and Warwick to extend the research and evaluate the
     effectiveness of the intervention package in a large-scale cluster randomised controlled trial.
 •   J. Brown collaborating on the ‘Work Live Leicester’ Programme with Vista (lead partner),
     Voluntary Action Leicester (VAL), The Workers Educational Association, The Rural
     Community Council, Access Generation, Access all Areas, Be Inspired (a young people’s
     charity), Leicestershire County Council, The Princess Trust, Go Travel and CASE Social
     Enterprise. The project, funded by the European Union Social Fund and the National Lottery
     Community Fund (DMU: £154,000), aimed to help economically inactive or unemployed
     people in Leicestershire into work or learning by improving their health and well-being and
     their social engagement, skills and work experience.
 •   De Vries collaborating with Queens University Belfast as part of an extensive international
     consortium conducting research on the ‘Scaling up the Family Carer Decision Support’ with
     partnerships across Canada (two universities – McGill and McMaster), Italy, Netherlands,
     Czech Republic, Republic of Ireland, and UK universities (Lancaster, Leicester and
     University College London). The project, aimed at increasing knowledge and understanding
     of end-of-life care issues for family members of people with dementia in care homes, is a
     large research initiative on tackling the challenge of neurodegenerative diseases and has
     received significant funding from the EU Joint Programme of Neurodegenerative Disease
     Research (€1,071,904) and the Alzheimer's Society Implementation Grant UK (£281,164).
     The Alzheimer’s Society has agreed an extension of this study due to Covid-19 and the
     impact of this on the care-home sector. The value of the extended funding is being
     negotiated.
 •   De Vries collaborating on a Burdett Trust funded project (£99,900) with the University of
     Brighton, Birmingham City University in co-designing person-centred frailty interventions in
     partnership with older people and health professions across three healthcare sectors:
     Primary Care, Community Trusts, and Acute Trusts.
 •   Harris, contributing as the Senior Clinical Lead to the National Maternity and Perinatal Audit,
     funded by the Healthcare Quality Improvement Partnership (£4,000,000) to conduct the first
     comparative analysis of maternity care across England, Scotland and Wales. This project
     carried out with the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists, the Royal College of
     Midwives, the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, and London School of Hygiene
     and Tropical Medicine has increased awareness of geographical variations and introduced
     changes to regulatory and policy processes for maternity care. It has also integrated
     research-informed clinical measures into data strategies of the NHS, enabling better care
     outcomes for women and babies;
 •   Hinsliff-Smith leading the LOTUS (long-term care institutions) project in Brazil in
     collaboration with the University of Nottingham and UNESP and UPS (São Paulo, Brazil),
     together with an extended network across Europe and the USA, including the University of
     Graz (Austria), Liden and Maastricht Universities (Netherlands) and Duke University (USA).


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Huddersman collaborating extensively in the UK and across the world to maximise the use
     and commercialisation of her novel catalyst technology. These include collaborations with:
        o   Federal University of Agriculture (Nigeria), University of Lomé (Togo), Energie Stable
            Togo (Togo), WaterAid (Togo), SNV Africa (Cameroon), PPI Industriel (Burkina
            Faso) on the Enabling Hybrid Autonomous Non-Conventional Energy Integrated
            Water/Wastewater Treatment System for Remote African Communities project;
        o   KEE Process Ltd (Aylesbury), TMD Technologies Ltd (Middlesex), Hammond
            Produce Ltd (Redhill), the Allerton Project, Game and Wildlife Conservation Trust
            (Leicester), and Loughborough University (Loughborough) to develop a microwave-
            assisted oxidation catalysis system;
        o   KEE Process Ltd (Aylesbury, UK), Tecen Commercial LTDA (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil),
            SENAI Biosynthetic Innovation Institute, SENAI CETIQT and SENAI Innovation
            Institute for Green Chemistry (Brazil) on UV assisted catalysis of Brazil wastewater
            and reuse.
 •   Laird developing strong collaborations with local NHS Trusts, Industrial laundries (Elis
     (formerly Berenden, UK), Chemical Manufactures (Micro-fresh International; Leicester, UK),
     Trade Bodies such as Textile Services Association (TSA; London)), the European Textile
     Services Association (ETSA; Brussels, Belgium)) and the Textile Rental Services
     Association (TSA; Virginia, USA)) to raise awareness of the risks to healthcare workers
     concerning spread of infectious bacteria and viruses and the correct methods for washing
     textiles to avoid spread of pathogen in the home and clinical setting. This research has
     challenged industrial laundries protocols for the decontamination of spores and Public
     Health England’s guidance on washing healthcare uniforms domestically, which Laird’s
     extensive research has shown to be inadequate. More importantly, global trade bodies have
     funded (£104,500) research into developing a standardised test protocol to determine the
     decontamination efficacy of industrial laundering to be used internationally. Laird has also
     secured additional funding from the Higher Education Innovation Fund (£34,452) to conduct
     further research looking specifically at the survival of coronavirus on textiles. The research
     has been presented to a number of international conferences (American Society of
     Microbiology, Society of Applied Microbiology, Textile Institute World Conference & ECCMID
     (May 2015 - June 2020)), and to global textile/laundry associations including, the UK, US,
     European, Finish, German, Swiss and Belgian associations, all of which are going to
     disseminate the main messages so they can be implemented in healthcare laundering within
     their countries to prevent further transmission of coronavirus.
 •   Li collaborating with industries (Almac Group (UK), Certara Ltd (UK), Charnwood Molecular
     Ltd (UK), GMPharma Ltd (UK), and Structure Vision Ltd (UK)), a medical research charity
     (LifeArc, UK), the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, other national
     universities (University of Durham, University of Keele), and international universities and
     institutes (Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), University of Hyderabad (India),
     Banaras Hindu University (India), CSIR (Indian Institute of Chemical Biology)), on
     mechanistic multiscale co-crystal dissolution modelling, and on patient-centric treatments for
     malaria and for leishmaniasis.
 •   Smith collaborating with GEA Lyophil GmbH (Germany), Sciospec Scientific Instruments
     GmbH (Germany), Biopharma Process Systems Ltd (UK), the National Institute for
     Biological Standards and Control (UK), Centre for Process Innovation (UK), BlueFrog
     Design (UK), Sanofi-Ireland, and OncoLytika (UK) on the development of technologies for
     freeze-dried drugs (see 1.2.1).
 •   Schlindwein collaborating with GlaxoSmithKline (UK), ColvisTec AG (Germany), BASF
     (Germany) and Reckitt Benckiser (UK) on rapid and adaptive medicine development and
     manufacture using Quality by Design. This initiative is supported by an Industry Advisory
     Group which includes representatives from GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Bristol-
     Myers Squibb and senior assessors from the Medicines and Healthcare Products
     Regulatory Agency.
                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Wide collaborations by members of the Unit to provide SEM service support for other
     universities (London South Bank, Portsmouth, Anglia Ruskin), police forces (Bedfordshire,
     Dorset, Hampshire, Thames Valley) and forensic service providers (CellMark Forensics)
     across the UK as part of our initiative to grow research in the forensic sciences which is new
     to DMU and to the UOA.
 The above is in addition to other individual collaborations with over 40 national and 30
 international partners around the world, including:
 •   Africa: Ibn-Sina University (Sudan), University of Makeni (Sierra Leone), Kenyatta National
     Hospital (Kenya) and Aga Khan University Hospital (Kenya);
 •   Europe: Arcadis (Netherlands), Forschungszentrum Jülich (Germany), University of Geneva
     (Switzerland), International School of Advanced Studies (Trieste, Italy), Maastricht University
     (Netherlands), Facultad de Farmacia (Spain), Universidad Miguel Hernández de Elche,
     Department of Parasitology (Spain), IMIDRA, Departamento de Investigación Agroambiental
     (Spain);
 •   India: Environmental Sanitation Institute, Manav Sadhna (NGO), and Together In
     Development and Education (NGO)
 •   Russia: Institute of Applied Physics, Koltsov Institute of Developmental Biology, Sechenov
     Institute of Evolutionary Physiology and Biochemistry, Institute of Cell Biophysics,
     Pushchino, St Petersburg State University and Pavlov Institute of Physiology.
 4.2 WIDER ACTIVITIES AND CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY
 AND SOCIETY
 Our diverse portfolio of research, led by established and internationally recognised academics,
 has created a position of influence with a particular focus on providing research-led expertise
 which has advanced knowledge and made economic and societal contributions. Through their
 achievements, many of our researchers have been recognised nationally and internationally and
 have made significant contributions in all disciplines submitted in this UOA. These contributions,
 in addition to reviewing extensively for national and international journals, include:
 4.2.1 Grant reviewing
 •   Li and Turner serving as full members of the EPSRC Peer Review College
 •   Antonio Pena-Fernandez serving as Global Assessor for the Royal Society of Tropical
     Medicine and Hygiene
 •   Other staff across the Unit reviewing extensively for national funding bodies such as MRC,
     BBSRC, EPSRC, Cancer Research UK, Blood Cancer UK, Wellcome Trust, Royal Academy
     of Engineering, The Royal Society, Abbeyfield and Dunhill Medical Trust; and for
     international funders including the Czech Science Foundation and Israel Science
     Foundation.
 4.2.2 Membership of professional bodies and learned societies
 •   Baydoun, Fellow of the British Pharmacological Society
 •   Laird, Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology
 •   Li, Membership Secretary of the British Association for Crystal Growth
 •   Sewell, Life member of International Society of Oncology Pharmacy Practitioners (ISOPP)
 Other staff are ordinary members of various scientific societies and focused groups, including:
 The British Pharmacological Society, Biochemical Society, Microbiology Society, Royal Society
 of Biology, Royal Society of Chemistry, British Toxicology Societies, Spanish Toxicology
 Societies, Association for the Study of Medical Education, Particle Technology Focus Group
 (Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE)), Biopharmaceutics Focus Group (Academy of



                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pharmaceutical Sciences of Great Britain), Age-Related Medicines Development and Use
 Focus Group (Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Great Britain).
 4.2.3 Membership of committees and advisory boards
 •   Arroo, Executive Committee member of the Phytochemical Society of Europe
 •   Baydoun, Programme Committee Member for the Pan-Asian International Conference on
     Science and Technology
 •   Dunford, Research Committee for the Royal College of Emergency Medicine
 •   Mohamed Elsawy, Master of Drug Discovery and Development Program Advisory Board
     (Gulf Medical University)
 •   Harris, the Insights Group (a subgroup of the Maternity Transformation Programme run by
     NHS E&I), and Clinical Reference Group of the National Maternity and Perinatal Audit
 •   Laird, Chair of the Medilink (East Midlands) Infectious Disease Special Interest group, and
     UK Management Committee member for the COST Action CA16227
 •   Naomi Martin, Midlands Innovation Flow Cytometry Committee
 •   Moisoi, Midlands Steering Group Alzheimer’s Research UK, COST 15203 - MITOEAGLE
     Network, and member of the Management Committee and Leader of Working Group 4
 •   Wendy Norton, Steering Committee Member of the Royal College of Nursing Women’s
     Health Forum
 •   Schlindwein, EPSRC Future Manufacturing Research Hub for Continuous Manufacturing
     and Advanced Crystallisation Advisory Board
 •   Singh, European Society of Cardiology Working Group Atherosclerosis and Vascular
     Biology
 •   Tanna, Executive Working Committee of the Midlands Mass Spectrometry Group
 •   Turner, Secretary to the Macro Group UK, affiliated to both the Royal Society of Chemistry
     and the Society for Chemistry and Industry
 •   Shivkumar, Laird and Farrugia listed on the Government Covid-19 Expert Database.
 4.2.4 Editorial duties
 •   Arroo, Editorial Board of Phytochemical Analysis, Phytotherapy Research, Phytochemistry
     Letters and eFood
 •   Baydoun, Topic Editorial Board of the International Journal of Molecular Science
 •   Elsawy, Editor-in-Chief for the review book: Peptide Bionanomaterials: From Design to
     Application
 •   Mark Evans, Special Topics Editor for the International Journal of Molecular Sciences
 •   Hinsliff-Smith, Editor for the journal Nurse Education in Practice
 •   Laird, Editor for the International Journal of Food Science Technology
 •   Moisoi, Associate Editor for Bioenergetics Communications, and Editorial Board member
     MitoPedia Preprint Archives
 •   Pena-Fernandez, Associate Editor for Bioenergetics Communications Public Health, Topic
     Editor for Toxics
 •   Sewell, Associate Editor of the Journal of Oncology Pharmacy Practice, and Editorial Board
     Member for European Journal of Parenteral and Pharmaceutical Science
 •   Sgamma, Guest Editor for Plants

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Sillence, Editorial Board of Frontiers, Membranes MDPI, Journal of Medical and Clinical
     Research, Science Research and Open Journal of Pharmacology
 4.2.5 Keynote and plenary lectures
 •   Arroo, International Symposium on Phytochemicals in Medicine and Food (Shanghai,
     China, 2015); 23rd Conference on Isoprenoids (Minsk, Belarus, 2016); 2nd International
     Symposium on Phytochemicals in Medicine and Food (Fuzhou, China, 2017); Symposium
     on Natural products in Drug Discovery (Bangkok, Thailand, 2018); Conference on Biological
     Activities of Essential Oils (Orleans, France, May 2019)
 •   Baydoun, Pan-Asian International Conference on Science and Technology (Bangkok,
     Thailand, 2015)
 •   Federico Brucoli, World Congress on Antibiotics (Rome, 2018)
 •   Larry Goodier, Italian Society of Travel and Migration Medicine, Venice (2020)
 •   Harris, Midlands Maternity and Midwifery Festival (Edgbaston, 2018); RCM Midwifery
     Leaders Forum (London, 2019),
 •   Martin, COINS (Lithuania, 2018)
 •   Moisoi, National Conference of the National Neuroscience Society (Bucharest, Romania
     2016); Conference on Mitochondrial Physiology (Hradec-Kralove, Czech Republic, 2017)
 •   Rutty, Annual National Medico Legal Conference, Singapore (2015)
 •   Schlindwein, 9th Crystal Forms Conference (Bologna, 2017); Leistritz Pharma Extrusion
     Conference (Nuremberg, 2018); Royal Society of Chemistry seminar (London, 2019)
 •   Sillence, Biochemical Society: ‘Drug repurposing’ (IET Birmingham, 2019)
 •   Turner Royal Society Symposium on Molecular Recognition (Nagpur, India, 2015)
 •   Tanna, 5th International Conference and Exhibition on Analytical & Bioanalytical Techniques
     (Beijing, China, 2014); APS 7th International PharmSci Conference (Glasgow, 2016); World
     Conference on Analytical and Bioanalytical Chemistry (Barcelona, 2018)
 4.2.6 Awards and recognitions
 •   Norton made Fellow of the Royal College of Nursing (2020) in recognition of her
     outstanding contribution to improving health care and shaping policy, practice standards and
     services to the profession. Her groundbreaking work on surrogacy has expanded
     understanding of the changing nature of human reproduction in the 21st century
 •   Ochieng received The Mary Seacole Leadership Award (2017) in recognition of her
     contribution to improving the health of BAME communities
 •   Pena-Fernandez received the Ebola Medal for Service in West Africa (2015) for his
     humanitarian crisis response. This medal is the first to be awarded by the UK Government
     for a humanitarian crisis response
 •   Rutty received the Forensic Nursing Excellence Award from the International Association of
     Forensic Nursing (2016) in recognition of an individual who has contributed significantly to
     the advancement, growth and success of forensic nursing
 •   Tanna received the APS PharmSci Geoffrey Phillips Analytical Science Commendation
     Prize (2016) regarding counterfeit medicines
 4.2.7 Patents and licences
 •   The Unit has developed two patents over the census period. The first is an international
     patent for the invention of arsenobetaine and arsenosugar analogues and derivatives and
     their use in therapy, particularly for the prevention and/or treatment of cancer. The
     compounds of the invention may also inhibit angiogenesis, thereby preventing metastasis of
     cancer cells, particularly of breast cancer cells (the organoarsenic compounds as
                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    therapeutic agents for prevention and/or treatment of cancer - WO2016059198 A1; April
    2016). The second, a patent in Great Britain, relates to the use of low-level ammonium
    chloride to enhance human endurance. Furthermore, an additional benefit is observed when
    ammonium chloride is administered in combination of green tea extract or epigallocatechin-
    3-gallate (the enhance of physical endurance - GB1700400.3; January 2017). A licence and
    consultancy agreement have also been generated with Better Vision Solutions (USA) from
    Huddersman’s research (see 1.2.1).




                                                                                       Page 21
