Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: Birkbeck

Unit of Assessment: 19: Politics and International Relations

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Birkbeck’s UoA 19 has 16 members and is fully coincident with the Department of Politics. All
members of the Department are included in the return. The UoA has a distinguished history of
promoting socially progressive research on topical issues, supported by extensive public
engagement and knowledge exchange and linked to the department’s teaching programme for
lifelong learners, many of whom work in relevant sectors. The specialisms of members of the UoA
can be summarised as falling into two main groups:

British Politics and Public Policy: The UoA has particular depth in British politics, with a long-
standing reputation for applied research in gender and politics that has influenced practices in
Parliament and political parties.

International Politics and International Political Economy: While this part of the UoA covers a wide
range of fields, the Population, Environment and Resources group provides a focus for research in
political demography, geopolitics, climate change and food politics.

During this REF period the UoA has achieved the main goals announced in the 2014 assessment.
Specifically, we stated an intention to build capacity in the area of Population, Environment and
Resources through new appointments and complementary degree programmes. This has been
achieved: new postgraduate degree programmes have been launched which have in turn
facilitated the appointment of research-active scholars working on migration, political ecology and
urban political economy. As we noted in our REF 2014 submission, the UoA is committed to
facilitating inter- and multi-disciplinary collaborations, and these have been particularly extensive in
the area of Population, Environment and Resources, as detailed below. Research in this area
within the UoA has drawn on expertise in demography and international relations, and this has
been extended with new appointments to take in geopolitics and global political economy. The
expanding range and scope of the field of political economy was not fully anticipated in 2014, but
the UoA is well placed to participate in this growing field. Also not anticipated was the research
agenda arising out of Brexit. Again the UoA has been well-placed with several scholars working on
overlapping areas of British, EU and global politics.

The UoA’s strategy for development and enhancement of research also maintains the priorities
stated in 2014, specifically: (a) collective support for research through effective workload
management, administrative support, departmental seminars, peer review of grant applications,
mentoring and informal contacts; (b) promotion of networks, including interdisciplinary networks,
within Birkbeck and beyond; and (c) an orientation towards public engagement, knowledge
exchange and impact, particularly through outward-facing events bringing together academic and
non-academic stakeholders as contributors, often under the auspices of the Centre for British
Political Life.

Collective support for research is promoted by maintaining a collegial academic environment that
supports individuals in pursuing their research interests. Specifically, this means sustaining the
alignment of teaching and research so that all colleagues can pursue their research while fulfilling
broadly uniform teaching obligations. It also means providing finance and personnel for the Centre
for British Political Life so that it can maintain and extend its activities, while ensuring that it and

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
other centres connected with the UoA are sufficiently inclusive, both in subject content and
methodological orientation, to allow all members of the UoA to benefit from their organisational
resources and opportunities for networking and engagement.

Recognising that the Covid-19 pandemic is likely to have a significant impact on our research
environment over the next five years, our core focus will be to build on our established strengths in
British and international politics while promoting the research interests of younger colleagues.
Specific areas for future development include a wide agenda in political economy, encompassing
global political economy issues around population and environmental politics as well as issues of
particular salience to the UK such as the reshaping of international relations affecting flows of
goods, people and capital. Promising areas for future research in British politics include aspects of
political communications which build on the UoA’s existing expertise in open data, for example
exploring patterns of engagement with traditional and social media and their impact. While the
Centre for British Political Life provides one focus for these research agendas, strengths in other
areas will continue to be developed through collaborations across disciplines, across the University
of London, and beyond.

Impact objectives
Our principal impact objective is to enhance the public understanding of politics, with the emphasis
on major contemporary challenges to do with the state of British democracy, environmental issues,
migration and other sources of international tensions. In REF 2014, we outlined four main elements
in our strategy to achieve this broad objective. These were (a) to extend and develop the public-
facing work of the Centre for British Political Life; (b) to expand the events programme of the
Population, Environment and Resources group; (c) to promote the development of impact in
research grant applications; (d) to make full use of the opportunities for impact provided by the
College’s cross-disciplinary institutes.

The two impact case studies submitted in this REF reflect our significant impact in British politics.
Campbell and Childs’ work on ‘The Good Parliament’ and its aftermath was part of the UoA’s close
ties with Parliament, sustained and integrated into the Department by co-teaching the module
‘Parliamentary Studies’ in collaboration with the Houses of Parliament and coordinated and
developed by the Centre for British Political Life. This impact extends beyond Westminster, both
internationally and in the UK: Childs and Campbell were members of the Expert Panel on electoral
reform convened by the National Assembly for Wales in 2017. Worthy’s work on Transparency in
Government has also sustained engagement with the Westminster Parliament, as well as the
Scottish Parliament and local governments.

Our overall public engagement, knowledge exchange and impact strategy takes a broad approach,
seeking to build on and develop the UoA’s links with policy communities and the wider public
through (a) targeted advisory and collaborative relationships with practitioners, (b) wide
communication, through blogs, non-academic articles, podcasts and broadcasts, and (c) the work
of the Centre for British Political Life, which provides a structure for events planning, a focus for
publicising the work of many colleagues, a mailing list, website and other dedicated administrative
support.

The Centre runs events relating to many aspects of British political life, but its main focus and
concern is with ways in which politics engages the public and thereby promotes an active
representative democracy. The Centre takes a wide view of where and how representation takes


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
place. While close ties to the Westminster Parliament are foundational for the Centre, its work
extends to devolved and local governments on one hand, and the UK’s interaction with
international and transnational venues on the other. This breadth of vision harks back to the
foundation of the department where the UoA is based, notably to the work of Paul Hirst and the
Charter 88 movement.

The Centre interprets its remit to ensure that it provides a venue to members of the UoA who do
not work on British politics (narrowly defined). Recent examples of events which have enabled
colleagues to bring their expertise to contemporary public issues include Bousquet’s work on
technologies of surveillance in war applied to pandemic testing and tracing, and a ‘Food and Brexit’
workshop organised by Colas and Edwards. The Centre also promotes the interdisciplinary agenda
of the UoA, for example by coordinating contributions from Politics to Birkbeck’s flagship Arts
Week.

The UoA’s impact strategy in the next five years will continue to revolve around the objective of
enhancing the public understanding of politics. This naturally means that the strategy is responsive
to events, as the quickly-launched programme of public debates on political aspects of the COVID-
19 pandemic illustrates. Given the likely future evolution of the UoA’s research objectives, there is
likely to be some reweighting of impact towards political economy broadly defined. We envisage
that the Centre will still play a leading role in facilitating that impact, but the extensive networks and
diverse channels of public engagement described in section 4 below will also be important.

Interdisciplinarity
The mechanisms that sustain interdisciplinarity in the UoA include the School of Social Science,
History and Philosophy (SSHP) and College research institutes. The School brings Politics
together with the departments of History, Philosophy, Geography, Applied Linguistics and
Psychosocial Studies in a range of research-related activities, including annual strategic research
reviews (done with a partner department, recently Philosophy), discretionary allocation of
additional funding for research expenses, and short-listing for PhD funding and postdoctoral
applications. Research directors from the six departments meet regularly to share good practice
and address common concerns.

There are two College research institutes with which the UoA has a long history of engagement:
the Birkbeck Institute for the Humanities (BIH) and the Birkbeck Institute for Social Research
(BISR). BIH runs several major public-facing annual events and a funded fellowship programme,
while BISR sponsors interdisciplinary working groups and events. As outlined further below,
Politics has been heavily engaged with BISR in this REF period, taking a leading role in the Guilt
Group and the Food Group as well as obtaining BISR support for one-off events.

Other recent initiatives which have yet to bear fruit in research outcomes but will develop the
strengths of the UoA in the future include the creation in 2017 of the Birkbeck Centre for Political
Economy and Institutional Studies, which brings together researchers from Law, Management,
Economics and Politics. The Centre has provided a venue for collaborative teaching initiatives in
Political Economy as well as running research seminars and workshops.

Birkbeck is a partner in LabexMed, a network of universities that brings together specialists
working on various aspects of the Mediterranean. It is cross-disciplinary, involving Archeology,
History, Anthropology, Sociology, Geography, Economics, Law and Philosophy as well as Politics.
This network has supported visits to Université d’Aix-Marseille by Colas and Dimitrakopoulos.

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Future exchanges are planned, particularly related to the doctoral programme.

An open research environment
The UoA has made some use of ‘gold’ open access (5/40 outputs submitted), but the central policy
to promote access has relied on ‘green’ access through the institutional repository (BIRON), which
is linked to each researcher’s web page. Members of the UoA also facilitate early access by
circulating drafts of papers through established channels such as ResearchGate and SSRN, as
well as submitting papers to conferences.

Through mentoring (see s.2 below) and general collegiality, the UoA supports compliance with the
College’s Code of Practice on Research Integrity. Aspects most relevant to this UoA include
ensuring appropriate ethical review of research, and the promotion of free and open debate. The
UoA has aired frank disagreements on population policy and demographic trends in its events
programme, where it has succeeded in promoting respectful discussions.

All research involving human subjects is required to undergo ethical review. Understanding of the
issues involved has increased in recent years, for example about the need to ensure the safety of
the researcher as well as the research subject when working in repressive political environments.
All applications for ethical approval are reviewed by the Department of Politics ethics officer, and
those deemed non-routine are discussed at a School-level committee.

2. People
The recruitment and retention of productive and engaged researchers at all levels of seniority are
essential to our research environment. Our submission of outputs contains a balanced distribution
of work from very recent junior appointments through to established professors. The UoA currently
comprises 16 FTE, all individuals on full-time contracts, 15 of which are permanent. This
represents growth since the time of the last REF, when 12.8 FTE were submitted. Most recent
appointments have been at or near entry level, and the UoA has retained these appointees and
worked to ensure their steady career progression. Retention has been encouraged by College
promotions practices that reward clearly-specified benchmarks of attainment. During this REF
period, two colleagues appointed at entry level in 2012 have gained promotion to senior
lectureships, two longer-serving colleagues gained readerships, and three have become
professors. Over the same period, three senior colleagues (a reader and two professors) left to
take up posts elsewhere in the sector, while two others retired fully having been on partial
contracts at the time of the last REF.

New appointments have supported and expanded the UoA’s established strengths, while achieving
the necessary generational renewal. Appointments include in 2017 a new chair; and in 2018 a
Lecturer A . The UoA has actively sought to minimise the use of temporary contracts. A member of
staff appointed as a temporary lecturer in 2018 subsequently won an open competition for a
permanent post in 2019. One staff member currently holds a grant funded temporary post.

All members of the UoA have a mentor. Mentors read and comment on mentees’ research outputs,
discuss plans for grant applications and advise on publication strategies, as well as supporting
mentees in managing the time demanded by teaching and administration. The support of mentors
is complemented by other colleagues through participation in research seminars and book labs
(see below) as well as informal contacts. Permanent appointments include a probation period of
three years for junior colleagues. Due to the small size of the UoA, the roles of mentor and

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
probation adviser are usually combined and held by a senior colleague. Ensuring that junior
colleagues sustain progress in their research is a matter of providing support rather than imposing
sanctions such as the threat of withholding tenure, which is not exercised. For all colleagues, new
and established, a range of training opportunities are provided: the most popular are in PhD
supervision and writing grant applications. Equalities-related training is also offered and is
mandatory for colleagues serving on appointment panels.

There are no teaching-only contracts for salaried staff within the UoA, although there is some
hourly-paid teaching and scholarship staff support. To maintain a collegial environment, all salaried
colleagues have similar contracts involving roughly equal teaching and administrative workloads
(apart from lower administrative loads for ECRs) and thus equal opportunities to undertake
research and achieve progression through the College promotions process. Further appointments
planned for the coming year will also be at or near entry level, with the expectation that junior
appointees will eventually take over the research leadership roles of senior colleagues.

All members of the UoA meet in a regular research-in-progress seminar. Drafts of many of the
outputs submitted for this REF received early feedback from colleagues at this seminar. We have
also run several ‘book labs’, which take the form of half-day workshops in which external as well as
internal readers provide review and feedback on manuscripts in draft and help colleagues to
improve the final versions. All grant applications are internally peer reviewed, and colleagues are
supported to share ideas for applications at an early stage. Sessions at the annual awayday are
allotted to brief presentations of recent research in order to give everyone an overview of the UoA’s
current research portfolio.

All members of the UoA have an entitlement to £700 p.a. for conference expenses and other
research support. Members can apply for a further amount, up to £2000, to meet additional
expenses. This funding can be used to meet research costs such as survey expenses, particularly
when expenditure can sustain a research project while external funding is sought. However, the
bulk of expenditure in this UoA is on conferences. The UoA attaches importance to funding paper
presentations and panel events at major US conferences such as APSA (Edwards, Kaufmann),
EUSA (Hodson, Mabbett) and ISA (Bousquet, Colas, Guven, Tilley). Other conferences regularly
attended by UoA members include BISA (Colas, Guven, Tilley), EISA (Colas), CES
(Dimitrakopoulos, Hodson, Mabbett) and ECPR General Conferences and special sessions of
workshops (Guven, Mabbett, Worthy). The vast majority of outputs submitted to this REF were
developed through presentation and participation at these conferences, where members of the
UoA have also been active in organising panels, roundtables and other events (see s.4 below).

The College has a policy of giving one term of sabbatical for every 9 terms served, with extra
sabbatical entitlements for those serving as head of department or in other major administrative
roles. Members of the UoA have used their sabbaticals and summers to strengthen research ties
by taking up visiting positions, including Karl Franzens Universität Graz (Ashenden), Harvard
(Mabbett), ANU (Mabbett), Bilkent (Guven), Université d’Aix-Marseille (Dimitrakopoulos) and
University of Illinois at Urbana (Hodson). These positions have supported research leading to
submitted outputs; for example, Hodson developed material for The transformation of EU treaty
making through meetings with Robert Pahre, an expert on two-level games, and accessing
research materials on US state approaches to constitutional amendments.

Facilitating exchanges with organisations outside academia


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We support and encourage colleagues to undertake voluntary advisory work, as well as allowing
up to 30 days of paid consultancy. Examples have included Mabbett’s membership of the Joint
Expert Panel reviewing the operation of the Universities Superannuation Scheme (an unpaid role
involving 26 all-day meetings over a two year period).

The UoA has promoted exchanges with public bodies through its practitioner fellowship
programme. Practitioner Fellows bring professional experience that complements the academic
expertise of the UoA. .

The Centre for British Political Life hosts the Ben Pimlott writer in residence scheme. This was
launched in 2014 to extend the Centre’s range of engagement further into informal social
movements and facilitate collaboration oriented towards the arts and humanities. The first writer in
residence was Carlos Reyes Manzo, a photographer and photo-essayist who produced an
exhibition, Dwellings, on housing as a fundamental human right. In 2018 the writer Sian Norris
used her residency to produce essays marking the centenary of the Representation of the People
Act, along with an exhibition and discussion run in cooperation with Parliament. In 2020/21 the Ben
Pimlott fellow is Jaspreet Kaur Sangha, a poet, blogger and performer who will write a book on the
experiences of South Asian women (Brown Girl like Me) during her fellowship.

All members of the Department/ UoA are expected to carry out research and disseminate it
through appropriate public channels as well as academic networks. The Centre for British Political
Life takes a leading role in organising events to provide a venue for staff to promote their research.
In the aftermath of the COVID-19 lockdown, the Department replaced its planned public events
with five online debates on COVID-19 and the Future of Politics. Ten of the 16 members of the
Politics UoA participated. Members of the UoA have ready access to the 10 Gower St blog, which
is the UoA’s main online outlet, along with the Centre for British Political Life website. Editorial and
administrative support is provided within the Department. Staff are also encouraged to promote
their work through other blogs and podcasts. Dimitrakopoulos and Hodson have contributed posts
to the blog of the ESRC’s ‘The UK in a Changing Europe’ programme, Singh to the LSE’s US
Centre blog; Kaufmann and Richards-Gray to the LSE’s British Politics and Policy blog, Kaufmann
to the Fabians and Policy Exchange blogs, Colas and Edwards to the UK in a Changing Europe
blog, and Mabbett to the Political Quarterly blog. Colas and Tilley have blogged about their work on
internationalism and colonialism/postcolonialism respectively, on the website the Disorder of
Things, and Tilley engaged in the debate about ‘Emerging Markets’ on the Discover Society blog.

Research students
Birkbeck is part of the Economic and Social Research Council’s UCL, Bloomsbury and East
London (UBEL) Doctoral Training Partnership. The UoA is part of UBEL’s Politics and International
Studies pathway along with UCL’s Department of Politics and International Studies and SOAS’s
Department of Politics and International Relations. In 2019/20, the Unit had five ESRC funded
students. This includes a part-time 2+6 award holder, the first student in the DTP to hold such an
award. Three of our ESRC funded students started at Birkbeck as undergraduates. One of our
internal award holders started as a certificate student. The makeup of our PhD student body
speaks to Birkbeck’s mission of widening participation, while demonstrating our ability to secure
funding for excellent external candidates.

In 2018/19, the UoA joined the Consortium of the Humanities and the Arts South-East England
(CHASE). Funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council, Chase offers around 75 PhD

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
studentships annually. This provides an important new source of funding for PhD research in
political theory, an area of research in which the UoA has significant strengths but which is typically
not funded by the ESRC. We will look to make use of this over the next census period.

MPhil/PhD students are required under the College’s MPhil/PhD Regulations to maintain
satisfactory academic progress during their studies. Academic progress is taken into account when
deciding whether students should progress from one academic year to the next and from MPhil to
PhD status. Full-time students complete the MPhil Review in their first year and the Transfer of
Status Review in their Second Year. Students in year three and above complete an annual PhD
Review. Part-time students complete the MPhil Review in their first, second and third years, a
transfer of status review in their fourth year, and subsequent annual PhD reviews. The
Department’s Graduate Teaching Committee meets annually to receive the reviews, discuss the
implementation of the progression policy and make recommendations for revision as appropriate.

The UoA’s research environment for MPhil/PhD students has been significantly enriched over the
census period. The College has invested substantially in the Birkbeck Graduate Research School
(BGRS) which coordinates support and training for students and supervisors across all disciplines
as well as providing a single point of administrative contact for research students. Our participation
in the Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network with other institutions in Bloomsbury has further
widened the range of research training available. Provision particularly relevant to Politics students
includes ESRC-recognised qualitative and quantitative research methods modules. The convening
of these modules is based in the Department of Politics. At the Department level, a full programme
of events has been developed that includes workshops on research design and a biennial seminar
on Big Books in Political Science run with UCL’s Department of Political Science. Politics research
students participate in sessions on managing PhD stress run with Birkbeck’s Counselling Services,
an annual writing retreat on the Kent coast and a careers workshop on publications, postdocs,
academic administration and interviews. They also participate in the Department’s Research in
Progress Seminar and will in future benefit from its exchange opportunities with Aix-Marseilles.
Research students participate in Centre for British Political Life events and are represented on its
Board, while PhD students from Birkbeck and other universities across London have been regular
participants in the Gender and Politics seminars convened at Birkbeck. PhD students are
encouraged and supported in arranging events; for example, Sam Mutter organised a one day
conference on the Subterranean Infrastructure of the Global City under the auspices of the
Population, Environment and Resources group with financial support from BISR. They are also
encouraged to participate in networks hosted by other universities: for example, PhD student Matt
Bevington contributes regularly to the UK in a Changing Europe programme.

Our PhD graduates have gone on to varying careers in research, policy and academia during the
census period, including lectureships at the University of Southampton, Queen Mary University of
London ( and Liverpool Hope University. Our part-time PhD students, in particular, bring
considerable practical experience of politics prior to graduation, which adds to our distinctive
research environment.

Equality and diversity
The UoA has a long-standing reputation in research on gender and politics, established and led for
many years by Joni Lovenduski. Rosie Campbell took up the baton at Birkbeck until 2018, when
she left to head the Global Institute for Women’s Leadership at KCL. Before her retirement, Diana
Coole, a political theorist, took her research on feminism and gender politics in a new direction with

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
her work on the global politics of population, and this widening geographical lens has been
sustained with the appointment of Lisa Tilley. She has a particular interest in the decolonisation of
the curriculum, which is connected with other shifts in the orientation of the UoA, with more
research and teaching on the Global South. Building on this research, the UoA led on efforts within
the College to develop a new inclusive curriculum checklist designed to encourage greater
diversity on reading lists and in assessment and pedagogic practices.

The College's Equality Strategy actively audits equality performance and supports Equality Leads
across all Schools within the College. The UoA participates in and supports relevant College
policies, including the ‘Disability Confident’ initiative which ensures that appropriately qualified
candidates with disabilities are offered interviews. All members of selection panels must complete
interview training related to awareness of equality and diversity, as well as other aspects of fair
interviewing practice. A member of the full-time staff of the Department of Politics is designated as
Equalities officer and participates in policy development and information-sharing initiated at the
School level. The Department of Politics is represented on and has supplied information to the
SSHP Self-Assessment Team for the planned application for an Athena SWAN Bronze Award. The
application was originally planned for November 2020 but has been delayed as a result of the
Covid-19 pandemic.

The College has supported the establishment of Staff Diversity Networks, comprising a Staff
Disability Network, a LGBT+ staff network (OutatBirkbeck), the BAME staff network (Race, Equality
and Cultural Heritage (REACH) network) and a Parents Network. Members of the UoA participate
in these and other College initiatives.

As noted above, the norm in the UoA is for staff to be on permanent contracts which combine
teaching and research and offer long-standing and robust opportunities for progression as well as
standardised provision for sabbaticals, contractual entitlements for sickness absence, and
allowances for compassionate leave. The promotions process includes provision for confidential
statements of personal circumstances which allow candidates to indicate how their research
trajectory has been affected by illness or caring responsibilities. Promotions, along with the
seniority and pay profile across the College are monitored for equality and diversity. Financial
support for conference attendance includes childcare costs and additional costs arising from
disability as allowable expenses. During the COVID-19 lockdown, support for flexible working was
mainly provided in kind (upgrading laptops and other equipment) but cash expenses for some
additional costs were also reimbursed when appropriate to do so. The College launched a Covid
Recovery Scheme within its Research Innovation Fund, which is open to academics and
researchers at all levels and seeks to support colleagues whose research has been affected by ill-
health or caring responsibilities.

As it happens, all staff in the UoA are currently on full-time contracts but part-time and flexible
working options are available. The College’s responsibilities as employer for the wellbeing of staff
are delegated to heads of department (assistant deans) and made clear to them in induction
training when they take up their posts. The wellbeing of research students is actively monitored by
the research student director. Regular contacts were organised during the COVID-19 lockdown
and special efforts were made to provide appropriate study spaces once the College reopened.
All members of the REF output selection panel had equality and diversity training. The selection of
outputs was reviewed at College level to check for biases relating to protected characteristics.



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research funding
Staff are encouraged to apply for national and international research grants. During the REF period
approximately £720,000 in research funding from national and international bodies was attributable
to the UoA, compared with £690,000 in 2014 (see REF 4b). This includes particular success with
the Leverhulme Trust, including most recently Worthy’s project ‘Who's Watching Parliament?
Monitory Democracy at Westminster’ (£51,000) which funded the employment of a part-time post-
doctoral researcher. While at Birkbeck, Childs won a Leverhulme award for a project on ‘Building
Feminist Institutions: Parliaments, Institutionalism and Change’ (£50,000), while Tilley moved to
Birkbeck with a Leverhulme ECR for ‘Race, intimacy, and extraction on an internal frontier’. Other
significant awards included the ESRC’s Representative Audit of Britain (£561,000), for which
Birkbeck was the lead institution. (Amounts in brackets refer to the total value of the grant, not all of
which is attributable to the UoA.)

Internal peer review and assistance from colleagues with drafting and checking applications has
played a significant role in these successes. Grant-winners have reciprocated this support by
making applications available to colleagues and facilitating learning from their experience. This has
recently been augmented with the creation of research grant labs, modelled on the positive
experience with book labs. Instead of relying on a single peer reviewer, grant labs bring together
several members of the UoA and, where possible, external colleagues, to review draft applications.
As well as improving applications, we see grant labs as having the potential to increase colleagues’
knowledge about possible funding sources and familiarity with application-writing.

Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
The Birkbeck Centre for British Political Life, based in the Department of Politics, provides a forum
for research workshops and seminars alongside range of public engagement activities, as well as
supporting grant applications. The Centre works with an active Board of public figures, including
some of the department’s alumni who have entered politics and high-profile public policy roles.
Events organised under the auspices of the Centre promote the work of members of the UoA on
contemporary issues of representation and provide them with the venue and resources for public
engagement. The Centre has provided a home for a number of PhD students over this REF period,
working on projects about political leadership, political careers, representation of young people,
gender dimensions in party politics and voting behaviour, and freedom of information. Research
students are represented on the Centre’s board and encouraged to initiate events and supported in
funding applications. Most recently, a student gained BISR support for a workshop on progressive
politics in Northern Ireland. The Centre has run numerous well-attended public events. Even before
the COVID-19 lockdown forced a move to entirely online events, recordings were attracting a wide
audience. For example, a talk by David Lammy was listened to more than 400 times online.

Operational infrastructure
All members of the UoA are co-located in Georgian houses at 10-14 Gower St in central London.
The buildings include a seminar room which houses Paul Hirst’s library and serves as a central
place for meetings, seminars and workshops. In normal times, the UoA makes intensive use of its
central London location by hosting events with colleagues from other London institutions as well as
policy practitioners. Staff and students have at their disposal an enormous number of research
workshops, training courses, seminars and lectures that are convened within Birkbeck and the
University of London as well as numerous opportunities to forge productive associations across the


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Bloomsbury Colleges. Birkbeck offers regular seminars on grant applications, and the Research
Office oversees the grant application and management process. The School Research Committee
ensures best practice by bringing together research directors from six departments to discuss
common problems and solutions affecting grant holders in areas such as employment of research
assistants and other research support practices.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
Local research collaborations and networks are facilitated by the UoA’s central London location
and membership of the University of London, while collaborations further afield are supported by
the sabbatical and conference funding entitlements outlined above. Wide-ranging collaborations
are reflected in co-authorship in the submitted outputs, ranging from co-authorship within the UoA
(Colas and Edwards), local ties within the University of London (Colas (QMUL), Mabbett (LSE),
Worthy (KCL)) to networks further afield: Cambridge (Hodson), Universität Flensburg (Hodson),
Hawaii-Manoa (Bousquet), Konstanz (Maydom), Ottawa (Bousquet), Scuola Normale Superior,
Florence (Hodson), University College Dublin (Ashenden and Hodson) and Warwick (Tilley).

Collaborations have also been reflected in participation in applications for research grants which
require the involvement of multiple institutions. The Representative Audit of Britain, based at
Birkbeck, involved co-investigators from UCL and Strathclyde and collaboration with the Equality
and Human Rights Commission.

Members of the UoA have engaged extensively with research users in this REF period. Our
members have contributed to policy evaluation and development by giving evidence to Inquiries
and Parliamentary Select Committees. Examples of evidence given in this assessment period
include Hodson’s oral and written evidence to the House of Lords Financial Affairs Sub-Committee
enquiry on EMU and invited written evidence to the House of Lords Constitution Committee’s
inquiry on the parliamentary scrutiny of treaties, Kaufmann’s evidence to the Home Affairs select
committee on immigration policy and Hodson and Styan’s written evidence to the House of
Commons Foreign Affairs Committee on UK influence in EU foreign affairs. Hodson’s submission
drew on his outputs on eurozone governance and his book on EU treaty making and Kaufmann’s
on his outputs on native-born white responses to ethnic diversity.

As noted in s.2, Mabbett was a member of the Joint Expert Panel reviewing the operation of the
Universities Superannuation Scheme. The 7-member panel produced two reports which may prove
(time will tell) to have provided the basis for maintaining the scheme and bringing industrial action
over pensions in universities to an end. She was the only member from outside the specialised
fields of pension policy and actuarial science, and drew on her experience to produce a study of
the financialisation of pensions (submitted to this REF: ‘Reckless prudence’) as well as publishing
a critique of current trends in trusteeship and disseminating this critique at conferences. ‘Reckless
prudence’ has been favourably cited in blog posts by pension specialists.

Kaufmann has continued the engagement which formed the basis of an impact case study in the
2014 REF through involvement with UK and EU policymakers on questions of immigration and
integration. He has been affiliated with Demos and Policy Exchange during this REF period, and
his briefings to the Casey review and the Integration Green Paper were cited by both.
Dimitrakopoulos’s in-depth research on reforming tax administration in Greece culminated in the
launch of his book (submitted to this REF: The depoliticisation of Greece’s public revenue
administration) in Athens at an event attended by officials from Greek and European institutions as

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
well as journalists and academics.

UoA members also give talks to practitioners and industry stakeholders.

Public events related to research programmes promoted by the Centre for British Political Life have
included the work of Lovenduski, Campbell and Childs on the representation of women and
Worthy’s work on transparency, which was linked to events on parliamentary scrutiny, the opening-
up of local government and the rise of fact-checking. Research on issues relating to Brexit by
Dimitrakopoulos and Hodson was taken up in a series of events before and after the referendum,
and has continued with workshops on aspects of the political situation in Northern Ireland. These
events and workshops are attended by practitioners, colleagues in other academic institutions, and
members of the wider public. The interdisciplinary research networks convened under the auspices
of the Birkbeck Institute for Social Research (see s.1) also promote engagement with practitioners.
The Guilt Group attracts legal practitioners along with academics to its events, and its annual
colloquia aim to promote knowledge exchange between practitioners and academics

Our members appear in many major national and international broadcast and print outlets,
including the BBC, the Guardian, Bloomberg, Financial Times, Al Jazeera, New York Times, The
Times, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung and the Huffington Post. Examples include
Dimitrakopoulos discussing the 2015 Greek crisis on Bloomberg, Voice of America and France24,
Kaufmann on the politics of UKIP and immigration on ITV, Sky and the BBC, and Singh on US
politics and foreign policy on TalkRadio and on the FBI’s ‘Most Wanted Woman’ on Women’s Hour
on BBC Radio 4. Guven has been interviewed on BBC World TV on the Turkish currency crisis and
by TRT World TV on the IMF and World Bank. Hodson published on the Conference on the Future
of Europe in the Washington Post’s Monkey Cage in December 2019 and on a comparison
between EU and UK institutions in Brexit negotiations in The Guardian in 2018. Campbell is a long-
standing contributor to Women’s Hour, and has also presented several episodes of Analysis,
including an overview of new divisions among British voters (‘Tearing up the politics textbook’
(2016)) and a two-part investigation of ‘How the voters decide’ (2017). Childs is also a regular
contributor to Women’s Hour.

The UoA has also sought to provide support beyond the College to young researchers, those in
countries with less access to academic resources, and, through its fellowships, for creative artists
with a political dimension to their work. Members of the UoA also get involved in politics in practice.
As research fellow on the Warwick University-Universitas Indonesia Newton Links Project on ‘The
Gendered Everyday Political Economy of Kampung Eviction and Resettlement in Jakarta’ (2016-
18), Lisa Tilley developed a Women’s Empowerment Toolkit (in both English and Bahasa
Indonesian).

Our long and distinguished tradition of public engagement is built at least in part on our students,
many of whom are by day policy practitioners in the public, private and voluntary sectors. The
students bring to the academic dialogue information about current practice in their sectors of work,
while also providing a channel for academic influence. For instance Colas’s co-authored article on
Capitalism and the Sea benefitted from research advice and input from a Politics student with high-
level business experience with the Dubai Port (DP) World logistics firm, while his work has been
drawn on by another student working for the International Maritime Organization.

Interdisciplinary research


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The UoA is heavily involved in interdisciplinary working groups under the auspices of the Birkbeck
Institute for Social Research. Since its inception in 2014, the Guilt Group has put on an average of
22 events per year, including regular cinema screenings and annual colloquia ranging over topics
such as collective guilt and guilt and sexuality, in addition to its regular reading group meetings and
workshops. The Group has 155 members. Regular attenders are drawn from the departments of
History, Law, Psychosocial Studies, as well as the School of Arts at Birkbeck as well as other
University of London colleges. The Food Group has involved historians, ethnographers and
sociologists in more than 20 seminars and guest speaker events exploring practices of food
production and consumption. A direct product of this Group is Colas and Edwards’ book Food,
Politics, and Society (submitted to this REF), co-authored with Sami Zubaida, Emeritus Professor
of Politics and Sociology at Birkbeck, and Jane Levi, now in Cultural Studies at KCL. The
development of the Food group has been enhanced by a number of PhDs completed or in
progress, with projects on UK alcohol policy, the politics of sugar, the effects of food price spikes
and ‘food sovereignty’ movements in Latin America.

Contributions and recognition
Members of the UoA are active as journal editors, members of editorial boards, and special issue
editors. Mabbett is co-editor of the journal The Political Quarterly, Kaufmann an editor of Nations
and Nationalism, and Childs co-founded the European Journal of Politics and Gender while at
Birkbeck. Others on editorial boards or holding supporting editorial roles include Ashenden
(Economy and Society, Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy), Bousquet
(New Perspectives) and Hodson (Journal of European Public Policy). Hodson is book series editor
for the New European Union Series published by Oxford University Press.

Members of the UoA have also been active in bringing together special issues (SIs) of journals.
Bousquet co-edited SIs on "Becoming Weapon" for Critical Studies on Security and "Becoming
War" for Security Dialogue. Tilley co-edited ‘Theory for a Global Age’ for Current Sociology, ‘Raced
Markets’ on race and political economy for New Political Economy as well as running a Race &
Climate Change workshop for a special issue of Politics. She has also co-edited SIs for the
journals Asia Pacific Viewpoint and City. Several members of the UoA have convened SIs for
Political Quarterly which were accompanied by workshops and public events. Childs edited an SI
on ‘Commemorating Centenaries of Suffrage’, Colas and Edwards an SI on ‘Food and Brexit’ and
Worthy co-edited an SI on fact-checking and the crisis about facts in collaboration with Full Fact.

Members of the UoA have taken on leadership roles in the Political Studies Association (PSA), the
Council for European Studies (CES), the British International Studies Association (BISA) and the
International Studies Association (ISA). Specifically, Childs co-convened the PSA Study of
Parliament Group, Richards-Gray is co-convenor of the PSA Women and Politics Group, Hodson
is co-chair of European Integration and Global Political Economy Network of CES, Tilley is co-
convenor of the CPD-BISA working group and is on the steering committee for the Global
Development Section of ISA, and Worthy is co-chair of the PSA political leadership group.

Bousquet’s The Eye of War was awarded the Science, Technology and Art in International
Relations (STAIR) best book prize in 2018. Members of the UoA have been involved in judging or
refereeing numerous grant applications, awards and prizes, including Colas (the Isaac and Tamara
Deutscher Prize), Dimitrakopoulos (APSA European Politics Best Paper Award), Guven (British
Academy/DfID Anti-Corruption Evidence (ACE) Programme), Hodson (UKRI Future Leaders
Fellowships) and Tilley (ISRF Flexible Grants for Small Groups). Dimitrakopoulos was a member of

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the ESRC Peer Review College until 2015, and is a member of the LSE Hellenic Observatory
Research Board.




                                                                                     Page 13
