Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: University of the West of England, Bristol

Unit of assessment: 28 History

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

Context and Structure
This submission comprises the work of 9 staff with significant responsibility for research located
within the Faculty of Arts, Creative Industries and Education (ACE). It also includes outputs by
one recently retired Professor (Fleming).

The unit conducts research related to multiple temporal and spatial contexts, from the early
modern period to the present, and is focused on local, regional, national, continental, and global
arenas. Although the approaches and methods deployed are various, exploration of the
interfaces between this range of periods, places, and problems, and between scholarly output
and impact activity, is constant.

This productive inter-action is substantially stimulated and channeled through the Regional
History Centre (RHC), led by Poole. Since its founding in 1997, the RHC has become a locus of
research, knowledge exchange, public engagement, and research impact, which is central to
UWE’s mission. The unit’s research base is enlarged by a complementary research group
focused on Global and Transnational History (GTHG). The research environment within GTHG
revolves around two inter-related themes: ‘Transnational Perspectives on People, Places and
Power’ (led by Fedorowich) and ‘Collective Memory, Imagined Communities and Public History’
(led by Richards).

The shared focus of the groups on both socio-cultural history and research with impact means
there is a beneficial collaboration beyond their formal structures, between the activity of the RHC
and the key themes drawn together by the GTHG. In several instances, group members co-habit
both themes, creating fruitful research synergies. An example is Fedorowich’s research on
memorialisation and migrants which has brought together imperial history and questions about
memory, collective identity, and regional and international heritage.

Research and Impact Strategy
The unit has been guided by the University’s 2020 strategy to produce internationally excellent
research that has real world impact and contributes to a sustainable economy and society. Key
areas of this strategy are central to the unit’s research and impact programme which is driven by
three main aims:

  (i) Promoting a sustainable research environment, enabled by undertaking research and
       producing outputs of high quality and significance within a stable research structure,
       financed through a mixture of internal and external funding. Both the RHC and the GTHG
       generate new ideas in the areas, respectively, of regional and global-transnational history
       through collaboration and engagement. The RHC, particularly, organises seminar series,
       invited talks from a range of academics, practitioners, cultural intermediaries, and local
       SMEs. Both groups organise symposia and conferences. Individual and collaborative
       projects are supported through mentoring and peer review. UWE’s Research, Business
       and Innovation unit (RBI) monitors and disseminates research opportunities and best
       practice, running research workshops, training sessions, as well as supporting bid
       development in collaboration with the University’s Peer Review College. Fedorowich,
       Poole, and Richards are active members of the College, advising on funding bids to
       major funders such as the AHRC and Leverhulme Trust.

  (ii) Aligned with the aim to achieve far-reaching research impact on communities and society,
       all the unit’s research groupings actively aspire to be outward facing, encouraging and
       supporting individual researchers to undertake ambitious projects that involve public

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       engagement. Staff work with a variety of civic stakeholders and SMEs as active partners
       (section 4). The promotion of impact is embedded in the unit’s research culture at staff
       induction, during probation, and in annual personal development reviews (PDRs). The
       effectiveness of the impact strategy is illustrated by the two case studies which highlight
       the depth of the unit’s work in public engagement in the region, and the civic engagement
       elements of the research activity extending well beyond the region. Staff access internal
       funding schemes that support research projects with clearly identified pathways to impact.

  (iii) In support of the aim of integrating research, learning, and teaching, the unit embeds and
       develops a high proportion of its research and impact activity within undergraduate and
       postgraduate teaching and learning.

Achievement of Strategic Aims during the Reporting Period

1. Regional History Centre (RHC)
Current staff with significant research responsibility affiliated to the RHC are Poole, Wallis,
Harrison, Fedorowich and Ward. With financial support from almost 200 subscribing members
of the public as well as Faculty funding, the RHC is well established and sustained both within
and outside the academic community, stimulating scholarly research in the history of the South
West region, and into comparative national and European contexts. Its external partners include
the M Shed Museum in Bristol, Bristol Museum and Art Gallery, Bristol Archives, the Wiltshire
and Swindon History Centre, the Somerset Heritage Centre, the Dorset History Centre,
Gloucestershire Archives, and Avon Local History and Archaeology, which represents about 80
local history societies in the region. The Centre runs a monthly research seminar programme,
publishes its own Yearbook with an extensive digital archive, and hosts high profile events, such
as the conference on ‘War, Revolution and the Romantic Era in South West England’ (2015). In
response to the covid-19 pandemic, the RHC seminar programme was moved online, as a
consequence of which audiences have grown significantly, roughly doubling in size. Its key
strengths in research, partnership and knowledge exchange have produced a significant body of
published work during the census period, much of it interdisciplinary and related to practice and
impact. Dominant themes in the activity of the RHC in the census period have coalesced around:

      developing digital/mobile media and interpretation for heritage
      histories of crime, protest, and punishment
      historical approaches to the environmental humanities.

Poole has led a series of locative digital heritage interpretation projects in partnership with
Bristol-based SMEs working in pervasive media based on awards from a wide range of external
funders (section 3). In several instances, new approaches to heritage interpretation have been
developed in tandem with successful production of prototype software design. This activity,
broadened by other heritage interpretation projects led by Wallis (section 4) has been the
foundation of our impact as illustrated by the unit’s two impact case studies - ‘Heritage from
Below’, and ‘Criminal Justice History’.

The RHC is supported through a substantial allocation of research time to its Director, Poole,
and Associate Director, Wallis, and financial support to enable its everyday activities. The
Regional Historian journal has regular contributions from both public and academic authors,
including the Centre’s Visiting Research Fellows. The Centre also works in partnership with
Bristol publishers, Redcliffe Press, to produce a thematic series of edited collections: Studies in
Regional History. Two volumes have been published in the current period: Marie Mulvey-Roberts
(ed.), Literary Bristol: Writers and the City [2015]; and Madge Dresser (ed.), Women and the
City: Bristol 1373-2000 [2016]).

Staff changes over the period have led to the incorporation of new areas of research, including
work on historical perspectives of youth culture in the South West and other regions, and
regional ecclesiastical early-modern history, both supported by Vice-Chancellor’s Early Career

                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Researcher Awards (2019 and 2020) (section 2). For example, the project ‘Seen but not heard?’,
led by Harrison, and supported by the VCECR scheme, examines the leisure experiences of
young people in the period 1880-1960, with emphasis on the neglected experience of rural
communities. Using existing oral history collections and other autobiographical accounts, the
project captures key shifts in young people’s lives and behaviour, linking the first stirrings of a
distinct youth culture in the 19th century with the post-war period. An article based on this
research appears in Rural History (October 2020).

2. The Global and Transnational History Group (GTHG)
The GTHG’s two primary themes operate across a broad geographic span.

The ‘Transnational Perspectives on People, Places and Power’ theme approaches various
intersecting topics, often deploying shared methodologies, in exploring people, places and power
from a variety of transnational perspectives, including international non-governmental
organisations, cultural exchange, global crime, diplomacy, and empire. Its active affiliates are
Fedorowich, Fisher, Richards, White and Woodiwiss.

White has presented several scholarly papers to international audiences on themes emerging
from her research on transnational institutions, networks, and humanitarian law on refugees. Her
substantial book, A Modern History of Russian Childhood (2020), examines, in part,
transnational exchanges of concepts of childhood. She recently (2020) gave a seminar on
childhood in the East European socialist bloc to the Graduate School at Leipzig University.

Fisher’s jointly edited volume exploring the impact of overseas commerce on British foreign
policy and of the Foreign Office on commercial interests (2016), involved collaboration with 24
academic contributors in the UK, North America, and Europe. Developing his transnational
focus, he presented an invited lecture at the Royal Geographical Society (2018); an invited
paper to the World Congress for Middle Eastern Studies (Seville, 2018); and another, on the
Russo-Turkish conflict of 1877 to the Maghreb Studies Association Conference (Oxford, 2019).
Both papers have been published in The Maghreb Review (2019/2020). His collection of essays,
Outskirts of Empire: Studies in British Power Projection, was published in 2018.

Richards has recently completed a substantial piece of research (funded by the Institute of
Historical Research) which used documents from six countries to explore mid-20th-century
Catholicism transnationally. The study focuses on individual lay Catholics amid war, revolution,
and fascism in the 1930s and 1940s, and their role in the Church’s gradual acceptance of
pluralism and rights, culminating in promotion of the UN Declaration of Human Rights in the late-
1940s and the ‘arrival’ of Christian Democracy. The resulting article was submitted to a leading
peer-reviewed journal in 2020.

Since 2016 Woodiwiss has collaborated with Law at UWE to research organised crime control
in the US, UK, and Caribbean. The interdisciplinary methodology brought together socio-legal
and doctrinal law and history, addressing links between historical and contemporary cases. The
resulting policy brief to law enforcement officials and policy makers in Kingston was endorsed by
Jamaica’s Minister of Security (2018). Further public policy engagements included evidence to
the Joint Parliamentary Committee on National Security’s inquiry into the Conflict, Stability and
Security Fund (2016); co-authoring material for the transnational Tax Justice Network; and
founding and chairing the Organised Crime stream for the annual Socio-Legal Studies
Association conferences (2017–20). Interdisciplinary Symposia on Organised Crime have been
convened at UWE (2018 and 2019), incorporating researchers from civil society groups.

The research conducted within the remit of the ‘Collective Memory, Imagined Communities and
Public History’ theme investigates several inter-related topics, often sharing methodological
insights. Its active affiliates are Fedorowich, Richards, Simpson, and White. These topics
have particularly approached historical problems related to modern conflicts and their legacy,
especially public representations and uses of the past. The related trauma of forced migration


                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

and displacement, as well as the potentialities of post-war reconstruction and humanitarianism,
are also key foci.

Fedorowich has been a leading contributor to the joint venture established by the AHRC and
BBC to observe the centenary of the outbreak of the First World War (section 4). This
commemorative project produced several scholarly outputs, including an article in Histoire
sociale/Social History (November 2020), and a co-authored essay on British migrants in
dominion forces (Cornell, 2021).

The themes of collective memory and humanitarianism were brought together in a multi-
disciplinary conference at UWE on wartime child displacement (led by Richards), in 2016.
White’s 2017 article, 'Relief, Reconstruction and the Rights of the Child’, resulted from this
conference.

Exploring the relationship between war, memory, and the construction of repressive political and
social power, Richards has published an article in the Journal of Genocide Research (2014),
and chapters in edited volumes, Interrogating Francoism (2016), and Mass Killings and Violence
in Spain (2015).

Research and Impact Strategy, 2020-25
The stability and sustainability of the unit’s research in the next period will be based on a
strategy focused on securing resources for research that generates high quality outputs, public
engagement and impact. This is aligned with UWE’s 2030 strategy as outlined in the Institutional
Statement which seeks to produce ‘impactful, internationally excellent, challenge-based
research’.

The RHC will sharpen its focus on grant capture and impact, expanding key areas to incorporate
the expertise of early career staff. For example, Ward’s 2020-21 VCECR Award (see above)
has prepared the groundwork for an AHRC Early Career Fellowship application exploring the
royalist Episcopalian clergy under the Cromwellian Protectorate (1649-60). Her book, Royalism,
Religion, and Revolution: North-East Wales, 1640-1715, will be published in 2021, as will
Harrison’s monograph on leisure, the young working class and urban space in Britain, c.1870-
1939.

Poole is leading a three-year, ESRC-funded interdisciplinary project (£468,000) investigating
intergroup dynamics within urban riot and protest in 1831. In collaboration with six regional
museums and archives, including Bristol’s M Shed where a new permanent display exploring
Bristol’s reform riots will be curated and installed, the project will host workshops for local history
groups and develop four immersive audio apps at regional riot locations.

Outputs and engagement pertinent to crime and protest will include Poole’s co-authored book
on the murder of Sir John Goodere at Bristol in 1741 and his contribution to a British Museum
exhibition (2021) on radical coins and tokens that commemorate a public execution in Wiltshire
in 1768. Wallis’s 2020 workshop for academics and heritage professionals is the foundation of a
network to win funding to explore heritage interpretation of criminal justice histories.

One of the challenges of the GTHG’s research into interactions of individuals and institutions
with diverse political cultures and belief systems, is dissemination of archival material. Based on
underpinning research expertise, Fedorowich has edited, annotated, and introduced the 1941-
42 wartime diary of former Australian prime minister, Sir Earle Page (CUP, 2021). A second
scholarly edition explores the private and personal correspondence of Lord Sydney Buxton,
governor-general of South Africa (1914-20), for delivery in 2023 for the Council of Historical
Publications Southern Africa.

As part of the strategy to encourage internationally excellent outputs, Fisher is completing a
volume of essays focusing on sacred space in Turkey during the nineteenth and twentieth


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

centuries. Addressing the challenge of bringing diplomatic history and cultural questions
together, the project considers the interface of the British Foreign Office, the Church of England,
the Turkish authorities, British expatriates, and agencies such as the Imperial War Graves
Commission and missionary bodies.

A further creative synergy - between international history and youth culture research within the
RHC - is White’s project on the transnational history of children’s rights. As well as planned
dissemination at international fora, a book-length monograph on children’s rights in the Cold War
will be the main published output.

The second stage of a collaborative project investigating the origins of global anti-money
laundering regimes is underpinning Woodiwiss’s work on a topical and significant ‘real-world’
challenge. A resultant article (co-authored) was published in Trends in Organized Crime (2020)
and further external funding is being sought.

Other topical challenges will be addressed by Richards, exploring well-being and community
memories of conflict, and the political and ideological construction and implications of poverty
and epidemic in civil-war Spain. This activity has already benefitted from external funding, and
other, more collaborative, bids are projected, based on a planned international conference in
April 2021.

Research Governance and Integrity
The unit’s researchers are committed to UWE’s Code of Good Research Conduct (2016) which
reflects a commitment to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. The Faculty Research
Ethics Committee (FREC) supports staff to submit research ethics approval forms where
appropriate, for example for the RHC’s series of interviews with second generation migrants to
Bristol for its project investigating historical empathy in heritage interpretation (‘Heritage
Empath’). The FREC includes members with a wide range of research expertise and experience
as well as an external reviewer. If required, issues can be escalated to the University Research
Ethics Committee. An online Research Governance Record collects governance and ethics
information on projects in a single place and enables the Faculty to mitigate risks and track
compliance (new system adopted in 2019).

Open Access
As set out in the Institutional Statement, the University is committed to the aims and principles of
open research and encourages its research community to explore the benefits of using open
practices in their research. Staff are encouraged to explore options for open access publication
of research findings, taking account of the University’s open access policy, and those of relevant
funders. Staff and doctoral students are offered training on open access principles and practices,
including use of an ePrint data archive to preserve and make their data accessible.

Section 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff research development
The unit comprises one Professor [Poole], two Associate Professors [Fedorowich and
Richards], and seven Senior Lecturers [Fisher, Harrison, Simpson, Wallis, Ward, White and
Woodiwiss]. During the census period five staff have retired (including Stone and Fleming, now
Emeritus Professors, Dresser, Ollerenshaw and Wardley). Harrison (a Fulbright Scholar),
Wallis, and Ward have joined the unit, testifying to the University’s continuing commitment to
investing in the appointment of promising young scholars. As a result of succession planning,
Wallis has recently been appointed Associate Director of the RHC.

In relation to staff development, the Faculty funds a range of competitive schemes that support
staff to undertake research projects in priority areas, establish collaborations, facilitate impact,
disseminate research findings, and encourage emerging areas. This is in addition to all staff
having five weeks of ‘scholarly activity’ per annum:


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  (i) ‘Research Study Time’ enables staff to dedicate time to prioritise research (typically from
      half a day to two days a week), with the aim of producing high quality research outputs.
      Historians who have benefitted from this scheme during the current census period include
      Fisher (to progress his transnational sacred space project), Harrison (for an article,
      ‘Negotiating the meanings of public space: the Coney Street ‘monkey run’ and working-
      class youth, c.1860-1930’, submitted to Urban History for publication in 2021), Richards
      (for a projected book-length monograph: ‘Remembering Europe’s Troubled Past, from
      1945 to the age of new media’), and White (for an article on refugee law). Awards were
      also made to Harrison to support work on a book-length monograph on working class
      youth (section 1), and Woodiwiss for a collaborative research project with Law (section
      3). To ensure dedicated support the scheme earmarks funds for ECRs. Ward, for
      example, has received additional research time and tailored access to the conference
      budget.

  (ii) The ‘Research Collaboration Fund’ supports staff working with colleagues across UWE,
       other HEIs and industry. £7,000 was, for example, awarded from this fund to Poole and a
       colleague in Journalism for a project called ‘Recovering the Regional Radical Press,
       1968-1988’, to locate and preserve copies of small independent radical newspapers
       produced by editorial collectives in the British provinces.

  (iii) The ‘Research Impact Fund’ supports impact activities. For example, an award was made
        to Richards to provide an internship to work on gathering evidence for the unit’s impact
        case studies.

Staff also benefit from the University-wide VCECR scheme which supports outstanding early
career researchers to undertake preliminary research that can be developed into major funding
applications and outputs. Awards have been made to Harrison (‘Seen but not heard? Leisure,
Courtship and Rural Youth in South West England, c1880-1960 [£14,114]); Wallis (support for a
dialogical interpretative model used at Shire Hall Courthouse Museum: ‘More than horrible
histories: the uses of criminal justice history and heritage’ [£8,316]); and, in 2020-21, to Ward
(‘Translating the Archive: Creative Solutions for Curating the Digital Humanities’ [£14,500]).

The Faculty also offers an Academic Study Fund of £30,000 annually to enable staff to present
papers at national and international conferences or to undertake research trips. For example,
White’s funding to attend conferences and workshops (section 4) and a research trip to
Finland’s National Library, as well as Richards’ interdisciplinary workshop (September 2016), on
children displaced by war (section 1).

Research in the Faculty is supported by an Associate Dean Research, a Director of Research
and Scholarship, and Associate Heads (Research and Scholarship) (including Fedorowich).
This leadership team works to align the unit’s research with Faculty/University priorities,
encourage a positive research culture, mentor and advance the research of ECRs, identify
research development needs, oversee and monitor the distribution of Faculty funding, grow
external funding, and promote research more broadly (sections 2 and 3). To promote a strong
research environment, Summer Schools were held in 2019 and 2020 for emerging research
leaders, a Research Bidding Workshop series was held in 2019 (run by RBI), and faculty
Research Celebration events have taken place each year since 2017.

Equality and Diversity
As indicated in the Institutional Statement, UWE is a signatory to the Athena SWAN principles
and currently holds bronze institutional status (since 2013, renewed under its broader scope in
2017). Athena SWAN includes priority action to raise aspirations of women to become senior
researchers including ensuring barriers are removed for women researchers. For example, the
Faculty includes childcare costs as an allowable expense for PGR students attending
conferences.


                                                                                          Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Representatives of the unit on the Athena SWAN staff sub-group (Fisher and White) have
worked on improving and compiling equality and diversity data, particularly on recruitment,
promotion, appraisal, career trajectory, training, work environment, and workload allocation. Staff
survey questions were re-modelled on the basis of the data collected.

History research itself is contributing to desirable equality and diversity gains. For instance, the
‘Heritage Empath’ project uses locative mobile media to inspire empathy in human social
relations with young people and BAME communities envisaged as key beneficiaries of the
project. The Creative Youth Network (CYN) aims to bring together young people from
disadvantaged and marginalised backgrounds with heritage industry professional organisations
(section 4).

Research students
Since 2014, eight students have been awarded doctorates in History with the research strengths
of the Unit reflected in the range of topics explored by doctoral candidates during the period. The
RHC has supported projects on regional history, such as that completed in 2017 on the Bristol
Lunatic Asylum in the 19th century. The focus within transnational perspectives on the imperial
past has promoted projects on, for example, photographic representations of India, and state
and society in late-19th-century Ireland. Research expertise on collective memory was the setting
for a doctorate on Welsh identity and the Greenham Common Women’s Peace Camp (2018).

PGR students are supported by the University’s Graduate School, which monitors students
through a rigorous annual review process. The Graduate School also runs a researcher skills
development programme mapped against the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and
supplies supervisory training undertaken by all supervisors. It has also been involved in
pioneering work on PGR mental health and wellbeing. In recruiting research students, all staff
involved are trained in fair selection procedures, unconscious bias, and equality and diversity.

The Faculty supports PGR attendance at national/international conferences, research trips and
training through a PGR Support fund (£15,000 pa). There is also an annual Faculty PGR
Symposium which actively encourages doctoral students to present work in progress. The unit
has provided bursaries, covered travel and subsistence expenses to present papers at
conferences, and occasional fee subsidies, especially in relation to M-level study.

All History research students undertake prescribed modules in research training and awareness,
delivered in a series of workshops. They are encouraged to attend training sessions organised
by the Graduate School which focus on key generic skills such as: writing a thesis; personal
development planning; IT skills; preparing for the progression examination and ultimately the
viva; and getting published. The programme also offers opportunities to consider future career
options including a residential personal and career skills development course. Faculty based
activity includes postgraduate conferences with a range of guest speakers.

PGRs have access to the University’s Wellbeing Services augmented by dedicated support
through the Graduate School for the specificities of the PGR experience. Regular drop-ins are
held to enable PGRs to receive individual support for specific issues. Supervisor training
includes guidance on wellbeing-related resources, supporting them to support their PGRs. PGR
representation is closely woven into the fabric of the University’s PGR governance structures,
with voices at Graduate School Sub-Committee (GSSC) and Faculty Research Degrees
Committees (FRDC).

In line with UWE’s procedures all History research students are required within 12 months if full-
time and 18 months if part-time to undergo a progression process, including a viva examination.
The unit’s research students participate in research seminars organised by the History staff,
including those held monthly by the RHC at M Shed. Students are encouraged and facilitated to
present papers at national and international conferences, and several research students have


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

published in edited collections and journals, including Wallis (now Senior Lecturer):
‘Prosecution, Precedence and Official Memory: Judicial Responses and Perceptions of Swing in
Norfolk’ (2018) and Paul Tobia’s paper to the RHC public seminar series in May 2014: ‘Life
Stories and the Photographic Image: Patients in the Bristol Lunatic Asylum’.

With a view to promoting opportunities to future research students, the RHC offers
undergraduate and postgraduate students opportunities to engage with research. For example,
students on the History with Heritage undergraduate award have worked to develop the Centre’s
research projects through placements with several partners, including Bristol Culture, Arnos Vale
Cemetery Trust, the National Trust, and with digital mobile media at Stoke Park and Avebury
monument. These students were involved with the Centre’s two MUPI projects (Museums and
Universities Partnership Initiative, section 3). In addition, the Centre’s expertise in mobile/digital
heritage research feeds postgraduate teaching and student project work on the Faculty’s
MA/MFA in Curating in collaboration with the Arnolfini International Centre for Contemporary
Arts.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

To achieve our research objectives, external funding to complement internal investment has
been, and will continue to be, essential. Since the beginning of 2014, the unit has won external
funding totalling £723K (£677k to UWE) from the AHRC, ESRC, British Academy, and other
research councils, charitable and local government sources, as well as through partnerships with
SMEs. Details of specific collaborators can be found in section 4, with examples of external
funding awards gained in the period given below.

In the priority area of digital technologies for heritage, work commenced on the AHRC and the
National Trust supported experimental and immersive work at Bodiam Castle, in collaboration
with the Bristol theatre and digital technology SME, Splash and Ripple (total funding £100,000).

The initiative entitled ‘Romancing the Gibbet’, which develops research into the practice of public
punishment in Georgian England through the form of located sound art and poetic performance,
has twice received small grant funding from the AHRC/British Academy Being Human Festival
(£2,000 in 2014 and £1,250 in 2019). These allowed the staging of collaborative public
performances with Satsymph, a regionally-based SME which creates GPS-triggered audio
experiences for the smartphone, at Warminster, Nether Stowey, Over Stowey, Avonmouth and
Chipping Campden. Additional funding from HEIF (£7,675) enabled the creation of four
‘Romancing the Gibbet’ situated phone apps with Satsymph, a short film, The Ballad of Johnny
Walford, and Satsymph’s ‘1831 Riot’ interactive drama as an app for Queen Square, Bristol, the
location of the riot (section 4).

Other resources for digital heritage research have included: a HERA (Humanities in the
European Research Area) grant (€350) in 2014 for the ‘Uses of the Past’ networking conference,
Tallinn, Estonia; and a REACT (Research and Enterprise in Arts and Creative Technology
[AHRC]) Alumni Award (£8,000) in 2015 for ‘Digital Locative Media for Heritage’ (with SME,
Splash & Ripple, with a total award of £36,000).

In addition, the creative economy project, ‘Heritage Empath’, was based on an 18-month grant of
£159,000 from AHRC Follow-on Funding (2017), and a project to provide historic walking tours
in Bristol city parks received a grant of £5,000 from HEIF and Bristol City Council’s Active
Neighbourhood Transport Grant Continuation Fund.

Elements of two major projects on First World War commemoration have attracted substantial
external funding, including £83,000 from the AHRC/BBC’s ‘World War One at Home’ project
(2013-16). National oversight combined with regional research and consultancy in the southwest
of England by Fedorowich, and colleagues at the BBC and Imperial War Museums, helped
shape the direction and broadcasting of these stories for television, radio and online. In 2016, an


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

additional £30,000 from the AHRC was obtained when Fedorowich was invited to join the First
World War Engagement Centre during a three-year partnership with the Every Day Lives at War
hub at the University of Hertfordshire. In collaboration with Essex, Northampton, Lincoln and
Central Lancashire, it was one of five First World War engagement centres that built connections
between university and community researchers across the centenary period.

Richards completed a project on European Christian Democracy and war in the 1930s and
1940s with a small grant (£750) from the Institute of Historical Research. Several events and
outputs were progressed by Richards as part of a project part-funded by the Spanish Ministry of
Economy and Competitiveness called ‘History and Memory of Hunger: Society, Daily Life, and
Social and Political Attitudes in the Francoist Dictatorship, 1939-1959’, of which he is co-
investigator (€40,000, 2017-20), and as co-investigator for a project, funded by the same
department, titled ‘The Boundary between Science and State Policy in Spain, 1907 to 1977’
(€52,000, 2016-20).

Ward has been awarded £8,720 by the HLF for 'People, Passion, Priory: Brecon Cathedral, the
Heart and Soul of Community', This project, a collaboration with Brecon Cathedral and the
Brecon Mind Ecotherapy group, builds on lessons learned from the covid-19 pandemic in re-
thinking and re-evaluating the heritage landscape outside the cathedral walls.

In terms of infrastructure and facilities, the unit has developed a digital platform which hosts
occasional papers, audio-casts, podcasts, and other scholarly resources which relate to the
research activities of the UWE history community and incorporates all of the unit’s research
priority themes. The site, which encourages public engagement with the research activities of the
unit, was conceived originally under the aegis of the Neil Edmunds Memorial Fund, and the
related bequest of some £250,000, on behalf of a former colleague.

The Library and IT research infrastructure at UWE benefits the research of the unit, not only
through access to on-line journals, but to a wealth of internet-based primary material, including
Cabinet and Parliamentary papers; 17th-20th-century newspapers, pamphlets and periodicals;
early English and European books; and various collections on specific historical themes of
research interest within the unit. The Library also houses a large and diverse collection of
relevant microfilms.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

Since 2014, the unit has continued to engage in a wide range of collaborative research activity
with colleagues in other universities, public institutions within the UK and internationally, and
third sector bodies. It has also contributed to the development of history as a popular and vibrant
research discipline through executive memberships of history societies, editorial and
postgraduate examining activities, participation in the work of research bodies, notably the
AHRC, through the delivery of keynote lectures at national and international conferences and
through extensive public and media engagement.

1. Regional History Centre (RHC)
Major research partnerships and collaborations through the RHC have revolved around two
primary themes: digital/mobile media and heritage interpretation; and histories of the coastal
environment.

Building upon the AHRC/REACT-funded project ‘Ghosts in the Garden’ (2012), Poole led a
series of locative digital heritage interpretation projects in partnership with two regional SMEs
(Splash and Ripple and Satsymph) at the Pervasive Media Studio, a creative community space
at the Watershed, Bristol’s city-centre independent media centre. These were part-funded by
REACT, one of four AHRC UK Knowledge Exchange Hubs for the Creative Economy, a
collaboration between UWE Bristol, Watershed and universities across the South West and
Wales. This collaboration resulted in a commission from the National Trust to design and install


                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

new audio interpretations at Bodiam Castle, East Sussex (Poole/Fleming), including a digital
audio interpretation of the Castle.

Further creative economy funding from the AHRC made possible the research/practice project,
‘Heritage Empath’, producing prototype software for empathic and immersive experience design:
using locative mobile media to inspire empathy in human social relations. The project challenged
visitors at historical landscapes and heritage sites to step into the shoes of past generations and
had three primary impact targets: heritage and museum professionals; communities traditionally
regarded as ‘hard to reach’ by the heritage sector; and practitioners in the experience design
sector. The project included production of an immersive experience ‘Of Home and Each Other’
at Bristol’s Broadmead shopping centre (2018), accompanied by a symposium at M Shed,
Feeling the Past (see Impact Case Study).

The unit’s research expertise has informed the work of many non-academic collaborators. At the
Watershed, for example, Poole ran a one-day ‘Adventure Heritage Masterclass and Workshop’
(2016) for professionals in the heritage industry, including representatives from the Historic
Royal Palaces, Harvest Heritage Arts & Media, Bristol Culture, National Trust, Bristol Initiative
Charitable Trust, SS Great Britain, and Rough Glory films. Poole wrote and recorded audio
commentary on six of the paintings for Bristol Museum’s ‘William Hogarth: Painter and
Printmaker’ exhibition in 2015. He is also historical advisor for a forthcoming M Shed exhibition,
‘Vanguard: Bristol Street Art, the evolution of a global movement’, opening in June 2021, and
has written a chapter for the exhibition’s catalogue.

The located sound art and poetic performance project, ‘Romancing the Gibbet’, produced
research-based sound-walks in local villages (section 3) as well as Warminster Public Library
(2014), Museum of Somerset, Taunton (2016), and on Bristol Harbourside, for the Open Doors
Festival in 2017 and 2018. The short-film distillation of the collaborative performance about the
execution and gibbeting of John Walford for the murder of his wife Jane in 1789, made with
Satsymph, was shortlisted in the Inspiration category for the AHRC’s Research in Films Award
(2016).

Investment through HEIF (2018) furthered exploration of the adaptability of GPS-powered audio
to non-linear narrative storytelling and heritage experience design. ‘1831 Riot!!’ (section 3)
immerses users in the confusion of the Bristol reform riots in the environment in which they
originally took place. Poole has published a critical essay on his work in digital media for
heritage and public history, addressed international conferences in Lisbon and Gothenburg on
aspects of it, and advised the EU-funded EMOTIVE heritage project during and after model
testing in Athens and Glasgow.

The unit’s other case study is based on Wallis’s position as historical consultant for the
redevelopment of Shire Hall, Dorchester, as the Courthouse Museum, the UK’s first immersive
and interactive centre for public engagement with the historical development of criminal justice.
This work won excellence awards and commendations in 2019-20 from South West Tourism.
Funded by West Dorset District Council and the Heritage Lottery Fund, the Georgian courtroom
and cells were opened as a museum in 2018. Wallis has collaborated with local volunteers and
staff at Dorset History Centre, external exhibition designers and consultants, digital and creative
media producers, and the museum’s management team to produce the site interpretation. This
work is associated with her successful application to the VCECR scheme (section 2).

Wallis presented on the application of her research at Shire Hall to the International Conference
on the Inclusive Museum (Muntref, Museum of Immigration, Buenos Aires, 2019). In the same
year, she gave the Annual Lecture to the British Association for Local History, at Conway Hall,
London, and was invited to speak (on the prosecution of rural protest in the 1830s) to the
Radical History School at the TUC festival, Tolpuddle.

The youth culture strand of the RHC’s activity is exemplified by the project led by Harrison and


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Wallis, working with the Creative Youth Network (CYN) in support of its HLF bid to redevelop the
Victorian Bristol Magistrates’ court as a creative enterprise hub. With CYN project leaders, the
youth steering group, and history students, Wallis and Harrison hosted a series of workshops at
UWE to map out a development strategy (2019). The heritage interpretation project will give
public access to the history of the courts and aims to engage the public with the work of CYN
and bring together young creatives from marginalised backgrounds with industry professional
organisations. This research was used by young artists to produce ‘Locked Up’, a series of
creative responses connecting past and present experiences, exploring questions about crime,
punishment, poverty, identity, and prejudice (2019). Wallis and the heritage consultant for
Dorset Shire Hall were subsequently commissioned to develop the provisional interpretation
plans for inclusion in the 2019 HLF bid which secured £4.25 million funding. Wallis has been
funded to support the delivery of the new heritage interpretation.

This linking of youth and history is an area of development, in relation to which Harrison was a
panelist on the BBC Woman’s Hour programme (2019) providing historical context to the
discussion about the state six-week school summer holiday. Her ‘Seen but not heard?’ project
(sections 1 and 2) resulted in an RHC public lecture (2017). Harrison also presented papers at
two 2019 conferences: ‘Geographies of Gender’ (Winchester), and Society for the History of
Children and Youth (Sydney), where she acted as a conference chair. Her invited lecture on
young women and domestic service in Victorian and Edwardian Britain, at the Institute of
International Education, Washington DC, took place in 2016.

RHC research has also been focused on environmental humanities, working with filmmakers,
educationalists, young people, artists, and local communities on Bristol’s tidal history. Funding
came from membership of the AHRC/NOW (Dutch Research Council) British/Netherlands
exchange network, Between the Tides, with events along the Severn Estuary, the Waddensee
and at Groningen, in partnership with the Bristol educational charity, My Future My Choice. Two
associated schools and communities’ projects, ‘Learning Ships’ and ‘Bristol Loves Tides’, were
supported by funding from HEIF. The latter project used performance and film to encourage
deeper awareness of the interconnectedness of ecology, biodiversity, and energy, and promote
the role of the wilder green spaces of the city.

Poole and Wallis have made television appearances discussing histories of social protest;
Poole on Chartism for Who Do You Think You Are? (with Jack Whitehall, BBC 2019) and A
House Through Time (with David Olusoga, BBC 2020), and Wallis on the Swing rebellion for
Who Do You Think You Are? (to be aired in 2021). Poole was also historical script consultant for
an episode of Britain's Most Historic Towns (Channel 4 2019). Harrison also contributed to the
BBC’s Who Do You Think You Are? discussing the experiences of rural youth, including
illegitimacy and migration in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries (with Jodie
Whittaker, BBC 2020).

The RHC worked with South Gloucestershire Council and the HL-funded oral and community
history project, ‘A Forgotten Landscape’ to address broad heritage issues on the Severn estuary
flood plains while encouraging community access and engagement. The project partnered Avon
Wildlife Trust, Bristol City Council, Bristol Regional Environmental Records Centre, the
Environment Agency, the Farming and Wildlife Advisory Group Southwest, Natural England, the
RSPB, and Conservation Volunteers, running from 2015 to 2018. The Centre jointly organised
the Severn Levels and Estuary Research Committee public conference (2018), exploring the
environmental and archaeological heritage of this vulnerable wetland area. Six essays written by
volunteer researchers were published in a special edition of the Regional Historian (2018).

The RHC co-led two £900 MUPI seed corn projects (2017), supported by the National
Coordinating Council for Public Engagement. Remembering the Floods is a partnership with the
University of Gloucestershire, South West Heritage Trust, Westonzoyland Pumping Station
Museum, Tewkesbury Museum and Gloucester Museum and Archives and aims to create a
network of stakeholders to design future initiatives to promote flood-risk awareness and to reflect


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

on the value of community memory and tradition in building resilience. Museums are encouraged
to create thematic linkage between flood-related accessions and to highlight the material culture
of flood history in wetland environments.

Exploring the relationship between ‘sense of place’, community memory and museum
collections, is at the heart of Wallis’s Our Town, Our Museum, Our Place project, a partnership
between the RHC, SW Heritage Trust and six small independent and volunteer-led Somerset
museums, based on workshops bringing heritage sector and university stakeholders together.
Wallis was appointed a trustee of the Gloucestershire County History Trust in 2020.

Other collaborations include Ward becoming a Trustee of the Edmond Jones Charity, awarding
grants to students and apprentices in Brecon for educational support. She is also historical
consultant to St Mary Redcliffe’s Project 450, the Bristol church’s large-scale redevelopment
project designed to modernise facilities and create a better experience for users and visitors.

2. Global and Transnational History Group (GTHG)
(a) ‘Transnational Perspectives on People, Places and Power’
International colloquia and public speaking form an important basis for dissemination and
contribute to broadening the research base. Exploring new aspects of Canada’s participation in
the Great War, Fedorowich has presented invited lectures on military migration and
mobilisation, the Canadian home front and post-war commemoration at such venues as the
Foreign and Commonwealth Office (2014), National Archives, Kew (2017), Royal Military
College of Canada (2018), and Jules Verne Université, Amiens (2018).

In Mexico City (2016), Woodiwiss was on the adjudicating panel for bids under the ‘Inclusive,
accountable and secure society’ section of the Research Partnerships Call launched jointly by
RCUK and CONACYT (the National Council of Science and Technology, Mexico), a funding
initiative under the Newton Fund. He was invited by the Mexican Human Rights Commission
(2018) to give a paper on the implementation and impact of US prohibitions on Mexico, at its
conference on Security, Justice and Human Rights. Woodiwiss also edited a special issue of
Trends in Organized Crime (2015), which explored the record of pioneers in the study of
transnational organised crime, interviewing many witnesses to the creation of crime control
efforts in America and Europe.

Emerging from her research on displacement and the humanitarian and human rights legacy of
war, White was invited to present research papers at the University of the Peloponnese, Corinth
(2014); the 16th Congress of the International Association for the Study of Forced Migration
(Poznan, 2016), the European Congress on World and Global History (Budapest, 2017), the
University of Swansea (2018), and the University of Bonn (2019). She also gave the Stanley
Burton Memorial Lecture on Russian refugees in the interwar period (Leicester, 2016), and a
lecture on the development of refugee law to the School of Slavonic Studies (UCL, 2017).

On the history of childhood, White presented papers on the Russian Revolution and on Soviet
children’s institutions at the BASES conference, Cambridge (2016); at Lisbon University Institute
(2019); a public lecture at the V&A Museum of Childhood on the history of childhood in the
Soviet Union (2017); and a paper on Russian populism to the Graduate School for East and
Southeast European Studies (Regensburg, 2017).

The unit has enriched its research culture in transnational history by promoting invited lectures,
including, in this period, Martin Thomas (Exeter), on ‘Violence, Insurgency, and Ends of Empire’;
Ian Thatcher (Ulster), on ‘Competing Visions of Revolution in Russia, 1917’; Robert Gildea
(Oxford), on the transnational history of resistance in Europe; and Geoff Swain (Glasgow) on the
Russian October 1917 revolution.

(b) ‘Collective Memory, Imagined Communities and Public History’
Fedorowich’s contribution to the AHRC/BBC’s commemoration of the First World War, initially


                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

undertaken in 2013-14, but extended to 2016, began with compiling 200 stories for BBC West
and BBC Southwest on the ‘people and places’ pertaining to these broadcast regions. This led to
him becoming national project advisor for the BBC to liaise with other regional teams. The
endeavour profited from inter-action with regional history associations, community groups, local
government, school outreach programmes, and other regional stakeholders as part of the five-
year commemorative project.

The ‘Devon Remembers’ project (to which Fedorowich was historical consultant) involved
collaboration with several non-academic stakeholders, including the Royal Albert Memorial
Museum (RAMM), Exeter. Fedorowich provided academic leadership and support for several
interlocking exhibitions (2018-19), funded by the HLF and Exeter City Council. The first
displayed modern prints of photographic images of the Canadian Expeditionary Force (CEF)
originally exhibited at RAMM in 1919. The second parallel exhibition explored Canadian soldiers
in Devon who served with the CEF and the Canadian Forestry Corps which undertook war work
in the county from 1916-1919.

Faculty support for Richards’ project on ‘Children and Post-Conflict Reconstruction: Health,
Stigmatization, and Memory’ facilitated his leadership of the multi-disciplinary, public
engagement, conference at UWE on ‘Wartime Child Displacement: Comparing Historical and
Contemporary Cases’ (2016). The conference brought historians, sociologists, and lawyers
together with local and regional civil society groups, with the aim of comparing historical cases
with contemporary ‘real-world’ examples. Key themes of the conference were first formulated in
Richards’ lecture on children in the Spanish civil war, at the British Academy conference: ‘War:
An Emotional History’ (2014).

The themes of the UWE conference emerged from several publications contributing to debates
about the relationship between violence in civil wars, re-making political power, and the legacies
of fractured social ecology and community memories (section 1). Richards disseminated these
findings initially as part of the LSE’s Catalan Observatory series of public lectures on ‘The
Stages of Development of a Great City: Barcelona, from Textiles to Technology’ (2014);
secondly to UWE’s ‘Marginal Childhoods’ conference (2015); and thirdly in an Hispanic History
seminar at Cardiff (2015). He also gave a public lecture (2017) to the Gloucestershire Historical
Association marking the 80th anniversary of the bombing of Guernica. His book on post-war
memory in Spain was translated into Spanish (2015).

Influence, peer review, and esteem
During the census period staff have examined doctorates at: Aberdeen; Australian National
University (ANU); Barcelona’s Universitat Autònoma; Bath Spa; Birmingham; Bristol; Exeter;
Flinders; Hertfordshire; Leicester; Newcastle (Australia); Northumbria; Reading; Sheffield;
Sunderland; University of South Africa; and York.

UWE historians regularly act as peer reviewers and referees for numerous funding bids, book
proposals and manuscripts, and articles submitted to scholarly journals.

Funding applications reviewed include those submitted to: British Council Science and Research
Programme; Leverhulme Trust; Australian Research Council; National Science Centre (Poland);
and National Research Foundation (South Africa).

Four staff have been reviewers for the AHRC South-West and Wales Doctoral Training
Partnership (SWW2) on historical themes relevant to their specialisms, such as ‘Conflict and
Post-Conflict’, ‘Cultural transmission’, and ‘Environmental and regional pasts and futures’.

Peer review of book manuscripts has been undertaken for: Oxford and Cambridge University
Presses; Anthem; Ashgate; Berg; Berghahn; Blackwell; Bloomsbury; Palgrave/Macmillan;
Routledge; and UBC Press.



                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Peer review for journals includes: Britain and the World; British Catholic History; Canadian
Slavonic Papers; Contemporary European History; Crime, Law and Social Change; Diplomacy &
Statecraft; East-Asia Studies; Ethnic and Racial Studies; European History Quarterly; European
Journal on Criminal Policy and Research, European Journal of Criminology; Global Crime;
Historia Social; The Historical Journal; History; History & Memory; International Criminal Justice
Review; International Journal of Iberian Studies; Journal of Contemporary History; Journal of
Imperial and Commonwealth History; Journal of Military History; Journal of Modern European
History; Journal of North African Studies; Journal of Peace Research; Journal of War & Culture
Studies; Middle Eastern Studies; Revolutionary Russia; Slavic Review; Social History; Social
History of Medicine; and Social Science History.

Harrison was a member of the Fulbright UK-US Awards Reading Panel (2017-19). Fisher was
Reviews Editor of Diplomacy & Statecraft until 2016 and a contributing Editor to G. Martel (ed.),
Routledge Encyclopedia of Diplomacy (2018). Fisher was also a member of the Executive
Committee of the British International History Group and was the editor of the Group’s newsletter
(until 2017). Woodiwiss is a member of the editorial board of the European Review of
Organised Crime. He received the 2019 Distinguished Scholar Award from the International
Association of the American Society of Criminology in San Francisco.

Richards is a Senior Fellow of the Cañada Blanch Centre for Contemporary Spanish Studies
(LSE); a member of the Advisory Board of Cátedra Complutense Memoria Histórica del siglo XX,
Complutense University, Madrid, as well as the associations of Hispanists in Britain and Ireland,
and the US. Fedorowich is a Research Fellow at the Department of Military History,
Stellenbosch University (2020); and held a Visiting Fellowship at the Research School for Social
Sciences, ANU, and a Fellowship at the Menzies Centre for Australian Studies, King’s College
London (both 2015).

UWE historians are also members of many professional bodies and scholar associations,
including the Royal Historical Society; Royal United Services Institute; European Consortium for
Political Research; Strategic Hub on Organized Crime Research; International Association for
the Study of Organized Crime; and the Maghreb Studies Association.




                                                                                         Page 14
