Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research submitted in UoA 17 has been developed by staff at Queen Margaret Business School
 (QMBS), which sits within the School of Arts, Social Science and Management (ASSaM).
 Research within this UoA addresses the intersection between businesses, employees, and
 consumers. Connecting much of this work is an overarching institutional concern with social
 justice, diversity, and inclusion. This is a relatively small and developing research unit that did not
 submit to REF2014. During the current census period, a strategy has been developed and
 implemented to build our activity in this area, based on three clusters of researchers and a
 commitment to excellent, impactful research. QMBS are working to develop a research centre
 (based on institutional criteria), but, as an interim route to support, researchers within this unit are
 members of the Research Centre for Applied Social Science Research (CASS).

 Developing the research culture within QMBS has been a key feature of the current census period
 and our desire to work towards the establishment of a dedicated research centre. Engaging staff
 with the research environment and building their input into a new and co-created QMBS Research,
 Knowledge Exchange and Enterprise Strategy in 2015 highlighted the potential for research and
 impact development. In early 2016, available data indicated that 2-3 staff could be expected to
 submit to REF2021 on the basis of our institutional criteria for significant responsibility for research.
 The cultural shift within QMBS is evidenced by the development of this cohort, including the re-
 engagement of existing staff expertise and investment in new staff to create a submission where
 six staff are submitted to UoA 17 with a further three QMBS staff submitted to UoA 34. Our
 research clusters continue to develop through seminar series and collaborative events; our
 researchers win prizes and have confidence to share their successes; and more colleagues are
 active in the sphere of research, knowledge exchange and enterprise.

 Our engagement with CASS brings many benefits. CASS contains a wide range of cross-
 disciplinary staff, and staff are grouped into categories of membership based on institution-wide
 guidelines. The differing levels of membership allow aspiring researchers who do not have
 significant responsibility for research to be part of a research cluster alongside more experienced
 researchers who provide advice, support, and informal mentoring. The membership categorization
 of CASS staff members is reviewed at least annually, and new staff are categorized within one
 month of joining, based on their previous research activity and trajectory. The Centre Director (at
 professorial level), in collaboration with the relevant Head of Division (HoD), is also responsible
 for resource allocation and staff development including mentoring. The Centre receives an annual
 budget that can be used to seed-fund new research, support conference attendance, run public
 events, support staff development, and generate pathways to impact. The Centre Director, in
 consultation with the members, formulates the strategy for the centre. This strategy is reviewed
 by the School Research and Innovation Board (SRIB), which has overall responsibility for the
 strategic development of research within ASSaM and reports into the School Academic Board
 (SAB), which is chaired by the Dean.

 As part of the school strategy for the development of research centres, business management
 research has been identified as a priority. This is being led at professorial level and has been
 based on a strategic review of business research and KE activity in 2015. This review identified
 three key areas of focus where excellent research could be further developed, leading directly to
 the formation of research clusters within CASS focused on: 1) gastronomy, events, tourism and
 hospitality (GETH); 2) family and smaller enterprises (FaSE); and, 3) consumer dispute resolution
 (CDRC). Each cluster includes a range of staff members, including established researchers,
 industry professionals, and early career researchers, who research and work with local and
 international communities of research and practice. GETH exists to bring together our established
 research expertise in hospitality, tourism and events and ally this to developing research in
 Gastronomy. FaSE exists to foster ideas and intellectual capital in relation to family business and


                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 smaller enterprises, including start-up businesses. CDRC focuses upon consumer dispute
 resolution and consumer policy, developing research that includes organizational policies and
 approaches to complaints and systems of dispute resolution, allied to consumer experiences of
 the complaints process and the impact on staff at whom complaints are levied. The success of
 this strategic approach to focusing our activities is evident in the increasing number, quality, and
 focus of research outputs, alongside clear examples of wider societal impact, as evidenced in our
 case studies. Two of our clusters are represented by our impact case studies, one of which has
 developed from our long-standing focus on consumers and dispute resolution whilst the other
 builds upon family business research, which was a nascent area of enquiry in 2014. Linking much
 of our research is the institutional focus on social justice and a concern with equity, diversity,
 representation, and empowerment, channelled here into research that explores, for example, how
 disputes between consumers and businesses are resolved, and how family values influence
 business in minority ethnic communities.

 The development of our research culture and practice has been supported by several wider
 initiatives, including work to develop an open research environment. For example, our researchers
 benefit from the institutional approach outlined in the new Easy Intellectual Property (IP) policy
 introduced in 2018, developed with support from the University of St Andrews. The aim of Easy IP
 is to maximise collaborative partnerships and, ultimately, the transfer of university knowledge for
 public benefit. This refreshed approach is intended to support QMU in increasing partnerships with
 external stakeholders to undertake collaborative research, gain insights into research problems
 and encourage early product development. However, this new policy does not replace traditional
 routes for exploitation of high value opportunities or externally funded research. Similarly, as Open
 Research Data and Open Access publishing become firmly integrated into the research
 environment, researchers are supported via our library and information services, in line with the
 Concordat on Open Research Data. Similarly, we support our researchers in articulating research
 outputs to external stakeholders and potential end-users through our institutional e-repository and
 newly launched working papers section of our website.

 Pathways to Impact, Public Engagement and Dissemination

 The UoA adopts a multifaceted approach to the development of pathways to impact, working with
 CASS but adding additional activities for the UoA to boost researcher development. Activities
 include public presentations, the hosting of external conferences from organisations such as
 WomenBeing (a local social enterprise) and Disability Scotland, as well as the publication of
 reports, working papers and blogs. Research in FaSE on entrepreneurship in developing
 economies underpins our participation in the British Council Creative Spark programme in
 Uzbekistan to develop and embed a curriculum for enterprise across university level education in
 the tourism and hospitality fields and to develop a country-level set of National Standards for
 University enterprise education. A new extension of this work will focus on the participation of
 female staff and students at University level in Uzbekistan. Between 2015-2018, CDRC published
 numerous reports to services that include Legal Ombudsman, Care Inspectorate, and National
 Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts. The work behind the reports and the contacts
 developed are part of the portfolio of corroborating evidence for one of our impact case studies,
 whilst the second impact case study develops from a long-term partnership between the UoA and
 the family business organization, Family Business United. Members of the UoA and CASS are
 encouraged to write blogs about their activities, which are shared via personal and institutional
 social media accounts. Staff have also engaged with traditional media outlets. For example,
 Seaman has contributed to interviews and articles on family businesses, their challenges and
 current research for BBC Scotland, the Scotsman newspaper, and several local publications. Bent
 has contributed to several radio discussion shows on BBC Scotland about retailing and the future
 of UK high streets.
 As part of our professional and civic engagement agenda, this UoA engages with a variety of
 organisations and events to build profile and to encourage researcher engagement with our wider
 communities. Examples include:

       Event on mental health at work, organised in conjunction with researchers from clinical

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        psychology and management, welcomed the former Labour Party Communication
        Director, Alastair Campbell, focusing on toxic work environments and appropriate
        responses                                                                (Bent).

       Further engagement between researchers and public administration professionals was
        facilitated by an award of Joint University Council Public Administration Funding for the
        seminar series, ‘Public Leadership in Turbulent Times’ (Elliott, Ross).

       Development of Scottish Family Business Week with Family Business United Scotland
        (2016-present) (Seaman).

       Regular workshops on behalf of the Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship,
        focusing on topics that include publication, Research Excellence Framework, development
        and curation of research impact, and the development of papers for publication (Seaman).

       Regular work with the local press, including radio and television, where we are a source of
        retail, small business, consumer and family business expertise (Bent, Pretious).

 Our impact development is supported by several external networks, notably the Beltane Public
 Engagement Partnership, which, after 10 years of engagement between the universities in
 Edinburgh, continues to thrive after the signing of a new Manifesto in 2018. Beltane allows partner
 universities to share good practice, build on reciprocal researcher training arrangements and
 supports interdisciplinary pathways to impact. Through Beltane, staff have been involved with
 numerous successful researcher events such as Explorathon, Bright Club and the successful
 Beltane Gathering, which takes place in June each year. The Gathering brings together
 researchers into multi-disciplinary groups focusing on collaboration in public engagement around
 the Grand Challenges. QMU is also an active member of the Scottish Parliamentary Academic
 Network (SPAN). The network builds on an existing collaboration set up in 2014 between the
 Scottish Parliament Information Centre (SPICE), Scotland’s Futures Forum, the Beltane and the
 Scottish Universities Insight Unit to encourage collaboration and knowledge exchange between
 the Scottish Parliament and the academic community. Furthermore, active participation in the
 University Industry Innovation Network (UIIN), including a best-practice case study based on work
 in FaSE, has also helped to build international networks with academics that share our philosophy
 on impactful research and KE. Staff from FaSE act as members of the Research Strategy
 Committee for Institute of Family Business (UK), Advisory Board for Family Business United
 (Scotland), and as founding Fellow of the Association of Family Enterprises of Ghana (AFEC).
 Seaman has also served on the Board of Trustees for the Institute of Small Business and
 Entrepreneurship, including leading the Family Business Special Interest Group and as Co-Chair
 of the Family and Community Business annual conference track. Williams has just completed a
 term of office for the Civil Justice Council and has joined the Consumer panel of the Scottish Legal
 Complaints Commission. Williams is a founding member of the Scottish Universities Dispute
 Network, which brings together academics, policy makers, and practitioners to develop robust
 research in the areas of alternative dispute resolution.

 Research within this unit also synergises with activities in our on-campus Business Innovation
 Zone and the Scottish Universities Scale-Up Consortium (funded by Scottish Funding Council with
 University of Dundee as consortium lead). QMU was also one of the first Scottish universities to
 publically commit to the new national agreement committing UK institutions to developing their
 knowledge exchange activities. The KE Concordat provided us with a better structure for the
 sharing and development of research and in-demand skills by outlining good practice and showing
 what works. In 2014, researchers from this UoA collaborated with Scotland’s Futures Forum and
 the Goodison Group in Scotland on a series of events across Scotland to facilitate discussion
 between the different research, business and advisory communities on family business
 (http://www.scotlandfutureforum.org/business-succession-the-sustainability-of-family-
 businesses-and-smes/).

 The next stages of our impact and knowledge exchange development will be influenced by major

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategic developments at institutional level. For example, in 2018, QMU invested in and launched
 an annual Innovation Fellowship Scheme, intended to develop and support research activity that
 has the potential for significant health, cultural or economic impact and which will help us to
 maximise engagement with the UK Industrial Strategy and Industrial Strategy Challenge Funding.
 A number of nascent areas of research and potential impact have been identified for future impact
 and KE development, including work funded by the Scottish Government to research new routes
 to market for traditional and endangered crops (GETH) and Highland Games as volunteer-lead
 cultural events in Scottish tourism space (GETH).

 Future priority will be given to empowering our researchers to act as agents of change and
 encourage and enable them to share insights and maximise impact pathways. We will also ensure
 that public participation and civic engagement are more strategically defined in the researcher
 journey as we grow the number of high quality, outcome-driven partnerships with the public,
 private, and third sector. Located in the Edinburgh area, we are the only university in East Lothian
 and are therefore uniquely embedded in the local community, building on the increasing policy
 priority of regional cohesion through our Edinburgh and South East Scotland City Region Deal.
 Through the City Region Deal, we are seeking to elevate our position as a collaborator that
 provides connectivity and coherence in innovation and which is strategically integrated into the
 regional growth agenda with £30 million secured to offer opportunities for industrial collaboration
 with the University research base. This has opened up additional opportunities for collaboration
 with researchers in artificial intelligence and big data. We are building our strategic alliance with
 the Bayes Centre, School of Informatics, University of Edinburgh to understand the potential of
 artificial intelligence in our areas of strength, specifically the hospitality, tourism and events
 industries and food industry.

 Research Objectives During the Assessment Period

 The strategic aims that have driven research in this UoA since 2014 are:
 1. To develop existing research in business and management and to develop a small number of
 key foci as clusters to support future research development.
 Key achievements

    Identification of five initial areas of research in 2015, narrowed to three priority areas for
     development, which became the clusters known as GETH, FaSE and CDRC.

    Successful operation of the three research clusters, which act as a basis for research
     development, RKE bids, publishing and the further development of pathways to impact.

    The development of submitted research outputs from each cluster FaSE (0A/01/17; 0A/02/17;
     0A/03/17; 0C/01/17; 0D/01/17; 0D/02/17; 0D/03/17), GETH (0B/01/17; 0B/02/17; 0B/03/17;
     0E/01/17), and CDRC (0F/01/17; 0F/02/17; 0F/03/17).

 2. To develop the research culture of the UoA, in a manner complimentary to the work of CASS,
 with a particular focus on developing and supporting early career researchers.

 Key achievements

    Regular meetings between the UoA lead and researchers, designed to facilitate long-term
     research and impact development. These are open to all staff but in practice uptake is
     primarily from early career researchers. Outcomes from these meetings feed into the
     process of Performance Enhancement and Review (PER) which is the Institutional process
     of review by line management.

    Staff within the UoA are encouraged to attend regular seminars held by CASS and the UoA.
     UoA seminars are a mixture of presentations of staff research and external speakers and
     have included presentations on the development of REF impact by the REF-lead from the

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Business School at the University of the West of England and Meet-the-Editor sessions with
     three editors of key journals. Professional bodies such as the Institute of Small Business and
     Entrepreneurship (ISBE) have also chosen to bring meetings to QMU.

    The development of conferences on campus, including the inaugural CASS Research
     Conference and those organized in collaboration with external bodies such as the Enterprise
     and Family Entrepreneurship Research International Conference (EFERIC) (2018) and the
     local social enterprise WomenBeing (2017, 2020).

 3. To increase participation in collaborative research and KE projects to develop income
 generation.
 Key Achievements

    Continued successful development of bids from CDRC to a wide variety of Ombudsman
     organisations across the world.

    Two successful bids to the British Council from FaSE; staff from FaSE are the Creative
     Spark Programme partner for projects in Uzbekistan.

    Participation by staff from FaSE in the Scottish Universities Scale-Up Consortium funded by
     Scottish Funding Council.

    Five successful partnerships developed from FaSE with local businesses, drawing on
     funding from the Scottish Funding Council Innovation Voucher programme.

    Funding from the Scottish Government for staff from GETH to work as part of a consortium
     looking at new routes to market for traditional and endangered crops.

    GETH researchers mainly focused on securing seed funding for conducting new research,
     which led directly to publication outputs, dissemination of findings through conference
     presentations and other events, and developed research project management experience
     amongst the UoA.

 4. To continue to support current researchers to publish and to disseminate research through
 conference attendance, hosting research events, industry-focused reports and media
 engagement.

 Key achievements

    Scholarly work was related to the interests of all three research clusters.

    Advice from current editors for our Early Career Researchers (ECR)s, facilitated by visiting
     speakers and senior staff within the UoA.

    Staff in the UoA acted as editor of two special editions of peer-reviewed journals in their
     fields

    Links between our conference activity and publishing, such as the links between the
     WomenBeing conference (planned and hosted by researchers in the UoA) and the
     publication, Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Equality & Diversity International Journal.

    Industry reports for a wide range of organisations including NESTA, Scottish Government,
     and Ombudsman organisations worldwide, emanating from the work of Williams and
     colleagues in CDRC.


                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In reflecting on these aims, it became apparent that while they clearly outlined the key areas of
 activity, they were less detailed about our intention to develop the research environment, our links
 to the Graduate School, our impact activity, and our people. Therefore, the UoA plans for the next
 five-year period to build on these strategic aims:

 1. To publish a wide range of internationally excellent research, focusing initially on the priority
 areas identified within the clusters but allowing scope for new areas to develop.
 2. To continue expanding our research networks to support a continued increase in collaborative
 research projects and major grant applications.
 3. To expand the scope of our impact to encompass all areas of research within the UoA.
 4. To increase the awareness, visibility, and profile of business management research at QMU
 through academic and media avenues.
 5. To increase the number of PhD and Professional Doctorate completions.
 6. To increase income generated by business management research and KE.

 In early 2021, these aims will be translated into specific objectives, setting the strategic agenda
 for the next five years and synergizing with the institutional criteria for the establishment of a
 Research Centre.

 2. People

 During the census period, there was relatively high staff turnover in QMBS, which has now largely
 resolved. Of the six staff returned to this UoA for REF 2021, four were members of staff in 2014
 and are now more established researchers. We are committed to continuing the development of
 staff in QMBS as researchers and during the current REF period, four QMBS staff have completed
 PhD degrees and a further three are registered for doctoral study. There are six research centres
 and one institute at QMU. The size of QMU, combined with our single campus leads to regular
 research collaboration with colleagues. For example, Ross has collaborated with Blanche (UoA
 34) to undertake a thematic evaluation of the Bank of Scotland’s philanthropic grants, while
 Matheson co-supervises doctoral candidates and collaborated with Finkel (UoA 34) on a Carnegie
 Grant funded project about sex work and the Olympic Games. Seaman co-supervises doctoral
 candidates with colleagues from UoA 21 researching topics that include social enterprise and
 waste management in Nigeria. Staff take part in research seminars run by other centres to share
 ideas and develop research that explores crisis management and staffing in care homes
 (Seaman), complaints handling in secondary education (Williams), and social uses of big data
 (Sebian).

 We have strengthened our research capacity with the recruitment of several ECRs with plans in
 place to support their development as independent researchers. The planning process begins at
 a personal level, via the Performance Enhancement Review process developed by our Human
 Resources team and conducted between an individual researcher and their line manager. In
 addition, several key institutional processes support the development of early career researchers.
 Within QMU, the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF) is the widely endorsed
 framework underpinning professional development. Using the RDF supports researcher
 development and fulfils many of the requirements set out by funders and governments for the
 support of researchers and researcher careers. Institutional plans are also underway to launch a
 QMU Early Career Researcher Engagement Academy in partnership with Edinburgh Napier
 University. This will focus on key opportunities and initiatives specifically aimed at early to mid-
 career researchers and will be developed during the next census period supported by an
 institutional commitment to providing 10 days professional development for all researchers, with
 pro rata support for staff on fractional contracts. QMU is currently developing new policies and
 processes to roll out this commitment and to monitor access and uptake. We are also
 implementing new pathways to support the transition to researcher independence. In response to
 feedback from ECRs and contract research staff, we are ensuring that beyond REF 2021 the
 research excellence parallel quality evaluation process is rolled out to all staff who would benefit.
 A Strategic Projects List operates within QMU to support bridging for contract research staff who
 are out of contract, with plans to review and enhance our talent register. This includes a range of

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 short-term institutional projects for research assistants in support of our strategic research
 priorities. An Access-QMU process is in place for Principal Investigators (PI) and Research
 Managers to maintain continuity of access for out of contract researchers with a new Legacy
 Researchers Policy/Procedure being developed to offer further enhancements to support long
 term collaboration.

 10 Year HR Excellence Award for the Concordat for Researcher Development

 This census period has seen a commitment to and the implementation of the Concordat for
 Researcher Development. QMU was in the first cohort of UK HEIs to submit to the 10 Year HR
 Excellence Award for the Concordat. Central to this activity is an ethos of co-creation and
 importantly shared ownership between the researchers and the institution. Our Principal publicly
 declared QMU’s commitment to the new Researcher Development Concordat in October 2019
 and our enthusiasm and support are reflected in our position as one of the first 10 UK institutions
 to sign up. We recognise that the last few years have seen fundamental change in the research
 landscape as funding and policy increasingly straddles the domains of research, innovation, skills
 and place. The new Concordat for Researcher Development Action Plan 2020 reaffirms our
 commitment to supporting the 2019 Researcher Development Concordat underpinned by core
 centralised research support and provision continuing to be a key driver over the next period of
 the Concordat.

 Researcher Integrity

 In 2019, QMU became a member of the UK Office for Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) and in
 May of that year delivered a QMU/UKRIO Research Integrity training workshop in support of the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity. UKRIO training and awareness materials are actively
 promoted throughout the campus and on our web and intranet sites. UKRIO monthly training
 webinars are promoted to all staff, research managers, professional services and research
 students.

 We are also members of the Scottish Research Integrity Network (SRIN) led by the University of
 Dundee and University of Edinburgh and regularly attend sector best practice events and
 contribute to discussion and debate. All researchers benefit from access to collaborative Research
 Integrity training modules and new QMU whistleblowing procedures were launched in 2020.
 Support and strengthening understanding of the application of research integrity issues within our
 UoAs is a key objective in our 2020-2022 Concordat for Researcher Development Action Plan. An
 annual statement on progress in implementing the Concordat for Research Integrity is provided to
 University Court and published on our website every Autumn.

 Culture, Employment and Development in Academic Research Survey (CEDARS)

 In 2020, QMU was one of only 22 UK HEIs to participate in the first pilot UK biennial CEDARS
 Survey. This survey gathers anonymous data about working conditions, research culture, career
 aspirations and career development opportunities for research staff and research leaders in HEIs
 across the UK. A total of 79 QMU participants responded to CEDARS, a response rate of 31%.
 This reflects a significant improvement in participation rates in previous National benchmarking
 exercises, i.e. the Careers in Research Online Survey (CROS) (7%) and the Principal Investigators
 and Research Leaders Survey (PIRLS) (17%). The new questions in CEDARS provided
 opportunities for researchers to share their experiences of research culture and the associated
 responsibilities of their managers. Over the current census period, CEDARS has allowed us to
 measure the success of our researcher experience strategy interventions and to undertake an
 institutional researcher health-check. In response to the Wellcome Research Culture Report, the
 University hosted Wellcome Café Culture events using the Wellcome Trust toolkit to promote
 discussion with peers on research culture, which has identified several examples of supportive
 practice as well as areas for on-going development.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Mentoring

 There is recognition of the need to enhance support for institutional level research mentoring as
 we continue to develop a supportive, fair and inclusive research culture, particularly to Early
 Career Researchers. We are investing in a number of new mentoring initiatives to better align
 expectations, promote professional and career development, address equity and inclusion, foster
 research independence, and cultivate ethical behaviours and integrity.

    In 2020, external funding was secured to support a pilot inter-institutional research mentoring
     programme in response to Covid-19, recognising that post-doctoral early career researchers
     are particularly vulnerable to the impact of Covid-19 given security of tenure and
     unprecedented uncertainties in the research environment and culture. In collaboration with
     Edinburgh Napier University, the scheme will support the long term career, professional
     development and wellbeing needs of researchers. This includes peer to peer mentoring.

    Key to our future strategy for research mentoring, QMU has been accepted as a partner in the
     Teaching, Research & Academic Mentoring Scheme (TRAMS) led by the University of St
     Andrews and the University of Dundee and in partnership with Abertay University, Glasgow
     School of Art and the James Hutton Institute, and Trinity College Dublin (School of Medicine).

 Research Careers

 We support researchers in exploring and preparing for a diversity of careers, for example, through
 the use of mentors and careers professionals, training, and secondment. We recognise and
 actively encourage the movement of researchers to and from careers out with academia,
 recognising that this is one of the most impactful pathways of knowledge exchange. Our on
 campus Scottish Enterprise Business Gateway service provides bespoke support for researchers
 in enterprise creation and collaboration with industry.

 Researcher Wellbeing

 Our research culture is underpinned by a commitment to the promotion of researcher mental
 health and wellbeing, through for example, the effective management of workloads and people,
 and effective policies and practice for tackling discrimination, bullying and harassment, including
 providing appropriate support for those reporting issues. Researchers have been invited to
 participate in the institutional Staff Wellbeing Working Group and three annual workshops on
 Mental Health First Aid. A number of collaborative researcher wellbeing workshops have taken
 place including with the University of Dundee, Edinburgh Napier University, Heriot Watt University,
 University of Glasgow and the University of Edinburgh. These have included Academic Writing:
 Reduce Anxiety and Wellbeing in Academic Research.

 Research Students

 Our doctoral cohort has continued to develop. During the census period we have offered two
 programmes of doctoral study: 1) a traditional UK award of PhD, and 2) a Professional Doctorate
 Programme, expanded in 2017 to include an exit award of Doctor of Business Administration
 (DBA). The PhD and Professional Doctorate candidates are considered as one cohort and have
 been brought together to enhance the research culture and support networks for doctoral
 candidates. Whilst the two programmes have different assessment approaches and ‘checkpoints’,
 the candidates have much in common and have developed a strong community of research
 practice.

 Currently, there are 15 PhD students and 3 Professional Doctorate students registered with this
 UoA, with doctoral research being carried out in each of the three clusters. Eight are supported by
 QMU bursaries or as staff, and 7 are self-funding candidates, often supported by the Government
 of their home country or employer. During the census period, 21 candidates have been awarded

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PhDs. Our engagement with the Professional Doctorate programme is more recent and
 candidates have yet to graduate from this programme, but further development after REF2021 is
 a priority, alongside engagement with the new PhD by Publication and PhD by Creative Practice
 routes approved in 2020.

 All PhD candidates are allocated a supervisory team of either two or three staff. A research
 proposal and evidence of activity is submitted to a probationary panel, which interviews the
 candidate at the end of the first year. Doctoral candidates are affiliate members of CASS and fully
 integrated into research activities. The development of the Graduate School over the current
 census period has offered the opportunity for greater staff engagement, with attendant benefits in
 terms of the research environment. All staff with significant responsibility for research can engage
 in doctoral supervision and examination at both final viva voce and interim assessment stages.
 Training and mentoring in the supervision of doctoral students is provided in conjunction with the
 Graduate School and is compulsory for all who supervise on the PhD or Professional Doctorate
 programmes. We are implementing the UKCGE Good Supervisory Framework and belong to the
 Scottish Graduate School for Social Sciences, which provides additional external training,
 networking, and learning opportunities for both candidates and supervisors.

 QMU has an annual university-wide competition for funded PhD places. Successful candidates
 receive an annual stipend of £15225 for three years, together with an allocated budget of £2000
 to spend on research activities. Topics are advertised internally and externally and in each year
 during the assessment period, a CASS candidate has successfully gained funding. Candidates
 receive research training from the Graduate School at tri-annual study weeks. Non-studentship
 candidates may also apply to CASS for conference attendance support. The Graduate School
 also offers opportunities for all candidates to apply for training and development funds to support
 non-core training and skills development. QMU studentship candidates are provided with
 professional development opportunities including two years of teaching experience. Candidates
 not in receipt of a QMU studentship are often provided with paid teaching experience. All doctoral
 candidates are required to undertake a short course in teaching and learning and can complete a
 PGCert in Teaching and Learning free of charge. We also provide a 60-credit Doctoral Certificate
 in Researcher Enhancement and Development (READ) as part of all Doctoral programmes. READ
 is based around the Vitae RDF and enables the integration and synthesis of theory with practice
 to enable the development of transferable research skills, ensure the rigour of academic thinking
 and promote the achievement of personal and professional goals.

 Equality and Diversity

 We have robust structures to address equality and diversity, primarily organized at Institutional
 level. In the wider University context, new management information reporting was developed in
 response to REF 2014 good practice, drawing on protected characteristics data held within the
 HR and research infrastructure systems. Research Centres collaborate with the Equality and
 Diversity Committee to highlight the importance of HR holding full and accurate demographic data
 about all staff. Equality Impact Assessments now underpin the development and revision of all
 research policies and procedures. A bespoke training programme, delivered in partnership with
 Advance HE and others, supports online Equality Training for Research. Key, however, is the
 inclusive and diverse institutional research culture, reflected both in the profile of staff designated
 with significant responsibility for research and indeed in the topics on which their research focuses.
 We are developing a leading position for QMU in terms of female research leadership with over
 70% of our REF2021 eligible staff being female. An institutional programme of online equality and
 diversity training for research is available to all staff with additional resources to support Equality
 Impact Assessments. In 2019, a number of our researchers participated in our EntreprenHER
 event with our Chancellor Prue Leith promoting gender and innovation and we have dedicated
 funding for female researchers to attend events such as Soapbox Sciences and AcceleratHER.
 We have a strategic collaboration and MoU signed with Women’s Enterprise Scotland (WES) to
 embed Female Entrepreneurship in our research culture and to support QMU’s contribution to the
 Edinburgh and South East Scotland City and Region Deal. During the current census period,
 members of CASS and researchers of this UoA have been supported to undertake the Aurora

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leadership development initiative run by Advance HE. Upon completion of the development
 programme, these staff can join the QMU Aurora network of previous Aurora delegates. This
 network aims to encourage peer-to-peer support on issues facing QMU female leaders and
 provides mentorship links for future Aurora cohorts. QMU was awarded an institutional Athena
 SWAN Bronze Award in April 2013 and 2017. Since then, the Athena SWAN team has continued
 to progress gender equality across the institution by addressing actions set out in the University
 Action Plan, alongside a clear commitment to embedding Athena SWAN principles across our
 workforce. ASSaM (in which both CASS and this UoA are based) is currently working towards a
 LGBT Bronze Charter Award in 2021.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding Strategies

 Our approach to research funding can be encapsulated by several key principles: centralized
 support services for research, an approach to organizational change that, where possible,
 prioritizes research, the provision of internal research funds via research centres and active
 support for applications for external funding. CASS is provided with a dedicated budget each year
 to support both the development and dissemination of research activity and pathways to impact.
 This funding is prioritized into five key strands:

    Developing pathways to impact
    Developing the research environment, in particular supporting staff to host on-campus
     seminars, workshops, and colloquia.
    Seed funding for new research projects
    Presenting at conferences
    Developing networks that could support future grant applications.

 This UoA benefits from access to CASS funding and support from the wider School development
 funds. These funds are open to all staff who can apply for up to £1K at one of three calls across
 the course of the academic year. The School Management Team (SMT) awards funds based on
 alignment with the School Operational Plan. Activity supported through this route has included
 conference attendance, teaching support and the funding of writing retreats.

 Research activity has also been supported financially from external sources such as The Carnegie
 Trust for the Universities of Scotland, Citizens Advice Scotland, Social Care and Social Work
 Improvement Scotland, BACS, Santander Funding, Scottish Government, Ombudsman Services,
 Standard Life plc.

 Organizational infrastructure for research and impact
 Activity within CASS and the current UoA is supported via the Research and Knowledge Exchange
 Development Unit (RKEDU), which supports the development and implementation of the
 institutional research policy and strategy. It supports members to undertake public engagement,
 researcher development, research governance, and external collaborations. Support is also
 available from the Research Grants and Contracts Unit (RCGU), which provides pre- and post-
 award support for grant submission as well as advice on how best to secure external funding. In
 addition to an extensive range of online journals, citation research tools and other dedicated
 research resources, the Learning Resource Centre (LRC) and dedicated Research Support
 Librarian provide researchers with information retrieval advice and manage the repository data
 sets. Researchers also have access to an institutional subscription to Research Professional, the
 leading sector database of research funding opportunities. A review of research support structures
 is scheduled for 2021 and will be led by the Deputy Principal. This will be informed by an analysis
 of pilot collaborative activity with other HEIs, including the procurement of back office
 communication/IP support from the University of St Andrews.



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Inter-institutional relationships

 To expand the scope of our work, we have developed connections with other HEIs. We are part
 of a large-scale consortium of Scottish Universities funded by the Scottish Funding Council as the
 Scottish Scale-up Consortium, which focuses on research-led approaches to business innovation
 and growth. Our researchers also work with research-based start-up and scale-up businesses.
 We are the only Scottish University with a Scottish Government funded on-campus Business
 Gateway located in our Business Innovation Zone, hosting agencies that support research-led
 enterprise, i.e. Scottish Institute for Enterprise.

 International Profile

 Researchers within the UoA are regularly invited to give keynotes or to undertake scholarship at
 International institutions, including the University of Finance & Management, Warsaw, HTMI in
 Switzerland, Universidad di Extremadura, Spain, University of Vermont, and Concordia University
 in Montreal. Funded by a variety of sources, including ERASMUS and Santander Universities
 funding, visiting researchers contribute different perspectives and experiences on their return. The
 engagement of staff with external and international conferences develops networks and
 researcher perspectives; examples include working on the Scientific Committees of the 2nd
 International Conference on Contemporary Issues in the Theory and Practice of Management in
 Poland; the International Conference ‘Challenges of Contemporary Economics 2020’, organised
 by the University of Economics and Human Sciences in Poland; the EIASM Firm Management
 Workshop at Audencia Business School (2019); and the International Conference on Human
 Capital developed by Taylor’s University in Malaysia. Developing and bringing the Enterprise and
 Family Entrepreneurship International Conference to QMU was a direct result of links built by
 Seaman with the Universidad di Extremadura. Our publications contribute to the profile that led to
 work with the British Council Creative Spark Programme and Silk Road International University in
 Samarkand and, indeed, to ongoing bids to conduct further work for the Government of Uzbekistan
 (Robertson, Seaman).

 Submitted researchers have been invited to keynote at eight events over the census period,
 alongside public lectures in Warsaw and Spain. Seaman contributes as a journal editor to
 publishing workshops at the Academy of Management Conference (2019, 2020, 2021) and
 European Institute for Advanced Studies in Management Conference (2019), is a regular co-chair
 for the family business and sustainable business tracks at the European Academy of Management
 and led the Family and Community Business track for the Institute of Small Business and
 Entrepreneurship (ISBE) from its inception in 2015 until 2020. Our developing reputation has also
 attracted overseas academics to QMU from institutions that include the University of the Basque
 Country, Universidad di Extramedura, and the Shah Abdul Latif University in Pakistan. Submitted
 researchers from the UoA have acted as doctoral examiners during the current census period for
 ten institutions on three continents.

 Over the last census period, members of the UoA have contributed to the wider knowledge base
 via editing journal special issues, book series, and edited collections.

 Journal special issues edited by staff within the UoA include:

    International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behaviour and Research. Special Issue on
     ‘Institutional Influences on Entrepreneurial Behaviors of business families, family businesses,
     and family business groups’ (2020) Volume 26 Issue 1

    Nutrition and Food Science, Special Issue on Gastronomy (2016) Volume 44, Issue 4.

 Seaman edited a collection of chapters in a book titled, Corporate Citizenship and Family Business
 (2021) from Greenleaf Publishing, acts as Editor-in-Chief for the Journal of Family Business


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Management and serves as a member of the founding editorial board of Futures and Foresight
 Science (John Wiley and Sons). Bent and Matheson review papers for the Journal of Destination
 Marketing and Management; Gender, Place and Culture; Journal of Family Business Management
 and Journal of Place Management and Development. Seaman, Bent, Ross and Sweeney have
 also contributed chapters to peer reviewed edited collections.

 Policy relationships, professional practice and civic engagement

 Policy relationships, professional practice, and civic engagement are a strength within the three
 research clusters in this UoA. CDRC work with consumer and dispute resolution organizations,
 including Ombudsmen organizations, carrying out consultancy and professional development
 training rooted in their academic research. CDRC has reviewed consumer ADR organizations in
 New Zealand, Australian Public Transport Ombudsman in Victoria and New South Wales Energy
 and Water Ombudsman. CDRC place a particular emphasis on taking the consumer perspective
 into account to ensure that this is fully considered when evaluating if the systems and processes
 meet consumers’ needs. Recent work from CDRC on supporting staff who have been complained
 about identified the need for organizations to design complaint systems which support the needs
 of all actors within the system. To help ensure that consumers’ views are represented, individual
 members of the team have been appointed to several external bodies. During this REF period,
 staff from CDRC chaired the newly established Consumer Panel at the Scottish Legal Complaints
 Commission, acted as members of the Office of Rail and Road Consumer Expert Panel, the Civil
 Aviation Authority Consumer Panel, chaired the Chartered Trading Standards Institute
 Qualifications and Awards Board, convened the Regulatory Committee of the Law Society of
 Scotland Scottish Mediation and acted as a consumer representation on the Scottish Civil Justice
 Council (2016-2019).

 Within FaSE, we continue to champion alignment between the focus of innovation and the
 pressing enterprise and societal issue of gender inclusion. Increasing female entrepreneurship is
 an institutional strategic priority, reflected through this UoA in terms of researcher-led engagement
 with the entrepreneurship agenda. In addition to gender-focused research by Ross, we engage
 with a wide variety of external stakeholders to contribute to this priority. Examples include:

       Active participation by Seaman in the cross-parliamentary group on Women and Enterprise
        within the Scottish Parliament at Holyrood.
       Contributions to reports on gender within the Scottish context that include:

               Thomson, E., Ross, S., and Campbell, J. (2014). Underemployment in Scotland:
                A Gender Analysis, Women in Scotland’s Economy (WiSE) Research Centre
                Briefing Sheet June 2014. Glasgow: Glasgow Caledonian University.

               Campbell, J., McKay, A., McSorley., L., and Ross, S. (2014). The Legacy of
                Gender Mainstreaming within the Scottish Structural Funds Programme 2007-
                2013 Research Report. Glasgow: Glasgow Caledonian University.

 Staff from FaSE also serve as Board members for a local family business (Robertson), charity
 (Bent) and social enterprise (Seaman).




                                                                                              Page 12
