Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Edge Hill University

 Unit of Assessment: C23 - Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context
 Edge Hill has trained teachers since 1885, England’s first non-denominational teacher-training
 college for women outside London. Proud of our foundational ethos of free-thinking and equality,
 we have developed as a socially-inclusive university, addressing the sense of place and regional
 needs of our communities in north west England, acting as national co-ordinator for Action on
 Access in the early part of this century, and becoming increasingly international in our reach; this
 UOA is leading projects and partnerships in China, Laos and Vietnam. This ethos informs the
 UOA’s research mission which is to undertake research and knowledge exchange that is
 focused on socially-just education, to inform and influence educational policy and practice,
 especially for those who have been excluded or marginalised by institutional and/or structural
 barriers, so that all of our communities can take full advantage of the government’s ‘levelling up’
 agenda as the world begins to emerge from a global pandemic.

 How research is structured across the UOA
 Our UOA has undergone significant changes, renewal and growth since 2014, sufficient to have
 modified some of our structures and objectives. Of the 13 staff returned in 2014, six have retired,
 one has moved institution, and another is submitted to UOA4. The changes in our personnel
 also reflect significant investment in research leadership, with new professors taking up post
 since 2014, including two professors recruited since the census date.

 The UOA comprises 28 staff: six professors; one reader, and 21 lecturers or senior lecturers, of
 whom eight are ECRs. These colleagues come primarily from the four departments of the
 Faculty of Education plus three staff from other departments, reflecting their close alignment with
 our research themes. The research centres identified in 2014 were disbanded following a
 review, and new groupings are emerging, clustered around our impact case studies (see below).
 These better reflect current work and future directions, and they are more aligned to the UK
 Research and Development Roadmap.

 Research objectives 2014-20
 Our stated objectives for the period were:

    1.      to increase the number of those with significant responsibility for research (SRR),
    2.      to increase the volume of high-quality peer-reviewed outputs,
    3.      to increase the number of our productive research partnerships,
    4.      to increase the number of PhD completions, and
    5.      to increase the volume of research income.

 We have more than doubled the number of staff submitted to the REF and the volume of
 outputs, which we believe to be of improved quality. The number of PhD awards has grown from
 one to 11, and we have developed some new and productive partnerships, including the
 interdisciplinary flagship Everton in the Community (EitC) programme, which has received £500k
 for Knowledge Exchange from the OfS/Research England. We are increasingly making bids to
 established research funders both to secure grants and to achieve greater overheads. We
 believe our 2014 objectives have been met.

 Research objectives post-REF2021
 The University has invested heavily in our research capacity, especially in the last three years. In
 the post-REF2021 period our objectives are:




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1.      To place impact at the heart of our research activity and to build groups around
            programmes of research so that they may achieve vitality, sustainability, and critical
            mass. These are our future research centres in embryo;
    2.      To increase the number of colleagues with significant responsibility for research who
            are producing excellent 3* and 4* research through a combination of good
            recruitment strategy, thoughtful mentoring of ECRs, and effective support for those
            making the transition to SRR, especially those coming from a background in practice,
            supported by strong and effective research leadership;
    3.      To grow further our PGR community, through PhDs and professional doctorates;
    4.      To increase the number of successful bids for external research funding;
    5.      To create an inclusive and welcoming research environment which is supportive,
            outward-looking and engaged with regional, national and global challenges.

 Post-REF2021 we aim to secure University approval for a Research Centre for Social Justice
 Education. This is the next logical step in the realisation of our strategy to become internationally
 recognised for research in this area and will build on the successes of existing groups and
 networks. In 2014 the University set out rigorous criteria for the establishment of research
 centres which requires centres to be of a size sufficient to achieve critical mass, and to develop
 measurable funding and impact strategies. Establishing the Centre will, therefore, strengthen our
 commitment to the development of socially-just methodologies for educational research and
 provide support for the Unit’s ECRs and those transitioning to research independence in this
 area. The new centre will also be affiliated to the Institute for Social Responsibility (ISR) which
 will provide support for events and enhance inter-disciplinary working across the University and
 through ISR’s wider networks.

 We will extend our sub-theme of inclusivity via partnership-working through the development of
 outdoor-education research, contributing to the sense of place research agenda. The Faculty of
 Education has already established a ‘forest school’ on campus, a facility used by local primary
 schools. Building on our teaching and engagement activity, we will seek to develop this area for
 research using this expertise. To do so we will increase and strengthen our networks with
 schools and local-authority partners. This will include work with a network of schools and
 organisations developing beach schools in the region, on the Sefton and Fylde coasts. Working
 together with early years providers, coastal landowners, environmental organisations, teachers
 and the University’s existing connections through its Department of Geography and Geology, we
 will work collaboratively to devise principles that will develop the way beach schools are
 practised; transforming teaching and learning expertise into research and knowledge exchange
 on inclusivity in educational approaches and practice.

 We will also be developing our partnership working through our Research Circle Framework in
 which we work collaboratively with educational institutions to design and implement participatory
 action research that promotes equality in education. We currently have agreements with seven
 nurseries across the North West region (on the entitlement to nursery provision); with a teaching
 school alliance in Wigan (on speech development), and with a nursery school (on its role in
 developing cultural capital) to facilitate this. The Unit will also extend its work with a network of
 research schools – which has started with Meols Cop High School in Southport – to help
 develop the quality and scope of teacher-led research to benefit outcomes for all children,
 regardless of background, as a contribution to the government’s ‘levelling up’ agenda.

 How the UOA has sought to enable the achievement of impact
 Since 2014 we have shifted the focus of our research groupings and recruitment strategy to
 coalesce around programmes of work most likely to benefit partners and communities:

    1. Higher education policy & practice addressing a range of issues in higher education.
       Centred on our established strengths in widening access and widening participation
       (Thomas), we have broadened the focus to include student success, student
       engagement and belonging, and the disconnect felt by commuter students (Thomas,
       Nicholson). We have sought to add international reach to our well-established expertise

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       in this area through the appointment of Cheng, who brings a fresh approach to working
       with international students at risk of marginalisation in UK HEIs, complemented by
       Allan’s international work on disseminating good practice in higher education institutions.
       This is complemented by work on ethical dilemmas in professional education (Shortt),
       the importance of personal tutoring (Yale) and mentoring in HE (Woolhouse), as well as
       student support and the student experience (Cheng, Fulford, Irving-Bell), the impact of
       quality and evaluation in HE (Bostock, Cheng), and the operationalisation of the
       philosophy of higher education to challenge policy and enhance practice for leaders and
       academics in the sector (Beattie, Fulford).
    2. Teaching, learning, assessment & curriculum is centred on the ‘Transforming Lives’
       project (Duckworth) which has provided evidence for policy-makers of how the further
       education (FE) sector is vital to learners and communities in 21st century Britain
       (Duckworth, Williams). Long-standing areas of research at Edge Hill, such as that of
       Dunne, have been supplemented by more recent appointments enabling greater
       specialisation in socially-just pedagogy (Fulford), curricular access and curriculum
       subjects (Garrett; Henshall, McVeigh, Shirley), early years education (Albin-Clark,
       Boardman), and test anxiety (Liversidge, Nicholson).
    3. Difference, inclusion & identity groups around special educational needs (Hallett,
       Beer, Sealy), narrative and storied lives and marginalised experiences (Hallett,
       Woolhouse), the roles of gender, identity, sexuality, and race, examining the perceptions
       of teachers, pupils, trainee teachers and teacher educators in order to address
       educational inequalities and the marginalisation of particular groups of students (Farrell,
       McAteer), marginalisation and disadvantages of children (Allan, Robinson).
    4. Children’s rights & wellbeing is an emerging strand which includes work on student
       voice, children’s rights, mental health and wellbeing (Boardman, Hallett, O’Keeffe,
       Robinson). Our flagship project in this area, and likely future case study, is Robinson’s
       work with Liverpool City Council (LCC) on achieving Unicef Child Friendly City (CFC)
       status. This will positively impact on children’s lives by embedding a commitment to
       children’s rights, and investing in children’s health (especially mental health in the wake
       of the pandemic), well-being and development in our region, which suffers from historic
       disadvantage.

 In all themes, researchers are encouraged to establish partnerships and work with these to help
 identify research priorities. Some of the partnerships stem from the broader work of the Faculty
 and we actively encourage our practice-based colleagues to engage with research projects to
 support effective partnerships. This reflects our approach of having a ‘mixed economy’ in our
 research clusters of staff at different career stages, including those not yet independent
 researchers, so that colleagues can benefit from each other’s expertise and collaborations to
 help identify synergies and grow partnerships. We also use internal support funds to help identify
 strategic priorities with partners that are of mutual interest and benefit. By working closely with
 partners, our research can have a positive impact, while keeping a focus on the needs of
 practitioners and learners.

 The UOA has a well-established history of undertaking research which studies, informs and
 enhances social and educational inclusion, equity and access (Thomas). Our work is
 disseminated to teachers and the school/college leadership teams through seminars, workshops
 and school visits by staff, again maximising the mixed staffing base. As well as appointing
 professors with previous experience of achieving impact (Cheng, Fulford, Robinson), we have
 also engaged three visiting professors from outside the UK (USA, Spain, South Africa) to
 broaden further our research horizons and to introduce new networks and pathways to impact
 which will extend the range and influence of our work.

 To improve the quality and consistency of our impact strategy, we draw on the experience,
 advice and guidance provided by the University’s Research Office. We ensure that staff with
 SRR and those with research-career aspirations participate in impact training and discussion so
 that the nuances of impact are well understood before individuals or groups embark on research
 projects. This training has included a workshop run by Prof. Mark Reed (co-founder of Fast

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Track Impact). We encourage individuals to apply for institutional IKEF funding which is reserved
 specifically for the support of impact arising from published research. Both Thomas and
 Duckworth have received IKEF awards in this REF period to enhance their case studies.

 The three impact case studies come from groups formed around three professors, all of whom
 were part of the UOA in 2014. In each instance, their external networks and partnerships pre-
 date recent changes within the UOA and they demonstrate a continuity of research and impact
 agenda:

    •   Thomas’ ‘Improving Equity and Outcomes in Higher Education’ investigates the
        relationship between engagement, belonging, retention and success. She was a member
        of the TEF panel for HEFCE/OfS, produced commissioned research for Advance HE
        (‘Increasing diversity: tackling underrepresentation of protected student groups in higher
        education’, 2020), for OFFA (‘Understanding a whole institution approach to widening
        participation’, 2017) and for the QAA/HEA (‘Effective practice in the design of directed
        learning opportunities’, 2014/15). Her work has informed national policies, institutional
        strategies and individual practice in the UK, Europe and Australia.
    •   Duckworth’s ‘Transforming Lives’, a collaboration with Birmingham City University and
        funded by the UCU, has showcased how FE is transformative for lives and communities.
        She is a trustee of the Helena Kennedy Foundation and a Board member of the
        Association for Research in Post-Compulsory Education, and her work contributed to
        national policy thinking on the future of Further Education.
    •   Hallett has worked with Tate Liverpool on a joint photo elicitation project (exhibition
        ‘Spaces imagining inclusion and belonging’, June 2018). The project explored
        inclusion/exclusion of children in and from formal education, across our region (including
        the Isle of Man). The exhibition resources have been shared with a network of schools in
        the region as part of Tate Exchange, and it is an example of our research contributing to
        the UK R&D place agenda. This is one of several impactful partnerships the UOA has
        developed with Tate Liverpool.

 Commitment to open research
 We are committed to open research as outlined in the EHU Policy on Open Research. All our
 outputs are deposited in the University research repository (Pure). We have developed and
 promoted a culture of open research by hosting presentations and workshops on OA and data-
 sharing, by disseminating University-wide information and opportunities, and by embedding
 discussion within our Faculty’s Research Committee. We have effectively promoted the use of
 ‘read-and-publish’ deals the University has signed with publishers (including Taylor and Francis,
 SAGE and Wiley) with staff utilising opportunities across all relevant publishers. We support
 internal funding applications for gold OA, encourage the use of research rewards (University
 funding to reward grant capture) to support publication costs, and advise inclusion of these costs
 in external funding applications. We have started to disseminate freely-available research
 outputs through Figshare; these include posters, training seminars and research-informed
 teaching resources.

 In the next REF cycle, along with promoting OA for journal articles, we will explore with Library
 and Learning Services options for OA books and chapters; for example, by working with Open
 Book Publishers, university presses and other publishers, and building on the steps we have
 already taken by making chapters OA wherever possible. We believe that a commitment to open
 research is an important way of reaching greater audiences, particularly HE colleagues in
 developing countries and research-users who may not have the same access to libraries and
 subscriptions. Given our partnerships with countries on the ODA list and our commitment to
 working in collaboration to promote socially-just education, this is a particular priority.

 Statement on research integrity
 Given our research interests, integrity and ethical practice is at the heart of what we do. We are
 committed to respecting the dignity of all those involved in our research processes and PIs are
 responsible for ensuring the integrity of their projects. We work in tandem with the University’s

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research governance infrastructure which promotes and assures research integrity. The
 University recently revised its ethical infrastructure and Farrell was part of the working group that
 established new processes and procedures, including establishing five subject RECs. The
 Education Research Ethics Committee (EREC), chaired by Fulford, considers the majority of
 ethics applications made within the Unit. The EREC acts as a sub-committee of, and reports to,
 the University Research Ethics Sub-Committee (URESC). We fully engage with debates and
 standards regarding research integrity led by our professional associations, such as BERA, as
 well as national bodies such as the UK Research Integrity Office.

 Support for researchers developing applications is headed by a team led by Farrell who also
 provides training as part of the Unit’s Research Development Programme. To help embed high
 ethical standards, the Unit has established a Research Ethics Advisory Panel (REAP) made up
 of ECRs. Supported by Farrell, members of the Panel develop expertise in research ethics and
 governance, and provide initial scrutiny of ethical clearance applications. Experienced members
 of REAP can then seek a position on the full Education Research Ethics Committee (EREC).


 2. People

 Excellent research-active staff with strong collaborative links to practice are key to the realisation
 of our research goals. Our staffing strategy since 2014 has focused on capacity building,
 informed by a commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion. We have sought to redress the
 balance of our staffing profile by appointing and investing in the development of those whose
 ambitions include a research career. Our strategy has resulted in a 115% increase in staff being
 submitted to REF2021 (21/25.2fte) relative to REF2014 (13/11.7fte).

 Recruitment strategy
 Since 2014, we have prioritised the recruitment of staff, in line with principles and best practice
 of equality and diversity, whose research generally fits with our overarching research
 commitment to socially-just education, as well as the capacity to be excellent teachers, and the
 disposition to be effective and collaborative colleagues. The UOA has undergone substantial
 change since 2014, with all members of the professoriate except Thomas (0.6 FTE) having
 retired or otherwise departed. In renewing the team, our strategy has been to strengthen
 research leadership through effective recruitment; Cheng, Fulford (Associate Dean: Research
 and Impact), and Robinson (0.6 FTE) were all appointed in open competition on the strength of
 their track records, their potential and their fit with our research priorities. We have
 complemented that recruitment strategy with nurturing the careers of existing colleagues:
 Duckworth and Hallett were promoted to personal chairs in the REF period. Along with a
 reader (Woolhouse, also promoted during the period), these colleagues provide leadership
 across the UOA as the Research Strategy Group (RSG). Further recruitment is also planned
 with a view to strengthening the quality of our research and planning for future impact case
 studies.

 The success of this recruitment strategy is evidenced by the growth since 2014 in the number of
 staff with SRR and of staff holding doctorates across the Faculty. After recruiting strong
 candidates, we have then sought to ensure that they are well-supported. The success of
 research mentoring means that there has been an increase in the number of mid-career
 researchers applying for internal promotion to reader and professor roles, with five readership
 applications made in 2020, two successful. A priority for post-REF2021, identified in our Athena
 Swan action plan, is to review the career aspirations of our senior lecturers so we can refocus
 our development support to enhance career pipelines.

 Our recruitment strategy will be reinforced by ensuring that there is greater diversity in our
 invited speakers and visiting professors who may act as role models for staff and students alike,
 as well as introducing peers from diverse backgrounds to Edge Hill so that, when recruitment
 opportunities arise, they are already familiar with us as an institution.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff development
 Our approach to staff development is guided by the principles of the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers. We aim to provide a supportive environment that
 promotes wellbeing through appropriate workload allocation, good research planning, and
 training and development opportunities to ensure that everyone is able to reach their potential.
 Our collegial team-based approach provides excellent mentor and peer support for staff at all
 career stages. Our staff-development programme has supported colleagues at various stages of
 their research journey by maximising benefit from, and the experience and skills of, our
 research-active staff.

 Many of our appointments come from practice backgrounds, as is common for faculties of
 education. In supporting our ambitions to increase research capacity we highlight, during
 induction, the University’s career development pathways and the support available to develop a
 research career. Induction is also a vital to inculcating new staff into the research culture and
 ensuring that they understand the governance and research integrity standards the University
 requires. Identifying support for research is also an integral part of subsequent probation and
 annual PDR meetings. Annual PDR identifies agreed objectives and development needs,
 including research, which are revisited throughout the year. PDRs inform annual workload
 planning (allocation of time and resources); those with SSR are allocated time and resources for
 research to support the achievement of their agreed PDR objectives. If staff do not have SRR,
 they identify as making their journey towards SRR (apprentice researchers) or as focusing on
 other aspects of the academic role. The former (often doing PhDs or other doctoral
 qualifications) are allocated enhanced staff development. Nearly a third of colleagues submitted
 on this occasion have come through the route from professional practice to SRR during the
 cycle. Nine of those submitted were supported to complete PhDs and then become independent
 researchers during the period, and a further eight colleagues completed PhDs and are now
 being supported through mentoring to achieve research independence in the next REF period.

 Researcher development is central to the work of the Unit. This commitment is most clearly seen
 in the Unit’s apprenticeship scheme, supervisor forum and seminar series, which complement
 the University’s comprehensive Researcher Development Programme. Our enhanced research
 capacity and the transformation in the number of colleagues with SRR is partly the product of
 our apprenticeship scheme, which was designed to facilitate staff transitioning to research
 independence, particularly for those staff recently arrived from practice. It involved staff working
 with a research mentor and has resulted in the publication of 12 papers - seven of which are
 submitted to this REF.

 While successful, we recently reflected on the apprenticeship scheme’s achievement and its
 fitness-for-purpose for a universal REF. This has led to the development of a new 3-strand
 mentoring scheme, led by Robinson, which builds on the evaluation of the apprenticeship
 scheme, and has been extended to offer opportunities to all colleagues. The first strand of the
 scheme provides 1:1 mentoring in one or more of: (i) writing for publication – usually publishing
 from your doctorate, (ii) writing funding bids (internal first, and later external), (iii) understanding
 the impact agenda, and (iv) developing research partnerships. In this tier, priority is accorded to
 ECRs. The second strand is that of Research Buddy. This is open to colleagues at all career
 stages, and it involves one or more of: (i) providing feedback on a draft article, (ii) discussing
 options of journals for submission of an article, (iii) discussing feedback from reviewers (e.g.,
 journal paper or funding bid), and (iv) acting as critical reader for a book proposal, funding bid or
 promotion bid on the research track. The third strand is designed specifically for our apprentice
 researchers and those who are becoming independent researchers. It is designated the
 Research Project strand and it provides opportunities for groups of academic colleagues
 (typically consisting of a deliberate mix of more and less experienced colleagues) to work
 together and provide co-mentoring. The specific focus of projects under this strand will be
 determined by colleagues, but each project should relate to the work of one the four
 departments within the Faculty and will be expected to lead to publications and, in the longer
 term, have the potential for impact.


                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UOA engages fully with the University’s internal funding schemes which are central to
 supporting individuals to develop their research profiles through publication, conference
 attendance, impact activities and income generation. We have been awarded £187k in such
 support funds since 2014 – this has been vital to supporting a unit in development with 29%
 ECRs. Three members of staff have benefited from teaching relief (£56k in total) to allow them to
 progress their projects, while others have employed research assistants to support data
 collection and analysis. Staff have also been supported to attend international conferences to
 present their work and build networks, vital to promoting an international perspective. Staff have
 also benefited from targeted impact funds (IKEF) to support projects and relationship
 development. Plans for internal funding bids are discussed in PDRs to ensure that all consider
 how funds may support them and less experienced staff are encouraged to consider
 participation in team projects. Part-time staff have also made effective use of the funds; while
 this is generally on a pro-rata basis, we do not apply that to conference support.

 We hold regular seminars and an annual research day which foregrounds impact as a vital part
 of the research process. Staff from this UOA regularly participate in activities organised through
 the ISR whose remit is to promote interdisciplinary research and public engagement, including
 through an annual Festival of Ideas which brings prospective users of our research on to
 campus for discussion, debate and networking. The ISR also provides support and resources,
 such as public events, blogs and writing retreats to support researcher development. The writing
 retreats were extended late in the REF cycle to support the needs of PGRs, apprentice
 researchers and ECRs who were finding it difficult to write during Covid-19 lockdown. The UOA
 supplemented these during lockdown with a series of Faculty-wide research cafés, some of
 which were held over summer 2020. These popular events were themed (on strategies for
 starting, and continuing, writing; on researcher wellbeing, and on sharing what we were reading),
 in response to feedback, including from the regular PGR catch-up meetings hosted by the PGR
 Co-ordinator and Director of Research.

 The postgraduate research community
 The Unit has realised its aim to have a lively and engaged postgraduate research (PGR)
 community with 7 PhD, 1 MPhil and 1 MRes awards, and 21 postgraduate research students
 currently registered. In addition, 19 members of academic staff are currently undertaking
 doctoral study. This demonstrates our investment in the next generation of researchers and our
 commitment to the sustainability of the discipline. Central to having achieved this highly engaged
 and successful PGR community is the University’s competitive Graduate Teaching Assistant
 (GTA) scheme. The Unit’s Research Strategy plans to enhance the doctoral community through
 securing external funding for PhD studentships and through attracting high quality self-funded
 PhD applications. At present, we do not have a professional doctorate programme and are in the
 process of proposing such a programme (to commence October 2021). The increased research
 capacity and the strength of PGR supervisory teams is shown in the very much improved PhD
 success rate in this period (11 compared with one in 2014).

 The PGR community enhances the research environment through attending and delivering
 seminars organised by research groups and networks; through presenting at the annual Faculty
 research conference (ACRE), and through delivering research-informed teaching in their work as
 GTAs. In further enriching the research environment, GTA students host a series of events as
 part of the British Educational Research Association (BERA) ECR Network Symposium Series:
 ‘Analytical Approaches in Educational Research’. GTAs also initiate their own activities,
 including a highly successful international philosophy of education reading network.

 Woolhouse is PGR co-ordinator and Hallett leads the MRes provision across the University as
 a seconded role in the Graduate School. These roles ensure that effective, high-quality training
 is in place, and that supervisory teams are allocated to students on the basis of subject and
 methodological expertise, and capacity. Each doctoral student is allocated a team of up to
 three supervisors led by a director of studies. Teams may also include an advisor, someone with
 practice experience but without the research profile to permit them to supervise, who supports
 the team and provides professional expertise; this approach contributes to ensuring that capacity

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for supervision is enhanced, and that appropriate supervisory skills can be developed within a
 supportive team.

 A specialist programme of training in research methods and approaches is delivered in
 partnership with the Faculty of Health, Social Care and Medicine. Doctoral students are eligible
 to apply for support for conference attendance from the bursary scheme. The cost associated
 with such applications is jointly met by the Unit itself and the University Graduate School.
 Supporting conference attendance, particularly for presentation, ensures that doctoral students
 are inducted into their respective academic communities, benefit from expert feedback on their
 ideas and emerging research findings, and start to build connections within the field.

 The PGR Co-ordinator also provides a professional development forum for supervisors. This
 provides a detailed induction to the role; enables networking and sharing strategies for dealing
 with difficult issues in supervision; considers case studies and explores best practice in
 supervision and the provision of feedback. The forum receives updates on developments to
 student support and wellbeing services available to PGRs. This support complements that
 available from the University’s Graduate School via their core training and development, and
 newsletters. The University also uses a postgraduate virtual learning environment – Blackboard -
 which is available to all PGRs and supervisors.

 The Unit supports PGRs with career preparation and employability by providing development
 sessions on applying for academic roles; offers mock interviews, and invites PGRs to sit as
 observers on academic interview panels to gain experience of the selection process.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The Unit’s commitment to socially-just education as the unifying theme is fully integrated into the
 way in which its policies and practices around the leadership, coordination and support for
 research are managed. This promotes equality, diversity and inclusion in all that we do. While
 we are committed to inclusion and social justice, we acknowledge, however, that we lack
 diversity as a submission: only 4% identify as BAME; over half are in the 45-54 age group; none
 has a declared disability; our gender balance is 75% female and 25% male; seven women and
 one man hold fractional posts (29%). All those submitted in this UOA hold continuing contracts.

 As is typical for the discipline, we are a female dominated Faculty and that is reflected in our
 UOA submission. We are also aware of our lack of ethnic diversity which, again, reflects sector
 norms. A key priority is to review, in collaboration with HR and Graduate School colleagues, how
 we manage our recruitment process for attracting staff and PGRs, particularly how and where
 we advertise opportunities, to ensure that we reach a more diverse pool and encourage
 applications from under-represented groups. Since the census point, when 100% of the research
 leadership group were female (professoriate and readers), we have appointed two male
 professors and promoted two male readers, which has introduced some gender balance to our
 research leadership group and supports our future vitality and sustainability.

 Recruitment of PGRs aligns with our research themes so that they are supported strongly within
 rich and increasingly diverse communities of practice. The gender and ethnicity balance
 amongst PGRs (67% female and 90% identifying as white) is similar to that for the staff
 submitted. We will be particularly mindful to extend the reach of our GTA programme to attract a
 more diverse pool of applicants, which is important not just to our UOA, but to the pipeline of our
 discipline generally. We will also work with undergraduate students from under-represented
 groups to encourage them to consider research careers and to be the next generation of
 researchers, since we need to invest for the long-term. As part of our commitment to embedding
 EDI principles, we have recently undertaken a rigorous self-assessment for our Athena Swan
 application (to be submitted April 2021). We believe effective action also comes from taking part
 in sector-wide initiatives to address entrenched EDI issues, including recruiting a diverse range
 of people at all career stages, as PGRs and undergraduates.



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 29% of the UOA have part-time contracts. We actively support applications for fractional
 appointments and they are represented at all career stages. While most have been appointed to
 these posts, some have come as a result of requests by colleagues who wish to change their
 work-life balance. This is managed at departmental level and agreed with managers. We also
 accommodate more informal flexibility through workload management to facilitate time for
 research. This flexibility helps us to support a healthy work-life balance, reflecting our
 commitment to support the wellbeing of researchers.

 Given our age profile, we are committed to ensuring appropriate succession planning. The
 Research Strategy Group also supports succession planning for research leadership through
 inclusion, not only of the professors and readers, but also of research fellows, the research
 projects co-ordinator and the research administrator. All staff are encouraged to undertake
 professional development to support their applications for promotion and are given opportunities
 to engage in activities, such as representing the Faculty in University committees, which will
 broaden their experience.

 Our REF output selection process has EDI considerations at its core and followed the
 University’s REF Code of Practice. Led by two professors, all staff with SRR have been involved
 in peer review; this has had many benefits – it introduces staff to each other’s work and helps all
 to understand the REF processes more fully. External review was used for a random selection of
 outputs and where there was no agreement on ranking. Our REF2 broadly reflects the
 demographics in REF1: men’s outputs are slightly over-represented (reflecting senior men who
 have left), but otherwise the contribution of staff with different characteristics is representative
 and reflects their numbers in the submission.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Strategic approach to income generation
 Our income level in the period is broadly similar to that reported in 2014. Relatively recent
 changes in personnel and structures are yet to bear fruit in terms of research funding and we
 recognise the need to introduce a more robust internal review process for grant applications
 within the unit. Now that we have a strong team of professors and readers in place, we will
 identify senior researchers to provide focused mentorship and guidance at the grant-
 development stage, and enhanced feedback on applications, building on the mentorship
 programme identified above.

 The UOA targets a range of funders. We recognise that we are building our funding profile so
 have a range of approaches:

    1.      For those who have an established research profile but no track record, we
            encourage them to start with smaller bids to funders such as the British Academy
    2.      For those with a track record with smaller funding bids, we encourage a step-up up to
            larger bids (£20-50k) with higher cost-recovery rates, largely with research councils
    3.      To develop larger bids, particularly those over £100k, we encourage researchers to
            seek collaborations to make multi-centre bids with colleagues in other HEIs
    4.      Where appropriate to the project, we bid for UK and EU government funds, often with
            partners.
    5.      We also seek to submit bids with practice partners to non-typical funders with respect
            to research and this may include contract research; these are often a result of
            partnership building which is central to our overall ethos.

 We will refine this approach for the new REF cycle, taking a more strategic approach and
 identifying suitable funding streams which will be discussed in the Research Strategy Group.
 There will be an expectation that senior researchers make at least one bid per year and will
 actively seek partners and collaborators to strengthen bids. We will also seek to generate
 interdisciplinary partnerships with colleagues in other UOAs and make pump-priming bids to RIF

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to establish a track record of research. In doing so, we will engage more fully with the UKRI R&D
 roadmap, including the ‘place strategy’, and current government’s levelling-up agenda.

 Staff development for grant bidding has included training and workshops on writing grant
 applications provided by the ISR and the Research Office. It was also important that staff were
 made aware of funding calls and these are now disseminated directly to relevant staff in the unit.
 Strategic management of workloads has made blocks of time available to researchers at all
 career stages to write funding bids while internal funds (RIF and IKEF) have been used to pump-
 prime external grant applications. Plans for funding applications are discussed in PDRs to
 ensure that the proper support is in place to enable researchers to make the most competitive
 bids.

 The Unit’s strategy has been to tap into internal resources through the RIF, which supports
 smaller-scale projects and to pump prime bids for external funding. This acts as a form of staff
 development in confidence-building for bidders in a relatively supportive and nurturing
 environment. During the period, Hallett and Woolhouse received IKEF for research which now
 underpins one of our impact case-studies, and Thomas received 20k to support work which
 underpins her case study. Central to our approach has been peer-support working where
 experienced academics work with less experienced colleagues to provide advice, guidance
 and mentoring during the bid writing process. This approach has seen colleagues who
 have previously received RIF funding make bids to the British Academy, the Spencer
 Foundation, and to the John Templeton Foundation (McAteer, Nicholson, Woolhouse).

 There was a step change mid-REF cycle with the strengthening of the professoriate; this has
 had a positive impact on the number of high-value bids made with other HEIs. An example is
 Robinson’s work on children’s rights and her work on Liverpool as a Child Friendly City.
 Connections made through this project led to a bid with the University of Liverpool to the UKRI
 Adolescence, Mental Health and the Developing Mind funding programme. A further bid was
 made with the Institute of Education, UCL, to the UKRI Outlines scheme on ethnic minority
 children and pandemic-related wellbeing. We will work closely with the University on improving
 bids for external funding in the next REF period, with a view to attracting funds which bring in
 overheads.

 Funders are identified which align with the unit’s distinctive priorities and research trajectory: for
 example, the Spencer Foundation was targeted as it invests particularly in educational research
 that cultivates learning and transforms lives. McAteer’s Newton Fellowship funding reflects the
 close alignment of the Unit’s priority to forge partnerships to leverage more prestigious grants,
 as well as enhancing the internationalisation of our research, including in ODA countries.

 Duckworth’s funding from UCU, the Further Education Trust for Leadership, and the Helena
 Kennedy Foundation has led to research that underpins an impact case study and reflects our
 approach of working with partners to develop projects of mutual interest. Thomas’ funding from
 Health Education England and the Research Council of Norway similarly adds international
 reach to her work on widening participation and student success across disciplines and national
 boundaries. Cheng’s AHRC funding, our first from a research council, for her project ‘Supporting
 Young People to Become International Creative Talents: Educational Enterprise Collaborations
 between Shanghai and Liverpool’, brought researchers, employers, and creative practitioners
 together to establish a new international network and identify best practice to support young
 people to become creative talents.

 Allan’s collaboration with 13 partners (five European, six in Vietnam and two in Laos) on the
 CATALYST project (European Commission) was aimed at developing teaching methodologies in
 south-east Asia and devising a series of modules designed to disseminate good practice in
 HEIs. A further collaboration with researchers from Oslo Met, NIFU and the Danish Centre for
 Social Research is exploring the retention and success of under-represented groups in
 professional-education programmes that specifically prepare students for employment in the
 public sector.

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Post-REF2021, we plan to build on these successes, increasing further the number of bids
 made, the number of larger collaborative bids with other organisations, and those with higher
 cost recovery rates. We will specifically focus on pump priming for ‘proof of concept’ and use the
 ISR facilities as well as our research networks to build research teams ready to align to specific
 funding calls.

 During the REF period, Edge Hill has made a major investment in the construction of a state-of-
 the-art new library (The Catalyst) which provides the resources, tools, and expertise needed to
 support the research and teaching activities of the Education team. The UOA’s research is
 supported by a dedicated librarian and specialised research support for students and staff, which
 includes advice on finding literature, navigating electronic journals and databases, using
 specialist research software, and managing research data. Researchers are well supported by
 subscriptions to digital archives — including collections of newspapers, periodicals,
 parliamentary papers, and specialist research materials. Dedicated research space is available
 for PGRs on the quiet top floor of the library, to complement their desk spaces in the Faculty.

 Our infrastructure is designed to embed research in all areas. Previously, research had been
 carried out largely in a separate department, but professors and readers are now located within
 departments, each of which has a research committee. We are aware that research is more
 developed in some areas than others, so our priority for the next five years is to ensure that
 research develops more evenly across the Faculty; this will be supported with research-active
 heads in each department. We are also building structures to support interdisciplinary research
 by working more closely with colleagues in other faculties to enhance research projects through
 collaboration.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contribution to the research base
 We believe that research should extend beyond academia, and staff work closely with the ISR to
 organise events that engage with academic and non-academic stakeholders, to ensure that
 research benefits a wide range of people. As such, we pursue connections, collaborations and
 networks that enhance our understanding and quality of research in education, look to widen the
 reach of our research outcomes through the creation of knowledge and ensure their relevance
 through impact. To that end, we seek to engage in events that are tied to the main research
 themes of the unit and the strategic priorities of the University. Staff have also contributed to
 ISR’s international blog on Covid-19 from ECRs (Albin-Clark); established researchers
 (McAteer and Farrell), the Unit’s professors (Fulford and Robinson), and visiting professors
 (Bryer).

 Our work with ISR has helped to develop internal and external networks: for example, McAteer
 has initiated the CREATE network which draws in researchers from across the University to
 explore how ‘participatory’ research is enacted in order to capture experiences of the excluded.
 The network has developed engagement with Action for Refugees and RefuAid – a charity that
 supports access to language tuition, education, finance and meaningful employment for those
 experiencing forced migration. This network has built up a repository of resources and has also
 organised study days in collaboration with the external Collaborative Action Research Network
 (CARN), involving internationally recognised keynote speakers. McAteer was the convenor of
 the national CARN conference in 2018 and has been the CARN liaison officer for the Action
 Research Network of the Americas (ARNA).

 ISR also facilitated fruitful collaboration internally with the Department of Sport & Physical
 Activity and externally with Tate Liverpool and with Everton in the Community, leading to the
 Tackling the Blues programme. Funded by the English Premier League, this collaborative project
 is focused on student-led mental health and wellbeing practice for young people. O’Keeffe and
 Smith (UOA24) have led this project, and KE investment from OfS/Research England has
 enabled it to scale up its activities, involving students in the research process. Through the

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reflective use of sport and creative arts, participants have reported improvements in mental
 wellbeing, their quantity and quality of social relationships, and engagement in their academic
 study. The programme’s success was recognised in November 2016 by The Times Higher
 Education awards, receiving the Outstanding Contribution to the Local Community award for, in
 the view of educational and health professionals, the positive contribution that it had made in this
 challenging area. Tackling the Blues has also been featured on BBC Radio 5 Live for World
 Mental Health Day, and in February 2017 was featured on BBC Match of the Day 2 with Everton
 first team player Leighton Baines attending a Tackling the Blues session. Its work has gained
 further significance during lockdown. It is presented as a case study in UOA24.

 Alongside O’Keeffe’s work with Everton and the Tate, we have established other policy-oriented
 partnerships. We have established trusted engagement with stakeholders in lifelong learning
 and HE, with national public-sector organisations such as EFCE, OFFA, OfS, Advance HE, QAA
 (Thomas), and with local authorities such as Liverpool City Council (Robinson), seeking to
 ensure that research projects are informed directly by users and funders. We seek to achieve
 impact for our work through influencing national policy, the enhancement of professional
 practice, and the improvement of our region’s educational attainment and well-being.

 We also seek to shape the field of education more broadly through engagement in learned
 societies, through membership of editorial boards, and keynote speaking engagements. Allan
 edits the online open-access journal Prism: Casting New Light on Learning, Theory and
 Practice. Hallett is joint editor of the British Journal of Special Education. Cheng sits on the
 international advisory boards of Quality in Higher Education and Chinese Education and Society.
 Membership of editorial boards include: Duckworth on Research in Post Compulsory
 Education, PRACTICE: Contemporary Issues in Practice Education, and the international
 advisory board of the Australian Journal of Adult Learning. Fulford on Philosophy and Theory in
 Higher Education and the Journal of Philosophy of Education, and Thomas on the Higher
 Education Quarterly. In addition, Nicholson is associate editor of the British Journal of
 Educational Psychology and a consulting editor of Education Psychology.

 Members of our UOA contribute to a range of national and international organisations. Cheng
 peer reviews for the ESRC’s Global Challenges Research Fund. Duckworth is a trustee of the
 Helena Kennedy Foundation and sits on the board of the Association for Research in Post-
 Compulsory Education. Fulford serves on the Governing Council of the Society for Research in
 Higher Education, is an elected Executive Board member of the Philosophy of Education Society
 of Great Britain and its current Conference Chair. McAteer sits on the International Advisory
 Panel on Social Publishers Foundation. Nicholson is Associate Fellow of the British
 Psychological Society and sits on the committee of the British Psychological Society’s
 Psychology of Education Section.

 Outputs from the Unit contribute not only to the development of the field of educational research,
 but also to pedagogy and professional practice. In the field of research methods, Duckworth’s
 co-authored book, Research Methods for Social Justice and Equity in Education makes a
 significant new contribution to the field of research methods writing and underscores the Unit’s
 commitment to socially-just education research. Fulford’s co-authored monograph, Philosophy
 and Theory in Educational Research: Writing in the Margins is one of the first critical
 volumes from the field of philosophy of education to address philosophical approaches to
 educational research. Her edited volume Philosophy and Community: Theories, Practices and
 Possibilities is the leading work addressing issues of education and social justice in relation to
 public philosophy. Woolhouse and Nicholson’s edited volume, Mentoring in Higher Education,
 makes a significant contribution to thinking about mentoring for social justice.

 Collaboration and contribution to economy and society
 Our goal of international excellence in the field of socially-just education research and
 knowledge exchange is also aligned to the social, cultural, economic, education, employment
 and political agendas across the key institutions regionally. Our deep and strong connections
 with schools and other educational settings allows us to pivot our research to initiatives like the

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Northern Powerhouse, the ‘levelling up’ agenda, and key regional initiatives on health and
 education, whilst retaining our research focus on the most vulnerable, those who lack access to
 support and guidance or who are marginalised/excluded. Latterly, lockdown caused by the
 global pandemic has added an urgency to, but also frustrated to some extent, our initiatives in
 this regard.

 Particular collaborations and partnerships have been forged that align with the Unit’s research
 priorities and themes, and so support and extend the Unit’s reach and impact in society. We
 therefore have ongoing and embryonic work that will form the basis of future impact in these
 areas, specifically:

    •   Thomas has helped shape the UK’s Widening Participation and access strategy as an
        expert member of the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) main panel, and as an
        external reviewer for the Irish Higher Education Authority Access Office, allocating
        funding for widening participation initiatives. She was also a member of the UK Social
        Mobility working group, advising and reporting to the Minister.

    •   Robinson is a founding member of the Human Rights Education for All Alliance and is
        Expert Advisor for UNICEF Finland’s Rights Respecting Schools programme. She is
        working closely with Liverpool City Council, bidding to have Liverpool designated a
        UNICEF Child Friendly City. In 2019 she was invited by the Chairman of the Care of
        Children in Jersey Review Panel to comment on the Draft Law relating to the powers of
        the Children’s Commissioner for Jersey and in 2018 invited to contribute to an all-party
        parliamentary group meeting at the House of Commons focusing on a vision for public
        (including school-based) Legal and Human Rights Education.

    •   Cheng’s project funded by the Humanities and Social Science Youth Foundation of
        China’s Ministry of Education. Collaborating with universities in Beijing, this project is
        investigating the identity transformation and reintegration of Chinese student returnees,
        and seeks to develop a best practice model for reintegration. Cheng’s current work and
        this project will contribute to the economic and social development to both UK and China,
        ensuring that students are more effectively integrated into the UK, facilitating a better
        experience and outcomes; and that they are able to reintegrate into Chinese society on
        their return. This will allow students to be productive and active members of both the
        economy and society, and to use their UK experience and qualifications therein. In
        addition, Cheng won the 2020 Award for Innovative Research in International Education
        for an article which explored and compared how Scottish and Australian universities
        integrated international and intercultural elements into their curriculum to support
        Chinese postgraduate taught students’ study.

    •   Nicholson’s collaboration with Liverpool John Moores University (2018-2020) on
        engaging students for their GCSE examinations, and the role of teacher messages and
        student emotions. This project will develop interventions on improving GCSE outcomes
        in our region. This project has also provided opportunities for Nicholson to develop
        independence and submit an output for REF 2021.

    •   Led by O’Keeffe, we have also established a collaboration with the University of Central
        Florida on the theme of children and disadvantage. This collaboration extends the Unit’s
        work on two of its central research themes: children’s rights and wellbeing (as seen in
        Robinson’s research), and on inclusion, marginalisation and disadvantage (as seen in
        the work of Hallett, Woolhouse and Allan). It is anticipated that this international
        collaboration will generate research and knowledge exchange in the next REF period
        that will have demonstrable output on the educational outcomes of disadvantaged
        children, both in the England’s north west, and in Florida state.

 As part of its commitment to contributing to the knowledge base of educational research, and to
 supporting inclusive approaches in the field, the Unit is also pioneering collaborative research

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with teachers in research schools (a network of schools supported by the Education Endowment
 Foundation to use research evidence to improve teaching and learning). The Unit will extend its
 successful pilot programme of research circles in early years settings, to work with a broader
 range of institutions to build on the success of this model, the Unit is working together with
 schools represented on its Strategic Partnership Board to identify areas for research on which
 the school and the Unit are equal partners in the planning, conduct and publication of the
 research in the area of socially-just education and the improvement of outcomes for children
 from all backgrounds. We have worked to engage teachers through agreeing the themes for our
 annual conferences (ACRE 2017’s theme was ‘Children, Young People, their Care and
 Education: Critical issues in interdisciplinary research and practice’) and we have hosted book
 launches at the conference where we celebrated publication of textbooks aimed at teachers.

 These projects signal our ongoing commitment to work with different partners and agencies for
 the benefit of all in society through socially-just education research that is outward facing and
 that benefits communities, institutions and wider post-pandemic society. They also underpin the
 Unit’s commitment to working with schools to develop their capacity and expertise that will
 directly impact on children and young people’s outcomes, regardless of background. With its
 focus on socially-just education, the Unit’s work is concerned with positive impact beyond the
 University. In building on progress since REF2014, we have strategies in place to sustain our
 vibrant research work and realise our ambitions for 2021 and beyond.




                                                                                            Page 14
