Annex I: Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: Durham University

Unit of assessment: 30, Philosophy

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Philosophy is one of seven departments in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities at Durham
University. Research within the Department integrates scholarship in core areas of our subject
- from metaphysics and philosophy of science to ethics and the history of philosophy - with a
collaborative, interdisciplinary and impact-driven research agenda that is both public-facing
and oriented towards the public good. This ranges from research of practical importance on
climate change, child protection and efficient governance, to scholarship on neglected female
thinkers that broadens our subject’s horizons, to the publicisation for a non-specialist audience
of philosophical research on topics as diverse as causation, panpsychism, travel, sport and
space exploration.

Our Department’s unique combination of strengths and orientations is shared across our 27
Category A staff (24.9 FTE) and post-doctoral researchers and is facilitated by the existing
research structures operative at both Departmental, Faculty and University-wide levels. Staff
are members of at least one ‘research cluster’; groupings that provide structure and unity to
our research and a focus for research events, collaboration and grant applications. We engage
with University research centres and external collaborators, and build strong connections with
researchers from other disciplines from this foundation.

Researchers within the History of Philosophy cluster are engaged in scholarly activities at
the forefront of the development and reform of our subject. This includes the feminist project of
widening and re-reading the canon (Dunham, Mac Cumhaill, Saunders, Thomas, Uckelman),
the translation of key works (Dunham, Saunders), the organisation of major societies and
journals (Dunham, Mac Cumhaill, Saunders, Thomas, Uckelman), and the promotion of the
history of philosophy through international conferences and public engagement. Mac Cumhaill
and Thomas have both received major grants from the AHRC for history of philosophy
projects, both of which stress the role of women in early to mid-twentieth century philosophy. In
2020, Thomas won a Philip Leverhulme Prize for her work on the history of metaphysical
thinking about time from the seventeenth to the twentieth century. Members also collaborate
with colleagues in other departments through the Institute of Medieval and Early Modern
Studies, and the Durham Centre for Ancient and Medieval Philosophy.

Researchers within the Science, Medicine and Society (SMS) cluster illustrate how state-of-
the-art work in the philosophy of science can impact positively on public and social policy, and
on the practice and interpretation of science itself. The cluster has traditionally been a
collaboration between historians and philosophers. Its senior members lead two
interdisciplinary research centres within the University – the Centre for Humanities Engaging
Science and Society (Cartwright, Parker, Reiss), and the Centre for the History of Medicine
and Disease (Maehle). With the University’s Institute of Advanced Study interdisciplinary
projects have been developed with physicists and historians of science, as part of the 2013-16
Durham Emergence Project (Hendry) and the 2014-18 AHRC-Funded Contemporary Scientific

                                                                                                    1
Realism Project (Vickers). Recent appointments have expanded the cluster’s focus to include
collaboration with a wider array of human and social sciences (Goff, Miller, Zahle) and broader
engagement with contemporary social issues such as epistemic injustice and implicit bias
(Puddifoot).

The Mind, Language and Metaphysics (MLM) research cluster is a world-leading centre for
research in metaphysics and the philosophies of mind and language. Cluster members share
core interests in the metaphysics of powers and the metaphysics of science; their work in
these areas sets the research agenda for philosophers worldwide. They collaborate through
regular workshops, reading groups and through provision of feedback on draft papers and
grant proposals. Researchers in the metaphysics of powers have been particularly successful
in grant capture including Marmodoro’s Leverhulme-funded project on the mereology of
powers, Mumford’s Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship on absences, nothings, lacks and
limits, and Tugby’s development of a Platonist powers ontology, supported by a Mind
Association Fellowship. Many cluster members also share a common interest in the
metaphysics of science including the metaphysics of space and time (Dunham, Mac Cumhaill,
Marmodoro, Thomas), mental causation (Cartwright, Gibb, Heil, Mumford), natural laws and
the unity of science (Cartwright, Hendry, Marmodoro, Mumford, Tugby) as well as the ontology
of quantum mechanics (Vickers).

Researchers within the Aesthetics, Ethics and Politics (AEP) cluster work across the full
breadth of the subject in terms of both content and methodology; from analytical metaethics to
Buddhist philosophy, phenomenology, and contemporary applied ethics. Shared research
interests centre on abstract issues in value theory (Cowie, Faraci, Hanson, James, Smith).
This resulted in a 2018-19 seminar external-speaker series on ‘normativity’ funded by the
fellowship awarded to a COFUND Junior Research Fellow (Hughes, mentored by Cowie).
Public-facing projects have a clear interdisciplinary dimension including work on the aesthetics
of improvisation in musical performance (Hamilton), the ethics of business and donation
(Faraci), environmental policy (Cowie, James) and media ethics (Saunders). Members of the
cluster have also worked closely with colleagues across the University through the Centre for
the Ethics of Cultural Heritage, which was founded and directed by Scarre and Pantazatos.

Research management

The Board of Studies in Philosophy includes all teaching and research staff and is chaired by
the Head of Department. It brings together work by sub-committees for discussion and debate
within the Department. The Research Committee, of which all academic and research staff are
members, is a sub-committee of the Board of Studies: it develops research and impact
strategy, allocates research funds and plans Department-wide research events. The Director of
Research, who liaises with a Senior Research Administrator in the Faculty, chairs the
committee. The Director of Research provides leadership and encouragement on research and
publication plans to all staff. They are supported by the Impact Officer, working with a Senior
Impact and Engagement Manager at Faculty level, who provides guidance and support on all
aspects of external engagement. The Ethics Officer offers advice and assistance to staff
whose research needs ethical approval, which is overseen by the Research Committee. The
Director of Postgraduate Research leads the admission, progress and career development of



                                                                                                   2
research students. Each named officer is a member of a corresponding Faculty committee,
encouraging sharing of best practice between departments.

Strategic Aims since REF 2014 and Beyond

For REF 2014 the Department identified three aims:

   1. Deepen current areas of strength, forming concentrations of expertise;
   2. Further develop our collaborations with researchers, policy makers and practitioners in
      other disciplines and beyond academia;
   3. Use external funding, University centres and institutes to support innovative research.

The Department has met these aims in the following ways:

   1. The Department has experienced significant staff changes and substantial growth in
      student numbers, with corresponding increase in staff numbers. We have responded by
      taking the opportunity to review and reconfigure our research clusters, with the help of
      a post-REF research review in 2015 and the University’s annual planning process. Staff
      working in value theory have been brought together in the Aesthetics, Ethics and
      Politics research cluster, which has been augmented by four new appointments (Cowie,
      Faraci, Hanson, Saunders) in order to generate a critical mass of researchers in this
      area. The History of Philosophy cluster has grown significantly, with five new
      appointments (Dunham, Marmodoro, Saunders, Thomas, Uckelman) concentrating
      expertise and increasing our capacity for collaboration both internally and across the
      University. The Science, Medicine and Society research cluster has been created with
      a view to interdisciplinary and impact-oriented research. It has recently been
      supplemented by three new appointments in social epistemology and the philosophy of
      social science (Miller, Puddifoot, Zahle). The Metaphysics, Language and Mind cluster,
      a long-standing area of strength for the Department, has been further strengthened
      through recent appointments at both senior and junior levels (Goff, Heil, Marmodoro,
      Miller, Mumford, Thomas).

   2. The Department has prioritised interdisciplinarity and impact plans in both
      Departmental organisation and staff recruitment since 2014. The result is a proliferation
      of new collaborative and impact-based activities across research clusters. The
      Knowledge for Use project, funded by a EUR2,092,125 grant, has brought engagement
      with policy makers in defence, governance, child protection, medicine and climate and
      environment, and generated impact across these areas. The Contemporary Scientific
      Realism Project brought together philosophers, historians and scientists; an OUP
      volume including works by academics from all three disciplines, edited by Vickers, is
      forthcoming in 2021. Recent appointments in ethics and the history of philosophy bring
      significant public-facing dimensions to their research and collaborate closely with
      colleagues in other fields through new and existing Faculty centres.

   3. Our external funding has more than doubled while our staff numbers have increased by
      just over 32%. This represents significant growth in our external funding per staff
      member. Our engagement in interdisciplinary University research centres and institutes

                                                                                                  3
        has also increased. Members of the Department have been active either in leading or
        contributing to the Centre for Humanities Engaging Science and Society (Cartwright,
        Parker, Reiss), the Centre for the History of Medicine and Disease (Maehle), the
        Durham Centre for Ancient and Medieval Philosophy (Marmodoro, Uckelman) and the
        Institute of Advanced Study (Hendry). These are mutually supporting. Centres and
        institutes encourage collaborative, interdisciplinary research that facilitates successful
        external funding applications. These in turn enrich the research environments of the
        centres, the institutes and the Department itself.

The following table summarises key indicators of progress:

                                  REF 2014                         REF 2021
 Staff submitted (FTE)            18.85                            24.9
 External research funding        GBP1,640,000                     GBP3,560,000
 External research funding        GBP87,000                        GBP143,000
 per FTE
 Doctoral completions (FTE)       24.25                            58


Looking beyond 2021, the Department will both support and develop our existing status as a
leading international centre for the study of philosophy and the history and philosophy of
science and medicine. By developing what is distinctive about our research we are committed
to both state-of-the-art scholarship in core areas of our subject and a collaborative,
interdisciplinary and impact-driven research-agenda that is both public-facing and oriented
towards the public good.

Our strategic priorities will follow and contribute to the University’s Strategic Aim in Research
and Engagement for 2020-27; to produce and disseminate research that has a positive impact
on global, national and regional challenges and which benefits culture, society, health, the
economy and the physical environment. The Department has a particular focus on:

       Environmental philosophy
       Philosophy of health and medicine

These are natural areas for the Department to develop into given our existing research profiles
in the philosophy of social science and medicine (Cartwright, Maehle, Puddifoot) and in
environmental philosophy (Cowie, James).

How the unit has sought to facilitate impact and engagement

The Department has appointed fourteen permanent academic staff during the current REF
cycle. Our search and appointment strategy aims to strengthen and develop areas of existing
research expertise and sustain the Department’s research culture and environment. In
realising both of these aims the commitment to equality and diversity has been central in our
thinking and planning.


                                                                                                     4
Recruitment: Late in the last REF period Cartwright, Parker, Reiss and Wylie joined us
specifically for the impact potential of their research, and to found the Centre for Humanities
Engaging Science and Society, whose aims explicitly involve impact (improving the use of
scientific knowledge in guiding policy). This is now coming to fruition as Cartwright and Reiss
lead two of our three case studies for REF 2021. This emphasis on impact has continued:
Dunham, Mumford, Puddifoot, Saunders and Thomas each joined the Department with
detailed plans for impact activity.

Guidance and support: The Department created the new role of Impact Officer at the beginning
of the current REF cycle. The office holder works within existing Faculty structures, receiving
support and guidance from the Senior Impact and Engagement Manager for the Arts and
Humanities. The Impact Officer raises awareness of impact among staff through workshops in
the Department, Faculty and University. They advise academic staff on how to develop the
impact potential of their research, including identifying pathways to impact; and help staff find
internal and external funding for impact and engagement activities, and assist in applying for
funding, and overseeing and coordinating the work of internally funded Impact Assistants (see
below).

Financial support is available from both Faculty and University at every stage in the
development of impact and engagement activity. The Department has benefited greatly from
the support provided by the Impact Development Fund for the early stages of impact
development. Department members have received recent awards for progressing impact-
oriented research on the engagement between philosophy and sport, collaboration with the
Irish Postal Service and other partners to celebrate the life and philosophy of Iris Murdoch, and
philosophical work with NASA on the search for extra-terrestrial life. Financial enhancement
has also been made at University level. Each of our current impact case studies has received
funding, including the award to Cartwright of GBP15,000 by the Grant Seedcorn Fund for
teaching buyout, research assistance and travel, developing her application to the ERC for
Knowledge for Use, activity which is the subject of the case study she leads. More advanced
impact and engagement activity is awarded through the Research Impact Fund. Within the
Department it has supported Hamilton to develop his project on the aesthetics of improvisation
(GBP6,000), Pantazatos to cover expenses connected with his award of a Parliamentary
Fellowship to engage with the refurbishment of the Houses of Parliament (GBP2,400) and
Reiss to support his project on the use of evidence in the Ministry of Defence (GBP12,000).
Two of these projects have resulted in impact case studies. Further funding is available at
Faculty level for ‘Impact Assistants’. Four of these awards in the current cycle have helped to
bring impact projects to fruition. The impact assistants have helped to form, maintain and
develop impact partnerships; to organise events; and to collect, store and analyse evidence.
These posts give PhD students experience and understanding of impact and engagement and
build capacity and experience within the Department.

Interdisciplinarity

Interdisciplinarity is a key aspect of the Department’s research culture, as it has been in
previous REF cycles. The Department has fostered interdisciplinarity through existing research
structures in the Department, Faculty and University, and through appointments, support and
funding. In addition to the more formal collaborative efforts alluded to below, piecemeal

                                                                                                    5
collaboration with other academics is common. For example, Miller regularly collaborates with
linguists in his work on the metaphysics of language.

Existing Department research structures. The research clusters have been designed and
structured with interdisciplinarity to the fore. The Science, Medicine and Society cluster is
interdisciplinary in both its members – both philosophers and historians – and in the projects
and centres within it. This is most clearly reflected in the Centre for Humanities Engaging
Science and Society, which has interdisciplinary engagement – between philosophy, social
and public policy, medicine, climate science and the social sciences — as its mission
statement. Similarly, the strategic decision taken by the Department to re-orient and strengthen
the History of Philosophy research cluster was taken with a view to facilitating collaboration
with researchers working in the Departments of History, and Classics and Ancient History.

Engagement with University research structures. The University’s research centres and
institutes provide a focus for our engagement with other disciplines. The Department hosts and
provides the leadership of four interdisciplinary centres: the Centre for the Ethics of Cultural
Heritage, the Centre for Humanities Engaging Science and Society, the Centre for the History
of Medicine and Disease, and the Durham Centre for Ancient and Medieval Philosophy. Parker
is co-director of the Institute for Data Science, and Smith serves on the governing board of the
Institute for Medical Humanities. The Department has extensive engagement with the Institute
of Advanced Study (IAS) as a forum for interdisciplinary collaboration. Cartwright, Heil and
Wylie first visited as IAS Fellows before joining the staff at Durham. Hendry has participated
extensively in IAS activities, organising events that have brought together philosophers,
scientists and historians of science. Under the themes of Emergence, Scale and Structure he
hosted four visiting fellows and co-organised eight interdisciplinary workshops involving
researchers from physics, chemistry and crystallography as well as philosophy.

Appointments. Capacity for interdisciplinary research has been a priority in the appointments of
the fourteen permanent academic staff made during the current REF cycle. The Department
has advertised for and appointed staff in areas particularly germane to interdisciplinary work,
including business ethics and the philosophy of the social sciences. Appointments in more
traditional areas of philosophical expertise have included staff with significant research interest
in interdisciplinary areas including media ethics and welfare economics, social psychology, the
psychology of perception and population studies and environmental geography.

Open research environment

The Department is committed to legal and ethical practice in both the development and
dissemination of research. Members of staff applying for research grants or conducting other
research for which ethics approval is required (e.g. involving the collection of personal data)
submit their proposals to the Research Committee for review. The Department Ethics Officer
provides guidance and support during this process. Any cases requiring in-depth review are
brought to the attention of the Board of Studies, so that all members of staff have an
opportunity to voice concerns and make recommendations. Research grants are also subject
to ethical consideration at Faculty level.




                                                                                                      6
With respect to dissemination, the University provides an open access repository (Durham
Research Online): journal publications can be deposited at the time of acceptance and are
made available in line with publisher-specific policies. The Department’s policy is that copies of
all publications should be deposited with Durham Research Online where publishers allow it,
and open access compliance is a condition for them to be considered in progression and
promotion. The Department seeks to go beyond REF compliance, however, since access to
our research is the first step to its having impact. Staff applying for external funding are
encouraged to budget for Gold open access; University funds are also available for this
purpose. Staff frequently publish their research in open access journals and media. The Centre
for Humanities Engaging Science and Society has established a series of working papers,
including key outputs from the Knowledge for Use project, making them available via its
website. Mac Cumhaill and Wiseman’s blog highlighting their work on the ‘Wartime Quartet’
was part of the British Academy’s 2019 Summer Showcase. Vickers has discussed his work on
scientific realism and the history of science in the British Journal for the Philosophy of
Science’s blog ‘Auxiliary Hypotheses’, and most recently (January 2020) on the search for
alien life with The Conversation.

Section 2. People

Recruitment Strategy

The Department has appointed fourteen permanent academic staff during the current REF
cycle. Our search and appointment strategy has been informed by three main aims: to
strengthen and develop research areas with a view to research strengths and
interdisciplinarity, to plan for the Department’s future, and with equality and diversity in mind.

Areas: Recruitment decisions have been taken with a view to developing concentrations of
expertise in research clusters and fostering collaborative and interdisciplinary work with
colleagues. The decision to concentrate expertise in research clusters followed from strategic
decisions identified in our review of clusters early in the REF cycle. Informing our review was
how plausible we judged it to be that we could make excellent appointments in a given area: is
there a strong field of potential applicants that could allow us to develop the cluster as a world-
leading centre for the area of research (e.g. metaphysics)? Potential for interdisciplinary
engagement was also important. This informed the expansion of the History of Philosophy
research cluster where our five new appointments, primarily of early-career researchers, were
made in order to develop collaborations with the Departments of History and Classics and
Ancient History. In the Aesthetics, Ethics and Politics cluster the appointments of four new
early-career staff in 2017 and 2018, all of whom share research interests in metaethics,
reinvigorated the cluster by giving rise to collaboration on research events and the award of a
COFUND Junior Research Fellowship (Hughes). In other clusters, judged already to be strong,
the emphasis was on maintaining areas of existing expertise. Thus seven new appointments
were made at both junior and senior levels across the Mind, Language and Metaphysics
cluster and the Science, Medicine and Society cluster.

Succession Planning: Our general policy is to hire at junior levels. Eleven of our fourteen newly
appointed staff (Cowie, Dunham, Faraci, Goff, Hanson, Miller, Puddifoot, Saunders, Thomas,
Uckelman, Zahle) were appointed at the Assistant Professor level. Where we have identified a

                                                                                                      7
need for research leadership in a particular area, we have made senior appointments. With this
in mind, three staff were recruited as full Professors (Heil, Marmodoro and Mumford).

Equality and Diversity: During this and the previous REF cycle we have sought to create a
scholarly community that is open, representative and diverse. Our proportion of female staff
was around 35% by head count at the beginning of the REF cycle and has inevitably fluctuated
since. That figure is a lower limit for us: we have appointed 6 women and 8 men: at 43% this
will further improve the gender ratio. This has been furthered by our recruitment process –
outlined below – which has a focus on equality and diversity.

Recruitment Process

From 2017, the Department developed a new recruitment process in line with University policy
(see REF5a §3.1.2 & 3.2) designed to help us make excellent appointments. Each new
appointment is justified on its strategic merits a year ahead of the appointment. Teaching,
research and impact strategy, and the likely fields of excellent candidates are considered
together by the whole Department, after which the case is made at Faculty and University
level. Once approval for a particular appointment is secured the Head of Department chairs a
Search Committee who use internal and external expertise to identify likely candidates and
advertise the post widely. A committee of area experts longlists applicants for each post, but
the whole Department participates in the next two stages: shortlisting involves reading the work
of longlisted candidates, and shortlisted candidates (around 4 per post) give research and
teaching presentations. A gender-balanced interview panel makes the final selection from the
shortlist. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) is a consideration throughout the process,
which is overseen by a Departmental EDI champion; longlisting committees include both junior
and senior members with relevant expertise; longlists and shortlists require approval at
University level, along with reports on the search process; training to counter implicit bias is
required for interview panel members.

Staff Development

The University encourages academic and research staff, including those on fixed-term
contracts, to take one term of research leave in seven. While we maintain a research-leave
rota there is flexibility: leave can be saved up in the interests of pursuing larger research
projects, and leave can be brought forward or additional leave granted due to research needs.
Any member of staff on a contract of employment returning from a period of 26 weeks or more
of maternity, adoption or shared parental leave will be eligible to apply for a term of University
research leave. The Department is also flexible with respect to working hours for staff with
caring responsibilities; requests for flexible working are fully accommodated, and a number of
staff benefit from it. Workloads are reduced in circumstances such as bereavement or return to
work after a period of illness. Staff members at all levels receive advice and support from the
Head of Department and Director of Research.

Support is also geared towards promotion. We encourage professional development through
annual reviews for all staff, mentoring by more experienced colleagues, a structured
programme of teaching opportunities, publication guidance, grant application support, and a
lively interdisciplinary environment with many opportunities for collaborative research. The

                                                                                                     8
Department’s Progression and Promotion Committee (DPPC) is gender balanced and includes
the Head of Department, Director of Research and Director of Education. DPPC members and
mentors work with prospective promotion applicants to ensure that applications are as strong
as possible, and detailed feedback on all aspects of research and impact, teaching and
citizenship is provided by the Head of Department.

Early-Career Staff

All academic, research and teaching staff have access to a named mentor: a member of the
Department whose role is to assist the mentee in developing an understanding of the
expectations placed upon them, provide a listening ear and informal guidance, and advise on
career development and progression. Early-career staff in their probation year and during their
second year in post meet with their mentor at least once a term.

Early-career staff complete a one-year probation agreement that includes clear targets and a
timetable for their achievement. Progress is monitored through interim probationary reports,
and additional support offered where needed. Lecturers and teaching fellows on probation are
given a 25% reduction in teaching and administrative load, and complete the Durham
University Learning and Teaching Award, which provides training and opportunities for
reflection on teaching and learning: successful completion earns them Fellowship of the Higher
Education Academy.

Extensive support is offered to staff on fixed-term contracts. They are assigned mentors,
offered support for the development of funding applications, given access to research leave,
offered the opportunity to take on administrative responsibilities for career development
purposes, and generally encouraged to be involved in all parts of Department life. Teaching
loads for fixed-term staff are assigned with the goal of providing sufficient time for research.
The Department endeavours to retain fixed-term staff for as long as possible, but also supports
them in their search for further career opportunities, for example, through mock interviews and
job talks.

In addition to fixed-term academic and teaching posts, the Department provides opportunities
for early-career researchers through research posts which may be institutionally funded (e.g.
Addison-Wheeler, COFUND Junior Research Fellowships), externally-funded (e.g. Fraser’s
British Academy postdoctoral fellowship) or project-related (15 in the current REF period). The
Department makes all these posts genuine career-development opportunities by providing
appropriate mentoring, training, and a supportive research environment. Research plans are
discussed with mentors, who also comment on CVs and job applications. The Department
offers mock interviews, arranged by the Head of Department and Director of Research. We
also involve new staff as co-investigators on grant applications and co-supervisors of PhD
students, giving them valuable experience. University training courses are available on all
aspects of an academic career, including developing and running research projects,
supervising PhD students, and academic writing. Where it is unlikely that a staff member’s
contract can be renewed, this is made clear from the outset and career guidance is provided.
Our general staffing policy therefore exceeds the more specific expectations of the Concordat
to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Fourteen former research fellows have



                                                                                                   9
secured further academic posts at a range of institutions including Durham, Kent, Liverpool,
Nottingham and Helsinki.

Research Students

Our PhD recruitment is consistently high. We currently have 17 research students registered,
and PhD completions have risen from 31 over the REF 2014 cycle to 58 over the current cycle.
We are committed to maintaining this, and to funding our PhD students wherever possible. Our
students are funded through the AHRC-Funded Northern Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership,
University-funded Durham Doctoral Studentships, and studentships supported by research
grants awarded by (for instance) the AHRC, the ERC, the John Templeton Foundation, the
Wellcome Trust and the Wolfson Foundation. For example, the AHRC-funded 2014-18
Contemporary Scientific Realism Project funded one PhD student, who has completed and is
currently employed as a post-doctoral researcher. The Department also offers two fees-only
PhD awards: the Butler and Bretherton scholarships, each awarded every two years on
average. We use our alumni fund to award annual scholarships of GBP1,000 (full-time) and
GBP500 (part-time) to self-financing students entering their second and third years of PhD
study (or part-time equivalent) who have demonstrated good progress.

Research students are fully integrated into our research culture, as fellow researchers, co-
authors and collaborators on current and future grants. Like our staffing policy, our approach to
PhD recruitment and supervision emphasises diversity, equality, mentorship and career
development. Staff are encouraged to seek out promising prospective students for supervision,
especially where such students would contribute to the Department’s goals of increasing
diversity. We are committed to giving all PhD students a comprehensive education that equips
them with the skills needed for a successful academic or professional career. Students have
two supervisors, one of whom may be from another discipline. The nature and distribution of
supervision is tailored to individual students’ needs (e.g. 75/25% or 50/50%). In some cases, a
secondary supervisor provides general guidance on thesis writing and career development. In
others, supervision is split more evenly between supervisors.

From Year 1, each student’s training needs are analysed and addressed through a
comprehensive University-level programme of seminars and workshops. Progress is monitored
throughout by supervisors, and through the Department’s annual research student panel
review, for which students write a piece of work, are interviewed by a staff panel and receive
detailed advice on professional development. PhD students are offered paid undergraduate
tutorial teaching from Year 2, in areas linked to their research and where they seek to develop
teaching expertise. For this, there is support and guidance from module leaders and peer
review from other academic staff, and a University-wide training course organised and run by
the Durham Centre for Academic Development (see REF5a §3.4). They are also encouraged
to take the Durham University Learning and Teaching Award. In Year 3, the teaching portfolio
is expanded to include other modules, plus some lectures and seminars. For administrative
experience, they are offered occasional paid roles, as impact and research assistants, tutors
and website designers. Upon completion and while seeking employment, former students are
offered research associate status, continued access to the Department’s facilities and
membership of its research community, and hourly-paid teaching and other employment
opportunities.

                                                                                                    10
We provide financial, academic and administrative support for students to develop their own
research initiatives. Students are members of one or more research clusters, all of which host
a range of regular events involving students. At Department level, annual PhD workshops in
October give students the opportunity to present their work and receive feedback from
academic staff. In addition, we hold professional development events for postgraduates (e.g.
on publishing, REF, impact), weekly meetings of EIDOS (our postgraduate philosophy society,
which is attended by both staff and students), weekly Departmental research seminars,
occasional lectures, several reading groups, and numerous events at University centres and
institutes. PhD students are encouraged to give papers outside Durham and have a
Departmental travel budget of GBP300 per annum for each student. They organise events in
Durham too, for which they receive Departmental support of at least GBP600 per event.
Recent examples include a graduate conference on metaphysics in May 2019; and ‘Reviving
Instrumentalism in the Philosophy of Science’ in July 2019, supported by the Knowledge for
Use project and the British Society for the Philosophy of Science as well as the Department.
PhD students have access to extensive workspace in the Department and a Faculty
Postgraduate Centre. We also provide opportunities to visit our partner institutions. For
instance the Centre for Humanities Engaging Science and Society has a memorandum of
understanding with the Reilly Centre at Notre Dame allowing for visits in both directions. We
aim to establish postgraduate partnership agreements with European institutions with whom
we have research links. One international institution will be partnered with each research
cluster. This will enable research students affiliated to those clusters to avail themselves of the
opportunities afforded by Erasmus and its successors, including 3-12 month visiting stipendiary
studentships, while also facilitating staff mobility and collaborative research across those
institutions.

Equality and diversity

The Department develops its commitment to equality and diversity through its Diversity and
Inclusion Group (DIG), a working group of staff and students which, on behalf of the Board of
Studies, monitors equality and diversity issues across the Department’s teaching and research,
including its research seminar programme and broader climate in teaching and research. DIG
monitors gender balance across the Department’s seminars, named lectures, workshops and
conferences, conducts periodic climate monitoring, and campaigns on particular issues, such
as improving the accessibility of the Department’s buildings. DIG ensures, for example, that
research seminars are organised and run in line with the British Philosophical Association’s
guidelines on diversity, with an additional focus to ensure that speakers are drawn from people
at different stages of their careers, and from a range of different institutions (not just Russell
Group). DIG is also the guardian of our commitment to the EDI values expressed in the
agreement made in October 2015 when the Department joined the Good Practice Scheme
sponsored by the British Philosophical Association and the Society for Women in Philosophy
UK.

In November 2019 the Department submitted its application for an Athena SWAN Bronze
Award. The application process was a collaborative, Department-wide effort involving all
members of staff. We received our Bronze Award in May 2020.



                                                                                                      11
Recruitment: The Department has been active in deploying recruitment strategies with the aim
of increasing numbers of female and BAME applicants. In 2017-2018, five assistant professor
positions were advertised in the Department as part of a University academic recruitment
campaign. All advertisements specified that job-share options will be considered. Within the
Department, each position was associated with a search panel comprising the interview panel
and a dedicated EDI champion. All search committees met prior to initiating an active search
and all interview panel members had undergone EDI training. EDI champions reported
externally on the search to Human Resources. The Department has committed, as part of its
Athena SWAN application, to continuing to recruit in this way. More generally the Department
expresses its commitment through its pluralistic and open research culture, which engages
with Western and non-Western philosophy, and through its support of relevant research, for
instance on the neglected contributions of women philosophers, especially through the
research interests (outlined below) of members of the history of philosophy research cluster.

Funding: Our success in grant capture is spread evenly among Department members. During
the current REF cycle 18 of 28 principal investigators of funded projects were women. More
generally, the Department has committed, as part of its successful Athena SWAN application,
to continuing to provide support for acquiring research funding and accessing scholarly
infrastructure that speaks to equality and diversity issues. This includes specific commitments
to: increase inclusivity by making the Departmental Library wheelchair accessible, maintain
gender balance in research cluster leadership, and ensure that all staff are aware of the
Department’s commitment to equality and diversity across every aspect of Department life. A
Departmental Self-Assessment Team has been convened under the leadership of Uckelman to
ensure that we meet these goals.

The Department is also committed to supporting the well-being of all of its members by
recognising and working to accommodate individual circumstances, as well as the general
need for an appropriate balance between professional and personal commitments.
Administrative roles are typically accompanied by deputy positions, to provide members of staff
with these important responsibilities default sources of support. The Department also maintains
a strong policy of limiting work emails to working days and working hours.

Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The Department has a strong culture of applying for external funding for research and impact
and for supporting our researchers as they develop their projects and applications from small
grants to larger projects.

Funding and Distribution

The success of the Department’s funding acquisition strategies can be measured through the
growth in its overall research income: GBP3,560,000 research grant expenditure for the
current REF cycle against GBP1,640,000 for the REF2014 cycle, representing significant
growth in research funding per academic FTE (at least GBP143,000 assuming 25FTE)
compared to REF2014 (GBP87,000).




                                                                                                  12
Both the ‘Durham Emergence Project’ and ‘Knowledge for Use’ were large-scale grant
applications based on interdisciplinary work in a University-wide context. The Durham
Emergence Project (PI Hendry, John Templeton Foundation, GBP1,600,000, 2013-16, with
Cartwright and Gibb as participants) was an interdisciplinary project addressing research
questions concerning strong emergence across philosophy of mind, philosophy of science and
condensed matter physics. It funded three post-doctoral research associate (PDRA) positions
and three PhD studentships. A GBP500,000 funding competition supported a further 13
projects involving fellowship positions, teaching buyout, research events and travel. Project
events brought together philosophers and physicists in the context of a weekly reading group
and work-in-progress seminar, two summer schools for PhD students and early-career
researchers, and a final conference. An additional series of workshops examining the
candidate examples of strong emergence were funded by an AHRC Research Network Grant
(PI Gibb, GBP25,000, 2014-15), and integrated with the Institute of Advanced Study, which
adopted the theme of ‘Emergence’ in 2014-15, and hosted Heil and Margaret Morrison as
fellows for a term each.

‘Knowledge for Use [K4U]: Making the Most of Social Science to Build Better Policies’ (2015-
2020, PI Cartwright, ERC Advanced Grant, EUR2,000,000) is a further example of an
interdisciplinary and multi-institutional project weaving together six case studies and two
research streams. It has funded PDRA positions, PhD studentships and impact and
engagement activity across four key policy areas: international development, medicine,
education and child protection. The K4U grant operated through the Centre for the Humanities

                                                                                                13
Engaging Science and Society, led by members of the Science, Medicine and Society
research cluster in the Department.

Smaller interdisciplinary grants with impact-generating potential were awarded for work based
in the Aesthetics, Ethics and Politics research cluster. James used a fellowship on ‘Natural
Environments and Cultural Services’ (AHRC, GBP49,000, 2014) to critically examine attempts
to evaluate natural environments in terms of the ‘cultural services’ they provide to human
society. Conferences and workshops involved environmental scientists and representatives of
local environmental organisations. ‘The Ethics and Aesthetics of Archaeology’ (PI Schellekens,
AHRC, GBP27,000, 2013-15) brought together philosophers, archaeologists and museum and
heritage practitioners to focus on the relation between ethics and aesthetics, and to explore
how it shapes our understanding and practice of archaeological stewardship. Saunders is
currently co-investigator of ‘Defining Freedom of the Press,’ a collaborative interdisciplinary
project involving the Department of Journalism Studies at Sheffield University and the School
of Media and Communication at the University of Leeds (AHRC, GBP400,000, 2018-22). The
project examines how press ethics and regulation interact to affect the practice of journalists in
a number of European countries. Language and Mental Health (PI Hinzen, AHRC,
GBP919,000, 2014-2017) brought together philosophers, linguists, and clinical psychiatrists
based in Durham, Newcastle and London to compare verbal and non-verbal behaviour in
people with schizophrenia and people with aphasia.

Mac Cumhaill’s joint work with Wiseman on the ‘Wartime Quartet’ aims to explore the
philosophical works of Anscombe, Foot, Midgley and Murdoch across ethics, philosophy of
mind and action and philosophy of science, to reanalyse their place in the history of twentieth-
century philosophy, and to bring them to the attention of the wider public. It has been funded
by a series of grants including two from the British Academy (‘In Parenthesis’, Small Research
Grant of GBP9,200, 2016-18; ‘Mapping the Quartet’, Rising Star Engagement Award of
GBP14,600, 2019-20) and one from the British Society for Aesthetics (‘Notes from a Biscuit
Tin’, GBP5,000, 2019-20). To celebrate the quartet’s centenary in 2019 Mac Cumhaill and
Wiseman collaborated with the Royal Institute of Philosophy to organise a reading group and a
commemorative lecture series in London. The latest project (‘PAGE: Perception, Action and
the Genesis of Everyday Ethics’, Wiseman PI, Mac Cumhaill Co-I, 2019-21, GBP440,000)
funds a post-doctoral position in Durham and will involve engagement with school teachers
and students in the UK and Ireland.

Thomas came to Durham in 2016 halfway through a Veni Fellowship funded by the
Netherlands Research Council (NWO), a project that culminated in her 2018 OUP book
Absolute Time: Rifts in Early Modern Metaphysics. She was awarded a British Academy Rising
Star Engagement Award (GBP9,000, 2017-18) to create a scholarly network connecting
historians of philosophy with contemporary metaphysicians of time. This provided a
springboard for her successful application to the AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellows
scheme for a project on the development of metaphysical theories of time from 1878 to 1938
(GBP250,000, 2020-22). Most recently, she was awarded a 2020 Philip Leverhulme Prize
(GBP100,000).

These early career activities are complemented by projects by senior researchers, including
Vickers’ ‘Contemporary Scientific Realism Project’ (AHRC, GBP214,000, 2014-18) and

                                                                                                     14
Marmodoro’s ‘Part-whole relations within the fundamental potentialities in nature’ (Leverhulme
Trust, GBP298,000, 2018-21), which have supported research events, postgraduate funding
and postdoctoral positions. Mumford’s Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship, ‘Absences,
nothings, lacks and limits’ (GBP159,000, 2016-19) will result in a major single-authored
monograph (entitled Nothing Really Matters).

Support, Infrastructure and Facilities

Success in the Department’s research funding has been enabled by generous support and
rigorous review procedures in the Department, Faculty and University. Over the current REF
cycle the Faculty has allocated just over GBP1,100,000 to support both individual research and
strategic research initiatives. Financial and practical support from the University Research and
Innovation Services (RIS), and the Grant Seedcorn Fund, has enabled funding for teaching
buyout, and networking and travel expenses to aid project development.

Financial support: Vickers was awarded Seedcorn funding in 2011, 2013, and 2015, enabling
him to win successive grants in 2012, 2014-18, and 2019-21, each time building directly upon
the success of the previous work. Specifically, a GBP500 Seedcorn award in 2011 helped
Vickers secure a GBP20,000 AHRC Science and Culture Exploratory Award in 2012 to hold
interdisciplinary workshops in Durham and Indianapolis on scientific realism and the history of
science. Thereafter GBP1,782 of Seedcorn funding allowed Vickers to travel back to
Indianapolis in 2013 to work intensively with the prospective international Co-I, Timothy D.
Lyons, on an application for a major AHRC follow-up project. The application was successful
and a 42-month AHRC Research Grant of GBP214,000 started in August 2014, bringing
together philosophers, historians and scientists, and funding a PhD studentship and a PDRA
position, as well as producing a series of journal articles and an edited collection which will be
published by OUP in 2021. Durham again awarded Vickers Seedcorn funding in 2015
amounting to GBP2,320, even while he was in the first half of his 2014-18 project. This was to
travel to Oulu, Finland, with an eye on further grant capture in 2018-19. Although the planned
grant application with Oulu didn’t go ahead, Vickers was nevertheless able to build on his
2014-18 project to secure a GBP176,000 British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship running for
15 months from 2019-21. Once again, the application was especially competitive because of
the way Vickers was able to build upon the previous work, this time to make the case for
writing a monograph on the topic area he had thoroughly explored, in successive stages, since
2011. His most recent work, also funded by his British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship, has
led to engagement with NASA, and examines how far the future prospects of scientific
research can be projected on the basis of past performance.

Practical support: early drafts of proposals are circulated to colleagues within the Department
with relevant experience and expertise for feedback. This ensures that the intellectual core of a
research project is sound, current and well-matched to the prospective funder and the
resources being requested, and that pathways to impact are appropriate and feasible. Peer
review at Faculty level is also required for proposals over GBP30,000, ensuring that only high-
quality applications are submitted to funders. The quality of grant applications is also supported
by the technical and support staff within the Department – and the University more generally –
including those working in estates, IT and particularly through the Durham University Library
and Collections. The Library works closely with the Department to ensure that resources and

                                                                                                     15
services support research themes. The main support for research in Philosophy is the
purchase of books, journals and online databases at the request of subject experts in the
Department. Annual library expenditure for books and journal subscriptions requested by
Philosophy staff rose from GBP35,873 in 2015-2016 to GBP47,500 by 2019-2020. In 2019-20
this covered over 60 journal titles and databases including British Philosophy 1600-1900.
However, this represents only a minimum estimate of the spending, as research in Philosophy
is also assisted by access to journal subscriptions included in centrally-funded multidisciplinary
journal collections (e.g. JSTOR, Sage and Taylor & Francis). The Faculty Librarian, who also
provides research skills training, facilitates access to these resources.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Collaboration

Researchers within the Department are part of collaborative networks with colleagues both
across the UK and internationally. Members of the SMS cluster are involved in a UK-wide
network involving historians and philosophers of science from Durham, Cambridge, Exeter,
Leeds and UCL that organises annual workshops (last held in Durham in 2015). An AHRC-
funded network – organised by Gibb in collaboration with the Institute of Advance Study in
2014-15 – brought together philosophers and scientists on the theme of emergence, including
workshops on the completeness of physics, mental causation, and emergence in physics and
the biological and social sciences. Members of the Department participate in ChiPhi, a network
between historians of philosophy from Durham, Leeds, Newcastle, Sheffield and York.
International collaborations involving the Centre for Humanities Engaging Science and Society
include the John J. Reilly Center at Notre Dame, the Rotman Institute of Philosophy at Western
Ontario, the Center for History of Political Economy at Duke University and the Center for
Values in Medicine, Science and Technology at the University of Texas at Dallas. Marmodoro
is also a founding member of the UK Medieval Philosophy Network.

Contributions to Society

The Department is proud that much of our research is not only public-facing, but oriented
toward the public good. This is perhaps most obviously true of the ongoing research projects
within the Centre for the Humanities Engaging Science and Society (CHESS). The Knowledge
for Use project hosted by CHESS has funded engagement with policy makers, government
departments and practitioners across the fields of international development, medicine,
education and child protection. Outside of CHESS Pantazatos, Scarre and Wylie have
engaged with archaeologists and museums, including the British Museum, to develop ethical
codes around stewardship and cultural heritage. They have also introduced discussions of
ethics into the training of archaeologists and museum professionals. Pantazatos’ work has
focussed on public engagement with key heritage sites. This has led to his involvement in the
management of Durham’s World Heritage Site and the subsequent award of a Parliamentary
Academic Fellowship as part of the refurbishment of the Houses of Parliament.

Beyond this, our early-career researchers have led the way in putting a public face on
traditional philosophical research, making it relevant and accessible. Mac Cumhaill’s British
Academy Rising Star Engagement Award has funded the development of an interactive

                                                                                                     16
website (‘Mapping the Quartet’) providing information about key locations associated with the
work and lives of the neglected wartime quartet of female philosophers: Anscombe, Foot,
Midgley and Murdoch. She has subsequently developed the ‘Philosophy on a Postcard’
programme: a public outreach programme involving collaboration with the Irish Postal Service,
the Centre for Ethics and Public Life at University College Dublin, the Collegium Institute at the
University of Pennsylvania, the Institute of Irish Studies at the University of Liverpool, and the
Iris Murdoch Society. Thomas’ work in both the history of philosophy and metaphysics has
been similarly public-facing. Since 2017, she has discussed her research on national radio
shows including Radio 4’s In Our Time and Start the Week, authored magazine articles,
produced two YouTube videos, and written a number of popular blog posts. Oxford University
Press have organised a series of outreach activities around the publication of her book The
Meaning of Travel, including appearances on radio shows and at literary festivals. A third early-
career researcher, Goff, recently published a popular book, Galileo’s Error which explains and
defends his theory of panpsychism for a public audience (following his scholarly 2017 OUP
monograph Consciousness and Fundamental Reality). Goff has accompanied the latest book
with outreach activity, including an appearance at the How the Light Gets In festival, YouTube
videos and a discussion with Philip Pullman on Radio 4’s Today programme on the relationship
between panpsychism and ‘dust’ (also replayed on YouTube). Vickers was interviewed by the
UK Centre for Astrobiology on the relationship between astrobiology and the philosophy of
science. Goff (in one case in collaboration with Faraci), Thomas and Vickers have also
published magazine articles, for instance in The Conversation and the New Statesman.
Collectively, their nine pieces in The Conversation have garnered over 1.5 million readers.

Looking beyond REF 2021, the Department will prioritise research that promises positive
impact on global, national and regional challenges with a particular focus on health and the
environment. This will build on existing research that has already begun to generate social
benefit. Parker and James have both served on governmental and intergovernmental reviews
on environmental issues: Parker is a contributing author for the 6th Assessment Report of the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change; and James contributed to The Economics of
Biodiversity, an independent global review commissioned by the UK Government. Work with
the mental health charity SANE begun by Ratcliffe and Smith prior to REF 2014 and since
continued by Smith has led to collaborative work with two partners – Durham University’s
Counselling Service, and the Recovery College Collective (ReCoCo) a coalition of medical,
charitable, and cultural organisations including Northumberland and Tyne and Wear NHS
Trusts. Smith worked with these organisations to design seminars aimed at developing a better
understanding of the experience of depression for clinicians and service users.

Contributions to the Research Base

The Department enjoys a reputation as a world-leading centre for philosophical research
thanks in part to a history of productive, influential teachers and researchers – noteworthy
amongst which is E.J. Lowe, whose work bolstered the Department’s reputation in
metaphysics, and whose memory the Department has celebrated since 2015 with a named
annual lecture series, funded by an alumni appeal. The Department is proud to continue in this
vein, as current members contribute to sustaining, renewing and leading the discipline through
their research and contributions to the profession.



                                                                                                     17
In July 2019 the Department hosted the annual conference of the British Society for the
Philosophy of Science and the largest annual gathering of philosophers in the UK, the Joint
Session of the Mind Association and the Aristotelian Society. The Department hosted the
annual meeting of the British Society for the History of Philosophy in 2018 under the theme
‘Habit in the History of Philosophy’. The 2020 conference was planned to take place in Durham
too, under the theme ‘Women in the History of Philosophy’ (this was postponed due to the
COVID-19 pandemic). We play our part more generally in the leadership of learned societies.
Cartwright is a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences and the British Academy. Dunham is
Treasurer and Membership Secretary of the British Society for the History of Philosophy.
Saunders is Treasurer for the Hegel Society. Eddy has served on the executive councils of the
British Society for the History of Science and the Society for the History of Alchemy and
Chemistry. Heil has served on the American Philosophical Association’s Committee on the
Status and Future of the Profession. Parker has served on the Governing Board of the
Philosophy of Science Association and the Committee of the British Society for the Philosophy
of Science, and chaired the Program Committee of the Philosophy of Science Association’s
Biennial Meeting in 2016.

Maehle, Marmodoro and Parker are or have been members of the AHRC Peer Review
College, while members of the Department have also reviewed grant proposals and research
quality for the British Academy, the Economic and Social Research Council, the Royal Society,
and funding bodies and government agencies across Europe and North America. Cartwright
served on sub-panel 32 (Philosophy) for REF 2014. During the current REF cycle, fifteen
members of staff have held editorial positions on thirty-six journals including: the Australasian
Journal of Philosophy, the British Journal for the History of Philosophy, the British Society for
the Philosophy of Science, the Journal of the American Philosophical Association (of which
Heil is founding editor-in-chief), the Philosophical Quarterly, Philosophy of Science and Studies
in History and Philosophy of Science.

Our contributions to the discipline have been recognised through awards and prizes.
Cartwright was the recipient of the 2017 Martin R. Lebowitz Prize for Philosophical
Achievement from the Phi Beta Kappa Society (alongside Elliott Sober), and the 2018 Carl
Gustav Hempel Award from the Philosophy of Science Association for her lifetime achievement
in the discipline. She also gave the Carus Lectures in 2017 and the Lullius Lectures in 2018
(both submitted under REF2). Fraser received the Ernest Nagel Early-Career Scholar Essay
Award for his article ‘Spontaneous Symmetry Breaking in Finite Systems’. Hanson’s article
‘Moral Realism, Aesthetic Realism, and the Asymmetry Claim’ (submitted under REF2) was
selected by the Philosopher’s Annual as one of ‘the ten best articles published in philosophy’ in
2018. Heil was awarded a John Simon Guggenheim Fellowship in 2018-19 and an Australian–
American Fulbright Commission Future Scholar Award for February-June 2020 by the J.
William Fulbright Foundation. Tugby was awarded a Mind Fellowship in 2016. Mac Cumhaill
and Thomas were awarded British Academy Rising Star Awards in 2017 and 2019
respectively, and Thomas a Philip Leverhulme Prize in 2020.




                                                                                                    18
