Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Wolverhampton

 Unit of Assessment: 23 Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a) How Research is structured across the Unit

 Research in UoA23 (the Unit) is led by the Education Observatory (EO), which was established in
 2017 and oversees both research conducted in the Institute of Education (IoE) and research
 relating to learning and teaching undertaken across the university as a whole. The EO represents
 and indicates the value that the University of Wolverhampton (UoW) places on research in
 education. The EO received almost 20% of the £6m Research Investment Fund (RIF) allocated
 by UoW since 2014, which was used to consolidate, extend and expand the research on which
 the RAE2008 and REF2014 submissions in Education were founded. This has enabled the
 University to take a dynamic, responsive approach towards ensuring and supporting the vitality
 and sustainability of education research and its impact. Core to this has been the EO’s success in
 increasing the quality, quantity and impact of education research across the University and via
 strong collaborations within the local region, nationally and internationally. Figure 1 illustrates
 some of our key partners in research and teaching; how we disseminate findings and maximise
 impact; our engagement with other parts of the University on teaching and doctoral supervision;
 and how we support the development of new and experienced researchers involved in education
 research in EO and across the UoW.




 Figure 1. Education Observatory research and partnerships ecosystem

 The EO is located in the Faculty of Education, Health, and Wellbeing (FEHW), which is made up
 of four key Institutes: Education; Sport and Human Science; Health; and Community and Society.
 The co-location of these subject areas in FEHW provides opportunities for interdisciplinary
 collaborations in applying expertise to influence policy and practice in educational organisations,
 local communities, the local region, nationally and internationally. Moreover, as Figure 1 illustrates,
 there are numerous cross-University collaborations that enrich the educational research
 environment. These partnerships support an ongoing dialogue through which new and existing



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers receive support to strengthen their impact for future REF submission. This is outlined
 in more detail at section bi), below.

 The number of core staff submitted to REF in the Unit has increased from 12 staff (9.2 FTE) in
 2014 to 26 staff (24.6 FTE) in 2021. The 2021 submission is drawn from three groups:

        1) Core EO staff, which comprises five Professors, two Readers, and two Senior Research
        Fellows;

        2) Colleagues (eight senior lecturers and one head of department) located in the Institute
        of Education (IoE) who have significant responsibility for research and are also associate
        members of EO.

        3) Researchers from across the University evidence the wide reach of research on
        education that is embedded in subject-based areas. The group consists of five senior
        lecturers, one head of department, FEHW’s Head of Enterprise and Commercial
        Development, and the Professor of Learning and Teaching in the Faculty of Arts, Business
        and Social Sciences (FABSS). The latter is one of three Learning and Teaching research
        Professors recruited as part of the University’s strategic investment in Higher Education
        (HE) who are located across the institution (two have been returned in different UoAs due
        to their specialisms). While not members of the EO per se, these three colleagues are
        instrumental in the internal outreach of the work of the EO across the University. In
        addition, since 2017, a new role profile and promotion route has been established within
        the UoW for Teaching, Scholarship and Professional Practice (TSPP) for colleagues who
        wish to develop a career related to their pedagogic practice. Mentoring for successful
        Advance HE and National Teaching Fellowships are closely linked with this route and EO
        members actively support this process across in collaboration with the University’s College
        of Learning and Teaching (CoLT).

 Research areas

 The EO undertakes theoretical and applied research in all areas of education and allied areas of
 social policy to promote social justice and regional transformation in the West Midlands and
 beyond, focusing on disadvantage and disenfranchisement. Its six Research and Scholarship
 groups, typically with 10-20 members, engage staff from IoE and other parts of FEHW, the wider
 University, and postgraduate students. The EO’s Research and Scholarship (R&S) groups are:

    ●   Children, young people and families;
    ●   Curriculum innovation;
    ●   Education and mental health;
    ●   Equality, diversity and inclusion;
    ●   Higher education: research and policy; and
    ●   Leadership and education reform.

 These groups are co-ordinated by core EO members and provide a vital environment for engaging
 colleagues in research. They serve to build future research capacity by active mentorship and
 coaching of new researchers. The structuring of research around the R&S groups has expanded
 and clarified the foci of education research in the EO and beyond. Research on education is
 encompassing and influencing various subject areas, and our research ecosystem and culture
 allow expertise to be maintained, while also supporting flexibility to expand and develop new areas
 in collaboration with researchers across the University. For example, following from presentations
 from EO Professors at events organised by the Learning and Teaching Research in the Social
 Sciences (LaTriSS) group, new productive opportunities to develop collaborative research have
 been developed with the EO’s R&S Higher education: research and policy group. In 2019, the EO
 and CoLT co-chaired the successful international Higher Education Institutional Research
 (HEIR2019) conference. Session chairs and presenters were drawn from across the UoW’s R&S


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 groups, including new colleagues. Talks from LaTriSS on learning and teaching research were
 very well received by the international community.


 b) Research Objectives: Past and Future and Performance

 i) Evaluating Past Performance

 Our research strategy and the creation of the EO in 2017 brought together and rationalised the
 work of the two previous research centres in education which co-ordinated the REF2014
 submission. In that strategy we focused on four objectives, which are evaluated below:

       Increasing the quantity, quality, and impact of research undertaken

 Both the quantity of research outputs and quality thresholds have been increased by targeting
 publication in journals that have significant reach and influence in academic and professional
 communities, and supporting researchers who have emerged since 2014, such as Williams-Brown
 and Smith. For example, several collective and individual articles written by early and mid-career
 researchers have been successfully published in the Springer Postdigital Science and Education
 journal, with the Editor-in-Chief now an EO visiting professor. Acknowledging the need to maintain
 student numbers and attract staff in a competitive employment market, our strategy has been to
 increase the number of high quality research outputs and improve the impact of research on
 relevant education policy, practice and theory.

 Research undertaken within the unit has attracted over £1m in research funding during the REF
 period (see section 3a below) from a variety of funders, including RCUK/AHRC Connected
 Communities Programme, European Union (Erasmus+ and FP7), United Nations Relief and
 Works Agency for Palestine Refugees (UNRWA), the Department for International Development
 (DfID), the Engineering and Physical Sciences Council (EPSRC), the British Council, the
 Commonwealth of Learning, NHS (England and Scotland), Social Mobility Commission, local
 authorities and health trusts, and groups of schools.

 High levels of research impact have also been maintained in key areas such as adult learning,
 school collaboration, and digital and mobile learning, while innovative research has been
 developed in new areas such as mental health in schools and human-data interaction. The EO’s
 webpages on the University website feature reports and multimedia case studies from current and
 past projects and media engagement. These are key elements of our dissemination and impact
 plan, designed to complement traditional methods such as journal articles, conference
 presentations, debates and seminars. We are continuing this improvement with particular
 emphasis on supporting new and emerging researchers.

       Increasing the number and completion rates of PhD and EdD research students

 Both PhD and EdD numbers have continued to increase and current numbers represent a 72%
 increase since 2014. Completion rates have increased significantly: 29 EdD and six PhD students
 have completed since 2014; the corresponding figures in 2014 were one EdD and five PhDs. The
 EdD awards did not meet the criteria for a research degree and are not included in the REF4a.
 However, we took the strategic decision to increase the research content of the EdD, and the
 award in undergoing revalidation. Post-2021, our plan is to continue to increase the rate of
 completions, particularly among part-time students.

       Strengthening partnerships with researchers involved in pedagogical and curriculum
        research across the University and beyond

 EO’s partnerships on pedagogical and curriculum research have been strengthened across FEHW
 and through work undertaken to support pedagogical and curriculum research in the other
 Faculties and via CoLT. For example, the Postgraduate Certificate in Higher Education and

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professional Practice (PGCHE & PP), which is accredited at D2 of the UK Professional Standards
 Framework, is led by Dr Laurence Eagle (IoE) and co-taught with Professor Lawton, Professor of
 Learning and Teaching in Academic Practice in CoLT. The KUDOS Continuing Professional
 Development (CPD) Scheme, accredited at D1, D2 and D3, is also led by CoLT. Although these
 different lines of provision sit within two different departments, there is a synergy and an efficient
 joined-up approach between the two areas. Members of staff in CoLT teach on the PGCHE & PP
 and members of the IoE are KUDOS mentors/reviewers. The two areas work closely together on
 learning and teaching research, academic practice and staff development. A new PG Diploma in
 Professional Practice in Higher Education was introduced in September 2019, led by IoE and
 supported by EO. Staff participants engage in a work-based project within their own context after
 exploring research methodology and scholarship in learning and teaching. They assess and
 develop their capabilities against national expectations set out in the Academic Professional
 Apprenticeship Standard and engage with colleagues across the sector to inform their professional
 practice. These are all ways in which the links between teaching and research and learning and
 teaching are strengthened, and researchers across the University are supported to engage with
 the EO where their research interests and activities are relevant.

 The impact of the new special interest and subject-specific groups, which have been developed
 involving colleagues outside the EO, is evident in the increased quantity and quality of the
 education research outputs. For instance, in FABSS, two new research groups have formed since
 2014 that focus on learning and teaching: LaTRiSS (see above) and Arts Learning and Teaching
 Research. Both collaborate productively with colleagues in the EO, for example in presenting at,
 and producing research outputs from, the 2019 HEIR conference. A number of initiatives, such as
 the Wolverhampton Learning Region, ResearchSEND and the Midlands HE Policy Network
 (MHEPN), which were established during the period, have extended our reach and influence
 further, building on established links with schools, colleges, other universities and early years
 settings in the region. Evidence of impact and reach in the region and beyond from the MHEPN is
 demonstrated through a series of live debates with regional and national presenters. These were
 at first hosted at UoW in 2019 but spread to be hosted by other regional universities (e.g. Aston
 and Derby). Online debates during lockdown have been very productive and attracted over 30
 stakeholders discussing issues such as diversity in HE and (post-) digitalisation. Post-2021, we
 will maintain and extend these partnerships in our areas of expertise.

       Interdisciplinary research

 Interdisciplinary research, particularly in relation to social justice and inclusion in education,
 wellbeing and social welfare, was identified as an emerging developmental area in 2014. The EO
 maintains and continues to develop a thriving, vibrant, and sustainable education community
 involving postgraduate students, colleagues in UoW, and other universities, organisations and
 networks. Many regularly present or chair sessions at conferences, seminars and workshops,
 such as the HEIR conference in 2019 or EO’s annual educational research conferences.

 A range of interdisciplinary research projects have been undertaken with FEHW since 2014, such
 as research evaluating provision for vulnerable families in local authorities in Birmingham,
 Liverpool, and North Yorkshire, and research evaluating the Headstart programme in
 Wolverhampton, which is designed to improve resilience and mental health in schools. All these
 projects involved cross-Faculty collaboration led by researchers from the EO. One example is a
 programme of interdisciplinary research on adult community learning and mental health and
 wellbeing led by Lewis, working with colleagues at UoW and five other universities as well as the
 third sector, which is informing the development of the interdisciplinary research and scholarship
 group on education and mental health (See also section 1d, below).

 ii) Establishing the EO’s reputation for research excellence

 Our research strategy is driven by an ambition to extend our reputation on high quality and
 innovative research and to establish the EO as a centre of world-leading education research,
 which has impact and influence regionally, nationally and internationally. Our key strategic aims

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 post-REF2021 are maintaining and improving the quality of research outputs, increasing research
 income generation, supporting early career researchers to develop and maximising the impact of
 the research we undertake. In line with the University’s research strategy, we will focus on projects
 that address societal challenges, for example through Lalli’s work on food and education, or
 Traxler’s work on digital and mobile learning in conflict zones. The strategic priority of developing
 research-inspired learning will be addressed via a hub-and-spoke model that links the EO with
 learning and teaching staff in all faculties and institutes.


 c) Impact from the research and the link to Impact Case Studies

 i) Impact Areas

 The EO’s impact strategy centres on its work with a wide variety of stakeholders: schools, colleges,
 universities, and early years settings, as well as training providers and third sector organisations.
 Examples include influencing practice in schools through our research into the pupil premium in
 2020; influencing regional debate through the MHEPN debates (see 1bi), above); co-hosting a
 conference on combatting gang crime in 2019; and changing practice in local government through
 seminars on evaluation and impact (also in 2019).

 Four main areas of impact can be summarised with reference to the three impact case studies we
 are submitting:

       Public or political debate has been shaped and informed by research, including activity that
        has challenged established norms, modes of thought or practices

 Our research has identified flaws in policy, practice and paradigms in areas such as mobile and
 digital learning, which have led to changes in how they are used in contexts of local and
 international disadvantage and have informed UNESCO’s digital policy and guidelines. The
 implementation of information derived from research findings into school collaboration and support
 has led to changes in how all 12 local authorities and schools work together on school
 improvement in North-East England.

 Findings from our research into school strategies for disadvantaged and pupil premium students
 in secondary schools and special educational needs and disability provision has strongly
 influenced debate, policy and practice in these areas.

       Enhanced cultural understanding of issues and phenomena; shaping and informing public
        attitudes and values

 Debates and discussions based on our research have enhanced cultural understanding of issues
 and phenomena in areas such as digital/social mobilities, post-digital and futures research,
 widening participation in higher education though live debates in the English Midlands and
 interdisciplinary research in Germany; school leadership; and early childhood education, for
 example in Hartlepool and Liverpool.

       Educational or pedagogical practices and methods have changed in higher education

 The primary area in which our research has had a positive impact on pedagogical practices and
 methods is in Higher Education, notably in a consortium of universities in Palestine. This has
 involved modernising teaching methods, building research capacity and integrating research into
 teaching.

       Research is used to change current processes or services and identify new services to be
        provided



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Findings from our research have been used to improve local authorities’ service provision in areas
 such as school improvement and support for vulnerable and disadvantaged families. For instance,
 in one socially and economically deprived area, we have created improved programme provision
 through collaborative working with 119 professionals. Furthermore, our work has positively
 impacted support for speech language and communication in the settings delivering early years
 education. To achieve this, we have shared our research findings with key stakeholders, such as
 universities in the UK and internationally; schools nationally and regionally; local authorities;
 voluntary organisations; practitioners in HE, schools, early years, and social services; and children
 and young people.

 ii) Significance and Reach

 In terms of significance and reach, we are pleased to see that a mutually iterative relationship has
 developed across our practical and academic work in both international and local areas. Ongoing
 collaboration with local authorities, schools, early years’ providers and influential voluntary
 organisations regionally and nationally has also been significant in shaping services, debate and
 provision, while also extending our reach across education sectors and locations. For example,
 we have recently been commissioned to offer policy advice on reducing educational disadvantage
 to the Social Mobility Commission.

 Impact arising from areas such as learning regions (Wolverhampton became a member of
 UNESCO Learning Cities in 2018), post-digital learning and overcoming disadvantage will
 continue into the future, for example through our policy advisory work with the Social Mobility
 Commission which began in November 2020. We approach our impact through planned
 engagement and the co-production of knowledge with key stakeholders including research users,
 for example Select Committees, and other beneficiaries, such as digital users. This allows us to
 support significance and reach because those who benefit most are already involved and can
 contribute directly to the evaluation of their impact.


 d) Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 Further to the discussion of Interdisciplinary Research at Section 1b) above, the research and
 scholarship groups that meet regularly around all campuses or online are also a key part of our
 collaborative research approach. To ensure an open and inclusive environment that supports
 interdisciplinary research and builds a vibrant research community, work is underway to provide
 cross-linkages via webpages to all research and scholarship groups. All of these groups contain
 PGR students, members from other areas in FEHW and other parts of the University. We are also
 actively developing collaborations with other research centres beyond education, for example
 working in collaboration with the University’s Institute for Community Research and Development
 on the evaluation of the West Midlands Violence Reduction Unit, or the Centre for International
 Development and Training on school survival research in Zimbabwe.

 In relation to PGR, the development and high completion rates of the EdD since 2014 have
 strengthened the relationship between PGR and professional practice and increased research and
 supervisory capacity in IoE. Supervisory capacity is drawn from across IoE and FEHW and EO
 staff contribute to doctoral teaching and supervision in postgraduate degree projects in multi-
 disciplinary areas such as psychology and health.


 e) Progress towards an Open Research Environment

 Our approach to creating an open research environment in the EO is founded on the collaborative
 and participatory approach we take to research. We focus on mentoring inexperienced colleagues
 on research in real time and working with participants, rather than collecting data on them. Much
 of the data we collect is qualitative and relates to potentially vulnerable research participants
 (children, young people and disadvantaged groups), and due to its often personal nature, we

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cannot share such data openly. Despite this, to ensure that our data and research informs positive
 change, we put considerable effort into sharing findings in ways that are aligned with, and go
 beyond, the scope of the UoW’s open access policy as part of our commitment to vitality and
 sustainability. Thus, in addition to placing research outputs in the UoW’s open access repository,
 14 research reports are openly accessible on our website, alongside summaries, multimedia case
 studies and films from five research projects, and blogs available in a range of formats through
 our website. To ensure further that our research informs practice and appeals to practitioners as
 well as practitioner audiences, we will continue to ensure robust ways in which educational
 research outputs are available.


 f) Supporting a Culture of Research Integrity

 We support a culture of research integrity in line with the UoW’s policies and strategies, in
 particular the research strategy, ethics policy and the code of practice. Our approach to developing
 and supporting a culture of research integrity in EO builds on the collaborative, ethical approach
 to research already outlined. Early career researchers (ECRs) work closely with more experienced
 researchers, who train them by involving them in externally funded research projects in areas such
 as data collection and analysis as well as in drafting new funding applications and promoting and
 supporting fellowships. This allows all researchers to work together to develop and maintain
 research skills and ensures that they understand and work responsibly within the UoW’s protocols
 for research ethics and integrity. All educational research needs to obtain ethical approval and the
 EO works closely with the IoE, FEHW and UoW’s Ethics Committee certifying that all our research
 is conducted to appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks. Funded research is also
 quality assured at monthly EO meetings to ensure that milestones are being met and that risks,
 including those relating to ethical issues, are addressed and managed. PGR students’ research
 are subject to the same procedures and their progress is monitored at regular Faculty student
 boards and, where necessary, at EO meetings.

 2. People


 a) Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 i) Staff Development

 Our objective has focused on maintaining a supportive environment for all our staff and students.
 Our inclusive and collaborative approach towards staff development is central to the EO’s
 research strategy and environment. We encourage collaborations amongst researchers,
 practitioners, policy-makers and other local, regional and national stakeholders. Supported by our
 administrative staff, we organise sandpits and workshops regularly to develop research concepts
 and new collaborations, for example in relation to our work on data and disadvantage (see below).
 Our objective to maintain and further develop a strong and dynamic research community of staff
 and students both in the EO and across the University is also outward-facing. It extends into the
 wider regional and international communities we work with to provide our staff and students with
 exciting development opportunities. As such, it closely articulates with the UoW Research
 Strategy’s focus on “Place”, reflecting economic, social and technological development, as
 exemplified by the annual Black Country Educational Insight reports produced collaboratively by
 new and experienced researchers.

 Progress against targets is actioned and monitored by the Researcher Development Concordat
 Working Group, a sub-committee of the University Research Committee, which is chaired by the
 Dean of Research and includes representatives from Faculties and UoW’s Research Institutes (a
 balance of early-, mid-career and senior research staff), HR and careers services. In following the
 principles of the Researcher Development Concordat in the EO’s research staffing strategy, the
 following have been achieved:


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       The EO was established in 2017 with RIF funding which allowed strategic research
       appointments to be made (Jopling as Founding Chair; Riordan as Senior Research Fellow
       alongside Johnson and Welham offering funding and administrative support) to consolidate
       and expand existing research expertise. This constituted Professors (Lavender, Traxler,
       Tuckett), Readers (Bartram, Williams-Brown, Tsouroufli until 2019), and a Research
       Fellow (Lewis), who as founding members have supported the development of the EO. For
       example, EO has revitalised the research and scholarship groups and engaged new
       (Kingdon, Lalli, Scott, Smith, Wright) and more experienced researchers (Bennett, Royle,
       Thompson) in research activity and dissemination. The recruitment of Hayes to EO as
       Professor of Higher Education Policy in 2019 was also crucial in expanding capacity in key
       areas such as policy analysis and post-digitalisation and coordinating the work of learning
       and teaching researchers across the University (Apperley, Collings, Halls, Housee, Prior,
       Pryke, West).

       Further to this, the three research Professors for Learning and Teaching (Bond, Karodia,
       Prior) actively collaborate with the EO in order to support research into learning, teaching,
       pedagogy and curriculum. Members of EO are invited by the Doctoral College to give talks
       to research students and staff, e.g. symposia on issues such as “Conducting research to
       influence policy”, led by Tuckett and Hayes with colleagues on 29 April 2020, and “Literacy
       at the crossroads?”, led by Tuckett and Traxler on 09 December 2020, both hosted online
       due to the Covid-19 pandemic. EO members also give talks to other research groups (e.g.
       LaTRiSS) or run workshops on subjects such as academic writing and getting published,
       which include opportunities for mentoring and peer review.

       Since 2006, UoW has run an Early Researcher Award Scheme (ERAS), which annually
       awards ten grants of up to £5,000 alongside a tailored mentoring and action learning
       programme to facilitate the research career development of ECRs. During this REF period,
       Williams-Brown was awarded funding from this scheme, following which she progressed
       from Lecturer to Reader in Education and senior member of EO. Dr Marion West, a senior
       lecturer in FABSS, who recently completed her EdD in FEHW has successfully been
       awarded ERAS funding in 2020, mentored by Hayes, as was Lalli, mentored by Bartram.

       The UoW’s annual Experienced Researchers’ Development Programme offers
       researchers the opportunities to build on and enhance their research profile and develop
       their research leadership skills. The development programme has three areas of focus,
       namely to develop: researchers’ skills as research degree supervisors, examiners and
       chairs; research impact and outreach, influencing policy, working with the media and using
       social media; and applications for research leadership (Readership and Professorial
       appointments). EO members have been mentored and supported in all of these areas. In
       addition, the University has an online resource centre for researchers that provides
       information on developing research proposals, engaging stakeholders and managing
       research funding. Two EO members (Williams-Brown, Lewis) have benefitted from this
       initiative, mentored by more senior colleagues in EO.

       Regional and international staff development opportunities are continually generated
       through diverse EO research projects and collaborations. For example, as new contracts
       are won, invitations to collaborate are extended to ECRs (Traxler’s DFID project enabled
       Scott and Smith to work with Traxler and Hayes). Commissioned research for the Social
       Mobility Commission (secured by Riordan, Johnson and Jopling) has enabled other
       researchers such as Thompson and Lalli to contribute. Traxler’s British Council Digital
       Education research in Africa and Hayes’ EPSRC Human Data Interaction (HDI) ‘Digital
       Skills, Data and Disadvantage’ project in the local region have enabled Johnson to develop
       his experience.

       Dialogue and live critical debate are key values that EO has embraced as staff
       development opportunities. The collaborative MHEPN debates launched by Jopling and
       Hayes (UoW), Westwood (Manchester) and Hayes (Derby) in 2019 provide platforms for

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        newer researchers to be supported to speak to a live public audience (see section 1b)
        above).

 ii) Staffing and EO Support

 The EO coordinates educational research for staff across different areas of the University, and its
 support and administration is managed by monthly operational meetings involving all core
 members and relevant members from IoE, FEHW and wider. Its working is further supplemented
 by sub-groups delivering on research projects, interventions, or funding. The EO supports
 emerging and experienced colleagues in IoE to attend research conferences and professional
 development events. Most colleagues who attend conferences present a paper, which they
 translate into a journal article or book chapter subsequently, but we have also supported
 colleagues to attend their first research conference to demystify the process and encourage them
 to participate in future events. Since 2014, EO staff have been funded to present at a range of
 national and international conferences, including but not limited to: British Educational Research
 Association (BERA), British Education Studies Association (BESA), European Educational
 Research Association (EERA), European Early Childhood Education Research Association
 (EECERA), International Health Humanities Network (IHHN), International Professional
 Development Association (IPDA), and American Educational Research Association (AERA).

 The EO organises a range of internal research development events, such as monthly research
 seminars, an annual research conference, and termly research and scholarship group meetings.
 At all of these events, a multidisciplinary audience of colleagues from the EO, IoE, FEHW and
 other parts of UoW present work and new research ideas with academics, practitioners and other
 professionals. The first EO-led annual research conference was held on 21 June 2018, where 16
 staff and students from IoE presented their work, alongside workshops on areas such as writing
 for publication and research funding. A larger number also presented in 2019 and in 2020, when
 the conference was held online. IoE staff present at the UoW annual research conferences. Invited
 speakers at the research conference and research seminars have included Professor Lorna Unwin
 (UCL Institute of Education), Professor Daniel Muijs (Head of Research, Ofsted), Professor Andy
 Westwood (University of Manchester), Professor Gary Beauchamp (Cardiff Metropolitan
 University), and Professor Pete Boyd (University of Cumbria). In addition, the EO organises writing
 mentors, scholarship writing days, is co-ordinating a research methods and ethics learning
 package for FEHW and leads on linking research with the undergraduate and postgraduate
 curricula. As already indicated, members of EO also give talks and provide training to research
 students and staff as part of the Doctoral College events for researcher development.


 b) Research Students

 The EO currently has 28 PhD students and 42 Professional Doctorate (EdD) students at thesis
 stage and supports learning and teaching research students in all of the University’s Faculties. All
 PGR students, along with staff from across the University, are invited to the EO’s monthly research
 development seminars, based around the EdD programme. In 2020, the seminars focused on
 issues such as research ethics, writing at doctoral level, and presenting data. PGR students are
 also supported to present at the UoW’s Annual Research Conference held in June each year; 30
 PGR students and staff members presented in 2020. PGR students are actively encouraged to
 engage with the University’s Doctoral College. This provides a comprehensive Postgraduate
 Researchers’ Development Programme, working in collaboration with other University services,
 including Careers and Employability, Funding and Impact Units, Learning Information Services
 (both of which have dedicated PGR Advisors) and the Students Union to enhance the
 postgraduate experience and encourage a vibrant research student community at the University.

 All PGRs are supervised by a team of researchers who are chosen for their supervisory expertise
 and research skills in order to optimise support for PGR. Mandatory training is required to act as
 a research supervisor, as is regular CPD via the Doctoral College’s Research Supervisors'
 Development Programme. In addition, supervisory teams are supported by the Faculty’s PGR

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 skills development tutor who develops an annual programme of subject-based research training
 together with research centre staff. During this REF period, the EO has had one AHRC-funded
 PhD studentship (completed in 2017), one internally-funded Athena SWAN PhD studentship
 (ongoing), alongside four RIF-funded PhD studentships (from 2018). The majority of our PGRs
 are part-time students on the EdD programme, and future plans include recruitment of full-time
 PhDs aligned to and funded from external projects, where applicable.

 PGR progress is monitored via an annual progress review (APR), where all students present an
 aspect of their work to independent assessors, who also discuss the individual researcher
 development plan with the PGR. The monthly EO meetings provide a platform to share ongoing
 research. Regular monitoring and oversight of PGR matters are undertaken by FEHW’s research
 student board. PGR students have also formed their own support groups, often as part of EdD
 cohorts, which have contributed to peer support and their success. Monthly workshops, linked to
 EdD teaching sessions, are open to all PGR students and cover issues such as using secondary
 data and engaging research participants. They are designed to complement the extensive training
 and support available from the Doctoral College. Overall feedback from students about the support
 offered to them throughout their studies is consistently very positive. In the PRES2019 survey,
 nationally EO was fourth out of 34 overall in Education, fourth out of 32 for research culture, and
 fifth out of 33 for research skills.

 c) Equality and Diversity

 We are committed to the advancement of equality and the elimination of unlawful and unfair
 discrimination. We value the benefits of having a diverse student and staff population and regard
 them as integral to the vitality of the Unit. Specific examples of our commitment to equality and
 diversity are:

 ●   We have undertaken five research projects relating to gender and inclusion during the REF
     period, involving eight members of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion research and
     scholarship group. Findings from this work are used to improve our practice and we have
     offered a range of open research conferences and seminars on equality and diversity issues
     in education. These include: Widening Participation: Reflections on Research and Practice
     seminar (2018); Gender and Intersectionality conference (2019); and Literacy at the
     Crossroads panel discussion (2020).

 ●   The University’s and the Faculty’s Gender Action Plan (GEAP) is monitored at both EO and
     Faculty research management meetings to ensure we continue to maintain equitable working
     environments. IoE has been working and it is close to finalising a departmental Athena SWAN
     submission in 2021.

 ●   Our mentoring programme for early and mid-career staff researchers is very established and
     also ensures their inclusion in gender balanced teams on funded research. We promote
     gender-balanced supervisory teams where specialisms permit and ensure that any recruitment
     follows Athena SWAN principles.

 ●   All staff undergo mandatory equality and diversity and unconscious bias training, every two
     years. This is closely monitored and encouraged by HR and line managers.

 ●   All IoE colleagues and all PGR students in IoE are encouraged to join at least one of the EO’s
     research and scholarship groups, which are also open to colleagues in other parts of the
     University. PGR students are represented at FEHW research committees and meetings and
     organise their own support groups (face to face and via social media) and seminars. All raised
     issues relating to support and wellbeing are monitored with students supported to submit
     suggestions and invited to further discussions on finding and implementing the best solutions.
     This resulted in an inclusive research culture, as the results from PRES2019 demonstrate.



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 a) Research Funding and Strategies for Generating Research Income

 Effective use of income, infrastructure and facilities underpin everything we are doing by providing
 the means, space, and resources the EO requires to do its work. This contributes enormously to
 our vitality and the financial, research-related, and impact-related sustainability of all that we do.
 The EO’s external research income has come from a range of sources and income during the
 REF assessment period and amounts to £1,001,701. This was also more than matched by funding
 for research evaluations and commercial research. Funding has been competitively won from
 research funders including European Union (Erasmus+ - three projects), DfID, EPSRC, Social
 Mobility Commission, AHRC, Newton Fund, NHS and local authorities in Wolverhampton,
 Birmingham, Liverpool, Derby and North Yorkshire. This external funding has supported the
 development of researchers and research networks, as well as the conducting of the projects and
 associated dissemination and impact generation activities.

 We are also further developing a programme of research seminars and activities to bring
 researchers and practitioners together. ResearchSEND is an excellent example of this, as it has
 received funding from Department for Education in 2018 to hold a series of conferences aimed at
 promoting dialogue between researchers and SEND practitioners. We envisage potential funding
 streams emerging from such partnerships. Additionally, the EPSRC HDI researchers led two
 cross-sector regional events and participant feedback clearly suggests that these reach activities
 are strengthening dialogue at the important intersection of data privacy and digital inclusion.


 b) Organisational Infrastructure Supporting Research and Impact

 The EO is supported by a dedicated administrator and a bid writer. Alongside this, the EO draws
 on the University’s research central support services. Members take advantage of research
 opportunities highlighted by the University’s Project Support Office and its guidance on bids for
 externally funded research. Examples of success include the METHODS project in Palestinian
 universities and the EPSRC work on human data interaction. Members of the EO are supported
 by the University’s Research Policy Unit with a dedicated Impact Officer, and support with research
 systems, governance and ethics.

 The University’s approach to impact is rooted in its central research strategy and associate
 policies. These enable the operationalisation of impact and give us the means by which to achieve
 it, supported by the University’s research infrastructure. Impact plans are written into all our
 research projects and resources are allocated to ensuring that attendees at seminars and
 conferences, for example, are asked for feedback about the potential impact on them and their
 practice and followed up where possible.

 As the EO brings together the academic community conducting research on education, we have
 also instigated a series of research events and seminars, both face-to-face and online, since 2020,
 designed to disseminate findings from research and prompt discussion to influence education
 practitioners and policymakers. We run monthly seminars aimed at doctoral students, but also
 open to students across the University, which promote interdisciplinary research skills and
 strategies. Further to this, infrastructure, facilities and expertise are utilised in relation to impact
 activities through our Open Research and Impact seminars. Since 2018, we have run a minimum
 of six of these each year, advertising widely, and being open to the public. They have addressed
 issues from adult literacy, violence reduction, and wellbeing in early childhood to overcoming
 disadvantage, e-research and impact evaluation itself.




                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c) Equality and Diversity

 The Unit’s policy and activities for acquiring research funding is aligned to our strong principles on
 gender policies and actions, attracting staff and students from historically excluded backgrounds
 and support for accessing scholarly or operational infrastructure. The latter are outlined in detail
 in section 2c). By working with the Project Support Office, we further ensure the peer-review of
 funding applications is constructive and inclusive.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 a) Arrangements and Support for, and Effectiveness of, Research Collaborations, Networks and
 Partnerships

 Education touches many areas and settings and EO members are involved in multiple external
 networks and collaborations involving schools, colleges, universities and other learning and
 voluntary sector organisations. Examples include multi-academy trusts, schools, the Workers’
 Educational Association (WEA) and local authorities in the region. This contribution to our
 research base, our economy and society is vital to the sustainability of our research and the impact
 that accrues to it. For instance, the highly regarded and successful Learning Region Initiative
 launched in November 2017 is led by EO in partnership with local organisations aimed at framing
 lifelong learning research activity in the City of Wolverhampton and the wider Black Country region.

 In February 2018, a conference chaired by Tuckett and entitled ‘Whatever happened to our vision
 of a learning society?’ examined lifelong learning policy and featured contributions from Lord
 Blunkett and leading researchers and policy makers in the field. EO members also have a long-
 term working relationship with West Midlands CPD leaders and worked with the Centre for the
 Use of Research and Evidence in Education on the CPD Pathway linked to the national standards
 for CPD.


 b) Relationships with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries or Audiences

 Tuckett advised UNESCO on lifelong learning and was President of the International Council for
 Adult Education 2011-2015. He has also been an adviser to the World Economic Forum and El
 Centro de Cooperación Regional para la Educación de Adultos en América Latina y el Caribe
 (CREFAL) and a consultant for the Government Office for Science Foresight. He led the external
 review of the National University of Ireland, Maynooth’s Department of Adult Education in 2017,
 and holds a Benjamin Meaker Visiting Professorship at University of Bristol. With Tuckett as
 Emeritus Professor of Education from 2021, we continue to draw on these links in EO in support
 of our research into post-compulsory education and adult learning.

 Traxler is widely recognised as a pioneer in the use of social and mobile technologies to improve
 educational opportunities and experiences for disadvantaged communities and his five edited
 books aimed at improving professional practice have involved international collaborations and
 have been widely recognised. He was awarded a UNESCO Chair in Education & Technology for
 Social Change in 2019 and gives frequent invited workshops in overseas universities, most
 recently Hong Kong, Palestine, South Africa, Sweden and Saudi Arabia, as well as invited
 keynotes, opinion pieces and panels for international agencies such as UNESCO, UNICEF, and
 United States Agency for International Development (USAID). In the past four years, he has led
 or contributed to a range of international projects including several Newton Fund projects in Kenya,
 Brazil, Kazakhstan, Turkey, and EU projects, both Erasmus and FP7, as well as consultancy for
 UNRWA, British Council and NHS.

 Hayes led a funded workshop to develop research capacity at Kwame Nkrumah University of
 Science and Technology (KNUST) in Kumasi, Ghana (2019). Participant submissions to high
 impact journals led to three members of the EO being invited to teach again in Accra, Ghana in

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 July 2020. A successful bid to the institutional QR GCRF fund has led to funding allocation for a
 networking event to support the career development of female academics in HE. Other members
 of the EO have led EU-funded projects on gender equality and transition into HE with universities
 from Italy, Hungary, Bulgaria, Portugal and Poland (Tsouroufli who was Reader in the EO until
 2019) and an Erasmus+ funded project on leading learning Networks with universities in Belgium,
 Spain, Sweden, Slovenia and the Czech Republic (Devlin). Lewis was co-investigator on a
 RCUK/AHRC funded international consortium programme of research involving multiple academic
 and third sector partners over five years (2013-2018). In 2014, she was appointed WEA
 Ambassador and Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Mental Health, Nottingham.

 EO staff have spoken at conferences and CPD events nationally and internationally and since
 2014 have been involved with organisations including the International College of Advanced
 Education, the Association of Colleges Beacon Awards, the Equality Challenge Unit, the
 Cambridge Primary Review Trust, the Chartered College of Teaching, the Electronic Platform for
 Adult Learning in Europe, International Health Humanities Network, British Sociological
 Association, British Educational Leadership, Management & Administration Society, and
 European Educational Research Association, as well as subject associations. In addition to those
 already referred to, researchers involved in Education have been involved in collaborations with
 universities in Southampton, Durham, Cardiff, Newcastle, Leicester and Berlin since 2014.


 c) Wider Contributions to Economy and Society

 In addition to the impact discussed in our case studies, the EO has had considerable conceptual
 Impact. An overview of ResearchSEND edited by Haywood and Jopling gave opportunities to
 colleagues in EO and beyond to write about SEND and inclusion. Matheson (Reader in EO 2018-
 2020) was editor of a subsection of the Springer Handbook on Promoting Social Justice (2020) to
 which four further members of the EO contributed chapters. Hayes’ monograph published by Brill
 in 2019, The Labour of Words in Higher Education, led to the collaborative Midlands Network
 events, mentioned earlier, plus an invitation to speak about the book at University of Edinburgh
 (May 2019), University of Derby (May 2019 and November 2019) and University of Leeds
 (January, 2020). An official launch of the book sponsored by Brill took place on 07 April 2019 at
 the American Educational Research Association (AERA) conference. Brill issued a contract to
 Hayes for a follow-up book: Postdigital Positionality (forthcoming, 2021). Further impact was
 realised through the actions of both Brill and Springer in providing sponsorship funds to support
 the HEIR Conference 2019.

 EO staff brings together the research education ecosystem and work closely with staff engaged
 in conducting and supporting learning and teaching research across the University, notably the
 research L&T Professors appointed from 2017. One of these (Prior) has contributed an entry for
 publication in the Encyclopaedia of Educational Innovation section, which Hayes, with Professor
 Petar Jandric and Chris Wilson (Aston University) edited as a subsection of the Springer
 Encyclopaedia of Teacher Education, edited by Michael A. Peters. A book edited by Prior, Using
 Art as Research in Learning and Teaching, published by Intellect in 2018, featured a chapter by
 Hayes and Jandric, alongside others written by the University and international colleagues.

 In relation to knowledge transfer, a recent successful bid for £10,000 submitted to the EPSRC HDI
 Network “Data and disadvantage: taking a regional approach towards Human Data Interaction
 (HDI) to inform local and national digital skills policies” has built on established connections with
 regional stakeholders and their existing knowledge exchange network surrounding the Black
 Country Digital Skills Plan. Hayes and Johnson held a regional, cross-sector event in September
 2020 to surface and address the inclusion of measures to support agency, legibility and
 negotiability concerning people’s data in the Black Country initiatives for digital upskilling of
 marginalised citizens. Findings from this cross-sector dialogue led to invitations from Black
 Country Consortium Economic Policy Unit to work collaboratively on knowledge transfer activities
 such as case studies, grant applications and requests from businesses and key stakeholders for
 timely information on digital deprivation and analysis. Wolverhampton City Council sought our

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 input and contributions to a new DigitalWolves website focused on digital skills and inclusion and
 regional communications. A colleague at the local co-operative academy has convened digital
 curriculum leads to work with EO as a result focussed on informing and providing key outputs for
 this very large regional initiative.


 d) Engaging with Diverse Communities and Publics

 Our research activity is informed and conducted with partners outside academia. Mechanisms and
 pathways for engaging research partners and users and achieving these impacts have included:

 ●   Creating and promoting new networks for researchers, practitioners and other education
     stakeholders to come together. Examples include the Midlands Higher Education Policy
     Network, which brings together regional academics and research students in regular debates
     (five held since 2019) of key issues in higher education; and ResearchSEND, which was
     established at UoW in 2017 and hosted by EO. This promotes and supports the integration of
     practice relating to special educational needs and disability (SEND) in all areas of education
     through practitioners and researchers collaborating in research projects, conferences, events,
     and publications. This has led directly to EO undertaking funded research related to SEND
     and literacy, regionally and nationally.

 ●   Regular face to face and (since 2020) online workshops, conferences and seminars on issues
     such as school leadership; reducing gang membership; and evaluating the impact of
     interventions on education topics.

 ●   Collaborative and participatory research with practitioners, professionals, the general public,
     children and young people, such as examples in sections 4b) and c) including for lifelong
     learning with the WEA.


 e) Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 Our research collaborations place the discipline of Education in exciting global and local
 exchanges concerning social mobility, disadvantage, data, mobile learning, postdigital, biodigital
 and futures debates and the effects of Covid-19 on all levels of education and wellbeing. The
 longevity of the EOs work is therefore guaranteed through its interdisciplinarity and cross-sector
 dialogue with stakeholders, research users and support for ECRs. Our seminars, events, debates,
 news stories and blogs are captured on our website to demonstrate our broad and dynamic impact
 environment and inclusivity of researchers at all career stages. In terms of significance, vitality
 and reach, the diverse research in our Unit informs national and international policy agendas, for
 example in relation to lifelong learning and addressing educational disadvantage, and influences
 new practices, pedagogical approaches and design in areas such as mobile learning and (post-)
 digitalisation.

 Staff contribute to teaching, supervision and examining for doctorates in health and sport, chair
 vivas across all disciplines and support teaching and seminars in the Doctoral College, the
 Research Policy Unit and the College of Learning and Teaching (CoLT). EO staff support learning
 and teaching research across the university and IoE is responsible for the PG Cert in Learning
 and Teaching, which is part of the induction of many new staff into the university. Further examples
 of our research projects and programmes that are interdisciplinary in nature include the evaluation
 of Headstart Wolverhampton and research into mental health, wellbeing and vulnerable groups,
 which involves colleagues from other areas of FEHW and external organisations.

 A particular strength of the EO is a focus on collegiality and flexibility to provide rapid input to
 collaborative research projects, or responses to tenders and consultancy. Our local dedicated
 support staff work closely with central professional services to ensure support from concept
 creation to case studies development and further. Our interdisciplinary Education research

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 remains dynamic and relevant improving the lives of many we work with in diverse locations
 beyond the academy.


 f) Indicators of Wider Influence

 i) Journal editorship

 Colleagues in the EO hold a range of editorial roles and responsibilities, including: Lavender
 (editorial board: Australian Journal of Lifelong Learning); Hayes (associate editor: Postdigital
 Science and Education); Jopling (editorial board: Management in Education; Transdisciplinary
 perspectives in educational research, EERA book series); Lalli (editorial board: Cambridge Journal
 of Education; Health Education Journal); Traxler (editorial board: IT in International Development);
 and Tuckett (editorial board: Studies in Continuing Education and Journal of Transformative
 Education).

 ii) Fellowships

 Fellowships awarded to members of the EO since 2014 are: Hayes (Principal Fellow HEA);
 Lavender (Senior Research Fellow, Learning and Work Institute); Lewis (WEA Ambassador,
 Fellow of the Institute of Mental Health); and Tuckett (RMIT Melbourne, University of Bristol,
 International Institute of Adult and Continuing Education New Delhi, UNESCO Institute of Lifelong
 Learning, Assessor’s Guild).

 iii) Prizes

 Three members of the Unit have won prizes in the REF period. They are: Tuckett (knighted for
 services to education, 2018); Hayes (SEDA-JISC Institutional Change Leader Award, September
 2015); and Lavender (International Hall of Fame for Lifelong Learning, 2015).

 iv) Membership of Research Council or similar national and international committees

 Jopling is the convenor of the children and youth at risk and urban education network at the
 European Educational Research Association (from 2017) and Williams-Brown is the Chair of the
 British Education Studies Association (2018-2021).

 v) Invited keynotes, lectures and/or performances, or conference chair roles

 We have here only included the most notable invited keynotes and lectures given during the
 period:

 Tuckett delivered the Presidential address, 8th World Assembly, International Council for Adult
 Education, Montreal, Canada, June 2015; 'Plus ca change, plus c'est la meme chose' Keynote at
 the UNESCO International Literacy Day symposium, Paris Sep 2015; ‘Learning through the life
 course: The role of universities in stimulating participation, Inaugural Lifelong Learning
 Conference, at the Singapore University of Social Science, Nov 2017; and the keynote for the
 Government of Scotland, ministerial conference, Newbattle Abbey, April 2018.

 Traxler was invited keynote speaker at the International Symposium, Federal University of
 Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil, August 2015; invited keynote at the 4th Annual eLearning Innovations
 Conference, Nairobi, Kenya September 2016; the Festival of Mobile Learning, University of Hong
 Kong, Hong Kong, June 2017; an invited speaker at the UNICEF: Designing an Effective Large-
 Scale Mobile Learning; Initiative For Public Schools, Pretoria, August, 2017; and invited panellist
 at the World Bank Internet Policy Workshop, Berlin, November, 2014.

 Hayes was an AERA Panel member at the Learning in the Age of Digital Reason: Reinventing
 Dialogue, American Educational Research Association (AERA) Conference, New York, April

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2018; and Co-chair of the 2019 Higher Education Institutional Research (HEIR) Conference,
 University of Wolverhampton, September 2019.

 Jopling delivered the keynote presentation at ResearchSEND conference, Manchester
 Metropolitan University, November 2018; and delivered invited seminars on addressing
 disadvantage in the school system, Humbolt-Universität zu Berlin, February 2018 & January 2020.

 Royle was the keynote speaker for Challenges of Digital Era for Higher Education, Serbian Ministry
 for Higher Education Presentation to Minister of Education and Representatives from all the
 Serbian and Other Western Balkan Universities; British Council Sarajevo, Bosnia, October 2018.

 vi) Refereeing academic publications or research proposals

 Since 2014 EO members have reviewed for a host of academic publications and publishers
 including: Teaching and Teacher Education; Journal of Further and Higher Education; Studies in
 Higher Education; Educational Futures; Journal of Social Policy; Educational Management
 Administration & Leadership; Educational Research; School Leadership and Management;
 International Journal of Lifelong Education; Australian Journal for Lifelong Learning; Studies in
 History and Philosophy of Science; European Early Childhood Education Research Journal;
 Oxford University Press; Cochrane Library; Sage; and Policy Press.

 vii) External examiners

 Six staff members (Hayes, Jopling, Lavender Traxler, Tuckett, Williams-Brown) were external
 examiners for 18 PhD and five EdD viva voce examinations, six of which were overseas, and four
 Masters programmes in other UK universities.




                                                                                           Page 16
