Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Winchester

 Unit of Assessment: D31: Theology and Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Unit context and structure
 The submitted Unit is based in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS) at the
 University of Winchester and brings together staff researching in the areas of Theology and
 Religious Studies (TRS) from three different hubs across the University. These are the
 Department of Theology, Religion and Philosophy (TRP), the Centre of Religion,
 Reconciliation and Peace (CRRP), and the Institute of Value Studies (IVS). The Unit
 comprises nine members (8.4FTE): six from TRP, two from CRRP and one from IVS. Four
 are Religious Studies scholars (King, Owen, Warrier and Welch), while five work in
 Theology, Philosophy, and/or Ethics (Andreopoulos, Messer, Rose, Secret, Willows).
 Since REF2014 the UoA has seen a significant renewal of staff, described further in section
 2.1. This has enabled a portfolio of research activity, diverse in discipline and orientation,
 which demonstrates the critical significance of religion and spirituality historically and in the
 present, and generates new understanding at the intersections of philosophy, theology and
 ethics.

 Strategic planning is in the hands of the UoA Working Group, comprising all UoA members. The
 Working Group’s annual research planning and review, and approval of internal funding bids,
 take place in accordance with the calendar and processes of the University’s Research and
 Knowledge Exchange (RKE) Centre. Strategic leadership and direction are provided by the UoA
 Lead in collaboration with the Head of the TRP Department, Director of CRRP and the Faculty
 Head of RKE. The UoA Lead and one other Working Group member represent the UoA on the
 Faculty RKE Committee, and the UoA Lead sits on the University’s REF Working Group.

 1.2. Strategic aims 2014-20
 In REF2014, the UoA performed strongly in impact (20% 4*, 70% 3*). The output sub-profile,
 while showing a marked improvement from RAE2008, included little 4* work (2.7%), and only
 32.4% in the 3* and 4* bands combined. The environment performance was mixed: the Unit
 made a strong contribution to equality and diversity, and individual members made strong
 national and international contributions to the discipline; however, income was weaker, and while
 the Unit had a large PGR student body, research degree completions were more modest. In light
 of these outcomes and the strategic priorities identified in the REF2014 submission, the
 following aims have guided the UoA’s activity from 2014-20:

    1. Promoting high-quality research
    2. Generating research income and supporting collaborative and interdisciplinary projects
    3. Optimising research impact
    4. Fostering a strong research environment based on collegiality, integrity, and
       openness
    5. Recruiting and developing a high-achieving postgraduate research (PGR) student
       body.

 1.2.1. Promoting high-quality research
 The principal ways in which the UoA has supported the generation of high-quality research are:


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    a. Working with relevant Heads of Departments (particularly TRP) to ensure that the
       research time of staff is protected.
    b. Supporting bids for internal funding to resource members’ research, through research
       leave, teaching buyouts, fieldwork and national/international conference participation.
       Internal funding bids require UoA support, which enables the UoA Working Group to
       exercise strategic oversight of the use of internal funding by UoA members.
    c. Involvement in the process of annual research review, as described in section 2.1
    d. Mentoring of early-career researchers (ECRs).

 This support has borne fruit in several major research projects developed during the census
 period, most of which have generated outputs included in this submission. Some of these are
 listed below, while others are described in sections 3.1 and 4.1:
      • Dialogues between Eastern and Western Christian theology (Andreopoulos)
      • Angels, cyborgs and the future of human life (Rose)
      • Death, mourning and eulogy in twentieth-century philosophical thought (Secret)
      • New imaginings of Indic traditions in the Western holistic health milieu (Warrier)
      • Death, art and representation (Welch)
      • The philosophical critique and theological defence of virtue ethics (Willows).

 During the census period, members have produced close to 100 scholarly publications. These
 include 10 monographs and edited volumes, over 40 peer-reviewed journal articles, and over 40
 book chapters. Members have hosted nine international conferences, delivered over 20 keynote
 lectures, presented papers at international conferences and workshops, and presented at more
 than 50 research seminars at academic institutions and events within the UK and overseas
 (details in section 4). Building on this success, the UoA will further embed proactive training and
 development in its strategy for the next REF (see 1.3.1).


 1.2.2. Generating research income and supporting collaborative and interdisciplinary projects
 The UoA has championed the generation of research income by supporting bids for internal
 funding to enable the development of external grant applications, and through mentoring and
 peer review. To promote sustainability, members have been encouraged to seek funding from a
 wide range of sources. The UoA has fostered collaborative and interdisciplinary research by
 making this a particular emphasis of its internal funding bids.

 The UoA’s support for external grant applications has enabled the UoA to significantly increase
 its income compared to the REF2014 cycle, when we returned £5,903. For REF2021, we are
 returning £95,640 in external grant income from diverse funders - an increase of 1520%. Further
 details and examples are given in section 3.1.

 UoA support for internal funding has enabled a number of highly productive interdisciplinary
 collaborations, detailed in section 4.1. More generally, interdisciplinary research is a strong
 emphasis of the UoA: more than one third (35) of the Unit’s scholarly publications during the
 census period relied on interdisciplinary research and 15 items emerged from research
 collaboration with peers.

 1.2.3. Optimising research impact
 All research in the UoA has been reviewed periodically in relation to impact potential, and staff
 have availed of impact-related training opportunities (on campus and from online providers) in


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 such areas as the definition of research impact, the development of impact-generation and
 documentation strategies, and the use of software packages purchased by the University (such
 as Vertigo Ventures and PURE) to track and collate impact-related data and evidence. The UoA
 has supported internal funding bids to cover travel and other expenses incurred in impact
 development. Members have also been supported in efforts to identify external sources of
 funding for impact generation. Projects with strong impact potential have been through external
 peer review from subject specialists and an impact expert at key stages of project development,
 and strategies to optimize and measure impact have been developed on this basis.

 The UoA supports new, current and ongoing impact generation while at the same time
 prioritising the long-term sustainability and development of such impact. Central to our impact
 strategy is the identification, at an early stage of research design, not just of the project’s end-
 users and stakeholders, but also potential collaborative partners and mediators (local/regional as
 well as national and international organisations) critical to the delivery of the resources
 generated through the research. The long-term nurturance and sustenance of these
 relationships, as well as the identification of additional end users as the project matures, are key
 features of our impact strategy. Examples of this relationship-building approach include:

    •   CRRP’s careful development of extensive international networks over many years to
        facilitate delivery of its resources and impact. One aspect of this is to build self-sustaining
        capacity in local and regional partners around the world. For examples, CRRP is working
        with one of Winchester’s partner universities, Dev Sanskriti Vishwavidyayala (Haridwar,
        India), and with the Lumbini Development Committee in Lumbini, Nepal, to help both
        organisations establish their own research and practice centres focusing on religious
        peacebuilding.

    •   The Winchester Orthodox Network, an international network bringing together Orthodox
        scholars and members of church communities to facilitate the dissemination and impact
        of research in Orthodox theology.

 The two impact case studies included in this submission illustrate how the UoA both fosters
 long-term sustainable impact and encourages the growth of newer areas of impact:

    •   Building peace and reconciliation through religion and conflict analysis (Owen) builds on
        a 2014 case study resulting from the work of CRRP. However, its reach has greatly
        expanded to include additional end-users from six further countries/regions. This
        expansion has relied on the proactive nurturing of long-term partnerships described
        above.

    •   Informing bioethics policy in European Protestant Churches (Messer) is an example of
        more recent impact generation. Messer’s long-standing involvement in national church
        networks created the opportunity for him to contribute his bioethical research expertise to
        the major project for the Communion of Protestant Churches in Europe described in the
        case study.

 A third example illustrates how the UoA supports the earliest stages of impact generation.
 Welch’s UoA-supported collaboration with Niall Finneran (Winchester, UoA15 – Archaeology) on
 Garifuna heritage and cultural landscape, described in section 4.1, has led to engagement with
 multiple stakeholders in St Vincent and the Grenadines. Welch and Finneran have been working


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with a Garifuna community leader on an agricultural project with potential environmental,
 educational and tourism benefits. They are collaborating with local organisations to develop a
 Garifuna Heritage Centre and have been invited by the country’s Ministry of Curriculum
 Development to help update its secondary history curriculum. They are exploring a collaboration
 with the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew to establish an online herbarium for the island, which
 would contribute to these heritage and educational developments. All these initiatives enable the
 development of multiple relations with the islands’ residents, supporting heritage-related
 research impact in the medium term and major and sustained benefit to the end-users in the
 long term.

 The UoA’s approach to identifying and supporting the development of research impact, outlined
 at the start of this section, has proved highly effective during the 2014-20 REF cycle, and a
 broadly similar approach to nurturing and sustaining impact is anticipated during the next cycle.
 One question to consider is the UoA’s role in nurturing partnerships that lead to impact. Hitherto,
 the emphasis has been on supporting individual members in developing and sustaining their
 own partnerships. Given the diversity of the UoA and its networks and partnerships, this has
 been an effective approach and one that we expect to continue, though the UoA is open to
 playing a more direct role in the development of some future partnerships where this proves
 helpful.

 1.2.4. Fostering a strong research environment based on collegiality, integrity, and openness
 An important part of the UoA’s approach to fostering a strong, vibrant and collegial research
 environment has been to create opportunities for presentation and discussion of research,
 particularly the seminar programmes offered by the TRP Department and CRRP.

 CRRP hosts regular public seminars, inviting speakers to present on topical issues relating
 to conflict and peacebuilding, and inviting critical discussion. The TRP Department hosts a
 programme of monthly research seminars each academic year, resourced through internal
 research funding bids supported by the UoA. The seminar series includes papers from UoA
 members as well as visiting speakers from other UK and overseas institutions. The selection of
 speakers is guided by equality and diversity as well as subject considerations, with every effort
 made to ensure that each year’s selection of speakers and topics reflects diversity and balance
 across a range of protected characteristics. Recent seminars have included discussion of
 disability, gender identity, Black theology and culture, and Islamophobia, and visiting speakers
 have included:
     • Prof. Babette Babich (Fordham)
     • Prof. Robert Beckford (Queen’s Foundation, Birmingham)
     • Prof. Aaron Gross (San Diego)
     • Prof. Rachel Muers (Leeds)
     • Prof. Simon Oliver (Durham)
     • Prof. Bee Scherer (Canterbury Christ Church)
     • Prof. Bettina Schmidt (Trinity St David)

 In addition to the seminar programme, UoA members have organised and hosted numerous
 conferences in Winchester, elsewhere in the UK and overseas, as described in section 4.

 The unit’s collaborative research ethos has attracted a number of visiting academics, such
 as:



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Dr Patricia Hannam (Hampshire County Adviser for RE, History and Philosophy, and
        author of Religious Education and the Public Sphere, Routledge, 2018)
    •   Very Revd Prof Nikolaos Loudovikos (University Ecclesiastical Academy, Thessaloniki,
        and author of Church in the Making, St. Vladimir's Seminary Press, 2016)
    •   Revd Dr Steve Nolan (Chaplain, Princess Alice Hospice, Esher, and author of Case
        Studies in Spiritual Care, Jessica Kingsley, 2018).

 Since Winchester is a relatively small institution, policy and practice regarding research integrity
 are largely set at University level. The University’s commitment to research integrity is detailed in
 its Research Ethics policy and procedures, which enshrine the principles of the Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity, as described in REF5a, 2.4. All staff and PGR student projects must
 be submitted for ethical review, or self-certified if they do not involve activities (such as research
 with human participants) that require ethical scrutiny. UoA members are actively encouraged to
 avail themselves of regular University training on research ethics, with reference to their own
 research and their supervision of PGR student projects.

 The UoA has sought to foster the openness of its research environment partly through its
 commitment to Open Access (see REF5a, 2.2). UoA members are expected to upload all
 accepted articles and, where possible, book chapters to the University’s online repository,
 meeting Green Open Access requirements. In addition, members have published in open
 access online journals such as Religions (Owen and King) and taken Gold Open Access
 opportunities when available (Messer). CRRP has developed the largest global database on
 Truth and Reconciliation Commissions as an open-access resource, available through the
 University website. Similarly, the papers from the ‘Christian Theology in the Midst of COVID-19’
 online conference (section 4.1) are available open-access. Openness is also fostered by making
 CRRP and TRP research seminars open to the public, and hosting a wide range of other public
 events related to the Unit’s research, as described in section 4.

 1.2.5. Recruiting and developing a high-achieving postgraduate research (PGR) student
 body
 The UoA’s strategy for the recruitment, supervision and support of PGR students is described in
 section 2.2. It has proved a highly successful strategy, as evidenced by the number of PhD
 completions in the census period, with many students going on to publish their work as detailed
 in section 2.2. In addition to PhD supervision, the TRP Department offers a successful
 Professional Doctorate (DTh) in Theology and Practice, enabling practitioners in a variety of
 fields to conduct practical theological research engaged with their own practice contexts. Current
 and recent examples include theses on addiction recovery, homelessness and rough sleeping,
 and the Christian healing ministry.

 1.3 Strategic aims 2021-27

 Looking ahead, the Unit’s strategic aims for the next REF cycle will build on those described
 above, in the context of the University’s Strategic Vision 2020-2030 and its new Research
 and Knowledge Exchange (RKE) strategy 2020-30. While the COVID-19 pandemic creates a
 climate of some uncertainty for the development of a future research strategy, the Unit’s
 overarching vision is to use the available infrastructure and resources to support the
 generation of the highest quality research and impact, particularly research and impact
 aligned with the University’s mission and values, and to nurture outstanding future
 researchers. Four broad strategic aims can be derived from this vision:


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. Supporting the generation of world-leading and internationally excellent research,
       particularly interdisciplinary research and research related to the University’s mission
       and values
    2. Supporting the development of impact with outstanding or very considerable reach
       and significance from the Unit’s research, particularly in ways that relate to the
       University’s mission and values
    3. Generating increasing research income from a variety of sources
    4. Maintaining and further developing a community of excellent postgraduate research
       students.

 1.3.1. Supporting the generation of world-leading and internationally excellent research,
 particularly interdisciplinary research and research related to the University’s mission and
 values

 The University’s mission emphasizes sustainability, social justice and making a difference to
 all life and the planet, and its core values are compassion, individuals matter, and spirituality
 (see REF5a, 1.1 and 2.1 and Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy 2020-2030). The
 UoA’s research activity is relevant to this mission and these values. For example, most of the
 unit’s work relates to spirituality (as broadly understood in the core values); much of it is
 relevant to social justice and sustainability (the work of CRRP on religion and peacebuilding,
 and Welch’s interdisciplinary work on the Garifuna, to name two among many examples);
 the Unit’s research in ethics (within TRP and IVS) relates to social justice, compassion and
 the value of individuals. The UoA aims to support world-leading and internationally excellent
 research across the full range of its activity, and particularly to encourage interdisciplinary
 research and research related to this mission and these values. This will be achieved by
 actions such as the following:
      • Making strategic use of available internal funding to continue the development of
           existing projects with the potential to generate further world-leading and
           internationally excellent outputs, and particularly to encourage those that are
           interdisciplinary and/or relate to the university’s mission and values.
      • Making strategic use of available internal funding to encourage the development of
           new projects with similar potential.
      • For staff in TRP and IVS who have teaching and research role profiles, using
           available resources (such as funding for teaching buyouts or research leave) to
           release time for projects that meet this strategic aim.
      • Fostering a collegial and supportive research environment that will encourage the
           development of new ideas and projects, for example through hosting conferences,
           seminar programmes and less formal workshops.
      • Making use of mentoring, internal peer review and training to help staff understand
           and achieve what is required to produce world-leading or internationally excellent
           outputs.
      • Supporting a culture of research integrity, for example by actively encouraging UoA
           members to continue taking full advantage of University training and support in
           research ethics.
      • Further developing the UoA’s commitment to Open Access publishing, making full
           use of internal and external resources to support this, and building on the success of
           the OA outputs from the Christian Theology in the Midst of COVID-19 conference
           (section 4.2.4).



                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.3.2. Supporting the development of impact with outstanding or very considerable reach and
 significance from the unit’s research, particularly in ways that relate to the University’s
 mission and values

 As described in section 1.2, much of the unit’s research has outstanding or very considerable
 impact: both long-term projects with the potential for further development in the future, and
 newer projects expected to generate high impact in the next REF cycle. At the heart of
 CRRP’s activity is work with governments, NGOs and other stakeholders to make a
 difference to those affected by structural violence and armed conflict, while several members
 of the TRP Department conduct research directly connected with indigenous communities
 and faith communities. The impact of this work is clearly aligned with the University’s mission
 and values. Moreover, the UoA is very well-placed to develop its research impact further: its
 location in Winchester offers excellent links with faith communities, while the growing
 international links developed by CRRP, Andreopoulos, Welch and others provide great
 opportunities for further impact. The further development of the highest levels of impact will
 be supported by:
     • Using available internal funding to support the development of further impact with the
         highest levels of reach and significance from long-term projects.
     • Using available internal funding to support the development of new areas of
         outstanding or very considerable impact from newer projects.
     • In planning new research projects, seeking to build long-term relationships with
         stakeholders and collaborative partners in ways that will maximise and sustain the
         projects’ impact – taking full advantage of both the unit’s local context in Winchester
         and its growing network of international links.
     • Through mentoring, informal workshops, etc., supporting staff in making plans for
         outstanding or very considerable impact integral to their planning of new research
         projects.
     • Making full use of University infrastructure and support to capture and record the
         impact of the unit’s research.

 1.3.3. Generating increasing research income from a variety of sources

 As described in section 3, the Unit has had significant success in growing its external
 research income during the present REF cycle, and aims to build on this success during the
 next cycle. While the COVID-19 pandemic makes the future availability of research funding
 in this subject area more uncertain, the Unit aims to take full advantage of whatever
 opportunities are available to attract external research income from a variety of sources, by
 means such as the following:
     • Making full use of internal University funding, support staff and infrastructure to
         support the development of externally funded projects, particularly collaborative and
         interdisciplinary projects and those related to the University’s mission and values.
     • Support members of the unit in developing strong funding bids through mentoring by
          successful grant applicants.

 1.3.4. Maintaining and further developing a community of excellent postgraduate research
 students




                                                                                          Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In the next REF cycle, the UoA aims to build on its notable success in PGR recruitment and
 supervision (sections 1.2.5 and 2.2), while aiming to work with the University to grow the
 unit’s international research student recruitment, and fostering a vibrant and supportive
 environment that enables all our research students (many of whom are part-time and widely
 geographically dispersed) to succeed and excel. This will be achieved by actions such as the
 following:
      • Further developing the use of relevant Masters degree programmes and the
          University’s collaborative partnership with Sarum College as routes for home and
          international research student recruitment.
      • Agreeing targets for expansion of international recruitment and recruitment in under-
          represented subject areas, and working with the University to focus marketing efforts on
          meeting these targets.
      • Organise a programme of regular online and face-to-face research student events,
          designed to be accessible to a geographically dispersed student population, as well
          as encouraging students’ participation in unit-level research seminar programmes and
          conferences and University-level postgraduate research events.
      • Supporting ECRs to gain experience in research student supervision as part of
          supervisory teams alongside experienced supervisors.



 2. People

 2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development
 Following REF2014 TRS at Winchester has had a significant renewal of staff. The UoA’s
 appointments strategy since 2014, in concert with the TRP Department and IVS, has
 prioritized the extension of research and teaching in the direction of Philosophy. This has
 resulted in the appointments of Rose, Secret and Willows (all recruited as ECRs), who
 situate their work at the interface of philosophy and religion/theology, adding an important
 interdisciplinary dimension to this Unit’s research agenda. In this way the opportunities
 created by staff departures (Hedges, Isherwood, Linzey and Meredith) and Paddison’s move
 to a management role have been used strategically to shape the unit’s future direction. At the
 same time, care has been taken to sustain and extend staff expertise in existing key areas,
 for example appointing Warrier at a senior level to replace and extend Hedges’ expertise in
 Asian religions, and continuing the unit’s research in sexuality and gender through Rose’s
 appointment. By balancing early-career and more senior appointments, the UoA has worked
 towards securing the future vitality of its research environment.

 The UoA, in common with the University as a whole, is committed to the principles of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The unit works with its
 members’ home departments (TRP, CRRP and IVS) to support staff research activity and career
 development, including the management of workloads to protect research time, and the use of
 internal funding to buy additional research time, as described in section 1.2. All UoA members
 have an annual workload allocation of 400 or 500 hours for research. Members’ research
 activity, career development and training needs are reviewed annually with line managers as
 part of the University’s Individual Review and Development Scheme (IRDS). Additionally, UoA
 members submit annual research plans to the University, which are reviewed by the UoA Lead
 (see REF5a, 3.4).




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All UoA members are actively encouraged to engage with the University’s staff development
 programme, which includes development opportunities in research planning, ethics, funding and
 impact. Going forward, the UoA will seek opportunities to offer additional unit-level bespoke
 training and development as indicated in section 1.3.

 ECRs have individual probationary agreements, which include research targets and training
 needs. In addition to University and Faculty-level induction programmes, they are assigned
 mentors at UoA/department level, who offer advice and support on research development
 alongside other aspects of their roles. Professors and Readers have an additional time allocation
 in their workload models for mentoring early-career colleagues.

 The UoA’s success in facilitating its members’ career development is indicated by the following
 promotions during the census period:
    • Lecturer to Senior Lecturer: Rose, Secret
    • Senior Lecturer to Reader: Warrier, Welch
    • Reader to Professor: King

 2.2. Research students
 Since August 2013, the UoA has had 22.66 successful PGR completions (the fractional figure
 reflecting some students whose supervision was shared with other UoAs). These figures reflect
 the Unit’s significant role in developing the next generation of scholars in Theology and Religious
 Studies. Many of our research students are part-time and engaged in doctoral research for
 professional development purposes in sectors outside higher education such as ministry,
 religious leadership, nursing, bereavement counselling, funeral directorship, international aid,
 development, conflict resolution and peacebuilding.

 Our taught Masters degree programmes are a crucial recruitment and training ground for
 doctoral researchers. Established programmes in Death, Religion and Culture and in
 Reconciliation and Peacebuilding have grown steadily and proved a valuable PGR recruitment
 pipeline. During the census period, the TRP Department has made the strategic decision to
 develop an additional broadly-based MA in Theology, Religion and Philosophy and a more
 specialised MA in Mission Studies, not only to extend the Department’s postgraduate teaching
 profile but also to develop and broaden the UoA’s PGR recruitment base. The University’s
 collaborative partnership with Sarum College, Salisbury, has also been used proactively by this
 UoA as a PGR recruitment route from among Sarum’s MA graduates.

 New PGR recruits are taken through induction events at the two points of entry each year, April
 and September. Research students undertake the University’s Research Training Programme,
 aimed at developing a wide range of skills and knowledge required of professional researchers,
 in keeping with QAA and UKRI expectations. Supervisors support students in making academic
 contacts and developing networks, introduce them to national agendas in research assessment
 and knowledge exchange, and help them work on research career development. Each student’s
 research training needs are reviewed annually with their supervisory team, who assist in
 sourcing the necessary training. Agreed written records are kept of all meetings with the
 supervisors and the student’s progress is monitored by means of annual reports received by the
 University Research Degrees Quality Committee.

 PGR students are supported academically and pastorally by their supervisory teams, the UoA,
 the Faculty and the University. Students are encouraged to participate as much as possible in


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the TRP Department seminar programme, and the Department and UoA run an annual PGR
 seminar day at which students are encouraged to present their work. Going forward, the UoA
 aims to develop greater online provision of PGR-oriented seminars and colloquia, building on the
 experience of online working during the pandemic, to enhance the support it offers to students
 who are geographically distant from Winchester or whose personal circumstances make it
 difficult for them to visit the campus. The Faculty offers personal tutorial support to PGR
 students, as well as student-led academic and social events. The University offers regular PGR
 seminars, providing further opportunities for student training, development, and presentation and
 discussion of their work.

 The UoA’s research students are supported and actively encouraged in publishing their research
 in scholarly monographs and journal articles. Highlights include:
     • Ashdown, Andrew, Christian–Muslim Relations in Syria: Historic and Contemporary
        Religious Dynamics in a Changing Context (Routledge, 2020)
     • Clammer, Tom, Fight Valiantly: Evil and the Devil in Liturgy (SCM Press, 2019)
     • Harper, Demetrios R., The Analogy of Love: St. Maximus the Confessor and the
        Foundations of Ethics (SVS Press, 2018)
     • Lansley, Charles, Charles Darwin’s Debt to the Romantics (Peter Lang, 2018)
     • Nellist, Christine, Eastern Orthodox Christianity and Animal Suffering (Cambridge
        Scholars Publishing, 2018)
     • Salapatas, Dimitrios, The Fellowship of St Alban and St Sergius (Cambridge Scholars
        Publishing, 2018)
     • Smith, Abbey-Anne, Animals in Tillich’s Philosophical Theology (Palgrave Macmillan,
        2017)
     • Randall, Yafia K., Sufism and Jewish-Muslim Relations: The Derekh Avraham Order in
        Israel (Routledge, 2016)

 The UoA actively encourages its successful PGR students to apply for the University’s Early
 Career Visiting Research Fellowships (VRFs), a career progression route for Winchester
 doctoral graduates (see REF5a, 3.3). During the census period six Early Career VRFs have
 been appointed to the UoA. Many of the Unit’s doctoral graduates have gone on to work in fields
 closely allied to their research area, within and beyond academia. Examples include:
     • Demetrios Harper, Assistant Professor at the Holy Trinity Seminary, Jordanville, New
         York
     • Kathryn Pritchard, Co-Project Director and Research Fellow, ‘Equipping Christian
         Leadership in an Age of Science’ (Durham and York Universities and Church of England)
     • Christina Nellist has established the charity Pan-Orthodox Concern for Animals
         (http://panorthodoxconcernforanimals.org/)
     • Konstantin Papanikolaou runs the Olympias Project, which offers education and training
         resources to support people with disabilities (http://olympiasproject.com).

 PGR supervision is a high priority for UoA members, whose supervisory skills are regularly
 renewed and extended through the University’s Supervision Training and Enhancement
 Programme. The University adheres to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. Early career staff have the opportunity to gain supervisory experience as second
 supervisors under the mentorship of more experienced colleagues. UoA members have served
 as external PhD examiners at a range of UK and overseas institutions, including:




                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   In the UK: the Universities of Cardiff, Chester, Exeter, Nottingham, Oxford, King’s
        College London, the Open University, the University of Wales Trinity St David, and York
        St John;
    •   Internationally: Dublin City University, Ireland, Macquarie University, Australia, and the
        University of Peloponnese, Greece.

 2.3. Equality and diversity
 Given the relatively small size of the University, strategy in relation to supporting and promoting
 equality and diversity is centralised and covers all aspects of the institution’s operations. It is led
 by the Human Resources (HR) Department and the Director of Equalities and Staff
 Development. The UoA is committed to upholding the University’s values in supporting and
 promoting equality and diversity in research careers. The institution’s commitment to equality
 and diversity takes the forms described in REF5a. UoA members have been actively involved in
 implementing University policies on equality and diversity during the census period, for example
 as members of interview panels for staff appointments PGR student applications. All UoA
 members have undergone the University’s training in conscious and unconscious bias as well as
 other mandatory equality and diversity training.

 UoA members with protected characteristics can access necessary support (including
 opportunities for part-time or flexible working, specialist software and other disability support)
 from the University. Because this UoA is so small, giving specific data about such support could
 identify individuals with protected characteristics. However, moving forwards, the UoA will work
 with HR and the RKE Centre to address any equality and diversity issues arising from the REF
 Equality Impact Assessments.

 UoA members make an active contribution to equality and diversity within the institution and
 more widely in the discipline. Within the institution, Welch was until 2018 Chair of the
 interdisciplinary Centre for Gender Studies, of which Rose is also a member. One UoA member
 contributes to the BAME University Network. Rose ran a workshop on ‘diversifying the
 curriculum’ at the Society for the Study of Theology in April 2019. More broadly, UoA members’
 research relates to several aspects of equality and diversity, including:
     • Sex, gender and sexuality (Rose, Welch)
     • Race, colonialism and indigenous peoples (Welch, Rose)
     • Violence against women, ethnic and religious minorities (King, Owen)
     • Health, wellbeing and disability (Messer).

 Outputs related to some of these areas are included in the present submission.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Income

 The substantial increase in external funding during this cycle has been achieved through a range
 of successes. The largest was a donation of £37,869 from The Templeton World Charity
 Foundation for Messer’s Methodology in Science and Theology project. The UoA also secured
 £23,500 from The Church Universities Fund for a project on Anglican Identity, whilst Welch’s
 AHRC Grown Edible Meaningful project with the University of Northumbria secured £12,431 for
 the University.


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to the HESA-reported income, internal funding has benefitted the UoA in substantial
 amounts, particularly through Owen’s work, which has secured funds derived from both the QR
 GCRF and the Strategic Priorities Fund (SPF). These funds supported projects on the
 Contribution of Social-Economic Enterprises to Community Reconciliation after Violent Conflict
 (£59,139) and on Influencing UK Government Policy on Reconciliation and Peacebuilding
 (£24,000). The former resulted in two journal articles and a reconciliation workshop guide; the
 latter in a Truth and Reconciliation database, a reconciliation handbook for the UK Government,
 and a workshop for reconciliation policy makers.

 For most of the census period, staff who submitted to REF2014 have had a personal research
 allocation of £3,000 per year, and all UoA members can apply for University funding at multiple
 points in the year. During the census period, University research funding supported teaching
 buyouts for Andreopoulos, Messer, Rose, Secret, Warrier and Welch, enabling the
 development of the research projects described in sections 1.2.1 and 4.1 In 2019-20 Messer
 successfully competed for the University’s Senior Research Fellowship (£10,000) to fund the
 international collaborative project Theological and Religious Voices in Neuroethics (see section
 4.1) also supported by an internal Duke University grant of US$4,630 to two of his collaborators.

 3.2. Infrastructure and facilities
 Information about the Faculty and University organisational infrastructure supporting the
 work of the UoA is given in section 1.1. Since the University is relatively small, much of
 the organisational infrastructure to support research is provided at institutional level
 through the RKE Centre. Various aspects of this, including internal research funding and
 training, are described elsewhere (sections 1.2, 3.1). One aspect worth highlighting is the
 RKE Centre’s support for external funding applications, described in REF5a, 4.3.
 Specialised staff in the University Finance Office and Faculty Administration Team also
 assist the UoA with the financial management of grants.

 All UoA members have their own workspace in single or shared offices, equipped with
 state-of-the-art IT facilities. CRRP has its own dedicated building providing not only staff
 office accommodation but also meeting space for seminars, workshops and stakeholder
 meetings.

 The Martial Rose Library subscribes to all the main online journal packages relevant to
 theology, religious studies and philosophy, and to a wide range of other relevant online
 resources such as Oxford Scholarship Online. It has extensive book holdings in the
 UoA’s disciplinary areas, and its special collections include the Thorold and Lyttleton
 Collection, which covers Christian theology.

 A variety of software packages, such as NVivo and SPSS, are available to all UoA staff
 and students via institutional licenses. More specialised software is acquired via internal
 or external funding bids: for example, Agisoft 3D photogrammetry software for Welch and
 Finneran’s work on heritage and memory was funded from the University’s Higher
 Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) allocation (section 4.1).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Research collaboration

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA support for internal funding (as described in section 1.2) has enabled several highly
 productive interdisciplinary collaborations with colleagues from Winchester and other institutions.
 These include the following examples, supported by the UoA on the strength of their long-term
 potential to generate high-quality outputs and/or impact:
    • Welch with Finneran: Heritage and memory, first in the East End of London (2017-18),
        and later exploring Garifuna heritage and history in the Caribbean islands of St Vincent
        and the Grenadines (2018-). The first phase was also supported from the University’s
        HEIF allocation.
    • Welch with Wendy Birch (Division of Biosciences, University College London): The
        anatomy of late-medieval and early-modern English carved cadavers.
    • Messer: Theological neuroethics, bringing theological ethics into dialogue with
        neuroscience, psychology and philosophy. This has involved a visiting professorship at
        the University of Notre Dame (April-May 2016) and the foundation of an interdisciplinary
        research network involving participants from institutions including Duke University and
        Boston College in the USA.
    • Rose, with Anthony Paul Smith (La Salle University, Chicago): Theology and continental
        philosophy. Rose’s interdisciplinary research in theology and continental philosophy has
        also led to the roles in the American Academic of Religion and the Society for the Study
        of Theology described in section 4.2.3.

 4.2. Contributions to the disciplinary field and research base
 The UoA has actively supported its members in contributing to the research base of their
 disciplines in various ways, including research dissemination, editorial and peer review work,
 leadership roles in learned societies, and hosting international conferences. The following
 sections offer representative examples of a wider range of activity that indicates the extent of the
 UoA’s international ‘footprint’ within its disciplines.

 4.2.1. Keynote lectures and seminar presentations
 During the census period, members have delivered 21 plenary/keynote lectures and presented
 over 50 seminar papers in the UK and overseas. For example, Andreopoulos has given invited
 lectures at the University of Calgary and the Montreal Institute of Orthodox Theology, while in
 2014 Warrier gave a series of seminars as a Visiting Professor at the École des Hautes Études
 en Sciences Sociales, Paris. The international standing of several UoA members was reflected
 in invitations to contribute to international workshops hosted by institutions such as the Harvard
 T. H. Chan School of Public Health, Harvard University (Messer), Aarhus, Stockholm and Zurich
 Universities (Warrier), Cornell and Copenhagen Universities (Rose).

 4.2.2. Editorial contributions and peer-review
 Members have served as Editors/Associate Editors of the journals Asian Medicine: Tradition and
 Modernity (Warrier), Religions of South Asia (King) and Science and Christian Belief (Messer),
 and as Editorial Board members of various other journals including Analogia (Andreopoulos),
 Journal of the Society of Christian Ethics (Messer), Studies in Christian Ethics (Messer) and
 Theology and Sexuality (Rose). They serve on the editorial boards of monograph series
 including Reframing Continental Philosophy of Religion (Rowman and Littlefield: Rose), Studia
 Traditionis Theologiae (Brepols: Andreopoulos) and T & T Clark Enquiries in Theological Ethics
 (Bloomsbury: Messer). They have peer-reviewed for a wide range of journals and book
 publishers, and for national and international funding bodies including the AHRC, ESRC,



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Horizon2020, and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada. Messer
 was a member of the AHRC Science in Culture Theme Advisory Group until 2015.

 4.2.3. Contributions to scholarly societies
 Members have held a range of responsibilities in international scholarly societies during the
 census period. For example: King is an Advisory Member of the Spalding Symposium Indian
 Religions Committee; Messer was a Board member of Societas Ethica (The European Society
 for Research in Ethics) until 2015; Rose serves on the Steering Committee of the American
 Academy of Religion’s Theology and Continental Philosophy Unit and convenes the Society for
 the Study of Theology’s Philosophy and Theology Seminar; Secret serves on the Executive
 Committee of the Society for European Philosophy.

 4.2.4. Hosting academic conferences
 Offering an early theological response to the coronavirus pandemic and furthering the UoA’s
 commitment to open-access publishing, Messer hosted the international online conference
 Christian Theology in the Midst of COVID-19 in June 2020. The 120 participants came from the
 UK, Continental Europe, North and Central America, Australia and New Zealand. The
 conference papers are available online (www.winchester.ac.uk/pandemictheology), with a
 selection also published as a peer-reviewed journal issue. CRRP launched an international
 conference series on Religion and Culture in Conflict and Peace with events in Winchester
 (2018) and Lumbini, Nepal (2019), with funding from the Spalding Trust. Under the aegis of the
 Winchester Orthodox Network (section 1.2.3), Andreopoulos has organised a series of
 international conferences, including The Theotokos (Winchester, 2015), Engaging with Christos
 Yannaras’ Thought (Peterhouse, Cambridge, 2017), The Theological Legacy of the Russian
 Diaspora: 1917-2017 (Winchester, 2018), and Mapping the Una Sancta: on Orthodox-Catholic
 Ecclesiology Today (Syros, Greece, 2019, with funding from the Huffington Ecumenical
 Institute). Welch hosted two international conferences at Winchester arising from her long-
 term research programme on death, memorialisation and mourning: Death, Art and Anatomy
 (2016) and Death and the Maiden (2017). New strands of philosophy-related research at
 Winchester gained increased visibility with Secret convening the joint international conference of
 the Society for European Philosophy and Forum for European Philosophy at the University in
 2017.

 4.3. Public engagement
 Beyond the academy, UoA members have been engaged with a wide range of communities,
 groups and public forums, in ways ranging from office-holding to media work, lectures and
 training workshops. While some of these have been one-off opportunities, which members took
 to disseminate their research to a wider audience, many were aspects of the long-term
 engagement with stakeholder communities that lies at the heart of the Unit’s impact strategy
 (section 1.2.3). The following sections offer some representative examples.

 4.3.1. Public offices and positions
 Andreopoulos has been one of three Orthodox Church representatives in the European Council
 of Religious Leaders since 2018. King is a Trustee of the Spalding Trust, which exists to
 promote better understanding between the cultures and religions of the world (2019-). From
 2015-19 Messer was a member of the United Reformed Church (URC) General Assembly and
 Mission Council, and Convener of the URC’s Education and Learning Committee. In the latter
 role he oversaw the launch of a theological research network for the URC. His longstanding

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement with the URC paved the way for his work with the Communion of Protestant
 Churches in Europe, described in one of our Impact Case Studies. Owen’s research on
 reconciliation and peace has led to his appointment as Secretary General of the European
 Council of Religious Leaders (2016-) and his role as Honorary Director of the South Asian
 Centre for Peace and Reconciliation. Secret’s research at the interface of philosophy and
 psychoanalysis has led to his appointments as Founding Scholar (2019) of the British
 Psychoanalytic Council, and Academic Faculty Member at the Anna Freud Centre (2017-).

 4.3.2. Media and online engagement
 Rose is a regular contributor to The Daily Service on Radio 4 longwave, giving reflections
 relating to her research. In 2018, Secret produced a short documentary on Ancestor Worship for
 BBC Radio 4’s History of Ideas and engaged in a live debate. Also in 2018, King was
 interviewed twice on Voice of Islam’s Breakfast Show current affairs programme.

 Rose is a contributing editor of the humanities blog An und für sich (itself.blog), whose audience
 is a mix of academics and the wider public. She has twice been a guest on the weekly podcast
 The Magnificast, Episodes 44 (2018) and 118 (2019), disseminating her research to a non-
 specialist audience. Warrier was a consultant and contributor to the British Library’s online
 resource Discovering Sacred Texts (2019-20).

 4.3.3. Lectures, workshops and debates
 An important local partner for the UoA is Winchester Cathedral, with which the UoA has
 collaborated on a wide range of public engagement events. In the census period, these have
 included a conference and related events on The Futures of Capitalism (2014) and a series of
 public talks to mark the 500th anniversary of the Reformation (2017), both co-organised by
 Messer with University, Cathedral and other colleagues.

 A significant national partner has been the Greenbelt Festival, which attracts up to 20,000
 festivalgoers each year to a programme at the intersections of faith, arts and social justice. As a
 Greenbelt Trustee, Rose has a key role in shaping the festival’s annual programme and has
 contributed talks and workshops based on her research each year. During the census period,
 Andreopoulos, Messer and Welch have also contributed to the festival programme.

 CRRP’s extensive international networks have given Owen and King numerous opportunities to
 deliver keynote addresses and training programmes, based on their research on religious
 peacebuilding, to audiences ranging from grassroots activists to government ministers in many
 countries. Some examples are given in the impact case study describing CRRP’s work; others
 include:
     • Syrian refugees in Gaziantep, Tukey (2018)
     • A group in the South Caucasus, examining the protracted conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh
         (2018)
     • Staff from the Afghan Embassy to the UK (2019)
     • Winchester’s partner university Dev Sanskriti Vishwavidyayala, Haridwar, India
     • The Lumbini Development Committee in Lumbini, Nepal
     • Morocco Interfaith and Peacebuilding Centre conference, Women’s Leadership for
         Peacebuilding, Countering Terrorism and Religious Radicalisms, Rabat, Morocco (2018)
     • Second Inter-Religious and Inter-Faith Summit, The Role of Religious Leaders and
         Institutions in Enhancing Social Cohesion and Tolerance in the Arab Region, Beirut,
         Lebanon (2018).


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Welch’s research on mediaeval carved cadavers and other memorials has led to talks at
 prestigious museums (Pitt Rivers, Oxford, 2015 and 2016; Morbid Anatomy Museum, Brooklyn,
 New York, 2015; Thackray Medical Museum, Leeds, 2018), places of Christian worship,
 including Winchester Cathedral (2017), and various local interest groups in Hampshire. In early
 2020 she and Finneran ran an online training workshop for the Caribbean region on ‘Gathering
 and analysing oral history’, arising from their work on Garifuna heritage and memory (section
 1.2.3).

 In addition to the academic conferences described in section 4.2, Andreopoulos has given
 public lectures on aspects of Orthodox theology, including a public lecture series organised with
 the Greek Free University and the Ainos Cultural Society in Greece on the legacy of the Russian
 diaspora (Athens, 2015), which attracted audiences of many hundreds. Secret’s philosophical
 research on death and mourning led to presentations at an event on Death, Aesthetics and
 Representation (Photographers Gallery, September 2013) and the Zombie Apocalypse
 conference (Royal College of Art, 2014). He participated in two panel discussions at Tate Britain
 in 2018, both of which were aimed at the general public and attracted very large audiences.
 Warrier was a panellist for a live event at the Wellcome Collection to accompany their exhibition
 Ayurvedic Man: Encounters with Indian Medicine (2018).




                                                                                           Page 16
