Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Liverpool Hope University (LHU)
 Unit of Assessment: Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism (C24)
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The UoA24 at Liverpool Hope University is composed of 10 colleagues and sits within the School
 of Health Sciences alongside Human Biology, Applied Biomedical Health and (Clinical) Nutrition,
 which affords excellent networks for collaborative and multidisciplinary science research.

 Since the Unit made its first REF submission in 2014, the University’s, School’s and Unit’s
 Research strategies have been instrumental in enabling the continued evolution and development
 of a vibrant, established research culture in Sport and Exercise Science. In the context of this Unit,
 high-quality research outputs (publications) of national and international excellence were
 recognised as a key objective across the research groups for the 2014 REF. This was achieved,
 as measured by the quality of the outputs in the REF2014 submission, in which the Unit
 demonstrated international excellence in selective areas of research output and ranked 2nd in the
 Northwest for research intensity. However, the Unit noted an evidently restricted scope of research
 returns (primarily physiology) and insufficiencies in focus on research impact (i.e. informing end
 users and policy-makers).

 Addressing these entities necessitated an evaluation and reformulation of the research
 environment strategy. Thus a strategic restructuring of research groups within the Unit was
 undertaken in 2014, in order to provide an infrastructure that would advance and support the
 research of colleagues with shared and cognate areas of expertise, enabling the realisation of the
 Unit’s future aims. Supported by the appointment of new staff, internal equipment funding and
 new laboratory facilities, the 3 Research Groups became: Musculoskeletal Sports Medicine,
 Exercise Performance and Health Physiology, and Psychology of Action and Learning of
 Movement, with each group led by a senior academic. The restructuring considerably widened the
 scope of the Unit from a sole focus on physiology whilst permitting overlap for multi- and
 interdisciplinary approaches to research.

 Musculoskeletal Sports Medicine Group

 Led by Professor Omid Khaiyat (strategic recruitment from the University of Liverpool). Members:
 Dr Coyles, Dr Jackson, Associate Professor Roche. This research group is supported by
 membership of staff from other Units based within the School, PhD Scholarships, on-site
 physiotherapy/rehabilitation clinicians, visiting professors (Professor Simon Frostick and Dr Chris
 Wong), and strategic external research advisors/collaborators e.g. Dr Ian Horsley from the English
 Institute of Sport (EIS), Mrs Jo Gibson and Mr Rish Parmer from Liverpool University Hospitals
 NHS Foundation Trust. Colleagues from the Musculoskeletal Sports Medicine Group have two
 primary areas of research focus namely: Upper Limb/Shoulder Research with a remit to
 understand the pathophysiology of upper limb/shoulder injury and efficacious means by which to
 promote healing and rehabilitation (see Internationally Recognised Research Excellence); and
 Musculoskeletal Health in Older Adults With/Without Clinical Conditions, with a remit to investigate
 interventions that mitigate declines in musculoskeletal health that accompany the ageing process.
 This latter research strand has included interdisciplinary projects such as the musculoskeletal
 health benefits of tennis, interventions for healthy ageing and age-related sarcopenia (RCT-
 NCT02912130), and musculoskeletal health and function in older adults with iron deficiency
 anaemia (RCT - ISRCTN13325706).


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Exercise Performance and Health Physiology Group

 Led by Dr Angell. Members: Associate Professor Marwood, Associate Professor Roche, Dr
 Malone, Dr Dagger, and Dr Jackson. Colleagues in the Exercise Performance and Health
 Physiology Group have research interests in Cardiovascular & Metabolic Health and Sports
 Performance. Within Cardiovascular and Metabolic Health, a wide-range of techniques (cardiac
 imaging, peripheral vascular ultrasound, flow mediated dilation, pulse wave velocity, laser
 Doppler, VO2 kinetics, near infrared spectroscopy) are utilised to investigate fundamental and
 applied/interventional aspects of human health. Sports Performance colleagues examine effective
 workload monitoring and application in sport, and the modelling of sports performance.

 Psychology of Action and Learning of Movement Group

 Led by Associate Professor Wakefield. Members: Dr Koehn and [Drs Wood & Roberts - both now
 external at Manchester Metropolitan University and Liverpool John Moores University,
 respectively]. Colleagues in this group have research interests incorporating areas surrounding
 Human Movement Science, Sport and Exercise Psychology, and Sport Coaching and Pedagogy.
 Research projects include the exploration of the mechanisms and learning efficacy of motor
 imagery, examining the equivalence between imagery and execution, the effect of action
 observation and motor imagery combinations on upper limb kinematics and EMG, and
 simultaneous and alternate action observation and motor imagery combinations improve aiming
 performance.

 The research groups provide a concentrated mass of colleagues with complementary research
 specialisms who meet regularly to share ideas, develop and undertake collaborative research
 projects and support one another in peer review (manuscripts, research proposals), external
 funding bids and postgraduate research supervision. The research group infrastructure aligns with
 the School Research Strategy which articulates that all staff are expected to contribute towards a
 productive research environment within the School. Staff readily contribute into more than one
 Research Group in accordance with the aims of the Unit and the Research Group.

 Shortly after publication of the REF2014 report, the University emphasised the significant role of
 critical friends with broad REF-related knowledge and experience as a means by which to promote
 research excellence. Accordingly, an experienced external advisor was identified and appointed
 for the Unit. The Unit has benefited from this appointment over the past six years due to the
 vigorous and constructive feedback appraising our research environment enhancement strategies
 in addition to the quality of our research outputs, the efficient development of impactful research
 and our related case studies. The external advisor attended the Unit’s Annual Research Day over
 the past 5 years, and this embedding facilitated a better understanding of ongoing activities and
 an efficient interaction with the Unit.

 Research and Impact Strategy

 Building on successes of 2014, our strategic aims were: (i) Interdisciplinarity & Multidisciplinarity
 for real-world impact; (ii) Internationally recognised research excellence; (iii) Enhancing the wider
 research environment to support aims (i) and (ii).

 The focus of (i) resulted from the desire to undertake empirical research for the advancement of
 knowledge and understanding that can make an impact on real world issues, and thus promote
 translational research which bridges the gap between laboratory-based research and applied

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practice. This strategic focus recognised the need for multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary
 research through which to achieve this. Given the Unit’s size, operating in an increasingly
 collaborative manner was necessary to facilitate and enable rigorous and applied multi- and
 interdisciplinary research. Accordingly, and in line with aim (iii), members of the three research
 groups within the Unit are expected to establish wider academic networks with other researchers
 external to Hope. In addition, the research groups are expected to establish and maintain links
 with key beneficiaries and stakeholders such as sport governing bodies and local NHS trusts, in
 order that our research has a positive societal impact.

 Evidence of activities and actions towards ‘Interdisciplinarity & Multidisciplinarity for Real-World
 Impact’ include our large-scale study into the musculoskeletal, cardiometabolic, psychological and
 nutritional health benefits of tennis (ICS1: The Health Benefits of Tennis). This comprehensive
 research project was both interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary in order to gain a more coherent
 and enriched knowledge and understanding of the health benefits of the sport. It was led by the
 Musculoskeletal Sports Medicine Research Group with input from colleagues from other research
 groups (Associate Professor Roche, Exercise Performance and Health Physiology Group; Dr
 Koehn, Psychology of Action and Learning of Movement Group), plus other members of the
 School from outside of this Unit (Associate Professor Amirabdollahian, Nutritional Sciences). From
 the conception stage, the research was designed around generating an impactful outcome for a
 real-world problem: evaluating the efficacy of tennis, from a number of perspectives, as an
 ecologically valid solution to promote and secure the health benefits of physical activity in our
 growing sedentary population. The multi-dimensional data collection of this study with more than
 90 participants was completed in 2018, supported by a HEIF allocation to recruit a post-doctoral
 research fellow.

 The study findings (published in international peer-reviewed journals and presented at
 international conferences indicated a strong association between regular tennis and markedly
 lower risk of musculoskeletal and cardiometabolic disease, in combination Improved indicators of
 quality of life. including mental health. Translational value and the potential to make real-world
 impact occurred through establishing significant collaborations with key local tennis and health
 bodies and national level governing bodies (e.g. Lawn Tennis Association (LTA) (Section 4). A
 “Tennis and Health” symposium to communicate and widely disseminate findings, hosted by the
 Unit in 2018, brought together key stakeholders including representatives from the National Tennis
 Centre and the British LTA, the Director of Public Health for Liverpool, policy makers, health care
 professionals, local tennis club managers and members, study participants and the wider public.
 This project was included in the Parliamentary Report of the Physiological Society detailing the
 benefits of sport science research to the UK economy (https://bit.ly/35KjyQX; page 33).

 This interdisciplinary research strategy with real-world focus underpinned the development of
 further major projects with a focus on musculoskeletal health in older adults. Key examples include
 two RCTs in the fields of Sarcopenia (NCT02912130) and Iron Deficiency Anaemia
 (ISRCTN13325706). The success of the Sarcopenia RCT, involving academics from multiple
 disciplines, can be judged not only by the wide dissemination of findings by means of scientific
 publications and conference presentations but also educational workshops to relevant
 communities and stakeholders (Section 4). ISRCTN13325706 is an externally funded trial and
 seeks to investigate the impact of intravenous iron therapy on musculoskeletal health in older
 patients with iron deficiency anaemia in collaboration with Liverpool University Hospitals).

 Further key successes in addressing real-world issues include the study of adverse cardiovascular
 effects of overuse of Anabolic-Androgenic Steroids (AAS), a key focus for Dr Angell (Exercise

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Performance and Health Physiology Research Group). Research within this field led to a number
 of academic outputs which formed the basis for collaboration with international colleagues. This
 culminated in an invited book chapter founded on Dr Angell’s research [Clinical Implications of
 Performance Enhancing Drugs upon Cardiovascular Health in Wilson M, Drezner J & Sharma S
 (Eds). The Olympic Manual of Sports Cardiology. ISBN-10: 1119046866] that formed part of the
 International Olympic Committee’s Manual of Sports Cardiology. This book is a key contemporary
 text for sports cardiologists and clinicians in the field. Publication extended the reach and impact
 of the research, including an invitation to speak at a clinical conference and appearances in local
 and national media: Invited conference presentation (Cardiac Effects of Doping. 13th Belgian
 Heart Rhythm Meeting, Brussels, 2019); BBC Horizon: Sports Doping – Winning at any cost;
 Radio City (appearance by Dr Angell).

 Internationally Recognised Research Excellence

 The second aim of our research strategy was to develop at least one area of research activity
 within the Unit into one of internationally recognised research excellence. This objective focused
 upon the Upper Limb/Shoulder Research strand of the Musculoskeletal Sports Medicine Research
 Group. Led by the Head of the School of Health Sciences, Professor Khaiyat has been
 instrumental in strategically establishing Upper Limb/Shoulder Research in the Unit as an
 internationally recognised research environment in the field. The Unit’s key actions towards
 achieving this strategic goal include: 1) Organising and hosting a biannual international Shoulder
 Rehabilitation Conference (1st & 2nd conference in Nov 2017 & Nov 2019, respectively -
 https://www.hope.ac.uk/hopesr/). This conference has been praised as a highly credible scientific
 event in the field of shoulder rehabilitation due to its trending themes and high profile and research-
 active speakers. 2) Establishing formal partnership with the English Institute of Sport (EIS) for
 collaborative Upper Limb / Shoulder Research (since July 2018) and strategic collaboration with
 the Upper Limb Unit at Liverpool University Hospitals. 3) Organising and hosting multiple upper
 limb clinical research workshops for leading research-active clinicians including shoulder
 ultrasound, upper limb kinetics/kinematics, exercise prescription, return to sport, profiling shoulder
 performance, and shoulder fine-wire electromyography. 4) Coordinating and hosting educational
 and research collaboration/networking events at Liverpool Hope University including the Noraxon
 User Group Annual Meeting 2018 and the EIS Annual Upper Limb Research Group Meeting 2016.
 5) Undertaking several major shoulder/upper limb research projects involving academics, external
 clinicians and collaborators, and PhD/MRes students (Section 4 for more details). Concerted
 action and focus by the group has enabled the development and maintenance of a significant level
 of research outputs across projects investigating: the influence of kinetic chain sequencing on
 throwing performance in athletes with and without shoulder injuries; the pathophysiology of
 subacromial impingement syndrome; neuromuscular profiling of the throwing shoulder; kinematics
 and muscle activation profiles in reverse shoulder arthroplasty; the effect of vibration on shoulder
 muscle activation and fatigue; electromyographic analysis of shoulder girdle muscles in swimmers
 with shoulder pain; and electromyographic evaluation of a broad range of exercise modalities for
 shoulder rehabilitation. This resulted in an excess of 20 publications and >30 international
 scientific conference presentations during the current REF cycle.

 The third part of the research strategy aimed to make further and substantial enhancements to
 the wider research environment to support strategic aims (i) and (ii). Planned enhancement targets
 included: a) staff research development and support, including postdoctoral and early-career
 researchers; b) recruitment and supervision of postgraduate research students; c) major
 investments in research resources and laboratory facilities; d) external research funding and
 grants; e) consolidation and diversification of external collaborations both nationally and

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internationally. Targets ‘a’ and ‘b’ are detailed in full in (Section 2: People), c and d in (Section 3:
 Income, infrastructure and facilities) and e in (Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the
 research base, economy and society).

 In summary, we have pursued a clear, realistic and focussed research strategy since REF 2014
 that has distilled research focus through effective changes to the infrastructure of research
 groupings. Opportunities, productivity and efficiency have been augmented through the major
 investment in research facilities and supported through enhanced postgraduate provision,
 mentoring and staff development. The strong and effective establishment of partnerships and
 collaborations and the securement of research grants has enabled the successful translation of
 key areas of our research to stakeholders and end users. Upper limb/shoulder research at
 Liverpool Hope has gained prominence nationally and internationally as a leader in its field. Our
 strategy is logical, sustainable and appropriate for the School of Health Sciences and wider
 University for supporting and delivering high-quality sport and exercise science research.

 Future Aims and Goals

 The Unit has seen a period of significant maturation and further development during this REF
 cycle and has reaffirmed that the existing infrastructure and the research and impact strategy are
 fit-for-purpose (evidence of the broad success of the current strategy for research outputs and
 impact are reported elsewhere). The focus for the Unit 2021+ will be to prioritise planning for
 continued growth and the sustained procurement of research opportunities for all groups, to
 enable the maintenance of high-quality research and its impact.

 Our strategic aims for 2021+ are therefore:

    1. The continued expansion of current research specialisms, ensuring flexibility to embrace
       new and viable research directions via a strong staffing strategy that guides recruitment.
       Strategic staffing appointments will focus on enabling research teams to grow and increase
       their capacity to undertake and produce multidisciplinary and transdisciplinary research
       that is relevant, high-quality and impactful.
    2. To further increase external grant funding applications as a necessity for maintaining a
       vibrant research environment. The Unit has had modest success in this REF period
       (Section 3) and will build upon its current position as a basis for the future.
    3. To further enhance the development of key growth areas of research within the Unit with
       regards international recognition, research excellence, funding and collaboration using
       The Musculoskeletal Sports Medicine Group’s notable research strategy as a template.
    4. To extend, consolidate and strengthen the established Exercise Performance and Health
       Physiology Group’s collaborative partnerships with local NHS trusts to augment
       translational research in response to national and international priorities.
    5. To continue to further enhance the excellence of our high-quality outputs in mainstream,
       internationally recognised (and Open Access) outlets to maintain our international profile
       and ensure relevance and timeliness of our research and its impact.
    6. To continue and extend our proactive efforts for the recruitment of high-quality
       postgraduate students for the further development and sustainability of our supportive
       PGR research environment.
    7. To promote the expectation that our scientific research approach is one of openness at all
       stages of the research cycle. Open Access and Open Data are approaches already
       undertaken by the Unit to make our research findings publicly accessible and the Unit will


                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        formalise this strategy, making use of the Institutional Open Access Research platform
        called InOAR (launched by the University).

 2. People

 a. Staffing strategy and staff development

 The Unit’s staffing strategy is designed to reflect on its underlying research goals and strategy
 while also supporting enriched research-informed teaching. Accordingly, a robust set of academic
 criteria have been implemented into the recruitment and appointment processes to ensure the
 very best academics, capable of supporting the Unit to achieve its strategic goals, are recruited.
 Due to the relatively small size of the Unit, the staffing strategy has been predominantly focused
 on the further development and growth of key research themes. Furthermore, the interdisciplinarity
 and broader range of research skills to support collaborative work across Unit’s research groups
 and the ability to channel external collaborations have been carefully considered during the
 recruitment process.

 Recruitment

 The appointment of Professor Omid Khaiyat, Head of School of Health Sciences, in late 2013
 stimulated the formation of a novel research theme within the Unit in Musculoskeletal Sports
 Medicine, the upper limb/shoulder in particular. There followed several strategic appointments
 aimed to further establish and strengthen this research theme and bring national and international
 recognition to the research group. These appointments included a lecturer in biomechanics (Dr
 Ginny Coyles), two post-doc fellows, a prominent and internationally renowned visiting professor
 with specialism in musculoskeletal science and upper limb/shoulder surgery (Professor Simon
 Frostick – Professor of Orthopaedics, University of Liverpool), three external research advisors
 with substantial clinical expertise in upper limb/shoulder (Dr Ian Horsley – Northwest Regional
 Physiotherapy Lead for the English Institute of Sport, Mrs Jo Gibson – an internationally
 recognised Upper Limb Rehabilitation Specialist, and Mr Rish Parmer – Consultant Upper Limb
 Orthopaedic Surgeon/Honorary Clinical Lecturer), and four PhD (scholarship) students (one
 completed, three current). More recently, the appointment of a Clinical Tutor in Sports
 Physiotherapy/Rehabilitation has been made (Jessica Law, Bolton University) who brings to the
 research team further clinical expertise in musculoskeletal sports medicine (British Association of
 Sport Rehabilitators and Trainers (BASRaT) membership) and collaborative potential with Swim
 England. The performance of the group was further enriched by the appointment of lecturers in
 motor control and movement science (Drs Greg Wood and James Roberts) which also enabled
 the facilitation of broader and interdisciplinary research. The unit has recently appointed another
 early career research-active academic in the field of motor control (Dr Robin Owen, Bangor
 University). As a consequence of these actions, the Musculoskeletal Sports Medicine research
 group is recognised nationally and internationally for its research. Examples of the research
 group’s broad achievements are described in (Sections 1 and 4).

 We also made a small number of honorary professorial appointments of clinicians (Dr Philip
 Weston, Dr Chris Wong, and Dr Dushyant Sharma) from local NHS trusts. These strategic
 appointments have had multifaceted benefits for the expansion of our Unit’s research capabilities
 and also complement the role senior colleagues play in the internal review processes, for example
 in enhancing grant applications and publications. Moreover such appointments fulfilled aims (i)
 and (iii) of the Unit’s strategy, a good example being the appointment of Dr Philip Weston from
 the Liverpool University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust as an Honorary Professor in Diabetes

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Metabolic Medicine. This resulted in successful collaborative research involving individuals
 with Type 1 diabetes from Dr Weston’s diabetes clinics and importantly, the dissemination of our
 research findings to both clinicians and patients at the Trust.

 Development and Mentoring

 All colleagues in the Unit on academic contracts have one third of their workload allocation
 dedicated to undertaking research. There are established University-wide staff development
 policies, practices and procedures with which the subject area abides to monitor each individual’s
 contribution to delivering the research strategy of the Unit, School and University. These stipulate
 that all staff must undergo an annual performance review with a senior member of staff, where
 research targets are set and any training and support needs are identified. All staff at Senior
 Lecturer grade and above are required each year to submit one external grant application and
 present at at least one conference to disseminate their research, network and represent the
 University. Lecturers and Postdoctoral Teaching Fellows, which we consider to be early career
 researchers, are strongly encouraged to attend and present at one conference per year.

 The University organises and delivers a broad range of research workshops involving both senior
 and early-career researchers in the key areas of: research outputs, research environment and
 research impact and supportively encourages all staff to apply for University research and travel
 funds to assist with undertaking and disseminating research. The School of Health Sciences
 Research Committee organise further, more tailored staff training sessions, where particular skills
 or knowledge gaps have been identified e.g. ‘Getting research out into the public through the
 media’.

 Since 2014, a flagship School Annual Research Day has been held that has provided academics
 and PGRs with a vibrant and facilitative research environment to share their latest research
 interests, to hear from external speakers and Unit REF advisors and obtain constructive feedback
 on their research. The event not only raises research awareness and places research firmly on
 the School agenda, but it also facilitates the opportunity for collaborations between staff from
 cognate Units within the School in addition to staff external to Hope. The event also has the benefit
 of meeting strategic priority (i), i.e. interdisciplinarity and multidisciplinarity, since it offers an
 explicit opportunity for the sharing of research within and between cognate Units of Assessment
 (the Agriculture, Veterinary, and Food Science unit is also contained within the School). Further,
 the Annual Research Day aids PGRs in their VITAE research skills development framework and
 the competitive element introduced for the best PGR/PGT presentation prepares them well for
 external conferences.

 Other actions integral to our Unit’s environment strategy of staff support and development is
 through the Unit’s hosting of external and internal speakers as part of its research seminar series.
 These seminars positively impact on research consciousness and subject knowledge whilst
 promoting rigorous scientific debate. The seminar series have provided further research
 development opportunities through enabling the emergence of new collaborations and research
 outputs. For example a recent collaboration between an external speaker and Dr. James Roberts
 (now external) led to a publication in the journal ‘Acta Psychologica’ on limb regulation and motor
 performance.

 Through the Unit’s infrastructure, with senior staff leading each of the Unit’s research groups, we
 operate a mentorship scheme to facilitate the development of research skills for staff, particularly
 junior and mid-career colleagues, to ultimately facilitate a sustained research career. The majority


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of academics in the Unit are appropriately trained Research Supervisors with the more senior staff
 also having Director of Studies status for PhDs. Early and mid-career researchers are encouraged
 to act as Research Advisors on PhD supervisory teams to immerse themselves in procedures,
 regulations and guidelines as well as developing supervisory skills and on-the-job mentoring to
 facilitate the timely attainment of full research supervisory status. Staff in the Unit are also
 encouraged to act as Internal and External PhD Examiners and Independent Chairs and this
 experiential learning has resulted in the advancement of the quality and capability of our
 postgraduate supervisory support by academic staff in their own subject areas. The University-
 wide postgraduate training programme for staff provides appropriate training for the undertaking
 of all PGR roles. Throughout the year, two staff from this Unit (Roche, Marwood) make large
 contributions to the training programme delivery. Associate Professors Roche and Marwood also
 both have management roles as postgraduate research coordinators for ‘Sciences’ at Liverpool
 Hope University and St Mary’s University(one of our partner institutions) respectively. These
 positions afford membership on the University Research Degrees Sub-Committee, thus providing
 greater and broader immersive involvement from senior staff in this Unit in the University-wide
 research environment. This has significantly and positively impacted upon our remit and ability to
 translate actions towards improving the quality of our own PGR research environment.

 Finally, staff and research groups within the Unit are able to apply to the University funding
 streams locally and centrally (including Research Environment Development Fund (REDF);
 REFine and REFresh) to support their research environment and potential impact of their
 research. There is a clear expectation of staff within the Unit to actively demonstrate the
 University’s mission of engaging with the world beyond academia. Many of the Unit’s activities
 have demonstrated alignment with Open Science, for example, public dissemination of science
 via the annual British Science Weeks, public science engagement via Randox Health Week
 (Roche).

 b. Research students

 Our Unit prioritised the need to grow the postgraduate research community following REF2014,
 as we considered it fundamental for a sustainable research environment. Subsequently, during
 this REF cycle, the Sport and Exercise subject area have seen postgraduate research significantly
 expand and flourish through enhanced opportunities and the continued development of a
 supportive research environment. In 2015, the University made significant investments into the
 postgraduate research environment by introducing fully-funded Vice-Chancellor’s PhD
 Scholarships. The subject area took this opportunity to drive forward aim (iii) of our research
 strategy, ‘Enhancing the Wider Research Environment’, and successfully secured (via competitive
 process) 4 VC-scholarship PhD student positions (full-supervision) and a further 2 VC-scholarship
 PhD students (interdisciplinary) with shared supervision from within the School of Health
 Sciences. Other actions include the proactive creation of two funded Shoulder PhD Scholarships
 through protecting a portion of the income generated by the Shoulder Rehabilitation Conference
 organised by Professor Khaiyat in 2017. External funding streams have effectively been targeted
 through collaborations and grant applications in a bid to maintain continued growth of the PGR
 environment. For example, Dr Malone secured externally funded PhD and MPhil scholarships
 through collaborations with the FA (Football Association) and Real Science Food Ltd respectively.
 Additional targeted action by the Unit for this second part of our research strategy was the decision
 to change our postgraduate teaching provision from an MSc in Applied Exercise Physiology to an
 MRes in Sport and Exercise Science. This was actioned in order to stimulate postgraduate
 research activity, facilitate staff research and to establish an avenue for producing an increasing


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 number of well-rounded PGR students, some of whom may progress onto PhDs and remain in
 academia.

 All our PGRs have a dedicated shared office and computer facilities on the Hope Park campus.
 They have fully bookable access to the Sport and Exercise Science laboratories and
 technical/specialist support is provided by the Sport Science lab Manager. This arrangement
 means they are close to academic colleagues, laboratory facilities, the library and learning
 resources. The dedicated postgraduate office space has enabled a sense of community and
 collegiality amongst PGRs and has enabled informative support mechanisms to prosper.

 Each postgraduate research student is monitored and supported by a supervisory team
 comprising a minimum of two approved research supervisors and an approved director of studies
 (DoS). We make use of our professional and practitioner network wherever possible, including
 them as external research advisors within supervisory teams (e.g. Dr Ian Horsley, English Institute
 of Sport) is part of the supervisory team for Ben Ashworth). For interdisciplinary theses,
 supervisors from different disciplines are brought together to form the supervisory team (e.g.
 Parr’s thesis ‘Evaluating and alleviating the cognitive burden associated with upper-limb prosthetic
 hand control’ was supervised by Professor Khaiyat (Sport and Exercise Science) from this Unit,
 along with Dr Harrison (Department of Psychology).

 PGR supervisory team meetings provide the best possible advice, guidance, monitoring and
 support to the student, within the context of their emerging thesis and future career and follow the
 University Code of Practice for PGR Degrees. The formal monitoring of academic progression
 (AMRs, CREs) are undertaken in accordance with institutional regulations and help identify
 training needs of our students. Further, there is a dedicated University-wide Postgraduate
 Research Skills Programme (RSP) for PGR students for generic and transferable skill
 development alongside their PhD. This is structured using the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework UK which aligns with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers (2008) (see Institutional Research Environment Statement). Subject-specific training
 needs are usually met within the Unit, but, if required, external assistance is arranged. For
 example, the Unit arranged for Romano to attend a training course (University of Roehampton,
 London) on TMS and the Noraxon Myosync and Noraxon Sync light systems. Employability
 support for PGR students aspiring to join academia is provided by teaching opportunities with
 support and mentoring from colleagues within the Unit. For those wishing to gain teaching
 experience, the University provides training to develop the appropriate skill sets. PGRs are limited
 in their role in teaching in line with RCUK guidelines to protect their research progress.

 The quality of student supervision and PGR training from Unit colleagues is attested by the fact
 that recently completed PGR students have gone on to secure post-doctoral research fellowships
 on externally-funded research projects at the Kobe Design University, Japan & Vrije University,
 Amsterdam (Goulding); the University of Melbourne, Australia (Kirk) and Liverpool John Moores
 University (Parr).

 Our PGR students are expected to attend and present their research at the School of Health
 Sciences Annual Research Day and Unit’s Research Seminar Series (See Section 2 Development
 and Mentoring). PGR students are also expected to make a broader contribution to the research
 environment of the Unit by supporting the activities of research groups more generally (e.g.
 training others (staff/students) in specific technical and analytical techniques gained while
 conducting their own research). Postgraduate students are encouraged to present and
 disseminate their research at national and international conferences, for example: British

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Association of Sport and Exercise Science, American College of Sports Medicine (Goulding);
 European College of Sports Science, British Psychological Society Division of Sport and Exercise
 Psychology (Romano); International Sport & Exercise Nutrition Conference (Kirk). Funding for
 conferences is available to PGRs from the Health Sciences Research Committee budget and also
 the PVC-Research central fund. PGRs may also apply to these funding streams for financial
 support for data collection, laboratory and field-work and the attendance of any necessary training
 courses.

 c. Equality and diversity

 The Unit takes the philosophy that all colleagues should have equal opportunities in being able to
 undertake and produce high quality, impactful research. For the development of a more inclusive
 research culture and consequently a sustainable future, we believe that diversity and equality are
 paramount when recruiting, developing and managing colleagues.

 The Unit upholds and fully adheres to the Liverpool Hope policies. In addition to conforming to the
 Equality Act 2010, the University has established its own Equality and Diversity policies with full
 commitments to the fulfilment of underpinning principles and the elimination of discriminatory
 practices.

 The Unit, in line with the University’s Equality and Diversity policies and “The Code”, seeks to
 achieve its strategic targets while nurturing equality and inclusivity across all colleagues within the
 Unit. Despite a relatively small size, the UoA has historically fulfilled a diverse and balanced
 proportion of male and female staff members from a variety of ethnic groups.

 Professor Khaiyat, who is a member of Unit and also Head of School of Health Sciences, is a
 member of University’s Equality and Diversity Steering Committee as the representative for
 University’s Senior Management. This has ensured further safeguarding and adherence to the
 policies and principles integral to the University’s mission and values which are also reflected in
 the REF 2021 Code of Practice. Equality and Diversity is a fixed agenda item in School meetings
 during which the representative reports all relevant updates and new developments to the
 academics.

 The University’s REF steering group meets on a regular basis during which a senior HR manager,
 who oversees the Equality and Diversity aspects of the REF procedures, provides Unit
 representatives and coordinators with the latest development according to the University’s Code
 of Practice (“The Code”) for the REF2021. The Head of School disseminates these updates to
 colleagues in the Unit, which subsequently adheres to these policy updates. All new and existing
 staff are expected to undergo annual Equality and Diversity training to ensure their knowledge is
 maintained. Relevant statistics are also regularly reviewed to ensure that the University is
 operating in-line with these policies.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 External research funding and research grants were noted by the Unit as a challenge following
 the last REF cycle. As a result of this, the Unit placed priority and value on reinforcing and fostering
 strong academic and research links between itself and colleagues external to the University. This
 has actively been met through concerted and sustained collaborative grant applications. During
 the census period, the Unit’s research groups have collectively applied (principally in collaboration
 with external researchers) for £1.2M of external research funding, resulting in a successful income

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of £252,425, a substantive enhancement to the previous REF exercise: Musculoskeletal Sports
 Medicine Group £208,000 (Vifor Pharma); Exercise Performance and Health Physiology Group
 £28,768 (Real Science); and Psychology of Action and Learning of Movement Group £14,657
 (Royal Society). The biannual Shoulder Rehabilitation Conference hosted by the Unit in 2017 and
 2019 (chaired by Professor Khaiyat) generated around £41,550 external income which has been
 returned to the Unit to further promote upper limb/shoulder research and the Unit’s research
 environment by means of specialised equipment and two fully funded “shoulder” PhD scholarships
 (Hawkes and Ashworth). A collaborative upper limb research project with the EIS and
 POWERPLATER provided the Unit with a Power Plate® my5™ (£3,499). The Unit is highly
 motivated to use the lessons and experience from these achievements to further enhance its
 research environment in line with its 2021+ key strategic aims (Section 1; aims 1&6).

 Since the previous REF, the University has invested heavily (~£16m) in the research environment
 for the Unit. The ‘Health Sciences Building’, which houses the research facilities for the Unit, was
 completed in January 2016 representing a deliberate move to support the research environment
 for the Unit. The development of this £8.5m facility produced >320m 2 dedicated to research for
 the Unit including specialised laboratories: Sport Biomechanics, Sport & Exercise Physiology,
 Cardiovascular Physiology, Sport Performance, Body Composition and Sport Psychophysiology.

 The Sport Biomechanics and Performance Analysis Lab is a spacious 216m 2 equipped with eight
 3D (Vicon) motion capture cameras that can be mounted throughout the entire area and a 62inch
 monitor supports operation of the system together with a dedicated workspace to both operate
 the system and process the data once received. The length of this space is served by four high-
 specification (Kistler) force plates which can be located into 16 separate spaces on the floor and
 supplemented by two high-speed cameras (Bonita, Vicon), two 16-channel wireless DTS EMG
 systems (Noraxon), a 16-sensor full Body inertial 3D motion capture system (Noraxon), a Zebris
 pressure and gait analysis platform, various strength measurement systems, and Noraxon
 wireless inclinometer/accelerometer. This lab also accommodates a 23-meter track for
 gait/running analysis and a 12m*4m double-ceiling height area with impact wall at one end area
 to facilitate shoulder/upper limb/overhead research. This high-quality research environment was
 instrumental in the achievement of our strategic priorities since it has promoted collaboration with
 external partners (English Institute of Sport (EIS), Royal Liverpool Broadgreen University
 Hospitals NHS Trust, and Aintree Hospital NHS Trust) for the benefit of real-world, multi- and
 interdisciplinary research. Moreover these facilities enabled the hosting of upper limb clinical
 research workshops during the timescale of the Shoulder Rehabilitation conferences and the
 Noraxon User Group meeting (2018).

 More than 100m2 of further space is dedicated to research across separate rooms to support
 specialist areas of Exercise Physiology & Sport Performance, Cardiovascular Physiology,
 Psychophysiology and Body Composition. These areas are supported by specialised equipment
 invested into the Unit including eye-tracking system (ALS), further 8-channel wireless EMG
 system (Delsys), transcranial magnetic stimulator (MagStim), 3 online breath-by-breath expired
 gas analysis systems (LoveMedical), near infrared spectrometer (Oxiplex TS), cardiac ultrasound
 (VividQ), vascular ultrasound (Terason), laser Doppler (Perimed), Dual-energy X-ray
 absorptiometry (GE Lunar iDXA), pulse wave velocity (SphygmoCor), motorised (h/p/cosmos) and
 non-motorised (Woodway Curve) treadmill, isokinetic dynamometer (Kin-Com), programmable
 (Lode Excalibur Sport with pedal force measurement, Lode Corival, Tacx) and non-programmable
 (SRM trainer) cycle ergometers, cardiac stress-test / supine ergometer table (Lode Angio),
 automated desktop systems for blood lactate and glucose concentration (Biosen) and standard
 haematology.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Health Sciences Building also houses dedicated research facilities for the Biosciences,
 representing a shared space with other units of assessment for analysis of human blood and
 tissue samples. This 309m2 space includes a dedicated phlebotomy suite and facilities for the
 measurement of metabolic and molecular markers of human function in a regular biosciences
 area. Two most recent additions to these labs include a semi-automated clinical chemistry testing
 system (RX Masino, RANDOX) and a sophisticated Biochip Immunoanalyser (Evidence
 Investigator, RANDOX); both have broad applications in Sport and Exercise Science research.
 Measurement techniques via HPLC, colorimetry, ELISA and biochip array technology are
 supported. The size and scope of these facilities enabled the high volume of research outputs
 from simultaneous staff and postgraduate research projects, across the various Research Groups
 in the Unit and School of Health Sciences as a whole.

 The Health Sciences Building was supplemented by further investments of £7.5m in adjacent on-
 campus indoor and outdoor sport facilities (sports building including modern gym and strength &
 conditioning suite, 3G football pitch, tennis/netball courts, rugby pitch). Crucially, the University
 explicitly dedicated these resources not only as leisure and teaching facilities for students and
 staff, but for research space for the Unit. Moreover, this component of the overall investment also
 houses on-site physiotherapy and sport rehabilitation clinical facilities as dedicated support for the
 Musculoskeletal Health Research Group, which was the result of a further £80k investment to
 repurpose a portion of the newly developed facilities.

 The comprehensive nature of these facilities was instrumental in undertaking an interventional
 RCT in older adults (NCT02912130), which involved an interdisciplinary team of academics and
 two PhD students. With a multidisciplinary approach, the study recruited >100 participants into
 four intervention groups (Exercise Training, Protein Supplement, Exercise Training + Protein
 Supplement, and Control) to investigate their impact on musculoskeletal health and function
 through a broad range of measurements including bioelectrical-impedance (skeletal muscle
 mass), muscle strength, neuromuscular fatigue and activation of key upper and lower extremity
 muscles (EMG), blood biomarkers, 3-D gait analysis, and measurements of physical performance.
 The involvement of researchers from Nutrition and Psychology disciplines enabled correlational
 analysis between musculoskeletal health and other key factors. Hence the physical research
 environment enabled achievement of one of our key strategic priorities, namely the solving of real-
 world issues through multi- and interdisciplinary approaches.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The fostering of key research collaborations external to the university at local, national and
 international level has been a central strategic aim (i.e. strategy iii) to enable research groups to
 enhance the research environment and produce impactful research. Consolidation and
 diversification of external collaborations have been achieved through a concentrated effort by Unit
 members to establish and nurture research collaborations, networks and partnerships. To this
 end, the Unit has forged external links resulting in local, regional, national and international
 collaborations and partnerships. During the current assessment period, the Unit has published a
 considerable number of papers in collaboration with UK-based and internationally-based
 researchers to achieve its overall strategic aim. The following section provides details of key
 research collaborations and wider contributions specific to each of the Unit’s research groups.

 Professor Khaiyat has been an Honorary Senior Clinical Research Fellow for the past 15 years
 with a major clinical Upper Limb unit in the region (Liverpool Upper Limb Unit – Liverpool University
 Hospitals). This has served as a basis for a deliberate strategy for the Musculoskeletal Sports
 Medicine research group to develop a robust, internationally recognised upper limb research
 profile with a strong and broad range of networks. Consequently, a firm research collaboration

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with the Liverpool Upper Limb Unit at the Liverpool Royal and Broadgreen University Hospitals
 NHS Trust is now in place, with the latest collaborative project currently ongoing in relation to
 reverse shoulder replacements. Five upper limb consultants and three upper limb physiotherapy
 specialists are involved in this research collaboration. In addition, the research group has formed
 a Shoulder/Upper Limb Research Partnership with the English Institute of Sport (EIS) which is
 now a formal research partnership agreement signed in July 2018, after four years of informal
 collaboration, leading to two major research projects and research outputs. This has also led to a
 new joint research collaboration involving both EIS and the School of Calisthenics
 (https://schoolofcalisthenics.com/). Professor Khaiyat has also been an Honorary Fellow with the
 University of Liverpool (Musculoskeletal Science Research Group and Musculoskeletal Biology II,
 Faculty of Health and Life) since 2013, fostering collaborative work with renowned researchers
 including Professor Frostick (Head of Musculoskeletal Science Research Group), Professor
 Graham Kemp (Head of the Department of Musculoskeletal and Ageing Science), Professor
 Fisher (Head of the Medical Physics and Clinical Engineering), and Professor TakTak (Consultant
 Clinical Scientist).

 Links with several other key stakeholders enrich the strategic aim of the Musculoskeletal and
 Sports Medicine research group. The development of an interdisciplinary research project
 investigating the health benefits of tennis (as described in Section 1) further exemplifies our
 successful collaborative approach to research. The research team established key collaborations
 and partnerships both locally (e.g. Liverpool International Tennis Tournament, local tennis clubs,
 local governing and health bodies) and nationally (e.g. Lawn Tennis Association). The research
 received a broad range of media coverage (e.g. BBC Breakfast, BBC Northwest, BBC Radio
 Merseyside, and Echo Daily). One of the key collaborative areas of research for this group has
 been around healthy ageing interventions (with a focus on older adults >65 years old) leading to
 a number of clinical trials. Findings from the ‘Exercise and Nutrition Interventions in Age-related
 Sarcopenia’ trial (NCT02912130) produced a number of nutritional and exercise related guidelines
 for older adults, which were disseminated during invited national (e.g. North-west Frailty Unit NHS,
 British Dietetic Association) and international (e.g. American Academy for Nutrition and Dietetics
 in Washington) talks and a series of local interactive events in the Liverpool area (e.g. at the
 Liverpool Central Library and the Randox Health Week). The ‘Musculoskeletal Health and
 Function in Older Adults with Iron Deficiency Anaemia’ trial (ISRCTN13325706) led by Professor
 Khaiyat is an externally funded RCT in collaboration with the Liverpool University Hospitals NHS
 Foundation Trust (Dr Chris Wong). The research team, having secured ethical approval, now
 seeks to fund the appointment of a research fellow. In addition to the above, the research group
 led on an impactful interventional RCT (NCT02904980) in children with Developmental
 Coordination Disorder in collaboration with researchers from Exeter University and University of
 Calgary.

 More widely, this research group has published with colleagues across the UK (e.g. University of
 Exeter, Manchester Metropolitan University, University of Liverpool, Northumbria University,
 Liverpool John Moores University, English Institute of Sport), and also internationally (e.g. India
 [Karamsad], Canada [Calgary], Australia [Melbourne], Iran [Tehran]). The biannual Shoulder
 Rehabilitation Conference, organised by the Musculoskeletal Sports Medicine group hosted more
 than 150 delegates from Costa Rica, Turkey, Belgium, Sweden, Norway, Ireland and from across
 the UK. The conference hosted a number of educational workshops for delegates provided by
 commercial sponsors such as Physiquipe (UK), VICON (United States), GE Healthcare (UK) and
 Noraxon (United States). These workshops, centred on key research equipment with
 multidisciplinary applications, positively facilitated networking and discussions around potential
 collaborative projects.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Exercise, Performance and Health Physiology research group has published with colleagues
 from numerous other academic institutes from across the UK (e.g. University of Hull, Liverpool
 John Moores University, Edge Hill University, University of Huddersfield, York St John University,
 Wythenshawe Hospital Manchester, University of Surrey, Leeds Beckett University, University of
 Chester, Swansea University, University of Leeds) and internationally (e.g. France [Lyon], Tunisia
 [Sfax], Australia [Melbourne, Sydney], The Netherlands [Groningen], Belgium [Leuven], Japan
 [Kobe, Tokyo], United States [Atlanta, Manhattan], Iran [Rasht], Switzerland [Bern], Hungary
 [Budapest], Italy [Bologna]). Associate Professor Marwood’s research in relation to critical power
 and type 1 diabetes has led to a number of key collaborations both nationally (Dr Carrie Ferguson,
 University of Leeds) and internationally (Dr Shunsaku Koga, Kobe University, Japan; Professor
 Harry Rossiter, Lundquist Institute). The research findings of Associate Professors Marwood and
 Roche, in relation to exercise tolerance and type 1 diabetes, has led to strong collaborations with
 the Royal University Liverpool Hospital, working with clinical populations to provide novel exercise
 interventions.

 Sports performance collaborations are also a key aspect for the research strategy of the Exercise,
 Performance and Health Physiology research group. Dr Malone’s research in this area,
 particularly with a focus on professional football (soccer), has led to a series of key collaborations
 with both university institutes (e.g. Prof. Barry Drust - University of Birmingham, Prof. Werner
 Helsen - University of Leuven, Belgium) and professional teams/organisations (e.g. English
 Football Association (the FA), Union of European Football Associations (UEFA), English Premier
 League). Research by Dr Malone investigating the link between football training practices and
 injury rates has led to a number of media appearances (e.g. Manchester Evening News;
 https://bit.ly/34BCuln, talkSPORT, BBC Football Show) and dissemination of the work to
 practitioners working at professional clubs (e.g. Bournemouth FC, Everton FC, Atlanta United FC,
 FC Groningen). Dr Malone’s recent work investigating maturation effects within elite youth football
 has led to collaboration with UEFA to disseminate the recommended maturation calculations for
 players at their international coaches’ education workshops. Dr Malone recently received an
 external research grant from a commercial company (Nuroco Energy, UK) to investigate the
 impact of medium chain triglyceride supplementation on cognitive performance. The initial work
 has resulted in several media appearances disseminating the positive findings relating to the
 supplement (e.g. Brain Booster Podcast: https://bit.ly/2Tx1GTN).

 The Psychology of Action and Learning of Movement (PALM) research group has published
 research with a number of both UK-based (Liverpool John Moores University, Manchester
 Metropolitan University, Bangor University, University of Chester, University of Exeter, Edinburgh
 Napier University and international (Canada [Hamilton, Ontario]) institutes. Key external
 collaborators across the research group include Dr Greg Wood (Manchester Metropolitan
 University), Dr Moira Lafferty (University of Chester) and Dr Gavin Lawrence (Bangor University).
 The CHANGES (Challenging Hazing and Negative Group Events in Sport) research project led
 by Associate Professor Wakefield has led a large number of workshops delivered in collaboration
 with the University of Chester with the aim of impacting society’s views on sport hazing (ICS2:
 Transforming the culture of student sport initiation ceremonies: time for a CHANGE). These
 intervention workshops have been delivered across a number of universities within the UK,
 culminating in a presentation at the annual British Universities & Colleges Sport (BUCS)
 conference. The positive feedback from this presentation has led to a formal partnership with
 Scottish Student Sport (SSS) to deliver the CHANGES workshops and help to further train others
 at a regional level (https://bit.ly/37M6k8U). Recent research from the research group into the
 effects of football heading on potential concussion and memory loss received national media
 attention, with interviews published in the Daily Mail (shorturl.at/ovxP9), Liverpool Echo

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (https://bit.ly/3oB3LfS), talkSPORT and BBC Radio Merseyside. This work has led to further
 discussions with the FA around future collaborative research projects regarding best practice
 guidelines for both grassroots and adults playing football to limit the negative health impacts of
 football heading.

 A key aspect of the strategic aim across the Unit’s research groups was to enhance the research
 environment and produce impactful research (Section 1). Throughout Section 4 we have
 described the various research projects, external activities and impact that our research has had
 to benefit the research base, economy and society. Our future aim is to continue with the
 dissemination of our research to the public to ensure both scientific rigor and the translation of
 outcomes to the key stakeholders.




                                                                                           Page 15
