Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: Education (Sub-panel 23)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction

 1.1.1 Located in the School of Education and Social Work (ESW), research in Education at
 Sussex is recognised internationally for being socially engaged, policy relevant, and practice
 near.

 1.1.2 Since REF2014, we have enhanced our distinctive research culture ensuring that research
 and researchers flourish. Rooted in critical scholarship that advances theory, engaging with
 diverse quantitative and qualitative methodologies, our research environment fosters:

      •     Cross-world understandings: Connecting local, national and international research in
            education and allied fields across six continents, spanning high, mid- and low-income
            countries.
      •     Challenging hegemonies: Advancing theory and shaping debate in policy, research
            and practice across critical areas including peacebuilding, citizenship, inclusive
            pedagogies, childhood and family lives, and equity in higher education.
      •     Rigour and innovation in methodology: encompassing quantitative and qualitative
            approaches, including innovative, creative, participatory and longitudinal methods for
            formative research and complex evaluation.
      •     Making a difference: scaffolding connections with interdisciplinary and practice fields,
            shaping research agendas and informing policy and practice development, driving
            improvements in educational and social outcomes.

 1.2 Unit context and structure

 1.2.1 A School-wide Research Strategy ensures the coherence of the operational and resource
 environment, encouraging porous boundaries between Departments and disciplines. Our
 research is enhanced by dedicated infrastructural support embedded within ESW and across our
 research-intensive University.

 1.2.2 Our strategy is driven by the School Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange
 (DRKE) (0.4fte, shared since 2018 by Boddy, Education and Thomson, Social Work), working
 with the Head of School (Hampden-Thompson), Departmental Research Leads (DRL) (0.2fte,
 Gazeley, Education) and Research Centre Directors [1.2.5]. An interdisciplinary mindset, with
 impact integral to our research, is enabled by a cross-School Academic Lead for Impact (0.2 fte
 since 2016; Hickle, Social Work).

 1.2.3 The School of Education and Social Work is a founding partner in two University strategic
 research investments [3.2.1]:

  •       The Andrew and Virginia Rudd Centre for Adoption Research and Practice (now Rudd
          Partnership with University of Cambridge);
  •       The Sussex Humanities Lab [see institutional ES].

 1.2.4 As partners in the ESRC SeNSS Doctoral Training Partnership since 2016 and previously
 as an ESRC Doctoral Training Centre, since REF2014 we have also significantly enhanced
 the postgraduate research environment [2.4].

 1.2.5 Central to the delivery of our research and impact strategy are four research centres that
 provide supportive intellectual communities, public interfaces and extensive local, national and
 international reach for our core research areas. CIE and CIRCY are among the ten University

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Centres, recognised for world-leading research that addresses significant international
 challenges, redefines the parameters of one or more disciplines and maintains a portfolio of
 significant grants over a sustained period. The four centres each have a distinctive focus:

    •   The Centre for International Education (CIE; Director Novelli), established in 1989, is a
        world-leader in research on education and development in the Global South and the
        diaspora. CIE incorporates research streams on (i) teacher quality and education policy
        formulation and implementation; (ii) the political economy of education, particularly in
        contexts of conflict and crises; and (iii) education, citizenship, and youth identities. CIE is
        an integral part of the consortium – including researchers from the School of Global
        Studies, the Science Policy Research Unit (SPRU) and the Institute of Development
        Studies (IDS) – that has secured the University’s position as number one for
        development studies in the QS World University Rankings for the last three years.
    •   The Centre for Innovation and Research in Childhood and Youth (CIRCY; Director
        Lefevre, Social Work), established in 2012, is co-hosted with the Department of Social
        Work and Social Care. CIRCY is internationally recognised as a leading interdisciplinary
        centre for childhood and youth studies, encompassing social and educational research,
        with particular excellence in methodology relating to engaging experts by experience,
        research ethics, qualitative, longitudinal, cross-national and digital methods as well as
        complex social policy evaluation. Its Sussex membership spans social sciences,
        humanities and the Brighton & Sussex Medical School (BSMS).
    •   The Centre for Higher Education and Equity Research (CHEER; Director Morley),
        established in 2007, is renowned for its internationalism, critical sociology and richly
        theorised research on inequities in higher education. CHEER has far-reaching influence,
        informing HE scholarship and policy internationally, with recent research addressing HE
        internationalisation, students’ mental health, and Gypsy, Roma and Travellers’
        participation in HE. CHEER’s work on gender and leadership has been pivotal in the
        development of Advance HE’s leadership programme for women, Aurora, which has
        reached more than 7,000 women from nearly 200 different institutions across the UK and
        Ireland since its launch in 2014.
    •   The Centre for Teaching and Learning Research (CTLR; Director Gazeley),
        established in its current form in 2014, has recognised expertise in inclusive teaching
        pedagogies, including research on reading strategies and the prevention of school
        exclusions. It exemplifies the strength of our local research connections, facilitating the
        development of practitioner-researchers and supporting scholarship among non-CAT A
        staff (e.g., Daubney and Mackrill’s influential work on Music Education in England) and
        local stakeholders (research collaborations and research-based MAs).

 All research-active staff and postgraduate researchers (PGRs) belong to at least one centre,
 with co-membership encouraged.

 1.2.6 The research centres have complementary expertise, enabling a highly collaborative
 intellectual community. All have good connections with policy makers and stakeholders,
 engaging research beneficiaries locally, nationally and internationally [4.1] to aid the mutual
 transfer of insights between research and practice. Centres make significant contributions to
 teaching and postgraduate research, including: PhD, MA and Undergraduate pathways in
 Education; International Education; Childhood and Youth; and Initial Teacher Education.

 1.3 Research Aims

 1.3.1 Education’s REF2014 statement identified future priority areas:
        (i) to continue the drive for excellence in research and impact;
        (ii) to increase synergies between research centres; and
        (iii) to strengthen research leadership, via expansion and increased support.




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.2 As demonstrated below, these aims have since been elaborated through two successive
 Research Strategies and align with University’s 2025 Research with Impact Strategy. All
 supporting data cited refer to the current REF period, unless otherwise stated.

 1.4 Continuing the drive for excellence in research and impact (Aim i)

 1.4.1 Building on existing strengths, we have enhanced our world-class research environment,
 delivering excellence in research and impact. Key components include:

    •   establishing an enduring infrastructure to support impact and knowledge
        exchange, and mainstreaming impact facilitation: investing in dedicated resources
        and people, and prioritizing impact in staff development, workloads, recognition and
        rewards; providing consultancy, face-to-face and online training and materials; impact
        showcasing events; contributions to community festivals and events; and effective use of digital
        and social media [2.2, 2.5, 3.2];
    •   evolving our staffing strategy and enhancing frameworks and resources for staff
        development: strengthening induction and research mentoring and introducing a
        transparent study leave policy [2.1, 2.2];
    •   developing rigorous mechanisms to enhance quality in outputs and grant
        proposals: including mandatory internal review (by mentor, centre lead and DRKE) for
        external funding bids; research centre and mentor-led support for writing and bid
        development [2.2.3, 2.2.4, 3.1.3];
    •   enhancing Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) and contract research staff
        representation on ESW’s Research Committee [2.5.2, 2.2.6];
    •   enhancing internal systems to maximise support for doctoral research [2.4.4].

 1.4.2 Our achievements are evidenced by our research portfolio, which has advanced theory
 and methodology whilst achieving significant impact, illustrated in our grant capture, case
 studies and outputs profile [see also Sections 3 and 4]. For example, as documented in our
 Education and Peacebuilding in Conflict-Affected States case study, Novelli and colleagues
 have established a major programme of research on education and peacebuilding, breaking new
 theoretical ground and generating £1.29m of grant income from diverse funders (e.g., ESRC,
 AHRC, UNICEF). In collaboration with international academic partners and leading NGOs, this
 research has also enabled doctoral and post-doctoral researchers to work within international
 teams.

 1.5 Increasing synergies between research centres (Aim ii)

 1.5.1. A strategic commitment to cross-centre synergies (within Education, and across the
 School and University) has generated new activities, outputs and significant grant capture.
 Examples include Boddy’s awards for research and evaluation (£700k, funders including DfE,
 NESTA, British Council), involving partnerships with CHEER, CIRCY, Psychology, Rudd and the
 Centre for Social Work Innovation and Research (CSWIR).

 1.5.2 Cross-centre connections are a catalyst for linking research users across disciplines and
 professions. Every year multiple events are co-hosted or co-sponsored. For example, in 2018,
 CIRCY and CSWIR co-sponsored CTLR’s Annual Change Event on Trajectories into Higher
 Education for Care Experienced Young People, enhancing interprofessional, interdisciplinary
 engagement.

 1.6 Strengthening research leadership, via expansion and increased support (Aim iii)

 1.6.1 Research leadership and support are stronger. Fixed terms for leadership roles provide
 opportunities for career progression and fresh perspectives. Centre co- and deputy director roles
 afford leadership experience for mid-career researchers and facilitate succession [2.2.6].



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.6.2 The appointment of an Academic Lead for Impact in 2016, with dedicated professional
 services support, was part of a strategic commitment to make impact integral to our research
 practice. Key mechanisms are detailed in 3.2.2.iii. With independent scrutiny and input from
 research beneficiaries at all stages, our case studies exemplify the effectiveness of this
 approach. This includes (i) building on and extending stakeholder partnerships and (ii) scaling up
 and sustaining impact. All three case studies received infrastructure support from the Higher
 Education Innovation Fund, as well as dedicated impact consultant input, administrative support,
 and workload relief for authors.

 1.6.3 The DRKE role has been pivotal in driving Education’s research strategy within the context
 of cross-school systems, contributing to University research management and research strategy
 groups (e.g., Covid-19; GCRF/ODA). The School Research Committee involves centre leads,
 University Research Development Officer and Research & Enterprise Coordinator, Impact and
 Department Research Leads (DRLs), and representatives of contract research staff and the
 School EDI Committee. DRLs act as UoA leaders and drive department-level strategy,
 overseeing mentoring and REF quality assurance. Systems and processes linked to EDI [2.5]
 are integral to all elements of this strategy, reflecting a commitment to tackling exclusion and
 discrimination in all forms.

 1.7 Ethics and integrity

 Sussex is a signatory to the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and its principles
 underpin robust governance frameworks ensuring the highest standards of research ethics. All
 staff and PGR empirical research is subject to approval by the Social Sciences Cluster Research
 Ethics Committee (CREC), supported by ethics training, mentoring and supervision. Staff and
 PGRs are inducted into the University’s Code of Practice for Research, provided with regularly
 updated guidance and resources, and mandatory training in data privacy, EDI and safeguarding.
 Education has played a key role in University ethics and governance systems; Boddy chaired
 the CREC and served on the University Research Governance Committee, and Ethics Officers
 (Marshall, Morley) have driven developments in pan-university ethics application templates and
 revisions to University research sponsorship policies.

 1.8 Open Access

 We are committed to enabling public and academic access to our research, going beyond
 institutional obligations. This involves utilising ‘green’ route systems for new outputs at the point
 of acceptance, working proactively to ensure compliance. ‘Gold’ access is encouraged and
 resourced for outputs with value for practitioners, experts by experience, or researchers in low-
 income contexts (e.g., Attia, Boddy, Crossouard, Morrice, Novelli, Sayed). Research centre
 communications highlight new publications, including access links.

 1.9 Future strategic aims

 1.9.1 The ESW Research with Impact Strategy (2019-25) aligns with the Sussex 2025 Strategic
 Framework. It sets out our intent to sustain a distinctive research culture, enhancing our
 reputation for interdisciplinary excellence and challenging conventional thinking. Our strategy
 commits us to a vision of research that:

    •   makes a difference to policy, practice and lived experience in education;
    •   is informed by a rigorous, critical and ethical perspective on knowledge production;
    •   actively engages with those who have a stake in our work;
    •   builds research-capacity, including via co-production.

 1.9.2 Ambitious yet realistic plans ensure resilience in an uncertain environment that includes
 Covid-19 and wider (e.g., Brexit and climate-related) precarities for HE and for research funding.
 The distinctive expertise of our research centres is pivotal within future objectives:


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Capacity and profile: To drive sector-wide improvements in research, policy and
        practice, strengthening partnerships with our stakeholders and shaping agendas through
        leadership and collaboration, locally, nationally and internationally.
    •   Culture: To further evolve our environment, with enhanced attention to equalities and
        diversity, research staff support, technological sophistication and climate change
        resilience.
    •   Challenges: To attract, nurture, and sustain research talent, strengthening our capacity
        for investigator-driven and policy/practice-driven and tendered research, through close
        alignment of research, teaching and staffing priorities in appointments and succession
        planning in research leadership.
    •   Excellence: To enable high quality research trajectories, underpinned by excellent
        research mentoring, internal peer review and transparent research management.
    •   Diversification: To further diversify our funding portfolio and align with funder priorities,
        valuing a mix of national and international research councils, government, third and
        private sector funders, and nurturing strategic relationships with non-HEI research
        collaborators.

 1.9.3 We will capitalise on success in methodological and theoretical innovation to deliver
 outstanding policy and practice-relevant research across UK and international contexts. This
 includes:

    •   investing strategically to enhance capacity to deliver large-scale, mixed methods
        evaluation research; and
    •   utilising our track record of successful interdisciplinary collaboration to lead
        partnerships within and beyond the University, generating research and impact
        opportunities locally, nationally and internationally.

 1.9.4 Securely positioned within a forward-looking research-intensive university, our environment
 will be characterised by:

    •   a supportive, reflexive and adaptive mindset, capitalising on new opportunities and
        overcoming challenges;
    •   enhanced research leadership and management systems;
    •   accessible, tailored, formative advice for staff engaged in research and impact;
    •   strategic support for researchers at all career stages across all facets of the research
        process, including bidding (to diverse funding streams), outputs, knowledge exchange
        and impact;
    •   high quality interactions with research users and research beneficiaries;
    •   international connections, embracing sustainable and technologically innovative
        approaches.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy

 2.1.1 Our current staffing profile of 20.6 fte CAT A staff comprises: three Early Career
 Researchers (Hancock, Higgins, Hoffmann); four other Lecturers (Attia, Danvers, Delprato,
 Webb); five Senior Lecturers (Gazeley, Hinton-Smith, Marshall, Sutherland, Westbrook); two
 Readers (Crossouard, Morrice); and seven Professors (Boddy, Dunne, Morley, Novelli, Sayed,
 PVC for Education and Students Coate, and Head of School Hampden-Thompson).

 2.1.2 Our recruitment strategy prioritises vitality, sustainability and interdisciplinary
 expertise in core research and teaching areas, enabling succession and research leadership.
 New appointments have rebalanced our staffing profile, consolidating and increasing expertise in
 strategically important areas: quantitative methodologies (Delprato; Hampden-Thompson);


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international education and development (Higgins; Hoffmann); primary education and inclusion
 (Kingston; Hancock); and higher education equity and pedagogy (Attia; Coate, Danvers).

 2.1.3 The number of CAT A staff has reduced (20.6 fte, from 24.2fte at REF2014): four
 Professorial staff retired and/or moved to Emeritus roles (Hey; Hudson; Lewin, Pryor); others
 have progressed to new posts, including Akyeampong (establishing a centre on International
 Education and Development at the Open University) and Durrani (promoted to Professorship at
 Nazarbayev University, Kazakhstan). As of the REF2021 census date we have 2fte vacancies
 that will be filled during the next REF period.

 2.1.4 Almost all CAT A staff (20/22) are on permanent contracts; part-time and flexible working
 arrangements (Flexible Sussex) are supported and three have chosen to work part-time. Job-
 sharing of key leadership roles – including the School Director of Research and Knowledge
 Exchange (DRKE) since 2018 – builds on recognised good practice in EDI and has
 strengthened cross-school collaboration [2.5].

 2.1.5 Education’s staffing strategy reflects our commitment to invest in people and systems.
 All CAT A staff have 40% of workload allocated to research, within which 10% is ringfenced bidding
 and writing time. Flexibility to move between CAT A and Teaching & Scholarship contracts is
 two-directional (4 staff during period), subject to staff request and supported by mentoring.

 2.2 Staff development

 Through regular review we have expanded, refreshed and consolidated staff development
 mechanisms, including:

 2.2.1 Individual research plans (IRPs) and mentoring: All research active staff meet at minimum
 termly with a research mentor to discuss bidding, outputs, impact, obstacles and enabling factors,
 development needs and career aspirations. As live documents, IRPs foster a dynamic approach
 to planning and are reviewed annually.

 2.2.2 A refreshed study leave policy has improved transparency and equity. CAT A staff are
 encouraged to apply for research leave (normally 1 term per 3-year cycle), supported by mentors and
 subject to a research plan assessed by committee against clear criteria including EDI. Short periods of
 ‘exceptional research leave’ can be awarded (e.g., enabling bidding, writing or impact activity to
 deadlines).

 2.2.3 Improved support for bidding, writing and impact planning is provided by mentors, senior
 research centre colleagues, DRKE and impact specialists. Internal peer review is mandatory for bids,
 and (following positive experiences in REF preparation) is available for outputs, targeted where
 appropriate (e.g., for ECRs).

 2.2.4 Colleagues benefit from a wide array of research training and development opportunities,
 both mandatory [1.7] and optional (e.g., writing, bidding, mentoring), group and one-to-one peer
 support. External training is funded by a central department budget (£15K) and is available to all
 research-active staff for conferences, with ECRs prioritised. Additional funds are accessed through
 Principal Investigators’ devolved accounts [2.3], research centre budgets [3.2.2i] and the Sussex
 Research seed-funding scheme.

 2.2.5 Staff development is integrated with mentoring and appraisal processes; review of these
 documents informs strategic research planning. Both address EDI (e.g., barriers to research)
 and have assessed impacts on staff of Covid-19. School research and impact awaydays engage
 staff in strategy development. Research centres provide targeted opportunities for ECR
 collaborations with experienced PIs, and a School group for contract researchers provides
 enhanced peer support. We proactively support career progression within transparent pan-
 university systems, with promotions at all levels (e.g., Readerships for Crossouard and Morrice;
 Professorships for Akyeampong, Boddy and Sayed).

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2.6 We aim for a research environment where scholars at all career stages can flourish and
 progress. Staff development is tailored to needs and career stage:

    •   Research staff: We work with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
        Researchers. The University Research Staff Office co-ordinates training and provides
        one-to-one coaching. ESW research staff have dedicated induction, webpage, handbook,
        and mentor support. They are encouraged to participate in research centres, and a ‘new
        researcher showcase’ promotes the visibility of their work. The ESW contract research
        group is represented on the School Research Committee.
    •   ECRs: have protected teaching loads for one year and are encouraged to apply for
        internal pump-priming, network development and impact funds. Mentoring and
        collaboration with experienced colleagues, within and across research centres,
        scaffolds progression from Co-I to PI, supervision of doctoral research and uptake of
        leadership roles. For example, ECR Higgins recently became PI of a £209k UNICEF
        grant (with Novelli as Co-I).
    •   Mid-career staff: are supported through centres, mentoring, peer review, study leave
        and internal funding to become established PIs, internationalise their work and take
        leadership roles. For example, Webb now co-directs CIRCY and has been supported to
        secure a University Joint International Development Challenge Fund (IDCF)/ Sussex
        Sustainability Research Programme grant (£23k), the foundation for a future consortium
        bid.
    •   Senior staff: investment in training/coaching has supported those moving into senior
        leadership roles (e.g., Hampden-Thompson). Experienced colleagues benefit from centre
        networks, internal peer review, mentoring, seedcorn funding and study leave, enabling
        substantial individual, collaborative and strategic grant capture and major publications.

 2.2.7 During the period, 23 periods of study leave were granted, distributed equitably across
 all career stages. This investment has facilitated high-quality outputs and enabled new bid
 development (e.g., Crossouard’s £150k British Academy award). Sabbatical visits have enriched
 international research and doctoral networks (e.g., Boddy’s 2016 visit to the University of Chile
 resulting in two PhD studentships for Sussex funded by CONCIYT, the Chilean National
 Commission for Scientific and Technological Research).

 2.3 Recognising research and impact achievement

 Research and impact achievement are criteria for probation, promotion and discretionary pay
 awards. PIs are allocated 10% of research contribution income for flexible use to support
 research. Individual and collective research and impact achievements are highlighted in
 research centres’ dissemination (e.g., annual reports), reported to Senate, University Council,
 publicised and celebrated locally. Distinctive impact achievements are recognized through
 University Awards, with Morrice recognised in 2018 for Exceptional Research Impact.

 2.4 Research students

 2.4.1 We have sustained a vibrant, inclusive doctoral research community, consolidating
 our reputation for excellent postgraduate research and supervision. Our PhD programme,
 managed by the Sussex Doctoral School, includes the SeNSS DTP (established 2016). One of
 14 ESRC-recognised DTPs, SeNSS offers the highest quality +3 and 1+3 PhD training (full- or
 part-time). Staff in Education contribute to Doctoral School modules (e.g. Researching
 Childhood & Youth) that reach across the University. The Education PhD Convenor (0.2fte)
 works closely with their SWSC counterpart and the School Director of Doctoral Studies (0.4fte).

 2.4.2 During the current REF period, 187 postgraduate researchers (PhD and EdD) enrolled in
 Education, including part-time students (Table 1). Recruitment to the EdD was suspended in
 2015/16, in order to focus on our PhD provision. This strategic decision was guided by School-
 wide imperatives to consolidate quality with cost-effectiveness. Benefits have included:

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •     targeting of supervisory resources [2.4.4];
    •     improved completion rates [2.4.5];
    •     new PhD pathways in Childhood & Youth and International Education & Development;
    •     increased uptake of the part-time PhD pathway by local stakeholders.

 Table 1. PGR enrolment by number (N) and full-time equivalent (FTE) since REF2014

             2013-       2014-     2015-      2016-      2017-       2018-     2019-       Total
              14          15        16         17         18          19        20
            n    fte     n fte     n fte     n   fte     n fte      n   fte    n fte      n      fte
  PhD       11    10    10   8.5   6    6    8    7.5    10   10   11   8.5    46   37   102 87.5
  EdD       15    7.5   19   9.5   14    7   13   12.5   6     3   6     3     12    6   85 48.5
  Total     26   17.5   29   18    20   13   21    20    16   13   17   11.5   58   43   187 136

 2.4.3 Sustainable recruitment is enabled by cross-School and pan-university supervisions
 (e.g., Gender Studies, Medical School, Psychology, IDS). Our diverse cohort includes students
 supported by employers or self-funded and those with prestigious scholarships from
 international funding bodies (e.g., British Council Commonwealth Scholarships; CONICYT Chile
 and Mexico) and ESRC (9 pre- and 7 post-SeNSS awards in Education).

 2.4.4 We have strengthened administrative support, increased attention to the supervisory
 match and emphasised cohort-building with cross-school induction processes and peer-led
 support. These developments have in turn informed University reviews of doctoral admissions,
 examination, induction and pre-submission procedures. Students’ wellbeing is additionally
 supported by the Student Life Centre and other University initiatives. Students are jointly
 supervised (with active engagement of both supervisors) and almost all CAT A staff supervise
 PGRs. Mechanisms include:

    •     training supervisions (first-time supervisors matched with experienced supervisor,
          additional 50:50 workload allowance);
    •     annual progression reviews;
    •     progression to fieldwork following independent review of an extended proposal;
    •     proactive monitoring of supervision records so potential issues are swiftly addressed;
    •     peer-facilitated Research-in-Progress seminars;
    •     enhanced support in relation to Covid-19, including EDI impacts (e.g., for student
          parents).

 2.4.5 Since REF2014, we have more than doubled the number of doctoral degrees awarded
 (from 41 to 96), significantly improving completion rates within the maximum registration
 period (from 67% in 2014/15 to 90% in 2019/20). Average completion and retention rates over
 the period are 76% and 72%, respectively. Excellent results across a range of indicators in
 the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey include highest at Sussex for research
 culture.

 2.4.6 In addition to provisions standard to a research-intensive environment (e.g. induction,
 handbooks, dedicated offices, online learning portal) we focus on:

    •     Community: Each student belongs to at least one research centre and their work is
          highlighted in centres’ dissemination. Centres facilitate PGR internationalisation (e.g.,
          CHEER’s joint doctoral events with Umeå’s Postgraduate School of Educational
          Sciences, 2014, 2016). School and central funding for peer-led initiatives support PGR
          reading, writing and support groups and interdisciplinary awaydays.



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Opportunities for remunerated positions include small roles on externally funded
        grants (e.g., Kosbar, Morley’s Humboldt project), as Research Centre Fellows (e.g.,
        Rodriguez, CIRCY) and leading Doctoral Research in Progress seminars.
    •   Personal, professional and research development, includes regular training needs
        analysis with training opportunities provided through SeNSS DTP and Doctoral School
        with dedicated funding for external training (e.g. NCRM) and conference participation.
        PGRs are supported towards research impact through bespoke workshops and
        dedicated office hours. Many undertake the HEA-accredited PGCertHE (led by Danvers).
    •   We support PGRs to publish their research, including (in 10 cases) through co-
        authorship with staff and research collaborations (e.g., Bulgrin with Sayed for the Open
        Society Foundation/Education International).

 2.4.7 We are attentive to PGR career progression. Students in professional roles (e.g.
 government, schools or NGOs) typically gain enhanced status. At least 10 have secured
 academic posts elsewhere (e.g., Fuller, Cambridge; Leyton, Alberto Hurtado, Chile; Emerson
 and Salvi, Portsmouth), or were appointed at Sussex following competitive recruitment (e.g.,
 Danvers; Mazandarani). Others secured positions in UK and international organisations (e.g.,
 Wanjala, UNICEF; Iyer, NatCen), or won prestigious post-doctoral grants (e.g., Wadhwa ESRC
 fellowship, Brunel; Jovanovic, Harvard).

 2.5 Promotion of equality, diversity and inclusion

 2.5.1 Underpinning our research environment are values of respect and tolerance, recognising
 and valuing difference. This commitment aligns with the University’s Inclusive Sussex Strategy
 2025 (including initiatives to renew institutional Athena Swan bronze award, attain Race Equality
 Charter Bronze award, and Disability Confident Leader status, and inclusion among Stonewall
 Top 100 Employers). Involvement in significant University initiatives includes Morrice’s Co-Chair
 role in Sussex securing University of Sanctuary status in 2020, for good practice with refugee
 communities.

 2.5.2 In 2017, a School EDI Champion was been appointed and since then a new EDI
 Committee formed. A comprehensive EDI Strategy includes a Race Equality Action Plan and
 preparation of an application for School-level Athena Swan bronze award. EDI Committee is
 represented on all key School committees and promotion panels and contributes to University
 Working Groups. A School Wellbeing Advisory Group engages widely to enable wellbeing,
 awareness and zero tolerance of bullying and harassment. The School has a BAME staff and
 PGR group which holds a termly open forum to share support and resources and communicate
 any feedback or concerns to the School. Diversity in the Workplace training is mandatory for
 all staff, with training on unconscious bias required for recruitment and promotion panels or REF
 roles. Additionally, the University and School:

    •   provide equipment and accessibility resources in addition to reasonable adjustments
        for those with disabilities;
    •   proactively support maternity/parental leave, including ‘keeping in touch’ days and
        return planning;
    •   offer phased return from sick leave, with calibrated workload and mentor support;
    •   encourage and support remote work (before/during/after Covid), flexible working for
        colleagues with caring responsibilities and discourage out-of-hours emails;
    •   offer on-site childcare;
    •   provide a mix of bespoke staff training, both mandatory (see above) and encouraged
        (e.g. disability awareness, bullying and harassment);
    •   encourage participation in staff networks (LGBT+; trans/non-binary; BAME; and
        disability networks) and women’s action learning sets;
    •   attend to EDI in appraisals, IRPs and study leave applications, and explicitly
        addressed EDI issues in planning response to Covid-19 impact;
    •   celebrate diversity in communications and dedicated School and research centre

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        events (e.g. One World Week, LGBTQ+ and Black History Months).

 2.5.3 Commitment to EDI has ensured that REF processes have been transparent,
 inclusive and equitable, exceeding DORA and Sussex REF Code of Practice requirements:

    •   All staff on standard teaching and research contracts are considered to hold
        significant responsibility for research (no research staff are independent researchers).
        Three contractual changes from CAT A to non-eligible were requested and agreed for
        personal career choice (Thompson, Shepherd, Williams). One person notified
        individual circumstances.
    •   Mentoring, individual research planning and study leave have maximized each
        individual’s contribution to our collective submission, taking a rounded, respectful
        approach to individual profiles and circumstances.
    •   Everyone in REF decision-making roles has undergone EDI and unconscious bias
        training. All review/selection processes were explained fully to all staff, with individual-
        level information shared on a ‘need to know’ only basis.
    •   An internal output review group (IRG) comprised all professors/centre directors. Other
        non-Professorial colleagues were invited to join the group during later rounds as a
        professional development opportunity. The process included benchmarking, author
        self-rating, two independent internal reviews and at least one external review.
        Explanatory and formative feedback were provided to authors.
    •   Case studies were developed and selected through extensive consultation and
        formative feedback between lead authors, the University RQI Team, external advisors
        and a School Impact Advisory Group.
    •   Final scrutiny of our submission by the IRG and EDI Lead confirmed equitable and
        inclusive representation, proportionate to distribution of protected characteristics and
        career stages among CAT A staff (with no discrepancy between the self-reported
        characteristics of researchers in the department and the proposed final selection of
        outputs by gender, age or career stage).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income

 3.1.1 Research income has increased significantly, with almost £6M in new awards during this
 REF period. We have successfully diversified external funding, doubling UK research council
 income and significantly increasing funding from charities and other non-EU funders,
 rebalancing a decrease in funding from UK Central Government. Key funders include:

    •   UK Research Councils (£1.13m);
    •   Other non-EU (e.g., UNICEF, Queen Rania Foundation) (£1.02m);
    •   UK Central and Local Govt (e.g., DfE, DFID, British Council, local government) (£805k);
    •   Non-EU industry (e.g., World Bank, Geneva Global) (£389k);
    •   Charitable funders (UK and international, e.g., Mastercard Foundation, Educational
        Endowment Foundation, Oxfam) (£327k);
    •   EU government (e.g., Marie Słodowska Curie initiatives) (£222k).

 3.1.2 All CAT A staff have engaged in bidding since REF2014, with the exception of one recently
 appointed ECR (Hoffmann, being mentored for a major starting grant). Since REF2014, CAT A
 staff in Education collectively applied for almost £20m of funding. At an average of £33.8k of
 research income awarded per fte, HESA data for 2018/19 ranked Sussex Education 12th in the
 UK for research income (6th in our HEI comparator group).

 3.1.3 Support for effective bidding has been a strategic priority. Our success rate is strong
 (39%), and the profile of researchers bidding and securing external funds spans all career
 stages with colleagues moving into significant PI roles (e.g., Morrice, Queen Rania Foundation,

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £147k). These developments reflect the effectiveness of staff development and capacity building
 [2.2], and systems for internal peer review and quality assurance. Our reputation and extensive
 networks [Section 4] ensure diverse invitations to tender (from local government to international
 NGOs), as with Dunne’s partnership with the Institute of Development Studies in a major DFID-
 funded study of children’s agricultural work in Africa.

 3.1.4 External grants range from short, targeted kickstart funding (e.g., £500 to Danvers, Covid-
 responsive, Sussex Learning Network) to major national and cross-national research
 programmes (such as the £1.85m AHRC GCRF Network, jointly led by Novelli). Smaller grants
 are commonly practice-near – for example Gazeley and Hinton-Smith’s 2016 evaluation for
 Aimhigher London South, examining the benefits of utilising care-experienced coaches to
 support HE access. Targeted bidding has established new research areas, such as Morley’s
 Higher Education Internationalisation and Mobility grant (EU H2020 Marie Curie RISE, £12k)
 which broke new ground in studying the experience of Gypsy, Roma and Traveller students in
 Higher Education.

 3.1.5 Invited and directly tendered research comprises 25% of our portfolio. This includes
 work for international agencies such Queen Rania Foundation which has funded research on
 ‘assessing educational strategies and interventions adopted in Jordan as a response to the
 Syrian Crisis’ (2018, £147k). It also includes UK government, where we led a runner-up
 consortium bid to be Research Partner for the What Works Centre in Children’s Social Care
 (WWCSC) (£3.5m), for whom we are approved evaluators. Consortia bids with other
 organisations often involve NGOs (e.g., Research in Practice) and independent research
 organisations (e.g., ECORYS, NatCen), leading to successes such as Gazeley’s collaboration
 with ECORYS in the evaluation of DfE’s Alternative Provision Innovation Fund, a major policy
 investment targeting provision for young people educated outside mainstream schools.

 Our expertise in complex evaluations is exemplified by Boddy’s leading role (in partnership
 with SWSC colleagues Ruch, Lefevre, Luckock) in two successful evaluation framework bids to
 the DfE Children’s Social Care Innovation Programme, including a national Evaluation of Pause
 (supporting women at risk of repeated removals of children into care), for which Boddy was PI
 (£403k). Across these projects, teams have included Sussex colleagues in and beyond
 Education [4.1.2], including Hampden-Thompson, Wheeler (ESW PhD alumni, post-doctoral
 researcher on Pause evaluation), Banerjee and Harold (Psychology) and Barrow (Business
 School), as well as collaborators Research in Practice and Ipsos Mori.

 Since 2020, Boddy has also led the University’s strategic partnership with NatCen. Their joint
 research for the Nuffield Family Justice Observatory – a pair of evidence reviews (one Covid-
 responsive) of contact for children in care or adopted – is already informing policy and practice
 development for organisations including Cafcass [4.1.4].

 3.1.6 Diversified income streams include increased consultancy and secondment activity,
 aided by the University’s Innovation and Business Partnerships team. Synergies between
 research and consultancy build impact and new opportunities. For example, Attia, Danvers and
 Hinton-Smith’s professional development training partnerships with the Nigerian National
 Universities Commission and the Parliamentary Institute of Cambodia informed the development
 of Hinton-Smith’s new British Academy grant. Westbrook’s four-year research-led consultancy
 for Sightsavers UK in Uganda (with Kyambogo University) enabled an inclusive primary teacher
 training programme that reached 108 teacher trainers in 54 colleges.

 3.2 Infrastructure for research and impact

 3.2.1 We benefit from the University’s strategic research investments in organisational
 infrastructure, including:

 •   Sussex Research which administers the University’s Research Development Fund, with
     internal funding initiatives to stimulate new ideas and interdisciplinary synergies (e.g.,

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     International Research Partnership Network funding; Joint International Development
     Challenge Fund; and specific Strategic Development Fund initiatives such as the Sussex
     Sustainability Research Programme). These enable staff to develop new areas of work and
     expand international networks, stimulating bidding and enabling rapid-response, such as
     Hancock’s research on pandemic experiences for children with SEND and their families
     (other recipients include Hinton-Smith, Webb, Boddy).
 •   A £3 million University strategic investment in the Sussex Humanities Lab and an
     alumnus endowment for the Andrew and Virginia Rudd Centre for Adoption Research and
     Practice. These have generated interdisciplinary collaborations in our core research areas,
     led to prestigious awards and co-authored outputs (e.g., Hampden-Thompson’s work with
     Rudd evaluating the AdOpt intervention, DfE, £202k).

 3.2.2 Our ability to deliver our strategy has been underpinned by:

 i) Core funding for research centres equivalent to £50k per centre per annum, providing
 vital supporting architecture for our research environment. School funds sponsor centre
 directors’ time (0.2fte), research assistance, events and widely disseminated annual reports.
 Across their many functions, centres help spark ideas, enliven our community, and forge
 academic and stakeholder connections. Activities range from reading groups (on themes such
 as gender and citizenship); international, invited and internal work-in-progress events; to ‘coffee
 and collaboration’ and ‘ideas in action’ workshops; and events for local practitioners. We are
 committed to environmental sustainability, with remote/online participation complementing (and,
 under Covid, replacing) in person meetings. The ESW publicity and communications officer
 helps each centre to maintain a distinctive external web presence.

 ii) Mainstream operational and scholarly infrastructure including:

 •   ESW’s Research Support Team, led by the Research and Enterprise Co-ordinator, providing
     professional support for all aspects of research and impact activity and project management.
 •   Central pre- and post-award support led by University Research & Enterprise Services,
     providing: targeted funding alerts (including Research Professional); support and costings for bids;
     contributing to training (e.g., on costing) cross-disciplinary events for strategic funding
     opportunities.
 •   University website and external communications service, complemented by School
     Communications Officer, including dedicated research communications strands.
 •   The Research Dashboard provides up-to-date research management information on bids and
     awards, doctoral research, and links to the Sussex Elements institutional repository for outputs
     (hosted by the Library).
 •   The Library offers 24-hour opening, comprehensive online resources and dedicated
     bibliographic assistance; its Research Hive offers regular training events and PGR space and a
     Research Data Management Librarian who supports planning, archiving and data sharing.
 •   Infrastructure to ensure research integrity and quality, support staff and doctoral
     researcher development and productivity (including through the SeNSS DTP consortium)
     and embed EDI [see Section 2].
 •   IT support and training are provided through ESW, the Doctoral School and University IT
     Services. An extensive range of research software is available.

 iii) Infrastructure supporting research impact is much enhanced:

 •   Central University support, led by the University Research Quality and Impact (RQI) team and
     Research Impact Officer, includes an online Research Impact Toolkit and resources, training,
     one-to-one guidance, and an annual Impact Day. This capacity is utilised in drafting impact
     pathways, embedding and tracking impact throughout and beyond project lifetimes.
 •   ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) awards (6 in Education) support engagement of
     local, national and international stakeholders with research, and evidence-gathering for
     potential impact case studies.


                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   The School Academic Lead for Impact, assisted by an Impact Officer, develops and
     implements our Impact Strategy, drawing on an Impact Advisory Committee comprised of
     research users. An ESW impact webpage has links to proprietary resources, bespoke
     training (in stakeholder mapping, infographics, social media), weekly media relations
     surgeries, and a monthly impact newsletter. Periodic impact workshops/conferences provide
     opportunities for presenting, gaining feedback and sharing good practice.
 •   HEIF funds target impact consultancy and administration, case studies and competitively
     awarded knowledge exchange initiatives, including research-based stakeholder training.
     School-allocated Quick Boost HEIF impact funding supported Delprato to develop a website
     on Spatial Education Inequalities (SEI), enabling granular analysis of educational inequalities
     in 17,000 communities in 30 countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. This work attracted significant
     policy interest (e.g., Flemish Association for Development Cooperation and Technical
     Assistance, 2019), and lays the foundation for further interdisciplinary research.
 •   All research staff have access to a Media Relations Officer who provides a regular weekly
     drop-in session and supports engagement with media organisations, including writing copy.

 3.2.3 Our research environment relies on a well-coordinated professional services system.
 The ESW Research and Enterprise Co-Ordinator (Massey) is pivotal to effective research
 administration (including open access requirements) and works closely with DRKE, DRLs.
 Together with PGR administrators and academic leads, she also manages the annual Doctoral
 progression review. The new role of ESW Impact Officer has added dedicated professional
 services support for research impact, including case study development.

 3.2.4 The ESW Research Associate Pool makes an important additional contribution to
 Education’s research infrastructure, established through a rolling, transparent recruitment
 process involving Research Centre leads and DRKE. Successful applicants – many are current
 or recently completed research students – have access to small-scale and short-term paid
 research opportunities that can support wider plans for career development. Examples include
 PhD alumna Kirby’s collaboration with Webb on the TRANSFORM-iN EDUCATION initiative.

 3.2.5 Improvements in facilities available to all staff include a new ESW staff room to enable
 informal and cross-departmental networking. The Head of School worked closely with the Lead
 for Professional Services to ensure staff and research student offices were refurbished in 2017
 and from spring 2020 made Covid-safe for those without access to alternative workspaces.
 Research staff have access to the University’s wide range of modern and flexible conference
 facilities, including The Attenborough Centre for the Performing Arts. These venues have
 hosted a range of research and stakeholder activities.

 3.2.6 Researchers in Education also benefit from The Keep (a purpose-built archive and
 historical resource centre which stores, conserves and gives the public access to the records
 of its three managing partners: The East Sussex Record Office, The University of Sussex
 Special Collections, and Local History Collections). It is home to the Mass Observation archives
 (the focus for PhD research, Courage) including the ‘Everyday Childhoods’ collection (for which
 Boddy provided ethics expertise), utilised in advanced research training for PGRs.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration with academic and non-academic partners

 4.1.1 Education’s success in socially engaged, policy relevant, and practice near research is
 enabled by existing and new relationships with academic and non-academic partners, making a
 significant contribution to the University’s 2025 Research with Impact and Engage for Change
 Strategies. Our research spans institutions, disciplines and professional fields, creating the
 critical mass necessary for interdisciplinary teams, access to research opportunities and
 participants, and to ensure our reputation, credibility and voice in fields we seek to influence.
 Collaborations with charitable, NGO or stakeholder collaborators is routine, including national
 (e.g., NatCen) and international (e.g., Madesh Nepal) partnerships.

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.1.2 The strength of our collaborative environment is illustrated by:

    •   Interdisciplinary partnership with Sussex colleagues in other disciplines includes co-
        supervision of 37 PGRs (including current students) with colleagues in 12 other
        disciplines. Eleven of our 53 externally funded projects involve internal interdisciplinary
        partnerships, such as: Evaluation of the Future Ready Fund, NESTA, with Banerjee
        (Psychology); Inequalities in School Exclusion, Office of the Children’s Commissioner,
        with Marrable (Social Work); Optimising Refugee Resettlement, ESRC, with Brown
        (Psychology) and Collyer (Geography).

    •   Collaboration across institutions is illustrated by:
        (i)   Co-authorship: as an indicator, Scopus data on outputs (August 2013 to July
              2020) record co-authorship with researchers affiliated with 48 UK institutions;
              40% (68 out 170 of Scopus-recorded outputs) involve international co-authors
              from a further 63 institutions across 28 countries in six continents.
        (ii)  Funded collaborations with more than 40 HEIs, including in the UK (e.g.,
              Hampden-Thompson, with Universities of Durham and York, Education
              Endowment Foundation Evaluation of Affordable Online Maths Tuition) and
              internationally (for example Crossouard, with Modibbo Adama University of
              Technology, Nigeria and University of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, British
              Academy, Youth, Gender and Education: Changing Landscapes of Work in Rural
              Sub-Saharan Africa).
        (iii) Hosting 18 international visiting and associate fellows, from HEIs in five
              continents (including Deakin University, Australia; Trinity College Dublin, Ireland;
              TISS, India; Universidad Los Andes, Colombia; University of Kelaniya, Sri Lanka).
        (iv)  Holding 12 visiting appointments, including 9 international visiting/adjunct
              professorships (e.g., University of Gothenburg; OsloMet University; Monash
              University).

 These collaborative opportunities bear fruit in diverse ways. For example: CHEER’s partnerships
 in Japan, supported by an internal award from the University’s International Research
 Partnerships and Networks Fund in relation to internationalisation in higher education, have led
 to bids, joint publication and support for PhD students. A research visit (Morley, Attia, and PhD
 scholar Paul Roberts) gave rise to internationally co-authored publication and a major event as
 part of CHEER’s Higher Education, Knowledge Exchange and Policy Learning in the Asian
 Century project (2017).

 4.1.3 Our collaborative approach is enabled by:

    •   Outward-facing research centres with authoritative public profiles communicating our
        values and expertise to collaborators and research users [1.2.5].
    •   Internal pump-priming funds providing opportunities for networking towards
        collaborative bid development [3.2.1].
    •   University Research and Enterprise networking initiatives to stimulate multi-partner
        bids in response to strategic initiatives (e.g., Sutherland and Westbrook, Sussex
        Research Development Fund investment to develop a bid on reading comprehension, in
        partnership with Psychology) [3.2.1].
    •   Visiting opportunities from and to other institutions.

 4.1.4 Our commissioned research for government, policy makers or service providers
 [3.1.1], relies on trusting relationships, enabling our research to responds to and shape
 commissioning priorities. We also work with a range of non-academic partners, ensuring the
 meaning and value of our work for research users, and in order to deliverthe combination of
 skills and specialist experience required for complex evaluations. Examples not already
 mentioned include:


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Sayed’s ESRC award, Engaging teachers in peacebuilding in postconflict contexts:
        evaluating education interventions in Rwanda and South Africa, collaborating with
        UNICEF;
    •   Novelli’s ESRC award Social Movement Learning and Knowledge Production in the
        Struggle for Peace with Social Justice: Case Studies from Four Conflict-Affected
        Contexts, working with War on Want;

 4.1.5 Extensive professional networks ensure close collaboration with beneficiaries to
 generate new knowledge:

    •   Collaborations with trusted local partners (e.g. Sutherland acting as Regional
        Representative for the South-East for United Kingdom Literacy Association since 2013,
        and founding the Brighton, Hove and Sussex English Teachers Reading Group;
        partnerships/consultancy with Sussex Learning Network, Danvers, Gazeley, Hinton-
        Smith).
    •   Strongly embedded links with community and service user organisations include
        Hancock’s board membership for the International Council for Children’s Play; Marshall’s
        partnership with the charity Music in Hospitals and Care; Hinton-Smith’s founding
        membership of the Association for Academic Outreach (established in 2018), working on
        matters including response to government on the role of civic universities; Boddy’s roles
        within child welfare NGOs including Research in Practice Partnership Board, Fostering
        Network Policy Board.

 These relationships enrich our research and our environment, including through
 practitioner/stakeholder participation in our research centres, CPD and doctoral programmes.
 The value of such connections is exemplified by Hoffmann’s membership of the Education
 Working Group of the C19 People’s Coalition in South Africa. Her work has included a survey
 completed by 40% of schools in the country (almost 10,000 schools) to monitor the impact of the
 pandemic, reported in national media. In addition, her analysis for the Coalition of proposed
 budgetary cuts to health and welfare led to parliamentary submissions, including a presentation
 to the South African Parliament, livestreamed on public television.

 4.2 Engagement with key research users/beneficiaries

 Further engagement with research users and beneficiaries makes it possible extend the
 significance and reach of our work, providing evidence for policy development and acting as
 consultants/advisers to stakeholder organisations in our areas of expertise. This includes:

 4.2.1 Delivering research-based training, workshops, masterclasses and webinars to
 education and other practitioners and managers locally, regionally and nationally (e.g.,
 promoting literacy, refugee welfare, contact and family justice, tackling gender-based violence,
 higher education equity).

 4.2.2 Developing training materials and resources: Hinton-Smith’s toolkit for care leavers;
 Sayed’s UNESCO-funded Global Synthesis of Teacher Education Policy (2015); Westbrook’s
 contribution to the Teach observational instrument (World Bank’s Technical Advisory Board for
 inclusive development).

 4.2.3 Shaping public narratives through dialogue including workshops and open events.
 Examples include:

    •   Reading for Fun Changes Lives, Sutherland’s community collaboration with Brighton’s
        Jubilee Library (2016);
    •   Boddy’s participation in a 2015 Panel for the All Party Parliamentary Group for Looked
        After Children and Care Leaving with Edward Timpson (DfE Minister) and 2017 public
        lecture at Battersea Arts Centre for National Care Leavers’ Week.

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Dunne’s work (2017-19) with a variety of public stakeholders linked to the Troubling
        Muslim Youth Identities book (including Dialogue Society; Community Works; Brighton &
        Hove Interfaith Contact Group; Brighton & Hove Muslim Forum).

 4.2.4 Providing written and in-person policy briefings, including through invited lectures, for
 local government, NGOs and national governments in the UK and internationally. For example:
     • Gazeley’s evidence to the Parliamentary Select Committee on Alternative Provision and
         to the Timpson review on School Exclusions (both 2018).
     • Novelli (2016) for the World Bank on ‘The Role of Education in Peacebuilding:
         Opportunities, Obstacles & Openings’;
     • Morley (2015) Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting on ‘Women in Higher
         Education Leadership in South Asia’;
     • Dunne (2014) ‘Unique challenges for women and girls’ education?’ for Bureau of
         Intelligence and Research in the U.S. Department of State and the National Intelligence
         Council.

 4.2.5 Maintaining active digital and social media profiles, through regular contributions to
 centre, project and network websites, blogs, podcasts, @Twitter and Facebook. For example,
 Hoffmann’s article in The Conversation about her work with the C19 People’s Coalition in South
 Africa [4.1.5] has had 55k downloads to date.

 4.3 Wider contributions to society

 Our strong track record of making a difference to society goes well beyond impacts discussed in
 case studies. Our impacts range from professional practice to shaping policy and in particular
 defining new conceptual territory with national and international governments. The following
 examples showcase the significance and reach of our work, including the pathways through
 which we exert influence locally, nationally, and internationally.

 4.3.1 Morley’s EU-funded HEIM project provided evidence for the Campaign to Widen Access to
 Higher Education for people from the Gypsy, Traveller and Roma (GTR) communities, within the
 House of Lords, led by Baroness Janet Whitaker and Professor Margaret Greenfields of
 Buckinghamshire New University. Drawing on the same research, Hinton-Smith contributed to a
 2019 Round Table on GTR Inclusion for the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local
 Government. Danvers now supports a network concerned with GTR access to HE in Sussex,
 delivering targeted outreach in a local school and working with the Sussex Widening
 Participation team on the development of contextualised offers.

 4.3.2 Boddy’s Beyond Contact study provided evidence for a 2018 DfE Expert Group ‘Improving
 Permanence for Looked After Children’ and was cited in Sir Martin Narey’s independent Review
 of Residential Care (2016) for DfE. She was interviewed (and cited) in Narey and Ower’s (2018)
 subsequent review of Foster Care in England, and the research also formed the basis of a
 critical review (2017) commissioned to inform the Family Rights Group/Your Family, Your Voice
 Inquiry into Voluntary Placement Arrangements.

 4.3.3 Sayed’s international research on teacher education has had widespread influence. For
 example, following his UNESCO evidence synthesis [4.2.2], he was appointed to the Ministerial
 Task Team for the Review of Textbooks in South Africa and worked as technical advisor and
 synthesis writer for UNICEF and UNESCO on the development of the post-2015 Global
 Education Monitoring Report. In 2016, Westbrook and Sayed participated as ‘thought leaders’ at
 meeting in Kigali, Rwanda, focused on strengthening Secondary schools in Sub-Saharan Africa

 4.4 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline and interdisciplinary field

 Selected examples include:



                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4.1 Morley’s contribution to equity in higher education, evidenced by roles for the following
 major bodies: Scientific Advisory Board of European Women Rectors Association (EWORA),
 Brussels (2016 ongoing); Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) Postgraduate Advisory Board (2013-
 18); Equality Challenge Unit Academic Round Table (2013-15); and the GEXcel International
 Collegium for Advanced Transdisciplinary Gender Studies, Sweden (2013-16).

 4.4.2 Westbrook’s contributions in international pedagogy, including advising the Bill and
 Melinda Gates Foundation on developing their research agenda on the Science of Teaching
 Foundational Literacy and Numeracy (2019 ongoing). She also serves on the World Bank’s
 Technical Advisory Board for the inclusive development of the Teach observational instrument.

 4.4.3 Boddy’s contribution on methodology, research ethics and governance, including:
 ESRC Working Group drafting the Framework for Research Ethics (2015); European Research
 Council Ethics Expert (2012 ongoing); work with Nuffield Council on Bioethics on ethics in
 clinical research with children (2014); UKCDR Advisory Group and research on Safeguarding in
 International Development Research (2019); and chairing a Nuffield Family Justice Observatory
 Task and Finish Group on Quality Standards in Qualitative Research (2019).

 4.4.4 Morrice’s contribution to migration studies, including co-founding the European Society
 for Research on the Education of Adults (ESREA) Network on Migration, Transnationalism and
 Racisms.

 4.5 Wider contributions

 4.5.1 In recognition of their contributions to their disciplines:

     •   Sayed was honoured with the first national Research Chair in Teacher Education in
         South Africa and is Founding Director of the Global South Centre for International
         Teacher Education at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology. He received the
         South African Education Research Association Award (2018) for outstanding lifelong
         contribution to educational research in South Africa.
     •   Morley (2008) and Boddy (2020) have been made Fellows of the Academy of Social
         Sciences, and Morley is Fellow of the Society for Research into Higher Education
         (2007).
     •   Danvers received the 2018 Newer Researchers’ Award, Society for Research into
         Higher Education.
     •   Hoffmann’s invited participation in the 2020 Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting on
         Economics in recognition of her work on effective ethical regulation of experimentation in
         social policy.
     •   PhD awards include: Fuller 2017, British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy
         Research Award; Alkhansa, 2019 BERA prize for Best Doctoral Thesis; Kirby, second
         prize in the BERA Early Career Researcher Presentation (2019).

 4.5.2 We make significant contributions to national and international grant awarding bodies.
 Three staff serve on or chair major funding panels for: ESRC/GCRF, Academy of Finland
 (Boddy); Research Council of Norway (Novelli); DFID (Westbrook), and 13 CAT A staff reviewed
 funding proposals, working for 14 key UK and international funders including:

    •    UK and international research councils: ESRC; EPSRC; Academy of Finland; Research
         Council of Norway; Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada;
    •    UK government: British Council; Department of Health/NIHR; DFID;
    •    Charitable funders: British Academy; Nuffield Foundation; Oxfam Ibis; and
    •    European Union.

 4.5.3 We act in key roles for leading peer review journals across several fields:



                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   5 editors, guest and/or associate editors, including: Hoffmann (Co-Editor, Journal of
        Contemporary African Studies); Boddy (Co-Editor, Children & Society); Morley (Guest
        Editor, Discourse); Hinton-Smith (Associate Editor, Women’s Studies International
        Forum); Delprato (Associate Editor, International Journal of Education Development).
    •   12 on editorial boards, for 24 key journals or academic book series, including:
        COMPARE (Novelli); Assessment in Education (Crossouard); Educational Review
        (Hampden-Thompson); International Journal of Educational Development (Sayed);
        Problems in Music Pedagogy (Marshall); Routledge Critical Studies in Gender and
        Sexuality in Education (Morley); Genealogy (Webb); International Journal of Lifelong
        Education (Morrice).
    •   All CAT A staff conduct peer review, serving more than 70 academic journals (UK
        and international) and academic publishers including Routledge, Palgrave,
        Bloomsbury, Taylor & Francis, and Policy Press. Publications span education and allied
        disciplines such as child psychology; political economy, sociology; methodology and
        interdisciplinary fields including: childhood & youth, family, gender, migration,
        development and health.

 4.5.4 Our researchers are sought-after advisory board members for national and international
 research institutes/networks and research steering groups, exemplified by Boddy’s roles for the
 International Advisory Board of the Danish National Centre for Social Research, CoramBAAF
 Research Advisory Group, DfE Tackling Child Exploitation Evaluation Advisory Group (chair).

 4.5.5 We take prominent leadership roles in national and international research associations,
 including: Higgins, Co-chair of the Peace Education Special Interest Group for the Comparative
 and International Education Society; Hoffmann, member of the Council for the Development of
 Social Science Research in Africa; Marshall, Deputy Chair, Forum Europäische Musikpädagogik;
 Novelli, Executive Committee, Education and Development Forum (UKFIET).

 4.5.6 We are regularly invited to showcase our work on prestigious national and international
 academic platforms, and have delivered more than 76 keynote lectures and 68 other invited
 lectures or seminars, spanning 36 countries and six continents, at UK and international fora
 including Universities UK, EUSARF, and the Pan-African Symposium on Education, Resilience
 and Social Cohesion.




                                                                                          Page 18
