Metanoia Institute Unit-level environment (REF5b)



 Institution:   Metanoia Institute



 Unit of Assessment:

 Main Panel A: UoA 4, Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Metanoia Institute is a small but well-established educational charity and professional training
 institution specialising in the field of counselling and psychotherapy. This REF submission
 represents the first time Metanoia Institute has submitted evidence of a growing, collaborative and
 vital research environment to the Research Excellence Framework for assessment.

 Over the past years the Institute has increasingly engaged in research and applied field work, as
 evidenced by involvement in ongoing funded research projects and a growing bank of publications
 and doctorate completions that can be accessed here.

 Metanoia Institute specialises in professional body accredited training programmes for
 counsellors, psychotherapists, counselling psychologists, supervisors, coaches and
 organisational development consultants. For over 30 years, Metanoia Institute has provided
 high-quality professional training through university validated undergraduate, postgraduate and
 doctoral programmes in Counselling, Psychotherapy, Counselling Psychology and allied fields.

 Doctoral students are registered on joint programmes with Middlesex University, with all taught
 aspects and first supervision resting with Metanoia Institute. Current registered numbers are:
    • 99 Doctorate in Counselling Psychology and Psychotherapy by Professional Studies
    • 13 PhD
    • 61 Doctorate in Psychotherapy by Professional Studies
    • 13 Doctorate in Psychotherapy by Public Works

 The number of awarded doctoral students during the current assessment period comprises:
    • 54 DCPsych
    •   6 Doctoral Conversion Programme (no longer running)
    • 30 DPsych by Professional Studies
    • 12 DPsych by Public Works

 More recently, Metanoia Institute has grown a developing centre of research and a reputation for
 practice-based evidence through our own clinic and services. Crucially, the research
 environment at Metanoia Institute is wholly inclusive of service-users. Through the Metanoia
 Counselling and Psychotherapy Service (MCPS), an on-site clinic established in 1997, the
 Institute offers a confidential, low-cost service for the community, providing individual weekly
 sessions for up to a year in duration. MCPS offers counselling and psychotherapy services for
 help with depression and anxiety, post-natal depression, alcohol and/or drug use, parenting
 difficulties, sexual difficulties, relationship difficulties, self-harm, personality problems and coping
 difficulties. MCPS is the largest community counselling and psychotherapy service in the local area
 and provides support to approximately 500 clients per year, considerably enhancing mental health
 provision in west London. This contribution is recognised by the continued statutory grant funding
 from the London Borough of Ealing, which it achieved in 2015 as a part of the Talking Therapies
 Consortium.

 MCPS is based within Metanoia Institute and is partially funded by the LB of Ealing, with clients
 being both NHS and self-referred. The Metanoia clinic allows the Institute to provide placements
 for students, as well as operating a centre for practice-based research. All counsellors,

                                                                                                  Page 1
Metanoia Institute Unit-level environment (REF5b)
 psychotherapists and psychologists at MCPS are in fully supervised training at Metanoia
 Institute, with practitioners representing diverse backgrounds and ethnicities.

 Alongside affordable therapeutic treatment, in 2010 MCPS was established as a research clinic
 using Routine Outcomes Monitoring. This methodology provides a base for practice-based
 research projects in psychotherapy and counselling contributing to the development of
 knowledge within the profession, as evidenced in Section 4. The clinic is a recognised practice-
 based research setting which attracts many academic partners seeking to work with Metanoia
 Institute in the development of knowledge and evidence-based research on the development of
 psychological therapies for mental health and wellbeing. Currently, Metanoia Institute is in the
 process of applying for UKRI registration, based on a successful track record of research
 funding through partnerships, joint awards and research grants from independent sources,
 detailed in Section 3.

 Over the past 12 months of a restricted pandemic situation, MCPS has continued to provide
 counselling and psychotherapy services, both in-person and online. Not only did this ensure
 service continuity through a time of significant need but allowed the ongoing clinical work of
 professional trainees and researchers, fully supported through regulated supervision.

 In addition to the research environment provided by MCPS, Metanoia Institute provides a
 school-based counselling service, Here4You, offering high quality and professional mental
 health services to students in secondary schools and colleges in London. Here4You also
 provides support to secondary school and college staff in order to promote wellbeing. The
 service provides qualified counsellors, trained in the humanistic approach, delivering a
 professional, evidence-based service in collaboration with the young person and school staff.

 The established provision of community-based services at Metanoia Institute is integral to the
 research mission of the Institute. Whilst these services provide crucial and ongoing access to
 community-based psychological therapies, they also provide a fertile ground for practice-based
 research leading to evidence-based practice. Metanoia has become a much sought-after
 collaborative partner for research projects. Furthermore, the community-based psychological
 services offered by Metanoia Institute are centres of excellence for students studying on
 professional programmes, allowing them to engage with clinical placement and service users
 within a fully supervised research environment. Over 150 Metanoia Institute students undertake
 clinical placements within MCPS each year. The interface between the clinic, academic
 programmes and research is a strong attraction for recruitment of trainee professionals, through
 to doctoral level.

 The impact of the Metanoia Counselling and Psychotherapy Service on mental health and wellbeing
 is evidenced through the activities of MCPS as an active research clinic within the London Borough
 of Ealing. MCPS is the largest voluntary sector provider of counselling and psychotherapy in the
 borough, complementing statutory services by providing treatments to patients with complex
 presentations, for a longer duration, and with effective outcomes.

 The mission of Metanoia Institute is to provide excellence in counselling, psychotherapy,
 counselling psychology and applied psychology training and qualifications. In conjunction with
 this, it is the stated purpose of Metanoia Institute to develop and enhance the work and
 reputation of the Institute in sustainable practice-based research and scholarship, through
 fostering an active research culture and provision of accessible and effective educational and
 clinical services to the wider community. The Metanoia Counselling and Psychotherapy Service
 clinic and Here4You are fundamental to this mission, operating at the service-user level to
 advance understanding and evidence-based practice in psychological therapies responsive to
 emerging priorities in the field of mental health and wellbeing.




                                                                                              Page 2
Metanoia Institute Unit-level environment (REF5b)
 2. People

 Metanoia Institute is a small, charity-based training organisation for psychological therapies. It is
 fundamental to the Institute to contribute to knowledge, practice and society in the field of mental
 health services. Employing staff with responsibility for research is demonstrable evidence of a
 vital and sustainable culture of research.

 Dr Biljana van Rijn, Faculty Head of Research and Doctoral projects

 Dr Joel Vos, Senior Researcher with a responsibility for the clinic data and the RCT in
 Transactional Analysis

 Dr Peter Pearce, Faculty Head of Applied Social and Organisational Sciences

 Dr Sophie Bager-Charlson, Director of Studies PhD/DPW and Development, responsible for the
 managements and supervision of these doctoral programmes, and development within the
 doctoral school.

 Professor Simon du Plock, previously Faculty Head of Doctoral Programmes

 Dr Evi Chryssafidou, European Project Officer/Researcher. Currently responsible for the European
 Grant projects, previously responsible for the Research Clinic data Analysis ( 2015-2020)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The research infrastructure at Metanoia Institute promotes an active, lively and contemporary
 research culture which supports evidence-based practice to influence public and professional
 understanding and policy in counselling and psychotherapy. This is achieved through the
 Research Centre in Faculty Two, which operates as a hub for developing subject-related
 research groups and initiatives. Engagement in research groups is open to the wider Metanoia
 Institute community, leading to the development of an inclusive and supportive research culture
 and knowledge exchange.

 Metanoia Institute is organised across three Faculties; Faculty One (Psychotherapy and
 Counselling), Faculty Two (Research and Doctoral Programmes) and Faculty Three (Applied
 Social and Organisational Sciences). There are 132 staff employed at the Institute, representing
 academic and teaching staff, institutional management and administration, clinical and support
 staff. Many contracts are part time, reflecting not only the size and business needs of the
 institution but that many employees are also active practitioners.

 Metanoia Institute is based in the London Borough of Ealing. The Institute owns, outright, two
 large Edwardian buildings, in close proximity, situated around Ealing Common. The buildings
 replicate the therapeutic environment for training, providing a supportive and inclusive
 atmosphere. The property in Gunnersbury Avenue also houses the Metanoia Counselling and
 Psychotherapy Service (MCPS). The clinic is partially funded by the London Borough of Ealing.
 The Metanoia clinic allows the Institute to provide placements for students, as well as operating
 a centre for practice-based research. All counsellors, psychotherapists and psychologists at
 MCPS are in fully supervised training at Metanoia Institute, with practitioners representing
 diverse backgrounds and ethnicities.

 In addition, Metanoia Institute provides a school-based counselling service, Here4You, offering
 high quality, professional mental health services to students in secondary schools and colleges
 in London. Here4You also provides support to secondary school and college staff in order to
 promote wellbeing. The service provides qualified counsellors, trained in the humanistic
 approach, delivering a professional, evidence-based service in collaboration with the young
 person and school staff.

                                                                                               Page 3
Metanoia Institute Unit-level environment (REF5b)


 Projects, impact and activity developing from the Research Centre is channelled through the
 Metanoia Institute Research Committee. The membership of this committee includes academic,
 teaching, clinical and administrative staff as well as students. The Institute’s ethos of quality
 training and practice leads us to engage in developing research partnerships, both locally and
 internationally, with a variety of professional, academic and community groups.

 The oversight of Metanoia Institute research strategy, its monitoring and implementation, is
 delegated to Metanoia Institute Research Committee and approved by Academic Board. The
 strategic aims are:
     • To encourage, support and monitor research, scholarship and innovation to make a
         significant contribution to the Institute’s academic standing.
     • To support the development of high-quality research of relevance to clinical practice and
         the professional field of psychological therapies and related disciplines.
     • To develop a community of practice and facilitate the exchange of research knowledge
         and ideas.
     • To support the development of intra and inter-disciplinary research.
     • To support the development of applications for external funding for appropriate research
 The Metanoia Institute Clinical Ethics Research Committee oversees all research applications
 and proposals and acts as a reference point for clinical ethics matters.

 The strategic aims are further elaborated by the Metanoia Institute Research Centre which
 clarifies the Institute’s research emphasis on practise-based research; specifically the
 development of psychotherapy practise and a practitioner-researcher voice in clinical practice
 and research, development of psychotherapy treatment theories, routine psychotherapy practice
 and community engagement. To that cause, publications by Metanoia Institute staff and students
 are primarily focused on psychotherapy and counselling publications which are widely read
 within the profession.

 Metanoia Institute is committed to promoting a sustainable research culture. This is given
 structure through the Faculty of Research and Doctoral Programmes, where academic staff
 linked to project management and the research clinic are based. An annual Research Academy
 and regular research seminars are supported by Metanoia Institute. Members of the wider
 Metanoia Institute community are invited to attend. In March 2020 a Communications and
 Marketing Officer was appointed at Metanoia Institute, a post which has facilitated a lively and
 active engagement with and promotion of research. Over the past 12 months Metanoia Institute
 has considerably increased social media presence and voice in relation to research activity,
 outputs and public engagement.

 Research project funding received during the assessment period:

 Assessment of Mental Health of Refugees and Asylum seekers by Youth Workers (AMORAY)
       Grant Recipient: Metanoia Institute (partner)
       Period: 2020-2022
       Total amount awarded:214 000 E
       Funders: Erasmus. EU programmes

 Transactional Analysis psychotherapy as treatment for depression. Randomised control trial.
       Grant recipient: Metanoia Institute
       Period: 2019-2022
       Total amount awarded 150 000 euro
       Funders: European Association for Transactional Analysis

 Reviewing and validating the scientific foundations of Transactional Analysis theory and
 practice
       Grant recipients: Metanoia Institute


                                                                                            Page 4
Metanoia Institute Unit-level environment (REF5b)
       Period: 2019-2020
       Total Amount Awarded: £16 461
       Funders: European Association for Transactional Analysis

 Avatar Based Counselling with Pro Real in Secondary Schools. Case Study
    Grant Recipients: ProReal Ltd.
    Funders: NHS Small Business Research Initiative (SBRI) Healthcare
    Period: 2015-2016
    Total Amount Awarded: £970 000
    Metanoia Award: £15 400
    Role: PI

 Avatar Based Counselling with Pro Real in Secondary Schools. Evaluation
    Grant Recipients: ProReal Ltd.
    Funders: NHS Small Business Research Initiative (SBRI) Healthcare
    Period: 2015-2016
    Total Amount Awarded: £970 000
    Metanoia Award: £38.302
    Role: Research Associate

 Avatar Based therapy within Prison Settings: Pilot Evaluation
    Grant Recipients: ProReal Ltd.
    Funders: NHS Small Business Research Initiative (SBRI) Healthcare
    Period: 2013-2014
    Total Amount Awarded: £150 000
    Metanoia Award: £40 000
    Role: PI

 Pluralistic Therapy for Depression/Pilot Project
    Grant Recipients: University of the West of England
    Funders: British Psychological Society
    Period: 2014-2015
    Total Amount Awarded: £1500
    Role: Joint PI

 London Borough of Ealing :
 2015-2019 £143.500
 2019-2023 £111.800


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The publications and impact case studies submitted as Metanoia Institute’s first REF submission
 outline the collaborative nature of research within the Institute and the contribution made to
 knowledge, society and community in the field of mental health, counselling and psychotherapy.

 The development of a vibrant and impactful research culture based on the long-standing work of
 Metanoia Institute is evidenced in the publications written by Institute staff, often in collaboration
 with colleagues in the field as part of the co-operative, open and participatory nature of the
 research culture at Metanoia. Research and resulting publications and impact derive directly
 from the practice-based evidence flowing from the Metanoia Institute Clinic and the school and
 community-based services provided by the Institute. In all cases, research centres around
 interventions, understanding and resources to improve mental health and wellbeing, with
 evidence originating from the practical work of Metanoia Institute.

 Three submitted case studies outline the impact of Metanoia Institute’s practice-based research
 and the contribution of MCPS and Here4You, through collaborative projects, to the developing
 knowledge base in counselling and psychotherapy interventions.


                                                                                                 Page 5
Metanoia Institute Unit-level environment (REF5b)
 Research centred around young people’s mental health within educational settings arises from
 the work of Dr Peter Pearce within the Faculty of Applied Social and Organisational Sciences.
 Metanoia Institute supports the availability and best evidence -based practice for children and
 young people’s mental health services, specifically in educational settings, through the
 Here4You programme which offers school-based counselling in secondary schools in London .
 Through a range of inter-related activities, including collaborative research, professional
 advocacy and advice as part of a range of health and professional body expert advisory
 committees, the development of specific post-qualification career development trainings for
 professional therapists is directly derived from this evidence-based best practice and the
 establishment of a unique, school-based counselling service.

 This research has occurred alongside and contributed to an increasing government recognition
 of the need for ‘transformation’ of existing Child and Adolescent Mental Health services, set out
 in the Green Paper (Transforming children and young people's mental health provision. London:
 Department of Health and Department for Education, 2017)
 https://assets.publishing.service.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/fil
 e/664855/Transforming_children_and_young_people_s_mental_health_provision.pdf
 The practised-based research has contributed to a Trailblazer site for this National innovative
 policy rollout through the creation of Education Mental Health Teams with Ealing, led by the
 Here4You school-based young people’s mental health service at Metanoia Institute.


 The impact of professional community-based practice in working with young refugees is
 evidenced through the work developed at the Metanoia Institute Clinic through the AMORAY
 project. This Erasmus funded European project provides evidence of the impact of the work of
 Dr van Rijn on developing an approach to clinical assessment developed within the MCPS
 research clinic, and further elaborated with European partners: Asociación La Bien Pagá
 Espacio Escénico, Spain; Institut Corse de formation et recherche en travail social, France;
 IASIS NGO, GreeceThe project will be completed in the autumn of 2021, with outputs which
 include training programmes for those working with young refugees and the provision of
 materials freely available to youth workers working with refugees throughout the EU and the UK.
 This project demonstrates practice-based evidence from the Metanoia Institute clinic providing
 practice-based evidence to impact beyond the field of counselling and psychotherapy,
 addressing broader mental health issues amongst young refugees and providing practical
 materials for those working with them.

 Further cutting-edge research is evidenced through projects exploring digital interventions in
 counselling and psychotherapy. This is an emerging field with a potential for considerable future
 impact in health and social welfare. In counselling and psychotherapy practice, advancement in
 digital technologies provides scope for developing wide ranging interventions for the benefit of
 clients with limited access to mental health services. A series of research projects developed
 within the Metanoia Research Centre, led by Dr Biljana van Rijn, have impacted the
 development of practice and new interventions, with a potential to impact policy in treating
 vulnerable populations. The evaluation of avatar-based technology as an adjunct to counselling
 within a therapeutic community prison (2013-2014) and in school counselling with adolescents
 (2014-2015) was supported through a collaborative project with Roehampton University,
 commercial enterprise and the NHS.




                                                                                            Page 6
