    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Institution: Bangor University (10007857)

     Unit of Assessment: UoA27 English language and literature

     Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

     Overview

     Continuing Bangor’s strategy of aligning key areas of strength in REF2014, this submission
     encompasses a range of thematically-linked research from across the Arts and Humanities at
     Bangor undertaken by researchers in English Literature and Creative Writing, Film, History and
     Music. This strategic drive towards cross-disciplinary, complementary research fosters
     innovative thinking, enhances impact and maximises the research potential of smaller discipline
     areas resulting in a 38.2% increase in FTE submitted from 13.6 (REF2014) to 18.8 (REF2021).
     Our strategy since 2014 has focused on consolidating and expanding strengths, with high
     priority given to increasing our substantial research outputs and growing research impact. Since
     REF2014 the unit as a whole has produced over 222 outputs, including 41 monographs, over 70
     peer-reviewed journal articles, over 110 book chapters, as well as edited volumes, and special
     journal issues.

     This demonstrates Bangor University’s commitment to the sustainability of research and impact
     across the disciplines and will remain the core strategy into the next cycle (specified in a
     College-wide Research and Impact Strategy document). The aim is to enable individual
     excellence and collaborative innovation with a continued focus on key strengths and emerging
     areas of expertise within the College of Arts, Humanities, and Business. The College provides a
     central support system including a dedicated research support officer, and supports research,
     impact, and postgraduate researchers with three College Directors for these areas; their
     responsibilities are mirrored by dedicated officers at School level.

     This strategy, which aligns with key UKRI funding principles as well as the four pillars of
     HEFCW’s ‘Vision for Research and Innovation in Wales’ (Excellence; Place; Innovation;
     Collaboration), has enabled the creation of a sustainable, culturally diverse portfolio of research
     which reflects the historic strengths of Bangor University and impacts on culture, society and the
     arts in national and international contexts. Researchers interact with and draw upon the distinctly
     Welsh culture of Bangor’s location and situate it within the global context. They engage with
     colleagues across the Arts and Humanities and further collaborate with those in the Social
     Sciences. This results in innovative research, which is relevant to current global concerns, and a
     long chronological research frame from the medieval period to today. There are three key
     interconnected areas of strength:

           Material Texts and Material Culture (Claydon, Cunningham, Durrant; Hagger; Johns;
            Koehler; McCue, Niebrzydowski; Radulescu; Thorstad; Wilcox)

           Cultural Connections: Wales, Europe and the World (Abrams; Claydon; Conran;
            Hagger; Hiscock; Radulescu; Roberts; Skoulding; Thomas; Thorstad; Webb)

           Creative Writing and Film (Abrams; Conran; Frame; Price; Rumens; Skoulding)

     Research in these areas is fostered through the work of five research centres founded and
     directed by our staff, who provide leadership in a rich research environment, enhanced research
     training opportunities for PG training and staff and ideal hubs for the growth of research impact:

           The Stephen Colclough Centre for the History of the Book
           The Centre for Arthurian Studies
           The R. S. Thomas Centre
           ContemPo – The Centre for Contemporary Poetry


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Centre for Film, Television and Screen Studies

 These clusters and their affiliated centres, explored below, build on research collaborations,
 nationally and internationally, and are central to our growth strategy in recruiting postgraduate
 researchers, developing large grant capture, and fostering collaborations institutionally and
 further afield.

 Material Texts and Material Culture
 Research in this area brings together expertise in literary and historical texts and contexts
 across centuries, with a focus on materiality, adopting a historicist perspective, including the
 editing of early texts and music. There is particular strength in the area of medieval and early
 modern studies, building on the interdisciplinary research collaborations fostered in the former
 Institute for Medieval and Early Modern Studies (IMEMS; 2006-2018, directed by Claydon,
 Radulescu and Wilcox), with the National Library of Wales, the Bangor University Library,
 Archives and Special Collections, and several other repository libraries that Radulescu has
 worked with as a member of the Association for Manuscripts and Archives in Research
 Collections. Ground-breaking research is focused on key editing projects in medieval music and
 theorizing the medieval manuscript miscellany (Cunningham and Radulescu, respectively) and
 material objects used in communication (Johns’s work on medieval seals and gender; and
 Koehler’s on Victorian communication in the age of the postal system). Research impact in this
 cluster has arisen from the IMEMS Hengwrt Chaucer Project at the National Library of Wales
 [see REF3_2] led by Niebrzydowski.

 Emerging new areas of enquiry in this cluster are evident in the work of ECR Durrant’s research
 on the use and re-use of early printed Welsh bibles from the Bangor University collection. His
 second research project, which crosses over early modern sociology and the (material) printed
 text, involves a funded Manchester-led collaboration with Manchester University, on the topic of
 secrecy and Masonic networks. Koehler has recently been elected to the editorship of the
 Thomas Hardy Journal (a journal for both the scholarly community and the general public),
 which marks her as an emerging research leader in the field. Furthermore, Koehler’s research
 on Victorian communication media and technologies, her new British Academy grant focusing on
 the history and culture of engineering bridges in Wales and new AHRC networks grant, along
 with McCue’s BA-funded work on nineteenth-century periodicals bring research in this cluster
 forward chronologically and present new opportunities for interdisciplinary projects.

 Going forward, this research cluster seeks to increase capacity and grant capture, drawing
 particularly on the synergies between key research centres and Bangor University’s Institute for
 the Study of Welsh Estates (ISWE) (on whose steering committee Niebrzydowski sits) and
 working closely with the Archives and Special Collections to improve access to and use of the
 rare materials in research projects and impact activities. Additionally, Bangor University aims to
 consolidate the unit’s international standing in book history through public events locally,
 nationally (including PGR training in collaboration with the National Library of Wales) and
 internationally (including the biennial Early Book Society conference to be hosted in July 2021 by
 Radulescu). Significant investment in the development of the Library, Archives and Special
 Collections, as well as new donations and acquisitions have enhanced research expertise and
 strengths in these areas. They have also enabled the foundation of two new research centres
 that foster activities in this research cluster:

        The ‘Stephen Colclough Centre for the History and Culture of the Book’, founded by the
        late Dr Stephen Colclough, and launched in 2016, is now co-directed by Niebrzydowski.
        The Centre builds on the ‘Cultures of the Written Artefact’ cluster, formerly part of
        IMEMS, which provided the environment for the Hengwrt Chaucer Project [see REF3_2].
        The Centre also runs a series of public ‘Shankland Lectures’ in the historic reading room
        of Bangor University’s library, increases the digital accessibility of research resources,
        hosts research and PGR training conferences and symposia, and participates in external
        events by invitation (e.g. ‘Leafing Through the History of the Book’, Hay-on-Wye, 2018).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        The ‘Centre for Arthurian Studies’, founded and directed by Radulescu since 2016,
        builds on a long-standing international profile in the field since the inception of Bangor
        University and on strong collaborations with the International Arthurian Society, the
        International Celtic Congress and Celtic Studies Associations across the world. The
        donation of the Flintshire Harries Arthurian collection in 2015 and Radulescu’s roles as
        President of the British Branch of the International Arthurian Society (2015-18) and editor
        of the Journal of the International Arthurian Society (2011-17), and the society’s decision
        to place its archives in the custody of the Centre have enhanced the Centre’s
        international standing. Its numerous research events (lectures, conferences), PGR
        training and work with schools and heritage have increased research impact [see
        REF3_2]. Future opportunities for building highly impactful research are present in
        Radulescu’s collaborative project with Royal Mail on a limited series of stamps, and the
        invitation to host the 27th triennial International Arthurian Congress in 2024.

 Cultural Connections: Wales, Europe and the World
 Research in this area focuses on the literary and historical negotiation of cultural boundaries
 within Wales and beyond. In the context of Wales, the interface between linguistic and cultural
 communities is explored in Abrams’s work on the Jewish communities in Wales and Webb’s
 focus on Welsh writing in English, in particular Edward Thomas, Dylan Thomas and Lynette
 Roberts. A Welsh medieval focus is seen in BA postdoctoral researcher Thomas’s work on the
 political relation between Wales and the wider world and Welsh identity in medieval texts, and
 Robert’s research into collective identities in medieval Europe.

 Trans-national and cross-linguistic work on the culture and institutions of medieval and early
 modern Britain within the European context includes seminal work by Hagger on Norman rule in
 Normandy, Thorstad’s work on the sixteenth-century travelling household and McCue’s
 research on the interface between British and Italian culture in the nineteenth century. Hiscock
 has undertaken two major projects in this field exploring the reception of Ariosto’s 'Orlando
 Furioso in English culture and the Marie Curie Sklowodska-funded ‘The Court of Elizabeth I: A
 European Drama’ (at Montpellier III).

 Skoulding's expertise in creative adaptation, experimentation and inter-cultural dialogue is the
 foundation for networking events and conferences such as Poetry and Sound in Expanded
 Translation in 2018, which included public readings. Seminars have regularly been linked with
 public performances, for example, multimedia poets Olga Pek (Czech Republic) and Zuzana
 Husárová (Slovakia) followed by a performance in the Arts Council Wales-funded North Wales
 International Poetry Festival in Bangor, and Samira Negrouche (Algeria) performed in Theatr
 Arad Goch in Aberystwyth after her talk as part of a project with Literature Across Frontiers. This
 connection led to Skoulding and Negrouche's 2019 training workshop for literary translators in
 the same venue as Wales Literature Exchange.

 Research in this cluster benefits from the activities of the Centre for Arthurian Studies and the
 Stephen Colclough Centre for the History of the Book, as well as:

        The ‘R. S. Thomas Centre’, co-directed by Tony Brown, now Emeritus Professor, was
        founded in 2000 following the appointment of R. S. Thomas to an Honorary
        Professorship. The Centre, like the Centre for Arthurian Studies, is unique in the world; it
        includes all aspects of Thomas’s work and hosts rare materials that attract international
        researchers and collaborations, as well as creating impact through the organisation of
        local and national events. The Centre fosters work in the area of Welsh Writing in English
        with dedicated facilities to researchers working on Thomas’s archive as well as
        supporting PGR research. The Centre is currently advising on the renovation of
        Thomas’s house, Sarn-Y-Plas, by the National Trust.

 Creative Writing and Film
 Research in this area explores the creative process and includes internationally respected
 practice as research, as well as research into creative practice and authorship / auteurship

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 across a variety of genres and media. Areas of specialism include intercultural representation,
 class, and bilingualism in Wales. Writers from Bangor work with prestigious institutions in the UK
 and abroad, such as the Society of Authors, the Poetry Society, the Southbank Centre, the Hay
 Festival and the Institut Français. They are frequently invited to read, perform and discuss their
 work at international festivals in Europe and Latin America, supported by Wales Arts
 International and the British Council. Creative writers’ work often relates to a Welsh background
 or landscape, such as Conran’s prize-winning first novel, Pigeon, Rumens’s acclaimed
 collection Animal People and Skoulding’s 2020 Wales Book of the Year Poetry Award.
 Research in poetry focuses on experimental ecopoetics, and translation as a creative practice.
 The ongoing strategy in this area is to foster key themes of creative translation, ecopoetics and
 place, and explore anticolonial synergies in a global context.

 Research and practice in the area of creative writing interfaces well with work in the area of film
 and screen with a complementary focus on the creative process. There is a core specialism in
 the study of Anglo-American film, with work on filmmaking and the industry, authorship,
 representations of stereotypes and history on film, and the screenplay. Abrams, Frame, and
 Price all have research interests that are significantly though not exclusively focused on
 American artistic and intellectual cultures. Recent book publications by Abrams (Stanley
 Kubrick, Eyes Wide Shut) and Price (Storyboarding, Robert De Niro at Work) are strongly
 focused on archival research and on exploring the relationships between precursor texts
 (storyboards, screenplay drafts, meetings, etc.) and realized films. Frame’s The American
 President in Film and Television: Myth, Politics and Representation was runner-up in the 2016
 British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies’ Best Monograph Awards. Research
 in this area has led to significant international collaborations and ongoing research impact, such
 as that arising from participation in the public Festival No. 6 and, in conjunction with BAFTA,
 hosting Keeping Faith and film composer Samuel Sim. Through extensive public engagement,
 Abrams has helped to increase public understanding of Stanley Kubrick’s work, especially
 concerning the role of ethnicity. Both Abrams, as co-founder of Jewish Film and Media, and
 Price, as editor of the Journal of Screenwriting, have been involved in editing and managing the
 key journals in their fields. Success in this area also includes the work of award-winning students
 (who have won BAFTA awards among other prizes), extensive industry links (BBC, Chwarel,
 Barcud, Cwmni Da, The Daily Telegraph) and postgraduate work placements (Llangollen
 International Eisteddfod).

 Research in this cluster is enhanced through the work of two research centres:

        ContemPo, the Centre for Contemporary Poetry, founded in 2006, connects Bangor with
        the universities of Aberystwyth, Brighton, Plymouth and Surrey, and is directed by
        Skoulding. It hosts a series of video-linked seminars, symposia and conference panels
        on critical and practice-based poetics research in five UK universities. Invited poets and
        critics from the UK, USA, Africa and Europe have contributed talks, including the
        distinguished poet and translator Peter Hughes, visiting writer at Bangor 2018-19.
        Seminars also provide valuable presentation experiences for our own postgraduates.
        Having run for 15 years via university videoconferencing suites, ContemPo has moved to
        Zoom in 2020 and seen an expansion in audiences, which now include 40-50 academics
        from institutions across the world and poet practitioners.

        The Centre for Film, Television and Screen Studies, founded in 2019, formalizes links
        across the university and beyond in terms of the study of different forms of media but
        most prominently film. Co-directed by Abrams and Frame and further including Price, it
        serves as a platform for organising further research and networking developments across
        Bangor University. The Centre hosts a dedicated seminar series, with academics and
        industry professionals, as well as various academic events on The American New Wave:
        A Retrospective (2017), 2001: Beyond 50 (2018), and 40 Years of Alien (2019). The first
        and third of these have led to forthcoming edited collections of original essays, published
        by Bloomsbury Academic and Oxford University Press, respectively. The Centre’s
        research income has been enhanced through grants from the British Academy; the

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Rothschild Foundation Europe; the US Embassy in London/British Association for
        American Studies Small Grants; the British Association for American Studies Conference
        Organisation and the British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies.


 Research policies

 As outlined in REF5A, research in these areas is supported at University level with mechanisms
 to ensure research integrity through the University Ethics committee, as well as Codes of
 Practice and Policies covering Research Ethics, Academic Integrity in Research and Research
 Data Management. Each academic school has a dedicated Research Ethics Officer who is the
 main point of contact for queries and referral of proposals to the College Ethics Committee.
 Publication is undertaken in line with Bangor University’s Open Access Policy. Beyond the
 oversight at University and College level, researchers are regularly made aware of the Codes of
 Practice and Policies relating to research. These are factored into staff and PGR research
 training programmes and updates on any changes are highlighted in staff bulletins. Peer review,
 both internal and external, is central to all aspects of research to ensure both quality and
 integrity.


 Section 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 The unit’s staffing strategy is geared to promote and support excellent research of national and
 international significance, to maintain strength and depth across areas of world-leading
 excellence, and to advance local and global engagement and impact. Along with fostering the
 unit’s expertise in the established strength areas, it is central to develop the research profiles of
 ECRs through mentoring and leadership. Since 2014 Bangor University appointed three ECRs
 to strategic posts in order to enhance research strengths in key areas of this unit (Durrant,
 Thorstad, Thomas). Durrant works on seventeenth-century print culture and the material text;
 Thorstad brings new expertise in late medieval and Tudor history, and Thomas’s British
 Academy postdoctoral fellowship has enhanced our Anglo-Norman and Anglo-Welsh research.

 The success of this staffing strategy is seen in the fact that 100% of submitted researchers are
 on permanent contracts. Beyond the three ECR appointments, this REF period saw two
 retirements, several staff moving to part-time or to a full-time permanent contract from a
 temporary part-time one, and three junior staff moving to positions elsewhere. The total of 21
 staff now submitted includes eight professors, three readers, three senior lecturers, six lecturers,
 and one British Academy postdoctoral fellow. Researchers have been supported in their career
 progression, with eleven being promoted in the REF window since 2014: Conran, McCue and
 Webb to Senior Lecturer; Cunningham to Senior Lecturer in 2015 and subsequently to Reader
 in 2018; Hagger to Reader; Niebrzydowski and Skoulding to Reader and subsequently to
 Professor; Abrams, Price and Radulescu to Professor; Frame and Roberts have also moved
 between Lecturer 1 and Lecturer 2 in the same window.


 Staff development

 As an institution with a strong track record in world-leading research and a signatory since 2019
 to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, Bangor University is
 committed to staff support at institutional, College and School levels (REF5A). Central to this is
 the role of senior academics in mentoring early and mid-career researchers. This is done
 formally through the annual Professional Development Review process which involves careful
 career planning, publication milestones, impact and grant capture, workload management and
 identification of development needs. Early career staff are mentored by the Directors of
 Research and Impact in each discipline area and School, as well as senior staff involved in

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 directing relevant Research Centres at Bangor. ECRs are encouraged to take leadership roles in
 the organization of collaborative research events, with Durrant running a research seminar
 series for the literature area, and Thorstad leading another for medieval/early modern history.
 ECRs are further supported to take leadership roles in research impact lectures and events, for
 example, Durrant led on organising Shakespeare’s Globe on Tour visit (2019), mentored by
 Wilcox.

 Researchers in this unit also benefit from a study leave scheme which allowed ten members of
 staff during the current REF period to undertake a sustained programme of intensive research,
 leading to substantial progress in publications, impact development and grant applications.
 Outcomes include the publication of monographs, several major edited volumes, and grants
 including a Marie Curie fellowship (Hiscock); AHRC network (Skoulding); and AHRC
 Leadership fellowship (Skoulding). Research staff are expected and encouraged to protect at
 least one day per week to focus on research during teaching-intensive periods, in addition to the
 more coherent research periods outside teaching weeks, in order to retain research momentum
 (including the preparation of large grant applications) and maintain the vigour of a research-led
 teaching environment. To enable this, teaching is strategically supported by graduate teaching
 assistants.


 PGRs

 The provision for postgraduate researchers within this unit is of international standing. 51 PhDs
 were awarded in the period, representing an increase of 240% since REF 2014 (15 PhDs). PGR
 students at Bangor benefit from a generic institution-wide training programme with workshops
 held throughout the year, and more discipline-specific College-based guidance, plus a School-
 based team of expert supervisors. PGRs are fully integrated into the research culture of
 their Schools and the College more widely and are encouraged to attend research seminars,
 conferences and other research events at Bangor and elsewhere. Students complete an annual
 progress review each year that is chaired by a member of staff not involved in the supervisory
 team. The chair receives confidential reports from the student and the lead supervisor, and will
 act on any issues or conflicts that arise. The meeting discusses the students’ progress,
 addresses training needs, and discusses skills and career development.

 Our PGRs have benefited from the support of prestigious competitive funding linked to Bangor
 University (PhD scholarship from The Worshipful Company of Drapers, awarded to the Centre
 for Arthurian Studies; Bangor University 125 Anniversary scholarships) and international PhD
 awards (China, Jordan, Thai, Ghana, Malaysia Government Funding Scholarship awards).
 Successful PhD supervision by members of this unit has led to invitations to examine theses
 nationally and internationally, in Wales, the United Kingdom (Queen’s Belfast, Birmingham,
 Cambridge, Oxford, Durham, Royal Holloway, University of London, Sussex), Ireland, Europe,
 Canada, Japan, China and Australia.

 Our doctoral students are successful in the academic and commercial job market with most
 employed within 6 months of completion. Many PGRs have gone on to lecturing positions in the
 UK and internationally (in this REF period, two AHRC-funded doctoral students have since
 secured lecturing jobs at Bangor University, as well as published significant outputs; two others
 are now Senior Lecturers in Film and Media at other HEIs); others have taken up posts in allied
 professions including curatorships at prestigious museums and repository libraries (including
 year-long projects at the British Library), and academic book publishing (Commissioning Editor
 at Palgrave). All PhD programmes have resulted in prestigious publications, some of which have
 received prizes; for instance, PGR work in film studies received awards from BAFTA and the
 Royal Television Society, was screened at world-class festivals, and secured development
 funding from the BFI and BAFTA.




                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This high level of success at PGR level has been achieved by a significant range of discipline-
 specific support and training. This includes innovative training through competitive funding
 provided by Bangor University internships (Abrams, Durrant, Niebrzydowski, Radulescu),
 which are frequently linked with the research centres and Bangor University Library Archive.
 Projects have included cataloguing and digitising the Flintshire Harries Arthurian Collection and
 rare books for the Colclough Centre; editorship of a research centre newsletter; organising
 research conferences and public events; and training through teamwork in impact events [see
 REF3_1]. There is also regular medieval manuscript palaeography and early printed books
 training organised by Durrant, Niebrzydowski and Radulescu at the National Library of Wales,
 John Rylands Library, Chetham Library and in situ at Bangor.

 PGRs also benefit from training in the area of editing and publishing texts, with graduates going
 on to careers in publishing (e.g. Steiner and Bell; Palgrave), with some having returned to give
 workshops on careers to current students, and collaborations with the Society of Young
 Publishers who came to give a workshop as part of the Shankland lecture series in 2019. PGRs
 are also mentored by staff to encourage leadership of research reading groups, as well as
 assisting with editing research journals (e.g. Journal of the International Arthurian Society), the
 in-house PGR journal Dovetail (founded 2011) and co-organising the annual interdisciplinary
 postgraduate conference ‘Medievalism transformed’ (2005- ), which covers all aspects of
 adaptation and appropriation of themes and motifs in all disciplines, medieval to modern,
 attracting up to 150 participants. There is also support for PGRs to present work in local
 research seminar series in each discipline area, but also in research centre-led series and
 events, or research networks led by staff in the unit (e.g. creative writing workshops and the
 AHRC network events ‘Poetry in Expanded Translation’ led by Skoulding; ‘Dirt and Taboo’
 gender studies conference, organised by Niebrzydowski; ‘Trust and Risk in Literature’
 international network running between Bangor, Aarhus, Kofu University in Japan and University
 of California, Irvine, co-directed by founding member Wilcox; ‘King Arthur in Wales and Beyond’
 symposium, organised by Radulescu; BA-funded ‘British Jewish Contemporary Cultures’ led by
 Abrams).


 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 Principles of equality and respect for diversity are at the heart of this unit, with a pronounced
 ethos of openness, inclusivity and cultural awareness across the disciplines that is also reflected
 in research, for example, by Abrams’s work in the area of Jewish Studies and Johns’s work on
 gender. The gender balance across the unit (based on head count) is 47.6% male / 52.4%
 female. Concerning PGRs, the profile is balanced equally. Of those promoted in this cycle, it is
 54.5% male / 45.5% female. At professorial level it is 44.4% male / 55.6% female. Of the new
 appointments in this cycle, 66.7% are female. Senior roles held by our female researchers
 (Niebrzydowski; Radulescu; Skoulding) provide strong role models for others. The profile of
 researchers in the submission concerning nationality is diverse with 20% from outside the UK,
 resulting in an international and culturally sensitive outlook. Furthermore, 29% are either native
 or fluent Welsh speakers with a notable commitment to learning the language to a high level. All
 Schools adhere to Bangor University’s Welsh-English bilingual ethos, ensuring staff can
 communicate in the language of their choice.

 All Schools involved in this submission are committed to the principles of equality, diversity and
 social inclusion embedded in the mission statement of Bangor University, aligned with Athena
 SWAN charter principles. Each School has a nominated Athena Swan / Equality Lead who sits
 on the College-level Equality, Diversity & Sustainability Committee and takes the lead on
 developing School-level submissions to Athena Swan. Two submissions for Bronze awards are
 underway. Each Head of School is tasked with ensuring that staff are aware of and comply with
 Bangor University's Equal Opportunities and Harassment and Bullying policies, Welsh Language
 policy, and other relevant policies and procedures. The HoS must also ensure that an ethos of
 equal opportunity is supported and fostered by enabling issues to be safely raised and resolved,
 and strategically reviewing initiatives and decision-making to ensure all obligations are met.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality of Opportunity concerning research support, access to facilities and input into research
 management structures is embedded in the committee structures and practices for managing
 research. Gender balance of committee membership is also comparable to wider staffing, and
 %FTE (or temporary reduction in hours) is not a factor when deciding eligibility for committee
 membership. All research-management committees are held in ‘family friendly’ hours and staff
 are made aware of flexible working policies to balance caring responsibilities and career
 progression. Support is given to staff taking parental/adoption leave; maternity pay is available
 from the first day of employment and pre- and post-maternity support and advice is offered to
 improve retention of mothers returning from maternity leave.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Income

 External funding: Individual research grant income across the period from both national and
 international funders, including charitable foundations, compares favourably with REF2014,
 given changes in the staff composition of the unit. In the second part of the REF window
 precedence has been given to the preparation of larger grants such as the ERC, with a longer
 timeframe for completion. Such projects have been supported through institutional seed funding
 and have led to new successes (British Academy, AHRC fellowship). Activity is now fostered
 further by a College-wide mentoring programme led by the College Academic Lead for Grant
 Capture.

 In total GBP164,214 in external funding has been awarded in this cycle. Grant capture has
 centred on major research projects on pre-modern history (Thomas, British Academy post-
 doctoral fellowship GBP82,869 in its first year); creative writing and translation (Skoulding’s
 international AHRC network ‘Poetry in Expanded Translation’, GBP30,637) and film (Abrams,
 Kubrick: a five-day project at the Lorentz Center in Leiden; and co-convening the British Jewish
 Contemporary Culture network, seed-funded by the Rothschild Foundation Europe and The
 British Academy, to a combined total of GBP24,637); Price, Storyboarding British Academy,
 Royal Society, and the Royal Society of Edinburgh grants, c. GBP3,432). Other funding has
 been secured by Koehler, for her project on epistolary aesthetics and Victorian imagination
 (Mayers Huntington Library fellowship, GBP4,756), and Niebrzydowski (GBP1579 from UK
 charities) for the Hengwrt Chaucer and the Bangor Pontifical Projects.

 Additionally, our creative writers have successfully attracted travel funding from numerous
 charities and partners. Skoulding has received sustained support for travel costs from Wales
 Arts International, totaling GBP7,500 over three years, in match-funded partnership with a range
 of prestigious international poetry festivals to which she has been invited to present her poetry in
 translation. These include Managua, Nicaragua (2016); Guyaquil, Ecuador (2017); Pereira,
 Colombia (2017); Safi, Morocco (2018); Buenos Aires, Argentina (2018); Schamrock Women's
 Poetry Festival, Munich (2018); Costa Rica (2018); Medellin, Colombia (2019) and Santiago,
 Chile (2019). As Hay Festival Fellow 2019-20 Conran has been fully funded through a
 partnership between the Arts Council of Wales and the Hay Festival to participate in international
 literary festivals in Mexico, Segovia, Peru and Colombia, to a total value of GBP10,000.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Internal funding: Strategic investment has assisted our research through seed funding (e.g.
 institutional-level tailored funding for ECR research development – Durrant; Koehler); School-
 level competitive seed funding to stimulate research projects leading to grant applications
 (McCue, who successfully secured a British Academy small grant); competitive internal awards
 totaling GBP15,000 from the ESRC award to Bangor University for impact acceleration
 supported our two impact case studies (Skoulding, for work with the local community on the
 River Adda project [REF3_2]; and Radulescu, for her Quest 2018 project, grounded in her
 research on Arthurian legend adapted in order to raise literacy levels for primary and secondary
 school pupils) [REF3_1]. Other internal awards from the Bangor Alumni Fund and student
 internships have contributed to the enhancement of PGR training, and Skoulding SCoRE
 acquired seed funding from the Welsh Government GBP600 (2019).


 Infrastructure and Facilities:

 Physical:
 There has been substantial strategic investment in Arts and Humanities-related physical
 infrastructure since REF2014. This has enhanced both research and impact across the
 disciplines. Bangor University opened its GBP51,000,000 Arts and Innovation Centre, Pontio,
 which houses two theatres (Theatr Bryn Terfel and the Studio Theatre), the White Box exhibition
 space, a cinema and a variety of integrated performance spaces (for circus and dance). Pontio
 enables sustained development of research impact with the local community, in particular
 through the Y Llechan (Slate) series of visiting writers, which since 2017 has hosted
 approximately ten free public poetry and fiction readings a year to audiences of 50 to 100,
 featuring staff book launches and a range of presentations by UK and international writer-
 researchers. The space has also enabled postgraduate writers to gain experience in presenting
 their work in public. Skoulding’s 2017 conference ‘Poetry and Sound in Expanded Translation’
 made use of some of the more distinctive facilities in Pontio, for example hosting a live-streamed
 performance in artist Joep Van Lieshout’s Caban, a semi-outdoor space designed for public
 debate and creative interaction. Pontio is also the venue where Shakespeare’s Globe on Tour
 events have been held, introduced by Wilcox, and facilitated by Durrant. In addition, the city’s
 ‘cultural quarter’ has been further enhanced through a GBP1,400,000 Heritage Lottery Fund
 grant (with Bangor University as partner) to rehouse Gwynedd Museum (renamed Storiel) which
 hosts a large proportion of the University’s collections, leading to involvement of our staff in
 curating exhibitions (Abrams, Niebrzydowski, Wilcox). Bangor University’s music facilities
 have also undergone a GBP3,000,000 renovation with a complete refurbishment of the Music
 Building and Studios and provision of high-quality practice facilities. There has also been
 investment of GBP95,000 in the University Archives with improved storage and access, enabling
 the Archives to gain National Archives accreditation and providing more opportunities for public
 engagement.

 The historic Arts and Crafts Shankland Reading room in Bangor University’s Main Library (part
 of the original, purpose-built university library, funded by the Worshipful Company of Drapers in
 the early twentieth century) is now frequently used for book launches and research events open
 to the public. This iconic reading room has become a key venue for our research and impact
 events, particularly since the inception of the Shankland lecture series organised under the aegis
 of the Colclough Centre in 2015. The room is also host to exhibitions of rare books curated by
 our staff on special anniversaries or events organised by the research centres. This has the
 advantage of sharing research in the context of Bangor University’s wider architectural and
 cultural heritage, including the parts of the museum collection displayed in the reception space
 outside the library. The Shankland reading room is also the prime location for our impact and
 engagement activities with primary and secondary school pupils and their teachers.

 A dedicated conference team supports academics in the organisation of research events,
 including catering and venues across the university. Where research events are held through
 virtual means, Bangor University’s videolink suite and reliable technical support over many years
 have fostered the development of ContemPo. Welsh-language translation and interpretation

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provided by Bangor University enable multilingual interaction, for example in the Wales
 International Poetry Festival, held in 2014, 2015 and 2017 organised by Skoulding.

 Textual and Material
 Our research culture and societal impact in all three research clusters have been substantially
 supported through significant acquisitions and in-kind donations to Bangor University Library,
 Archives and Special Collections, which is host to three of our key research centres. Among
 these acquisitions are the Flintshire Harries Arthurian collection (over 2,000 items) in 2014, and
 new papers of R. S. Thomas (part of the research centre of the same name), the latter being
 funded in part by grants from the Victoria and Albert Museum (GBP18,500, the first grant of its
 kind in Wales) and The Friends of National Libraries (GBP10,000). Researchers have access to
 a wealth of collections and research centres including the Welsh Library, the Arthurian Centre
 (which holds one of the major collections of Arthurian Literature in the world), the R. S. Thomas
 Centre (providing access to the poet’s papers and ephemera), the Stephen Colclough Centre for
 the History of the Book (including digitisation equipment), Bangor Cathedral Library, the Welsh
 Children’s Literature collection, Bangor Archaeology collection and Bangor Art collection (one of
 the largest university collections in the country). Bangor University Library is the largest Welsh
 repository after the National Library of Wales (NLW) with over 250,000 manuscripts and 30,000
 books. Researchers also have access to the facilities of NLW Online. Music researchers benefit
 from access to the Crossley Holland collection of 600 ethnic European instruments and over 300
 pre-Columbian instruments along with the largest collection of facsimiles of medieval and
 renaissance music in Wales.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Across the unit, there is significant and wide-ranging collaboration with other research
 institutions and external research users within Wales, the UK, Europe and further afield.
 These collaborations have made a significant impact on research in key disciplines as well as
 increasing public understanding of literature and culture. Much of the collaborative work
 undertaken has directly benefitted the general public through new understanding of localities
 and communities and enhanced cultural opportunities. Key non-academic audiences who
 have engaged with and benefitted from research in this unit include: the Education sector
 (such as WJEC); the Heritage sector (including NLW; CADW; National Trust); and
 organisations in the areas of Creative Writing and Media (including Literature Wales; BBC;
 S4C; BAFTA). This represents a considerable contribution to the research base, the economy
 and society with impact evident across all disciplines, enhanced by national and international
 networks, flagship events, and public engagement events as follows.

 National and international networks and key collaborations
 Niebrzydowski was a member of the Women’s Literary Culture and the Medieval Canon, an
 International Leverhulme Network, led by Surrey (2015-17). Radulescu was a member of LATE
 (Littérature arthurienne tardive en Europe), led by the Rennes and Connecticut (2016-20), and
 member of an ERC COST Action network consisting of 120 researchers working on medieval
 manuscripts (2014-17). Claydon is a member of the international ‘Restoration’ network, which
 organizes bi-annual conferences. Wilcox is one of the founder members of the international
 research network on Trust and Risk in Literature 2015-20 (with Aarhus, Denmark; Kofu, Japan
 and California, Irvine); Hiscock’s work was recognised with a Marie Curie Sklowodska research
 fellowship as part of an established collaboration with Montpellier (2016-18). Skoulding’s Poetry
 in Expanded Translation AHRC Network (of which Conran was a member) included
 partnerships with the National Poetry Library and Kunsthalle Mulhouse. Three new research
 networks are currently in progress: Abrams’s on Kubrick Studies, Hiscock’s on early-modern
 research, with Sheffield-Hallam University, and Radulescu’s on Arthurian studies, with
 international collaborators from around the world. Both networks stem from regular online lecture
 series that have developed since 2020.



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 External collaborations also include international and national visiting scholars to the Arthurian,
 Colclough and R. S. Thomas Centres, with over 100 international visitors annually and 5-10
 residential international fellows for all the centres. New and continuing strong collaborations with
 repository libraries and research libraries have included those with the National Library of Wales,
 Chetham Library, Manchester, John Rylands Library, Manchester, the British Library and the
 Robbins Library at the University of Rochester, USA, as well as service on local and national
 scholarly and non-academic societies (Radulescu as the only academic member of the
 Association for Manuscripts and Archives in Research Collections).

 Flagship events
 The Annual Lectures of the Colclough Centre and the Centre for Arthurian Studies (with
 prestigious speakers from Oxford, St Andrews, and University College London) regularly attract
 audiences of more than 60 and 40, respectively; the Y Llechan guest creative writers series
 (featuring writers such as Nia Davies, editor of Poetry Wales; Forrest Gander, USA and
 Sandeep Parmar, Liverpool), attracted up to 200 in audience; more recently, an online research
 lecture series (Centre for Arthurian Studies) had audiences of more than 90. The events of the
 Centre for Film, Screen and Television Studies reach global audiences of 60-100 and attract
 participants from north America, Europe, Israel and Australia. Further, a fortnightly video-
 conference seminar was organised under the umbrella of IMEMS (Institute for Medieval and
 Early Modern Studies) until 2018 with audiences from 25-40.

 Public engagement activities
 These academic and professional collaborations have enabled the development of a range of
 public engagement activities, as well as co-working with key organisations locally and nationally.
 There have been over 60 local, national and international poetry and fiction readings/book
 launches and public events and more than 40 invited public lectures stemming from our
 research on literature, history, music, film and culture (medieval to modern), including invited
 participation in more than 35 international public festivals and events, held in locations as
 diverse as Bangor University Library and Pontio to London, and as far as Berlin, Germany;
 Mexico, Spain, Croatia, Morocco, Costa Rica and Colombia. Contributions to public debate on
 research topics arising from research and publications include regular columns in Ha’aretz
 (Israel) and The Forward (USA) by Abrams; articles in the Conversation by Webb on Edward
 Thomas; Skoulding on Lynette Roberts; Radulescu with several articles on King Arthur,
 medievalism and children’s literature; Durrant on the historical novel; and consultancy for public
 media outlets and websites (BBC Wales and BBC radio: Abrams, Durrant, Koehler,
 Niebrzydowski, Radulescu, Skoulding, Webb, Wilcox).

 Further activities aimed at enhancing public understanding of key research areas include Wilcox
 and Niebrzydowski’s collaboration with Storiel to curate the exhibition ‘A Passion for Books’, in
 collaboration with local book artist (now scheduled for 2022), as well as tours of Bangor
 University's art and ceramics collection for the general public ('Paintings, Pots and Poems') that
 have encouraged public engagement with the extensive holdings of the University’s Archives
 and Special Collections. Radulescu’s collaboration with local Creative Writing practitioner
 Gillian Brownson, as part of Bangor University’s ESRC IAA project ‘Quest/Hymgais’ (2018-2019)
 has informed teaching practice and introduced schoolchildren to new aspects of their literary
 heritage. In the broader national sphere, Webb’s opening lecture at the major bilingual exhibition
 at the National Library Wales on Hedd Wyn and Edward Thomas in 2017 enhanced
 understanding of the work of Thomas in Wales, leading to another exhibition on the poet at
 Swansea Museum in 2017 and Webb’s keynote address at the Cardiff Centenary Conference
 on Edward Thomas. Researchers have been invited to ‘Festival no. 6’ (2018, 2019); the ‘Not the
 Hay’ festival (2018) and regular local cultural festivals – from the Conwy food festival to
 Llandudno Winter Lights (2019) and the Mostyn Gallery talks (2019), the R. S. Thomas festival
 in Aberdaron, and national events such as the ‘Hay Literary Festival’, the International George
 Herbert Festival (Salisbury) and the Cheltenham Literature Festival.

 Skoulding’s leadership of Hidden Rivers from A to B, a collaborative cross-artform project
 linking urban space in Bangor and Paris, supported by Bangor University’s ESRC Impact

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Acceleration Account (including collaboration with local artists and Storiel) has led to increased
 community engagement with local history in the revamped art space of Storiel and the arts
 centre Pontio. Diverse collaborations extend beyond academic networks and local communities,
 including pioneering outreach and impact-generating activities led by Koehler. As a member of
 the executive of the Thomas Hardy Society (THS), Koehler has been involved in an extensive
 programme of outreach to secondary pupils and teachers, including workshops in North Wales
 on the WJEC AS level, which will be continued during her recently awarded British Academy
 grant. This selective list of collaborations builds on existing as well as emerging collaborations
 within Bangor University, among the research centres and networks led by our staff, and
 external partners, more specifically continuing collaborations with our Library Archives and
 Special Collections (including ‘The Women’s Suffrage Symposium’, 2018, led by
 Niebrzydowski; the 2019 Library and Archives week dedicated to the celebration of 65 years of
 palaeography teaching, initiated by Radulescu and with contributions from Durrant and
 Niebrzydowski).


 Academic Recognition and Wider Contribution
 The strength of Bangor research in this unit is underlined by numerous accolades and key
 responsibilities, including awards, residencies, elected memberships to panels and societies,
 editorial commitments and conference engagement, as follows.

 Awards
 Creative writers have received national and international recognition by the most prestigious
 award-giving fora, ranging from the Michael Marks Award for Best Poetry Pamphlet for Rumens’
 Bezdelki (2018); the Cholmondeley Award from the Society of Authors for Skoulding’s entire
 body of poetry (2018) and the Wales Book of the Year, the Rhys Davies Trust Fiction Award and
 the People’s Choice Award (2017), and International Dylan Thomas Award (2017) for Conran’s
 Pigeon. Conran was also longlisted for the Author’s Club Best First Novel Award (2016), and
 The Museum of Disappearing Sounds by Skoulding was shortlisted for the 2014 Ted Hughes
 Award for New Work in Poetry. Her Footnotes to Water is a Poetry Book Society
 Recommendation and winner of the 2020 Wales Book of the Year Poetry Award. For their
 scholarly achievements, Cunningham won the Donald Tovey Award (Oxford University, 2016 –
 for his examination of the production and dissemination of trio sonatas in printed and manuscript
 culture in England c.1690–1714), and Hiscock the ‘Ben Jonson Discoveries Prize’ for his
 pioneering article (2014).

 Residencies
 Conran has held the prestigious International Hay Festival Creative Wales Fellowship (2019-
 20), the Writers Residency with Inuit Language Committee, Princes Trust (2017), and the
 Writers Residency with The Camden Trust (2015); Cunningham competitively won a visiting
 fellowship Bodleian Library (2018); Rumens was Poet in Residence at the Harvard Centre for
 Hellenic Studies, Nafplio, Greece (2019); Skoulding had a three-month residency as Laureate
 of the City of Paris and the Institut Français at Les Récollets in Paris (2014) and held a week-
 long residency with the Slovenian Writers’ Association in Ljubljana in conjunction with a festival
 performance (2015); and Wilcox was visiting research fellow in residence at the Massachusetts
 Center for Renaissance Studies in 2016.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Elected memberships to panels and societies
 The academic standing of key researchers is reflected by membership on the AHRC peer review
 college (Abrams, Hiscock, Radulescu); AHRC strategic panel (Hiscock, Niebrzydowski); and
 AHRC funding panels for main grants, leadership fellowships and early career fellowships
 (Claydon, Radulescu), contributing to research strategy on a national level. Likewise, research
 and creative expertise have been recognized through election to membership of prize-giving
 panels: The 2020 Forward Prizes (Poetry) for Best Collection, Best First Collection and Best
 Single Poem, March – October 2019 (Rumens); Thomas Hardy Society Annual Patrick Tolfree
 Essay Prize 2019 (Koehler); chair of the jury for the Richard L Greaves Prize (for scholarship on
 early modern literature and religion), Edmonton, Canada, 2019 (Wilcox); judge of National
 Poetry Competition for the Poetry Society 2014 (Skoulding).

 Research excellence has also been recognized through election to a Fellowship of: the British
 Academy (Emeritus Professor T. Corns); the Learned Society of Wales (Abrams, Emeritus
 Professor P. Field, and Niebrzydowski, 2020; Emeritus Professor A. Brown and Radulescu,
 2018; Wilcox, 2016), the Royal Historical Society (Radulescu 2018; Abrams 2015) and the
 English Association (Radulescu, 2019). Among our early career staff, Koehler succeeded in
 winning participation in the sought-after competitive programme Welsh Crucible: (2019); and
 Thorstad is on the steering committee for the Institute for the Study of Welsh Estates and on the
 Board of Trustees for the Castles Studies Trust. Radulescu was president of the British Branch
 of the International Arthurian Society (2015-18) and member of the international committee of
 the same society.

 Editorial commitments
 Researchers have edited and/or continue to lead international journals: Abrams, Jewish Film &
 New Media: An International Journal; Koehler, Thomas Hardy Journal and Hardy Society
 Journal; Price, Journal of Screenwriting; Hiscock, Yearbook of English Studies and MLR
 English Literature editor; Radulescu, Journal of the International Arthurian Society and
 Bibliography of the International Arthurian Society (2011-17); Skoulding, Poetry Wales (until
 2014); and/or serve as advisory and editorial board members: Abrams, Jewish Culture and
 History, Jewish Historical Studies, Journal of European Popular Culture and Marginalia: A
 Review of Books in History, Theology & Religion; Conran, New Welsh Review board member;
 Cunningham, Purcell Society and Musica Britannica; Niebrzydowski, Pedagogy and
 Profession (journal of the New Chaucer Society); Wilcox, Scintilla as co-editor. Guest
 editorships of special issues of prestigious international journals include McCue, YES (2017);
 Skoulding, Poetry Wales (2018), English (2020); Radulescu, Arthuriana (2019).

 The international standing of researchers in specialist fields has been recognized through
 invitations to edit book series and major multi-volume works: Abrams is a Stanley Kubrick
 series editor for Liverpool University Press; Hiscock, Yearbook of English Studies; series co-
 editor, Arden Early Modern Drama Series; Price, advisory board member for Palgrave Studies in
 Screenwriting; Radulescu, invited to co-edit the Medieval English Literature in a Trans-
 European Context (Routledge) and the two-volume, 400,000-word Cambridge History of
 Arthurian Literature and Culture; Webb, co-editor of the Writers of Wales book series; Wilcox,
 member of the editorial team for the first Complete Works of Aphra Behn, forthcoming from CUP
 (editing Oroonoko), on the editorial advisory board for the multi-volume edition of The Complete
 Letters of Richard Baxter (to be published by OUP) and now a consultant editor for the new
 database of Women's Life Writing (Adam Matthew Digital).

 Conference engagement and invited plenaries
 Researchers have (co)-organised 21 international conferences and eight symposia, on topics
 ranging from screenwriting (Price, London, 2015) and seventeenth-century poets from the
 Welsh Marches (Wilcox, Gregynog, 2015) to the British Academy-funded ‘Ariosto and English
 Culture’ (Hiscock, British Academy, 2016). A series of international events formed part of the
 AHRC network ‘Poetry in Expanded Translation’ led by Skoulding (London/Mulhouse/Bangor,
 2017-18). The biannual ‘Restoration conference’ was held in Bangor, organised by Durrant and
 Claydon in 2019, and by Claydon in 2015 and 2017. Our reputation in the fields of medieval

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 manuscript and Arthurian studies has led to invitations to host the biennial Early Book Society
 conference in 2021 and the International Arthurian Congress in 2024 (Radulescu).

 Researchers have given more than 100 conference papers at international congresses,
 conferences and symposia, and 61 plenaries and invited lectures at prestigious specialist
 international conferences, including Hiscock’s plenary lectures at the European Research
 Association Conference at the Università di Roma Tre, Rome (2019, audience c. 300) and the
 University of Istanbul LITCRI congress (2015, audience c. 150); Johns’s plenary at Canterbury
 Christ Church University and Lancaster University conference (2014; audience c. 100);
 Radulescu’s invited plenaries at University of Lisbon (2018) and the 90th conference of the
 Department of English and American Studies, University of Belgrade (2019), audiences c. 200;
 Skoulding’s plenary at ‘Représenter la ville: les mots, les gestes et l'ésprit’ conference,
 Université Paris-Est Marne-la-Vallée (2019); Wilcox’s plenaries at the ‘Crossing Boundaries in
 Drama' conference, Wuhan, China (2015; audience c. 400) and at the ‘Herbert in Paris’
 conference, the Sorbonne (2017, audience c. 250).




                                                                                           Page 14
