Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Institution: The University of Nottingham

  Unit of Assessment: 03 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


  The Discovery to Society research strategy of allied health professions, nursing and pharmacy
  at Nottingham delivers innovative world-changing health research in a first-class physical and
  digital environment, making a positive impact on the health and wellbeing of individuals and
  populations. Cross fertilization and interdisciplinary research throughout our ten distinct but
  complementary research themes result in a diversity of approaches to developing treatments
  and interventions for some of the most important challenges in healthcare. Over the REF period
  our success of delivering this strategy has been founded on an inclusive culture with significant
  investments in people, facilities and research structures, with our:
  • Discovery and characterization, made through development and application of new
    experimental approaches (e.g. bioluminescence/fluorescence resonance energy transfer;
    high-throughput high-content materials characterization), of new drugs and their targets to
    address global healthcare challenges (e.g. novel action macrocyclic antibiotics; selective b1-
    adrenoreceptor antagonists for cardiovascular and respiratory disease; inhibitors of the
    integrated stress response in neurodegenerative disease).
  • Direct influence on health policy and shaping of national and international guidelines (e.g.
    informing the transformation of community pharmacy to deliver vaccinations; nationally-
    adopted policies for falls and accident prevention; interventions significantly reducing
    prescribing errors; leading regional and national service improvements in rehabilitation
    delivery; underpinning of the adoption of medicines services saving the NHS over £500M).
  • Engagement with industry and commerce to maximize the impact of our research on the
    health of society (e.g. translation to market of a new class of bacteria-resistant catheters using
    our new materials; enabling a billion-dollar petrochemical company to reduce gasoline’s
    environmental and health impact).
  • Creation of a rich and vibrant research environment, including the creation of the Biodiscovery
    Institute through a £23M investment and expansion of the Centre of Biomolecular Sciences,
    and the establishment of the £24M NIHR Nottingham Biomedical Research Centre in
    partnership with Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust.
  • Investment in people, such as our establishment of prestigious joint 4-year UoN/MIT
    Research Fellowships in AI-Biomaterials Discovery, *recruitment of 33 research-active
    academic staff (including 12 ECRs), and 38 †promotions.
  • Significant expansion of research activities in audiology and rehabilitation, and definition of
    new research fields (e.g. electroceutics, astropharmacy (with NASA), on-site on-demand
    personalized pharmaceutical manufacturing).
  • Recognition with a Global Top 10 position in the QS World University Rankings (Pharmacy
    and Pharmacology) throughout the REF period.


  1.1 Our Research Strategy
  Building on the foundation of the UoN’s Research Vision, the research strategy of our Schools
  of Pharmacy (SoP: 55.4 FTE; 57 category A staff), Health Sciences (SoHS: 26.0 FTE; 29 staff)
  and Medicine (SoM: 17.3 FTE; 19 staff) is tailored to their distinct discipline-related research
  challenges to collectively develop treatments, therapies and interventions to address complex
  challenges in healthcare (‘Discovery to Society’). We have built on our strong research base
  with new research structures centred on excellence at all levels, supported by targeted School
  and University resources, and complemented by a global network of leading academic, health
  service, government and industrial collaborations. Since REF2014, our principal strategic theme
  is the firm commitment to sustaining inclusive world-leading research, achieved through a
  number of actions: research pipeline management, capacity and capability building, research

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  student recruitment, career support and growth, development of infrastructure to create impact.
  The aligned research strategies of our Schools contain a focus on, and investment in:
  • Interdisciplinary research: We will continue to work across multiple subject boundaries.
    Delivery of our research strategy is facilitated by our engagement in the UoN’s
    transdisciplinary Beacons of Excellence [REF5a-2.1b] (providing analytical expertise and
    resource to the Green Chemicals Beacon; establishing the Survivors and Cultures
    Programme of the Rights Lab), eight of the Interdisciplinary Research Clusters (IRC)
    (including Crawford leading Health Humanities) [REF5a-2.1b], investment in infrastructure,
    and sandpits, workshops and targeted School and external funding (e.g. EPSRC ‘Bridging
    the Gaps’ C Alexander with UoA1, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12). We are core members of the
    Biodiscovery Institute – the UoN’s flagship research institute, expanded in 2019 through a
    £23M University investment, spanning our two faculties. Our multidisciplinary working is
    reflected by over 40% of our outputs in this period categorized by SciVal as research in ‘arts
    & humanities, ‘chemical engineering’, ‘computer science’, ‘engineering’, ‘environmental
    science’, ‘materials science’, ‘mathematics’, ‘multidisciplinary’, and ‘physics & astronomy’.
    With co-applicants from 22 UoAs across the Institution we have been awarded research
    funding of over £175M.
  • Capability and capacity: During the REF period we undertook significant reorganization and
    created new structures to build on the Biomedical Research Centre (BRC), EPSRC
    programme grants, the renewal of the UK Regenerative Medicine Platform, and opportunities
    to expand research in hearing sciences to realize our Discovery to Society research
    strategy. The formation of the BRC in partnership with the Nottingham Universities Hospital
    Trust enabled a translational focus for our research in musculoskeletal disease, hearing, and
    digital interventions for mental health (£24M NIHR). We further expanded our hearing
    sciences research by bringing researchers from the MRC Institute of Hearing Research
    together with those funded by the BRC Hearing theme. We introduced a new research
    structure in SoP to cross-fertilize new approaches to identify and tackle challenges in
    healthcare resulting in five new research divisions with deliberate overlap in activities
    fostering transdisciplinary research. Through targeted recruitment we expanded our research
    in the areas of psychology of health and wellbeing, health economics, and children and young
    people’s healthcare. Longer term succession and new positions are planned in biomaterials,
    artificial intelligence, and enabling pharmaceutical healthcare in resource-limited and extreme
    environments.
  • People: With inclusivity and by embracing diversity, we continue to support career
    development, foster leadership and realize personal and collective ambition. Implementation
    of our strategy, facilitated by the reorganization of our research structure, is underpinned by
    strategic staff appointments in areas designed to build capacity in biomaterials discovery and
    analysis, bioelectronics, biomedical engineering, dementia, international pharmacy and
    traditional medicines, mental health and rehabilitation, children and young people, and
    maternal health and wellbeing. We have made 33 appointments, including 12 Early Career
    Researchers (ECRs), and will continue to recruit and nurture research leaders through the
    UoN’s Anne McLaren and Nottingham Research Fellowship schemes [REF5a-3.2] and
    support them to become research leaders. We will also recruit existing outstanding research
    leaders at associate professorial and professorial level (Section 2). We have supported
    (>£300k) seven staff for secondment and study leave (e.g. Dreveny†, Hui†, Tanner*) and such
    activities have directly led to new collaborations (e.g. NASA), research projects (e.g. De Moor,
    £558k BBSRC) and outputs (e.g. Blood, Nucleic Acids Res.). We remain firmly committed to
    Athena Swan and promote gender and race equality and representation, progression and
    success for all. In addition to UoN’s Silver Award, our three individual Schools hold Silver
    Awards.
  • Collaboration and Internationalization: We will continue to extend further our
    interdisciplinary research through collaborations with academic and industrial partners across
    the UK and abroad. We lead and participate in major national UKRI and NIHR funded
    research programmes, e.g. regenerative medicine, vaccine manufacture, recovery from
    mental health and stroke (Section 3). We are key members of the Institute of Mental Health

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     (IMH) partnership between the Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust and the
     University. International collaboration forms a key part of our research and impact strategies,
     supported by both School and Institutional funds [REF5a-4.1] (Section 4). For example, we
     recently invested £800k to create four-year research fellowships in Artificial Intelligence and
     Biomaterials with our strategic partners at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
     Over 42% of our outputs published within the REF period are with international collaborators.
     We have established the position of Director of International Partnerships to maintain our
     existing relationships, such as the appointments of the UoN/MIT AI-Biomaterials Fellows, and
     to identify and develop new strategic collaborations.
  • Impact: We will continue to ensure that our research has demonstrable impact in a range of
    diverse areas. Our strategy for creating and making impact, linked to the University’s
    Knowledge Exchange Framework, has been highly productive with beneficiaries related to
    healthcare (patients, medical charities, drug companies, SMEs), practice (government and
    professional bodies, nurses, midwives, allied health professionals, audiologists, doctors,
    pharmacists) and wider society (teachers, pupils, general public). Staff are encouraged to
    identify and develop impact by Champions in each of the research areas, and supported by
    School and Faculty, the UoN Nottingham Impact Accelerator, and external funding and
    support mechanisms such as the Midlands Innovation and Commercialisation of Research
    Accelerator (MICRA) (e.g. EPSRC IAA awards to: M Alexander, Allen†, Chauhan*, Dixon†,
    Hooke*†, Mantovani†, Rose†; ESRC IAA awards to: Blake†, Goldberg*†, Wharrad; UoN
    HERMES scheme (HEIF) awards to: Chan†, Chauhan*, Coulson†, Hooke*†, Laughton†, Mata*,
    Parmenter†, Scurr; MICRA award to: Chauhan*; MRC CiC awards to: Bradshaw, Chan†,
    Dixon†, Gershkovich†, C Roberts; Institution awards to: Logan, Spiby, Goldberg, Walker; UK
    Space Agency Industry Placement: Toh*).

  1.2 Translation and Impact
  We will continue to translate our research through research partnerships (facilitated through the
  BRC and IMH), funding, and commercialization opportunities. For example, Chan† leads a multi-
  disciplinary team with Dreveny†, the BRC, our Advanced Data Analysis Centre, and the London
  School of Hygiene and Tropic Medicine undertaking the translational development of a novel
  macrocyclic antibiotic for treating Clostridioides difficile infection (£1.7M MRC DPFS);
  Shakesheff and Locate Therapeutics received Innovate UK funding to adapt the TArgeted
  Orchestrated Signalling (TAOS) matrix system for use in administering therapeutic cells; our
  spin-out Molecular Profiles (Davies, C Roberts, Williams) was purchased by Columbia
  Laboratories Inc. for $25M in September 2013 with retention of University interest. Renamed
  Juniper Pharmaceuticals the company employs 150FTE locally, and was sold to Catalent for
  $130M in 2018.
  Our IP is protected via invention disclosures, mostly in the form of patent applications. Regular
  consultation with staff allows potential disclosures to be considered by the Schools’ research and
  knowledge transfer committees and refined by the academic team prior to consideration by the
  University’s Research and Innovation team. Our active IP portfolio includes 104 patent filings in
  26 families of which to date 77 have been granted. Since 2014, we have made 79 new internal
  IP disclosures and filed 20 new patent families, and signed 10 licensing and assignment deals
  with commercialization partners. Our eight UoA3 impact case studies have been selected from
  a wider portfolio of activity and demonstrate our researcher-led interdisciplinary (with UoA2, 5,
  12 and 17) and industrial and user collaborative approach to impact.
  Our strategy for impact is reviewed on a rolling basis to ensure it is fit for purpose, with short-,
  medium- and longer-term targets and priorities:
  • In the short term we are investing in new posts in partnership with end users to grow research
    with new opportunities for impact. In 2018, we established the Laboratory-to-Clinic
    Translational Research in Cancer with the appointment of one professor (Needham*) and two
    postdoctoral researchers through the University’s Strategic Development Fund (£474k) as a
    coordinated cross-divisional, cross-faculty and cross-institution activity (with Duke University
    and the Southern University of Denmark) to deliver an Investigational New Drug Application


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     for an anticancer therapeutic (Mol. Cancer Ther.). We will continue to utilize the new
     Nottingham Reward Scheme to recognize and reward activities above and beyond staff roles.
  • In the medium term we will continue to engage new members of staff and research students
    in our impact activities to secure KT funding (e.g. Knowledge Transfer Partnerships of Scurr
    with Boots; C Moffatt with Smith & Nephew; Rose† with The Electrospinning Company Ltd;
    three of Aylott† with TBG Solutions and SureScreen Diagnostics), and work collaboratively
    across NUH and UoN to drive impact from clinical academic research (e.g. Coad*). Staff are
    supported in undertaking external roles (local and national committees, consultancy, board
    or advisory group membership – Section 4) via a workload planning model that takes account
    of teaching, administration, research, and external activities with up to 20% of time spent on
    external engagement (e.g. Stocks† supporting KalVista with US Patent 9533987 and their
    $760M partnership deal with Merck). A Research Impact Showcase is included in our
    Postgraduate Allied Health Conference (covering research impact, research skills and
    methods, careers, EDI, wellbeing and welfare. 2019: 123 delegates), impact training occurs
    in Researcher Academy provisions for PGR students, and in our internal divisional and
    School seminars. We will continue the policy of match-funding many joint industrial PhD
    studentships.
  • Longer term as we establish new national and international strategic research links with
    institutions and industries, we aim to broaden our impact by building on synergism in the
    collaborations. We foresee increased impact through greater exploitation of the research
    base at our campuses in Malaysia and China, and of our strategic partners at China
    Pharmaceuticals University, La Trobe, MIT, National University of Singapore, Seoul National
    University, Tianjin University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, and University of Melbourne.

  1.3 Our Achievements and Future Research
  To deliver our Discovery to Society research strategy, we work collaboratively within ten distinct
  but complementary research themes across our schools and faculties (Medicine and Health
  Sciences SoHS, SoM; Science SoP). For each of the ten themes we describe below their
  rationale and core strengths, provide some research highlights from 2014 onwards, and indicate
  specific future research strategy in these areas (Category A staff and £M awarded to the Unit):
  • Biomolecular Science and Medicinal Chemistry (BSMC) (SoP: 14 £8.6M): We aim to
    characterise and understand new disease-relevant biological processes leading to the
    discovery of biologically active compounds through integration of macromolecular structure,
    chemical biology, computational chemistry and drug discovery. We have strengths in
    synthetic (e.g. MRC Fischer) and computational (e.g. EPSRC Laughton†) chemistry and
    structural (e.g. BHF Emsley) and functional (e.g. MRC Winkler) biology applied to molecular
    recognition and the design of new therapeutics (e.g. MRC Kellam). Achievements over the
    REF period include the discovery of antibacterial drugs for gram-positive and gram-negative
    bacteria (J. Bacteriology, J. Med. Chem., Molecules); development and use of fluorescence
    correlation spectroscopy to study GPCR function in membrane micro domains of single living
    cells (J. Med. Chem., Science); structural identification of the ubiquitin specific protease family
    of deubiquitinating enzymes USP15 and USP11 (J. Bio. Chem.); first-in-class selective b1-
    adrenoreceptor antagonists for concomitant cardiovascular and respiratory disease (J. Med.
    Chem.)
     Our future strategy will focus on the discovery and understanding of new targets aided by our
     continued development of fluorescence and bioluminescence technology with the recent
     appointment of Kilpatrick* and the driving of interdisciplinary research through the End-to-End
     Therapeutics IRC, established in 2019, that we co-lead (Kellam) [REF5a-2.1b].
  • Molecular Therapeutics and Formulation (MTF) (SoP: 13 £7.2M): We perform leading
    research into new drugs, emerging therapeutic targets, and the materials and processes
    which turn these drugs into medicines. Particular strengths include the synthesis of new
    materials (e.g. EPSRC C Alexander) to deliver drugs to target sites, biophysical
    characterisation of complex drugs and formulations (e.g. Innovate UK Burley), investigation
    of gene regulation (e.g. BBSRC Jopling†) and immunological processes in cancers,

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     neurodegenerative disorders and inflammatory diseases, and mechanistic analysis of drugs
     and formulations to treat these pathologies (e.g. EPSRC Stolnik†). Achievements over the
     REF period include the characterisation of circadian clock components which regulate
     flavivirus replication (Nat. Commun.); structure of the Helicobacter pylori adhesin BabA. (Sci.
     Adv.); self-selective labelling of bacteria by in situ polymerisation (Nat. Mater.).
     Our future strategy will centre on enabling the effective delivery of therapeutics in new areas
     and situations, such as those in extreme environments. This will include our lead of
     Astropharmacy (NASA Williams) and the appointment of an Assistant Professor in 2021, with
     impact in environmental and population health and sustainability, through continued
     collaborations with UoA1, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14 and 21.
  • Regenerative Medicine and Cellular Therapies (RMCT) (SoP: 10 £9.2M): Our mission is
    to transform basic scientific research at the interface of biomaterials discovery and
    development, nanotechnology, bioengineering and stem cell research into disruptive
    technologies for regenerative medicine. Our strengths include the development of
    biomaterials and biointerfaces to control cell behaviour (e.g. Leverhulme Zelzer†), controlled
    release of bioactives to stimulate tissue repair (e.g. EPSRC Rose†), 3D bioprinting (e.g.
    EPSRC Yang) and cell patterning (e.g. EPSRC Buttery) technologies to fabricate tissue-
    relevant structures (e.g. H2020 Mata*), non-viral delivery of biomolecules to control tissue
    regeneration (e.g. CFF Dixon†), and electrochemical nano-systems to modulate cell
    behaviour (e.g. EPSRC Rawson*†). Achievements over the REF period include the
    development of an array of scaffolds, hydrogels (Adv. Funct. Mater.) and microparticles with
    controlled size, shape, release profile and topography (ACS Appl. Mater. Interfaces). We
    have developed materials that are stimuli responsive, self-assemble into hierarchical
    structures (Nat. Commun.) and have functional biointerfaces (Chem. Commun.). We have
    developed electrochemical nano-systems (Adv. Funct. Mater.) and non-viral delivery systems
    for the delivery of DNA, mRNA and proteins to control tissue regeneration (PNAS).
     Our future strategy focusses on the establishment of a Centre for Additive BioFabrication,
     with the joint appointment of Mata* with Engineering, to provide in vitro models for drug and
     toxicity screening that can accurately guide the development of new medicines, to generate
     functional cell-based clinical therapies, and to recreate biological ecosystems that can
     develop our understanding of the impact of environmental change. This is a strategic focus
     of UoN with the establishment in 2019 of the Interdisciplinary Research Cluster in Additive
     BioFabrication [REF5a-2.1b].
  • Hearing Sciences (SoM: 6 £5.1M): Our mission extends from discovery to health and policy
    impact while maximising opportunities for interdisciplinary research and translation. We
    specialize in studying behavioural aspects of hearing disability and understanding how
    natural and chemotherapy-induced hearing loss affects real-life behaviour (e.g. Action on
    Hearing Loss (RNID) Baguley). We develop novel strategies (e.g. NIHR Henshaw) and tools
    (e.g. MRC Wiggins) for the recognition and integration of hearing healthcare into clinical
    practise to maximise quality of life (e.g. H2020 Naylor†). Achievements over the REF period
    include our systematic review identifying new genetic vulnerability and resilience to cisplatin
    ototoxicity (JAMA Otolaryngol. Head Neck Surg.); establishing a conceptual structure for
    understanding cognitive aspects of hearing difficulty (Ear & Hearing); discovering the links
    between ageing well and hearing well through the application of cutting-edge imaging and
    informatics technique (PNAS); developing frameworks for the rigorous evaluation of
    interventions and self-management strategies for tinnitus and hyperacusis in children and
    adults (Hearing Res.)
     Our future strategy is to build on our strengths in evidence-based patient-partnership research
     to advance the diagnosis, treatment, and management of hearing and tinnitus problems. We
     will conduct auditory ecology and translational research to optimize provision, uptake and
     benefit from devices and interventions, and exploit opportunities in health informatics to
     develop diagnostic, pheno-/geno-typing tools and emerging therapeutics to enable
     personalized treatments.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  • Advanced Materials and Healthcare Technologies (AMHT) (SoP: 14 £13.0M): We work to
    addresses unmet healthcare needs through the discovery, development and manufacture of
    new materials (e.g. EPSRC M Alexander) and diagnostics (e.g. EPSRC Aylott†) and the
    application of state-of-the-art analytical (e.g. BBSRC Kim†) and measurement science (e.g.
    EPSRC Scurr). Research is undertaken into fundamental and applied biomolecular (e.g.
    BBSRC Barrett), biomaterial and formulation problems at the nano and micro scale (e.g.
    StoneyGate Marlow). Achievements over the REF period include the establishment and
    execution of an innovative programme of high throughput materials discovery research
    through which we developed new materials with improved anti-bacterial-adherent properties
    resulting in the market launch of the Camstent urinary catheter (Adv. Mater. [ICS-1 M
    Alexander]); the development and deployment in academia of the world’s first 3D OrbiSIMS
    time-of-flight secondary ion mass spectrometer (Nat. Methods; Nat. Commun.); the first ink-
    jet printing of pharmaceutical tablets (Int. J. Pharm.).
     Our future strategy is to take an analysis-led, data-driven approach to our core expertise in
     discovering new materials, understanding pharmaceutical formulations and developing new
     diagnostic and manufacturing technologies. We will support our cohort of Nottingham
     Research fellows and UoN/MIT AI-Biomaterials Fellows to become research leaders in
     materials and healthcare technologies. We will have a focus on the translation of our research
     with our industrial partners to address the arising needs in personalised healthcare.
  • Rehabilitation Research (SoM: 7 SoHS: 6 £11.7M): Our mission is to reduce the effects of
    illness and disability, helping people to lead fulfilling lives, including returning to work, and to
    design and evaluate interventions to support recovery. We draw on expertise from allied
    health professions, nursing, psychology, and medicine with significant grant income for
    research in stroke (NIHR HTA trials: Radford, Thomas†, Drummond); vocational rehabilitation
    (NIHR PGfAR: Radford), cognitive rehabilitation (NIHR RfPB & NIHR HTA: Walker, Thomas†,
    Drummond), and implementation of complex interventions (NIHR HS&DR: Fisher†).
    Achievements over the REF period include securing over £6M in NIHR funding for
    international trials, implementation and health economic research, and the formation of the
    £9M NIHR Applied Research Collaboration East Midlands. Our outputs include co-careldopa
    as an add-on therapy to occupational and physical therapy in patients after stroke (Lancet);
    family-led rehabilitation after stroke in India (Lancet); occupational therapy in care homes
    (HTA 2016); memory rehabilitation for people with traumatic brain injuries (HTA 2019);
    transforming community-based rehabilitation for stroke survivors [ICS-2 Fisher†].
     Our future strategy is to rigorously evaluate interventions that aim to improve the lives of
     patients affected by disability and illness and implement our findings in real world settings.
     This will be enhanced by our leadership (Radford, Logan) of the National Rehabilitation
     Centre (part of the Defence and National Rehabilitation Centre Programme), which will
     transform specialist rehabilitation services in the East Midlands.
  • Mental Health (SoHS: 6 SoM: 2 £2.5M): Our mission is to help make mental health services
    more recovery-orientated and better able to promote wellbeing. Our interdisciplinary
    strengths are in mixed-methods research, theory development, systematic reviews, first-in-
    field trials, psychological/digital intervention trials, generation of policy-relevant evidence,
    international networks, and collaborations. We co-lead the £3.6M ‘Digital Interventions for
    Mental Health’ BRC sub-theme that aims to develop the next generation of transformative
    mental health technologies. We lead projects with total value over £8M in recovery (NIHR
    PGfAR Slade*, EU Commission Slade*), and health humanities (AHRC, Crawford).
    Achievements over the REF period include leading on a project with industrial partners
    Aardman Animation Ltd to create a series of short animations on mental health for young
    people. Our outputs include supporting recovery in patients with psychosis using mental
    health teams (Lancet Psychiatry) and recovery-oriented practice training for specialist mental
    health care staff (Lancet Psychiatry).
     Our future strategy is to develop world-leading research programmes around citizen science
     and mass participation (planned next BRC sub-theme), Recovery Colleges (£3.5m NIHR
     PGfAR 2020-2025, Slade*) and global mental health (building on current H2020 and GCRF


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     funding of research in India, Tanzania and Uganda), and to develop a spin-out company for
     artificial intelligence-based NEON (Narrative Experiences Online) recovery from mental ill-
     health intervention. We will lead research on the mental health recovery of survivors of
     modern slavery collaborating with the Rights Lab Beacon of Excellence.
  • Pharmacy Practice and Policy (PPP) (SoP: 6 £1.7M): We influence health policy to improve
    the safety, efficacy and efficiency of medicines use (e.g. HEE Knaggs), and global pharmacy
    education and workforce policy (e.g. Schlumberger Foundation Anderson). We have
    particular strengths in the advancement of knowledge about medicines and their use and in
    the pharmacist's role in improving public health (e.g. NIHR Boyd†). Achievements over the
    REF period include the evaluation of the Community Pharmacy New Medicine Service,
    leading to its wide-spread adoption, saving the NHS a projected £558 million [ICS-3 Boyd†];
    our research in opioid use and safety (Int. J. Drug Policy), our evidence that access to
    influenza vaccination by at-risk groups is significantly increased through community
    pharmacy [ICS-4 Anderson]; and implementation of our pharmacist-led IT-based intervention
    significantly reduces clinically important prescribing errors in general practice [ICS-5 Boyd†].
     Our future strategy focusses on understanding and evidencing the development of effective
     pharmaceutical interventions to improve health outcomes for patients, in particular our
     continued lead with UoA2 in defining and maximizing the role of the pharmacist throughout
     the rapidly developing NHS Primary Care Networks in England.
  • Health Across the Life Course (SoHS: 14 SoM: 4 £14.8M): Our mission is to enhance the
    health, wellbeing and quality of life of people at key, often transitory, stages of life. Our
    expertise is in applied clinical research of highly complex problems in multidisciplinary
    settings. We have close links with the Centre for Evidence Based Healthcare (Evans†) and
    have been commissioned to develop guidance for public bodies. We are key members of the
    BRC, where we lead the ‘Complex Packages’ strand of the Musculoskeletal Conditions
    Theme. We played a pivotal role in the development of the Birmingham/Nottingham
    MRC/ARUK Centre for Musculoskeletal Research (CMAR) that provides a translational
    research pathway for the findings of the CMAR into applied clinical research. We have been
    awarded significant grant income for research in midwifery and maternity (NIHR HS&R
    Spiby), preventing obesity in teenagers (EU Commission, Coulson†), dementia (NIHR PGfAR,
    NIHR HS&DR Harwood*, Goldberg*†, Gladman, Logan, Pollock†), reducing the risk of falls in
    older people (NIHR HTA Logan, Gladman) [ICS-6 Logan] and end-of-life care (NIHR HS&DR,
    Pollock†). Achievements over the period include revealing maternal and neonatal
    consequences of treated and untreated asymptomatic bacteriuria in pregnancy (Lancet
    Infectious Diseases); specifications and interventions to reduce childhood injury [ICS-7
    Watson]; how online communities of people with long term conditions function and evolve
    (JMIR); medical Crises in Older People (PGfAR 2014); and the Getting Out the House study
    (HTA, 2014).
     Our future strategy includes building on our existing relationship with the NHS to secure NIHR
     and charity fellowships for talented clinical academics, and to increase the impact of our
     research. We will identify and take rapid advantage of new developments in the basic
     sciences and translate these into clinical practice through the BRC. We will rigorously
     evaluate complex interventions aimed at addressing the most challenging problems in
     healthcare.
  • Digital Innovations in Healthcare and Education (DICE) (SoHS: 3 £1.6M): This theme cuts
    across many specialities as the aim is to address the need to apply theoretical principles and
    pedagogy to the design of digital materials used in healthcare interventions. We work with
    patients, carers and health professionals to co-design digital health interventions to promote
    behaviour change for health and well-being, to support patients in the self-management of
    chronic conditions, and in advancing the continuing professional development of healthcare
    workers. Ensuring flexible and easy access to digital resources is a key feature of our work,
    which focuses on the concept of the reusable learning object as a model to produce
    transferable and open resources for global impact in healthcare contexts. Achievements over
    the REF period include our ASPIRE co-design methodology for creating effective digital


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     learning tools; our ‘Designing eLearning for Health’ MOOC that led to further global capacity
     building projects in digital health in low- and middle-income countries (e.g. EU Commission
     EACEA Wharrad, Konstandinidis*); and digital tools for self-management of chronic
     conditions (e.g. NIHR RfPB Blake†, NIHR RfPB Wharrad). Our research has resulted in the
     production of over 200 open learning resources for health which have been accessed by five
     million global users [ICS-8 Wharrad] and an open digital mental health support package for
     health and care workers developed in response to the COVID-19 pandemic that by July had
     been accessed over 41,000 times.
     Our future strategy is, in collaboration with health services researchers, to use our co-design
     methodologies with the next generation of digital technologies, including AI, virtual reality and
     360-degree imagery to produce effective digital interventions for the education of patients,
     their carers and healthcare professionals.

  1.4 Dissemination and Open Research
  Dissemination, translation and impact of research remain key performance indicators with an
  emphasis on the quality of output and assurance of research integrity and ethical behaviour.
  Since 2014, we have published of over 2,400 peer-reviewed papers (receiving >30,000 citations
  and cited in 97 patents), and received over 65,000 citations to our full-body of work, including in
  326 published patents.
  We are committed to open access publication, open research data and open science [REF5a-
  2.3]. Researchers make research outputs open access and deposit them in the University
  repository. The University supports a mixed Green and Gold model of open access publication.
  We have agreements with major publishers to fully/partially waive article processing charges.
  Where necessary Gold open access is supported through ring-fenced School funds, allowing
  staff and PhD students without eligible funding to publish in the most appropriate journals.
  Preprints are deposited in subject repositories such as bioRxiv, and data, code, scripts and
  supplementary materials from published outputs in repositories such as RADAR and github, in
  addition to the University Research Data Management Repository [REF5a-4.2]. All PhD theses
  are deposited, and 18 of these, deposited in the REF period, have been downloaded more than
  500 times. Our unique evidence-based digital learning tools are released for non-commercial
  reuse with a Creative Commons licence [ICS-8].

  1.5 Research related to COVID-19
  Our proactive response to COVID-19 includes pandemic subject expertise (e.g. Spiby, Slade*,
  Crawford), exploration of psychosocial behaviours related to COVID-19 (Coulson†), impactful
  COVID-19 mental health interventions (e.g. NHS COVID-Well Supported Wellbeing Centres Apr-
  July: 14,934 facility visits Blake†), and its impact on hearing and tinnitus (Baguley, Naylor†).
  Pollock† worked with colleagues in Cambridge on the prescribing and use of anticipatory
  medicines in response to COVID-19 (BMJ Supportive and Palliative Care). Working
  collaboratively with the BRC, our behavioural research funded by UoN’s COVID-19 Recovery
  Board and the MRC aligned with the UoN’s pilot asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 pooled PCR testing
  (Blake†), and informed operations and strategy for the wider rollout of PCR testing via the
  Biodiscovery Institute. As Mental Health Lead at the Rights Lab, Wright secured UKRI funding in
  July for COVID-19 Impact and Mitigations for Modern Slavery Victims and Survivors. Through
  UKRI Rapid Response funding C & M Alexander and colleagues in UoA5 will research the use
  of novel materials for the prevention of virus transmission (Matter 2020).

  1.6 Policy and Practice of Research Governance
  The UoN Code of Research Conduct and Research Ethics provides a framework for the
  governance of research throughout UoN, requiring adherence to the highest standards of
  performance and ethical conduct [REF5a-2.4]: It provides specific guidance on areas such as
  data, publications, intellectual property, ethical review. All Schools have a Research Ethics
  Officer who provides advice, and manage and monitors School procedures. Our Ethics Officers
  have delivered lectures, seminars, and workshops on ethics and research governance for staff,
  PGR students and research groups. We hold fortnightly ethics ‘drop-in’ clinics, offer individual
                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  appointments, and support approximately 130 ethics enquiries per year from our research staff
  and PGRs. A series of ‘ethics toolkits’ were developed for students and supervisors including a
  guide to the application process and templates for documents required. Research integrity
  training is mandatory for all researchers (Section 2).

  2. People
  Our researchers work across the translational spectrum of Discovery to Society, from
  fundamental, through preclinical and clinical, to public health and social research. At the
  REF2021 census date (F/M): 32% (47/53) of research staff were employed at Professorial level,
  26% (56/44) at Associate Professor/Principal Research Fellow level, and 41% (58/42) at
  Assistant Professor/Research Fellow level. 6% (50/50) of our staff are early career researchers,
  11% (67/33) are on fixed-term contracts, 16% (88/12) have part-time contracts, 7% disability
  declared, 14% (47/53) from BAME groups.
  Our allied health professional staff act in positions of leadership at the highest levels of the
  University (e.g. Deputy Vice-Chancellor Cox (2013-2017) (nurse); Pro-Vice-Chancellor for
  Research and Knowledge Exchange Tendler (2013-2015) (pharmacist) and Corner* (2015-)
  (nurse); Pro-Vice-Chancellor for the Faculty of Science Shakesheff (pharmacist)). We
  consistently have staff representation on UoN Council (Corner*, C Roberts), Senate (Walker,
  Anderson, Allen†, Blake†, Boyd†, Hui†, C Roberts, Toh*), UoN Executive Board (Shakesheff,
  Corner*), UoN Research Committee (Corner*, White* and one of our PGRs), and other University
  committees with representation at all career levels, helping develop leaders of the future.

  2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
  Building a Sustainable Staffing Strategy: Our strategy is to recruit and retain the best talent.
  We have appointed* a total of 33 Category A research staff at professorial (11) and non-
  professorial level to create and maintain critical mass in key research areas in line with strategy.
  23 staff have retired or left. Interviews for staff include panel members from across the UoA
  (trained in Interview Skills for Chair and Panel Members). We have an anonymized applications
  system in which biographical data is removed prior to shortlisting in order to reduce the risk of
  unconscious bias.
  We have invested strategically in all areas across our Discovery to Society activities: We
  appointed four Assistant Professors in areas of Inflammation Biology (Piccinini*, 2015 Anne
  McLaren Fellow), GPCR Pharmacology (Kilpatrick*, 2020 Anne McLaren Fellow), RNA
  Biophysics (Hori*, 2020 Nottingham Research Fellow) and Bioelectronics (Rawson*†, 2016
  Nottingham Research Fellow), and one Associate Professor in Supramolecular Chemistry
  (Perez-Garcia*†, 2017 Anne McLaren Fellow). Building our biomaterials and analysis activities
  we appointed four Assistant Professors in Regenerative Medicine (White*, 2016 Anne McLaren
  Fellow), Biomaterials (Hook*†, 2018 Nottingham Research Fellow), Bioinspired Therapeutics
  (Chauhan*, 2019 Nottingham Research Fellow), and Mass Spectrometry (Griffiths*, 2020 Anne
  McLaren Fellow). To deliver our research strategy in Additive BioFabrication we appointed one
  Professor as a 50% appointment with Engineering in Biomedical Engineering and Biomaterials
  (Mata*, 2019). Eight Professorial staff have been appointed in the areas of Hearing Science
  (Baguley*), Maternal Health (Higginbottom*, 2015-2018 and Verhoeven*, 2020), Children and
  Young People (Coad*); Skin Integrity (Tanner*, 2014); Mental Health (Slade*, 2015),
  Rehabilitation (Sackley*, 2019) and Palliative and End-of-Life Care (Harwood*, 2018). Associate
  Professors were appointed in Older Person’s Care (Goldberg*†, 2014), Midwifery (Pallotti*, 2017),
  and Psychological Therapy (Garland*, 2019). Assistant Professors have been appointed in areas
  of Respiratory Clinical Pharmacy (Sonnex*, 2017), Respiratory Rehabilitation (Harvey-Dunstan*,
  2018), Epidemiology (Otete*, 2017-2018), and to reflect priorities in internationalization we
  appointed two Assistant Professors in International Pharmacy (Arakawa*, 2018; Toh*, 2019) and
  one Associate Professor in International Pharmacy and Traditional Medicines (Zhu*, 2016).
  Borelli* and Latif* were both appointed in 2015. We have strengthened our digital technology
  expertise by appointing an Associate Professor in Medical Education Informatics
  (Konstantinidis*, 2015). In 2018, Needham* was appointed as Professor of Translational
  Therapeutics to lead our Laboratory-to-Clinic Translational Research in Cancer activity. Dame

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Jessica Corner*, Professor of Cancer and Supportive Care, joined the University in 2016 as Pro-
  Vice Chancellor for Research and Knowledge Exchange.
  Our commitment to the development of early career researchers is demonstrated by our
  appointment of fellows to the Anne McLaren (aimed at outstanding female scholars in science,
  technology, engineering and medicine) and Nottingham Research (targeted at exceptional
  postdoctoral researchers in all academic disciplines) fellowships; launching their independent
  research careers (Chauhan*, Dixon*†, Griffiths*, Hook*†, Hori*, Kilpatrick*, Piccinini*, Rawson*†,
  White*, Wilson* (from October 2020)) [REF5a-2.1c]. The Fellows are given a permanent contract,
  subject to meeting predefined objectives, at the end of their 3-year Fellowship. Our two 4-year
  joint AI-Biomaterials Discovery Fellowships (recruitment delayed until 2021 due to COVID) will
  be hosted by SoP for the first six months, followed by up to 36 months in the MIT Anderson and
  Langer labs and Koch Institute, before returning. These fellowships will provide additional funding
  to cover research expenses, travel, consumables, childcare support and other expenses
  associated with the fellowship of up to £90k for the four years. Fellows will have access to
  mentoring, career development and networking with the wider fellowship community. We have
  established mechanisms for knowledge sharing within and across UoA themes and for
  supporting and mentoring potential Fellows in developing their proposals and establishing the
  networks and infrastructure to support success.
  With the appointments outlined above, and with internal promotions, we have a sustainable
  balance of academic staff at all career levels.

  Staff Development: Personal development and research career progression are reviewed on at
  least an annual basis through UoN’s Appraisal Development Conversation (ADC) process. We
  provide financial support for undertaking ‘long’ courses, clinical courses, sabbaticals and short
  courses, attendance at national and international conferences (with support for childcare and
  other caring cover), and shadowing opportunities. We support staff to undertake further research
  degrees (e.g. Zelzer† Bioinformatics Scientist Apprenticeship (2020-2022)) and have supported
  staff with doctoral study (e.g. Borrelli†, Carter†, Sonnex*).
  • Performance and progression: We have recognised the contributions of research staff
    through 63 Exceptional Performance Bonuses and rewards through the Nottingham Reward
    Scheme. In line with principles of responsible metrics, h-index and other publication metrics
    are no longer an assessment criterion for promotion. Staff applying for promotion are offered
    mentoring from a senior staff member, and all staff are offered an annual preparatory
    workshop for preparing a promotion case. Through ADC we have approved 38 promotions†
    in core research areas of our UoA which has enhanced sustainability of our research:
     •   11 promotions to Professor (Bath-Hexall†, Allen†, Laughton†, Coulson†, Rose†, Pollock†,
         Aylott†, Stolnik†, Chan†, Stocks†, Naylor†) [5F, 6M]
     •   19 promotions to Associate Professor (Blake†, Evans†, Goldberg*†, Edgley†, Pollock†,
         Parry†, Buchanan†, Fisher†, Thomas†, Boyd†, Mantovani†, Gershkovich†, Rawson*†,
         Perez-Garcia*†, Dixon†, Dreveny†, Jopling†, Kim†, Zelzer†) [12F, 7M]
     •   8 promotions to Senior Research Fellows and Assistant Professor (Hook*†, Carter†,
         Caswell†, J Roberts†, Fletcher-Smith†, Hui†, Parmenter†, Borrelli†) [5F, 3M].
  • Coaching, Mentoring and Leadership: 20 of our research staff have undertaken the UoN’s
    Leadership and Management Academy taught programmes [REF5a-3.1]. Four of our staff
    have secured competitive places on the Nottingham Research Leaders Programme (Aylott†,
    Blake†, Radford, Thomas†). Three staff secured places on our award-winning ESRC Impact
    Leaders Programme, established in 2015 to foster collaborations with external stakeholder
    partners to promote the exchange of people, ideas, skills and knowledge. In 2018, UoN
    established a pioneering Vice-Chancellor’s Mentoring Programme for staff, who have
    protected characteristics and leadership aspirations. Staff members from our UoA have been
    selected for this scheme each year (2018: one Professor; 2019: two Associate Professors).
  • Staff Wellbeing: We secured two institutional awards in the Nottinghamshire County
    ‘Wellbeing@Work’ Workplace Award and contributed to shaping UoN Wellbeing Strategy


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     2020 through our representation on two UoN Task & Finish Groups for Wellbeing and Staff
     Engagement.
  • Research Capability: We enhance capability of our research staff through annual research
    staff away days, monthly methodology seminar series and specialist methods groups,
    including realist methods, implementation science, health economics, and protocol writing.
    We host an innovative Grant Writing Workshop seminar series for the SoM (Radford) and co-
    lead the Joanna Briggs Centre for Evidence-Based Healthcare (Evans†), which provides
    expertise and training on Review Methodology. Since 2014, we have invested in additional
    statistical support for research staff and PGRs (medical statistician delivers ~80
    consultations-per-year). We hosted a Marie Skłodowska-Curie actions Research and
    Innovation Staff Exchange project FutForm to translate advanced analytical approaches
    embedded into industrial practice for the development of future pharmaceutical processes
    through a collaborative programme of researcher secondments with SMEs in Twente, Porto
    and Sicily (Allen†).

  Developing Clinical Academic Careers: We are leaders in developing clinical academic
  careers from pre-masters through to professor. Our aim is to give clinical academics the applied
  skills to become leaders in healthcare research. We offer an integrated Clinical Academic
  Programme for non-medical healthcare professions including the MA in Research Methods
  (Edgely), NIHR/HEE Internship, Pre- and Post-Doctoral Bridging Programmes, and the Centre
  for Doctoral Training (CDT) for Rehabilitation and Healthcare Research. Coad* is one of our two
  Directors of Clinical Academic Careers to strategically and operationally support East-Midlands
  implementation of these priority areas:
  • Clinical Academic Pre-Doctoral Research Training: Our UoA hosts a masters in applied
    research methods (MARM), which includes undertaking a clinically-relevant research project
    and the development of a protocol for a clinical academic PhD. Our MARM programme was
    one of only 10 such courses in England and received annual institutional National Institute for
    Health Research (NIHR) funding for 10 fully-funded places until 2018.
  • NIHR/HEE Clinical Academic Pre- and Post-Doctoral Bridging Programmes: This scheme
    (led by Radford) identifies up to seven non-medical NHS clinicians from the East Midlands
    each year from the NIHR/HEE list of ICA eligible non-medical professions. Each fellow is
    matched with an academic and clinical mentor and provided with bespoke training over 48
    weeks, resulting in a completed PhD proposal and NIHR clinical academic fellowship
    application. Of the 29 clinical academics who have completed the pre-doctoral fellowship, 11
    have been awarded a PhD fellowship including three NIHR CDRF fellowships and three NIHR
    CLAHRC PhD fellowships.
  • Regional Influence: We work in partnership with the University of Lincoln who run the HEEM
    Internship Programme and provide management support and mentoring of health
    professionals across the HEEM/NIHR ICA pathway (Radford, Logan, Coad*). We host and
    deliver the HEEM pre-doctoral and post-doctoral fellowships (Logan, Radford) We input into
    the Health Education England East Midlands Internship Clinical Scholarship, the NUH
    mentorship programme, and have secured The Healthcare Improvement Studies (THIS)
    Institute funding to support clinical PhD studentships (Spiby, Fisher†). We lead in supporting
    regional excellence in clinical academic careers through the clinical academic practitioner
    network and steering group championed by NIHR ARC East Midlands (Coad*, Radford,
    Logan, Spiby).
  • Medical Lectureship: We host a unique medical lectureship post in SoM that allows a medical
    practitioner (usually a senior doctor) to undertake a PhD while in a clinical post. The success
    of this post is demonstrated by a strong track record of progression to senior clinical academic
    careers through this route (e.g. Harwood*, Gladman). The last three post holders now hold
    one Associate Professor and two Professor positions.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  2.2 Research Students and their Training
  Our PGR community of 219 comprises 54% Home, 12% EU, 33% International, 7% part-time,
  57% female, 37% BAME, and 9% declared disability. Our PGRs are from 31 countries, and we
  have attracted 30 recipients of the Vice-Chancellor’s International Scholarship. Over the REF
  period we have graduated 537 (418.41 supervisory FTE) PhDs with an average 4-year
  submission rate of 84%. Funding is received from the UKRI, industry and major charities. We
  have supported a growing number of studentships over the REF period to the point where for
  2020/21 we will be spending over £800k p.a. on studentships.
  Effective and Sustainable Postgraduate Training: Postgraduate strategy is overseen by the
  SoP PGC (Jopling†), the SoHS PGR Committee (Moffatt), SoM Division of Rehabilitation Ageing
  and Wellbeing PG Lead (Buchanan†) and CDT-RHR Management Board (Logan), who are
  responsible for PG recruitment, new course recommendations, investment of School funds in
  PhD training (ca. £250k) and governance of the PhD programmes. We have PGR Student
  Representatives on all programmes (SoP 10, SoHS 6, SoM 3).
  • Collaborative PGR Research and Training: We have led two highly successful industry-
    backed EPSRC CDTs in Targeted Therapeutics (£1.3M 2011-2017 C Alexander) and
    Advanced Therapeutics & Nanomedicines (£4.6M 2014-2022 C Alexander). The UoN-UCL
    collaboration that is the academic backbone of these CDTs is one of Europe’s leading
    industrial collaborative training programmes in advanced drug delivery. Increasing numbers
    of industrial partners have contributed funding for students over time. 50% of the graduates
    from these CDTs have taken high-profile roles in R&D across partnering companies (AZ,
    GSK, Pfizer), 28% in academia, and others in diverse, life sciences, R&D intensive
    organizations (e.g. Unilever, UCB, Syngenta, Vertex). We also partnered in the EPSRC &
    MRC CDT in Regenerative Medicine (£1M co-Is Buttery, Shakesheff). We again lead the CDT
    in Transformative Pharmaceutical Technologies with UCL and the Synthesis & Solid State
    Pharmaceutical Centre in Ireland (£6.1M + €3.0M 2019-2027 Stolnik†), with support from 11
    industrial partners, that will train and prepare 75 strategic-thinking scientists for high achieving
    careers in the pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors.
     We remain the UK lead and on the Management Board of the NanoFar Erasmus Mundus
     Joint European Doctorate in Nanomedicine and Pharmaceutical Innovation (Bosquillon). We
     established a PhD/MRes programme in Pharmacology and Drug Discovery with Monash in
     which students spend time at both institutions and are awarded a joint UoN/Monash PhD. We
     have established two Thematic PhD training programmes through the UoN’s EPSRC DTA;
     Bioinstructive Materials for Healthcare Applications (2018-2022 Rose†); Astropharmacy and
     Astromedicine (2019-2025 Williams), which is supported by collaboration with the Adelaide
     Centre for Sustainable Planetary and Space Resources providing studentships on the
     Nottingham/Adelaide Partnership and Dual PhD programme. We have hosted 39 industrial
     studentships (including CASE awards) over the REF period with support from 20 companies
     including AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Alliance Boots, Pfizer, NPL, Unilever, Syngenta,
     Croda and Widex A/S.
     Our Centre for Doctoral Training in Rehabilitation and Healthcare Research (CDT-RHR),
     launched in 2014 (Director: Logan), supports doctoral training for clinicians and applied health
     services researchers, offering an innovative, integrated, programme of research training and
     development, with core-training on mixed methods research in complex interventions. The
     CDT-RHR collaborates strategically with the ARC and the EMAHSN (East Midlands
     Academic Health Sciences Network) who provide complementary expertise in applied clinical
     research. To date 14 people have graduated from the CDT-RHR, with 5 being successful at
     winning post-doctoral fellowships.
     Our Centre for Doctoral Training in Musculoskeletal Health and Pain in Ageing and Wellbeing:
     (Co-Director: Gladman) collaborates closely with CDT-RHR and provides translational
     research training for 91 PhD students of whom 27 are AHPs. The centre collaborates with
     the Pain Centre Versus Arthritis, the Centre for Sport, Exercise and Osteoarthritis Research
     Versus Arthritis and the MRC Versus Arthritis Centre for Musculoskeletal Ageing Research.


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  • Skills & Training: The Midlands Graduate School ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership
    provides matched studentship funding, local and cross-institutional training to our PGRs in
    social science research methods and skills, as well as broader capabilities such as
    communication and leadership. The DTP offers 17 different training pathways, with
    studentships awarded annually across the pathways and partner institutions (Aston,
    Birmingham, Leicester, Loughborough, Nottingham and Warwick).
  • Recruitment: We recruit PGRs from a wide range of backgrounds through targeted
    advertising, and work with local clinicians to support their career. For our EPSRC CDTs, we
    hold a Virtual Open Day online run by current students from our EDI Working Group. We also
    run an online application session in early January for any prospective applicants with queries
    about the application/selection process. Applications to study are anonymized to ensure that
    shortlisting is based purely on merit. Interview panels are constructed to ensure a gender
    balance and representation of diverse backgrounds.
  • Health & Wellbeing: We lead a ‘Wellbeing Showcase’ for PGRs with external speakers and
    interactive sessions. In 2016, we founded the UK’s PGR-led ‘Raise Awareness of Mental
    Health in Higher Education’ campaign to remove stigma around mental health in higher
    education. Our launch conference was attended by 165 staff, students, and mental health
    service providers from the Universities of Nottingham, Birmingham and Warwick. In 2020, we
    ran a number of Mental Health and COVID support sessions on behalf of the Researcher
    Academy for all postgraduate students across the Schools.
  • PGR Supervision Excellence: Our staff consistently receive student-nominations and win
    awards for their research supervision (e.g. THE Awards Zelzer† 2016, UoN Staff Oscars
    Blake† 2017, Moffatt 2018).
  • Research Outputs and Impact: PGR students make a significant contribution to our research
    portfolio, co-authoring over 750 publications in the REF period, >100 returned to REF2021.
    Over 150 publications co-authored by our PGR students on the EPSRC CDTs in Targeted
    Therapeutics and Advanced Therapeutics and Nanomedicines have been published in the
    period, including outputs in Nature Communications, PNAS, and Science Advances. The
    success of our support for early career researchers is demonstrated by the prestigious
    achievement awards received by our research students, such as the Tri-Campus
    Postgraduate Endowed Award (Quirk, Oliveira, Banerjee, O’Connor, Bardi, Bin Sabri,
    Sykorova), and the Anglo-Thai Education Award (Tosangwarn). The PhD thesis of Sweeney
    ‘A convergent parallel mixed methods investigation into the role of mindfulness in moderate
    to severe, persistent depression’, 2016 (results published in Lancet Psychiatry), has been
    downloaded from the repository over 4200 times. Our PGRs generated the first publication of
    the three-dimensional structure of BabA, an important adhesin used by Helicobacter pylori to
    attach to the human gastric epithelium, in Science Advances leading to an EPSRC
    Postdoctoral Fellowship (Francini). Through our CDTs we have established a collaboration
    with the Institute for Food Research in Norwich, Vanderbilt University, Max Planck Institute
    for Infection Biology, and University of Muenster. Robson, a PGR on the Astropharmacy
    programme, participated in the design and management of the WormSail experimental
    astropharmacy CubeSat satellite.
  Many of our PGRs and early career researchers have progressed to academic careers (e.g.
  seven of our NRF/AMFs came from research positions within the UoA), and secured significant
  research grant funding from national bodies (e.g. Henshaw NIHR RfPB; Wiggins, Rawson*†
  EPSRC).

  2.3 Equality and Diversity
  Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) is an integrated priority across the Unit. The UoN’s
  Associate Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion was a member of our UoA
  (Walker 2015-2018). In line with the UoN’s EDI Strategic Delivery Plan, our UoA has two
  Directors of EDI, one in each Faculty (FMHS: Walker; FoS: Shakesheff) liaising with Faculty HR
  Business Partners. Within our Unit we have EDI leads in each School reporting to FMHS EDI
  Group (Walker co-chair) and Faculty of Science EDI Group (Shakesheff co-chair) who report to

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  the PVC for EDI. These staff lead on the implementation of the equality, diversity and inclusion
  plans for respective Schools, monitoring all aspects of EDI and recording progress, celebrating
  success and recommending EDI priorities for development. In SoHS, EDI is monitored by chair
  of the Career Development and Inclusion Board and represents SoHS on both Faculty and
  University EDI committees. In SoM, the Career Development Engagement Committee &
  Executive, the Wellbeing and Engagement Group, and the Strategic Staffing Group are now
  bought together into The People’s Committee. In SoP, EDI is monitored by the Equality and
  Diversity Committee.
  Our commitment to the EDI agenda is evidenced by our Silver Athena Swan awards with leads
  in each school. EDI is a standing item on our Research Strategy Board agendas, and we hold
  regular EDI-themed seminars. We are actively involved in driving the University’s and national
  agenda on EDI. Locally, we have representation on the UoN Diversity and Inclusion Research
  Steering Committee led by the PVC for EDI (Blake†). Shakesheff and another member of our
  UoA sit on the Race Equality Charter Self-Assessment Team, and contribute to the UoN
  application for the Bronze Race Equality Charter mark. We lead EDI-related research funded by
  the STEMM-CHANGE Programme (EPSRC Co-I Walker) (e.g. Toh* leads the development and
  testing of COVID-19 discrimination reporting system and is working with our Institute for Policy
  and Engagement to extend nationally [REF5a-2.1e]) and the Sphere Programme (Blake†). On a
  national level, Henshaw sits on the NIHR Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Board.
  EDI and the REF submission. The University supported employees to voluntarily declare
  relevant personal circumstances and their impact on volume of REF outputs [REF5a-3.7]. All
  staff involved in internal REF preparations completed a bespoke masterclass: REF, Equality,
  Diversity and Inclusion Training (covering EDI legislation and principles governing REF conduct,
  protected characteristics, unconscious bias, management strategies for positive outcomes).
  All researchers were asked to nominate as many outputs as they thought eligible for inclusion
  for REF2021 to our annual internal review process, and all were encouraged to put forward
  impact case studies (ICSs). Our strategy is to submit the very best outputs and ICSs regardless
  of other criteria. The eight ICSs submitted are from the work of 11 female and 8 male
  researchers: 8 Professors, 5 Associate Professors, 2 Assistant Professors, 3 Principal Research
  Fellows and 1 Nottingham Research Fellow.

  2.4 Concordat Implementation
  We have strategic roles explicitly designed to support researchers to develop both capacity and
  their careers, ensuring local implementation of the Nottingham Concordat Plan [REF5a-3.2].
  These include our Directors of Research (Williams, Drummond 2019, Goldberg*†, Fisher†),
  Directors of Knowledge Exchange (Goldberg*† 2017-9, Evans† 2019-22), Research Concordat
  Officer (Evans†). Research Integrity is central to staff induction processes and PhD programmes
  [REF5a-2.4]. From our undergraduate, postgraduate and staff training activities of the Schools,
  research integrity is discussed as part of research ethics, in terms of good scientific practice e.g.,
  observing high standards, compliance, honesty as a researcher, and, bad practice, such as,
  misconduct, and self-interest. As a member of the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO), the
  University has access to training provision of UKRIO on research integrity and organised
  research integrity workshops for academic staff and research students from 2017. Responsible
  Research and Innovation training is provided by the Institute of Science and Society at the
  University – the one of the foremost interdisciplinary centres for research excellence in the field
  of science and technology studies.

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
  Research Income: Since 2014 our total grant spend has been over £58.2M with funding from a
  broad portfolio of sources (UKRI contributing 38%, UK Government 31%, charities 15%, EU 8%
  and industry 5%). Our research awards for the same period total over £75.6M (based on
  percentage shares of UoA3 staff only) from our participation in over £175M of interdisciplinary
  research awards across the Institution.



                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  National Research Programmes: We are key members of national funded research
  programmes, including Radford (ChI) NIHR Return to Work After Stroke (RETAKE) study with
  Leeds; Logan (ChI) NIHR Falls in Care Homes (FInCH) study involving 11 NHS trusts; Harwood
  (ChI) NIHR PrAISED study involving 5 NHS trusts; Aylott† (co-I) EPSRC Future Targeted
  Healthcare Manufacturing programme led by UCL; C Alexander (co-I) EPSRC Future Vaccine
  Manufacturing programme led by Imperial College; Mata*, Rose†, Shakesheff, White* (co-Is)
  UKRI MRC UK Regenerative Medicine Platform Hub-2 led by Imperial College; Rose† EPSRC
  Engineering Growth Factor Microenvironments led by Glasgow; Stocks†, C Roberts (co-Is)
  EPSRC Prosperity Partnership with Strathclyde; C Roberts (co-I) EPSRC Enabling Next
  Generation Additive Manufacturing programme grant with Nottingham UoA9, 12 and
  Birmingham, Warwick; M Alexander, C Roberts (co-Is) EPSRC Formulation for 3D Printing
  platform with Nottingham UoA5, 6, 8, 12 and Birmingham, Reading.

  Nature and Quality of Infrastructure and Facilities: We have access to excellent facilities
  across both Faculties of Medicine and Health Sciences and Science. The Biodiscovery Institute
  (BDI) (deputy director Rose†), opened in 2019 with the £23M investment into the Centre of
  Biomolecular Sciences, sees the physical linking of the Boots Science Building (housing
  Advanced Materials and Healthcare Technologies (AMHT), Molecular Therapeutics and
  Formulation (MTF), Regenerative Medicine and Cellular Therapies (RMCT)) and the Centre of
  Biomolecular Sciences (Biomolecular Science and Medical Chemistry (BSMC), RMCT). BDI
  enabled the co-location of RMCT with the Division of Cancer and Stem Cells, the Nottingham
  Breast Cancer Research Centre, the Cancer Pathogenesis Research Group, the Division of
  Respiratory Medicine and the Stem Cell Biology Units of SoM. These buildings house state-of-
  the-art facilities in molecular biology, cell culture, mass spectrometry, medicinal chemistry
  (including our 80,000-compound library), structural biology, molecular modelling, microscopy,
  parasitology and formulation. Using the BDI as a focus, the Director (UoA1) worked with Williams
  and others to provide 16 of the 35 qPCR machines sent to the UK Biocentre in Milton Keynes for
  COVID-19 testing.
  Other important facilities that we access include the nmRC (co-located with some of AMHT) that
  underpins more than £100M of UoN’s research portfolio and has secured £7.6M of EPSRC
  capital funding in the REF period (including the only 3DOrbiSIMS in academia (M Alexander, C
  Alexander, Scurr, Shakesheff; EPSRC EP/P029868/1), a high resolution, cryogenic analytical
  and transfer scanning electron microscope (with C Alexander, Parmenter†, Rawson*†, Scurr;
  EPSRC EP/S021434/1) [REF5a-4.2]), the School of Life Sciences Imaging centre (including
  £735k for the multidisciplinary super-resolution microscopy facility; co-Is C Roberts, Buttery,
  Aylott, C Alexander, Rose†, Williams, Shakesheff; BBSRC BB/L013827/1), equipment at the
  Research Complex Harwell (including multiwavelength analytical centrifuge, co-I Dreveny†;
  BBSRC BB/R013411/1), flow cytometry centre (including an imaging flow cytometer (co-I M
  Alexander; Wellcome Multi-User Grant) and the UoN’s High Performance Computing Facilities
  (upgraded 2018). In 2016, C Roberts secured £800k from the Wolfson Foundation to establish
  a GMP facility within the £24M Advanced Manufacturing Building, opened in 2018, for work on
  additive manufacture of pharmaceuticals. We (Laughton†, Williams) are actively involved in
  developing the Digital Research Environment Strategy of the University, which includes
  infrastructure and resource (£3.1M, 2016) for Compute and Analytics, Research Data
  Management, and Communication and Collaboration [REF5a-4.1d]. Over the REF period our
  researchers have been supported with over £90k through UNICAS, the long-standing University
  initiative that brings together cross-discipline groups to fund exciting, novel research projects
  involving analytical science.
  Our hearing science research benefits from bespoke auditory laboratories and acoustic and
  hearing equipment that have been purpose-built and continually developed. Naylor’s team
  moved to new laboratories in Jan 2014 (total bill approx. £875k) and has since benefited from
  MRC capital-investment in portable systems for talker selection and paired eye-trackers for
  tracking people while they converse (£144k, MRC). The BRC has gained a fNIRS system (£263k,
  MRC).



                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Significant capital investment has been made within SoHS to create flexible clinical skills
  research and training space (£925k), in improvements in the working office environment (£930k)
  and provision of communal catering (£370k). We provide dual-screen desktop or laptop to all
  PGR students.

  Effective Equipment Use and Renewal: We have contributed to the UoN’s initiative on
  equipment sharing through our EPSRC NanoPrime project, led through the nmRC, that aims to
  catalyse the development of nanomaterials research across the University through equipment
  and expertise sharing (M Alexander with UoA8 and 12; EP/R025282/1).
  The Schools have also invested in equipment since 2014: In SoP funds for new equipment are
  managed by the SRC (annual budget of £100k) taking in account of our and UoN’s strategic
  priorities and ensuring open facilitated access and sustainability, inclusive of renewal strategies.
  Small equipment and upgrades funded this way include: DynaPro plate reader, IVIS
  maintenance, AEKTA START FPLC, Mastersizer, Agilent UV and Fluorescence spectrometers.
  We recently invested in a Facilities Management System, which through linking with individuals’
  diaries and accounting tools enables researchers to better plan their research, aids in cost
  recovery and accounting, and has proven invaluable in the safe and effective recovery of
  research from the COVID-19 lockdown.

  Enabling Impact: Our Interface and Surface Analysis Centre (ISAC) partnership between SoP
  and the National Physical Laboratory continues to develop the awareness of our surface and
  interfacial science capabilities driving commercial engagement. In the REF period, ISAC has
  delivered over £1.5M of projects across a broad range of industrial sectors (e.g. working with
  Innospec Ltd to inform the development of 10 new fuel additives (combined sales of $200M)
  reducing gasoline environmental and health impact and shaping the strategic development of
  their fuel additive business ($600M revenue); undertaking forensic analysis for Guilford
  Performance Textiles to discover the origin of contaminants; understanding skin permeation of
  key active ingredients in a skincare product range helping secure international patent
  applications, pre-launch product development and post-launch product validation analysis;
  working with a multinational pharmaceutical company to study compounds for cataract
  prevention and treatment).

  Cross-HEI Shared Facilities: In 2016, the UoN and the University of Birmingham established
  the £10M Centre of Membrane Proteins and Receptors to develop novel methods for visualising
  single membrane proteins and to use these to identify new approaches for prevention and
  treatment of cardiovascular disease and cancer angiogenesis, of which Emsley and Kellam are
  group leaders. The imaging infrastructure created through this centre has been instrumental in
  achieving many significant outputs (eg. Science, J. Med. Chem., Front. Pharmacol.). The End-
  to-End Therapeutics IRC, co-led by Kellam, is positioned to build upon this, the BRC and other
  activities across the university to deliver four different-stage translation pipelines. We are also
  partners, contributors and users of the £6M (co-I Emsley £3.7M Wellcome Trust) Midlands
  Regional Cryo-EM facility.

  Industry-funded research: Our staff have forged strong links to many healthcare and related
  industries resulting in 44 collaborative projects worth over £2.6M over the REF period. We work
  with 38 companies across the healthcare sector, including Boots, Evonik, Mars Petcare UK,
  Promega, SureScreen Diagnostics, Syngenta, Unilever, Vectura and Widex A/S. Our four CDTs
  (EPSRC Targeted Therapeutics, EPSRC Advanced Therapeutics & Nanomedicines, EPSRC
  Transformative Pharmaceutical Technology; MRC Regenerative Medicine) all have strong
  industrial links. The Targeted Therapeutics and Advanced Therapeutics were part- funded by
  industry, as is the CDT in Transformative Technologies CDTs by 11 companies (AstraZeneca,
  Quotient Sciences, Upperton, Nemaura, Mikota, RAFT, Croda, Pfizer, Arcinova, Catalent, 3M).

  Estates Strategy and EDI: To March 2020, researchers in UoA3 had 24-hour access to offices
  and facilities. COVID-secure working is now enabled through our Facilities Management System
  and controls to both labs, offices and prayer spaces. Graduate Centres exclusively for PG
  students are provided at each campus (bookable seminar rooms, computers, kitchen facilities,

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  lounge and relaxation       areas,     career    libraries),  and      the    £22M       newly-
  rebuilt Engineering and Science Library includes bookable individual and group study areas and
  PG-only study space. Since 2017, we have been actively involved in significant estates
  developments in our areas, including refurbishment of office spaces, provision of unisex toilets
  to meet the needs of gender transitioning staff and students, and provision of parenting rooms
  (with sinks and refrigeration). Imaging and signage have been under review over the last year to
  ensure that signs are more inclusive to those with literacy issues or colour blindness, and
  marketing demonstrates diversity. Additional disabled and late (post school drop-off) parking
  areas have been provided.

  Significance of Major Benefits-in-Kind: A number of our researchers access national and
  international facilities including Diamond, the ISIS Neutron and Muon source, and the European
  Synchrotron Radiation Facility funded via the STFC (£134k, £152k and £75k, respectively), and
  use the UK supercomputer ARCHER via HECBioSim (170MAUs, notional value £95k). Other in-
  kind support includes loans or access to equipment from industrial partners, staff time donated
  to supervision of projects by industrial collaborators, and time donated by external consultants
  and industrial colleagues in providing strategic advice.

  Data management: In order to support appropriate data management and governance
  arrangements for clinical studies the UoN has established a centralised Data Management
  Service that provides a tiered service to suit the needs of individual researchers and studies,
  ranging from the development of bespoke databases and data management systems, through
  to providing infrastructure, training and support for investigators wishing to perform their own
  data management. This service delivers standardised processes, best practice guidance and
  quality assurance for all members of staff and postgraduate students. Our Research Computing
  and Data Manager supports research areas requiring uplifted specialized support of high
  demanding/big-data management.

  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
  Collaboration and internationalization are key aspects of our work and culture in Discovery to
  Society. We collaborate with academic and industrial groups locally, nationally and
  internationally, as evidenced through our grant portfolio, patents, invitation to conferences and
  publications. We have catalogued over 70 substantive academic international collaborations,
  publishing >1000 papers with them in the period, including MIT, Harvard, Monash, Ulm, LaTrobe,
  University of Toronto, China Pharmaceutical University, Lawrence Livermore National
  Laboratory, University of Queensland, University of Zurich, and University of Otago, New
  Zealand. Our organizational restructuring furthered our Transatlantic Target-Based Drug-
  Discovery (TransTar) programme with LNBio, CNPEM, and Unicamp (Kellam; Brazil; CAPES,
  Newton Fund, British Council) and germinated the tripartite research agreement on drug
  discovery for tropical and neglected diseases with the Institute of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine
  (NOVA University of Lisbon; WHO) and Farmanguinhos (Brazilian Ministry of Health). From our
  2015 MoU with the University Kebangsaan, we have created joint PhD studentships and
  research programmes investigating the unmet needs of stroke survivors in mainland Malaysia.
  We have signed MoU/MoAs with the Department of Pharmacy at National University of
  Singapore, the College of Pharmacy at Seoul National University, and China Pharmaceutical
  University in Nanjing, China.
  Our research networks include those of Slade* who is the lead of the Recovery Research
  Network - the world’s largest network (960 members in 36 countries) of researchers involved in
  mental health recovery – and the European Network for Mental Health Service Evaluation
  (ENMESH 2017-2021); Fisher† the NIHR ARC Stroke Group; Walker the World Neuro-
  Rehabilitation Federation (WNRF) Stroke Special Interest Group & Stroke Rehabilitation and
  Recovery Roundtable (SRRR) international working group; Drummond ‘Life after Stroke’
  committee (Domain 7) for the Action Plan for Stroke 2018 – 2030; Naylor was the President of
  the International Collegium of Rehabilitative Audiology. Wiggins is also an invited expert to the
  WHO’s global Make Listening Safe initiative, aimed at protecting the hearing of young people.
  Hearing Sciences are an institutional member of the WHO’s World Hearing Forum. We are

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  members of the Health and the Midlands Mass Spectrometry networks of Midlands Innovation,
  and the £6.8M Mental Health and Productivity Pilot funded by Midlands Engine.

  NHS clinical positions and roles
  Our staff hold joint clinical positions with local NHS trusts: Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS
  Foundation Trust (Baguley*; Kontou; Slade*); Nottingham CityCare Partnership (Logan);
  Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust (NUH) (Coad*; Gladman; Harwood*). Kontou was
  also Clinical Psychologist with Derbyshire Community Health Sciences NHS Trust and later
  Derbyshire Healthcare NHS Trust. Six clinicians hold honorary positions within this UoA, for
  example Carter as Child and Adolescent Mental Health Service nurse. Carter is also Affiliate
  Cognitive Behavioural therapist at Trent Psychological Therapies Service. Our PGR student
  body includes consultant-level clinical staff. Spiby is a member of the Executive Board
  Nottingham and Nottinghamshire Local Maternity and Neonatal System. Pallotti* is Board
  Member and Vice Chair of the Iolanthe Midwifery Trust, and Director of the Sheffield Maternity
  Cooperative. McDermott maintains her position as Music Therapist for the Central and North
  West London NHS Foundation Trust. Drummond is a Non-Executive Director at University
  Hospitals of Derby and Burton NHS Foundation Trust.
  Blake† sits on the Nottingham University Hospitals NHS Trust Staff Health & Wellbeing Board.
  We work closely with the Institute for Mental Health (co-Directors Gladman, Slade*). We
  collaborate with MindTech (the NIHR Healthcare Technology Co-operative focused on the
  development of new technology for mental healthcare), Health Education East Midlands, and
  EMAHSN. With a focus on research implementation, members of our UoA hold current or
  previous roles within the NIHR ARC/CLAHRC (Walker, Fisher†, Gladman).

  Public engagement
  We organize and participate in a wide range of public engagement and impact activities as part
  of the Festival of Science and Curiosity, Festival of Social Science, Science in the Park, Pint of
  Science, British Science Association lectures, Royal Society Summer Exhibition, Cheltenham
  Science Festival, MayFest/Wonder, SPARK, Summer Scientist, Café Connect, Nottingham in
  Parliament, UoN YouTube Science Channels, Women in Maths, Research in Action: Impact and
  Innovation Showcase. We have held Special Exhibitions of 3D printed Medicines at the Science
  Museum, London, and the Science Museum, Manchester. Outreach and research engagements
  of ISAC include hosting of the Nottingham Summer Schools ‘Getting Under Your Skin’ and
  ‘Pharmaceutical Guess Who’, six eight-week undergraduate summer research projects, and
  funding of research conferences. Our After School Science Club, coordinated with the Widening
  Participation (WP) team and involving approximately 50 pharmacy undergraduate and PGR
  volunteers, engages with children in 10 local schools each year in a 5-week programme to
  encourage them to think about science as a career.
  In 2017, SoHS appointed a Director of Public Engagement and a Public Engagement Steering
  Group that includes PGR members. 17 grants were later awarded through a collaborative funding
  scheme developed to promote grass-roots innovation of co-produced practice between
  academics and members of the public across research and teaching. Public Engagement
  webpages have been developed as well as a new (GDPR-compliant) database of service users
  and carers who collaborate with the School. SoP’s Outreach Coordinator (Collins) works closely
  with the Director in SoHS on public engagement, and with the STEM and WP teams with the
  Faculties through membership of the Faculty of Science Faculty Public Engagement committee,
  the Practitioners of Outreach group, and is Assessor for the STEM module of the Nottingham
  Advantage Award.

  Patient and Public Involvement
  PPI underpins the research activity in Discovery to Society of all components. The SoM has a
  dedicated working group to raise awareness, embed training and support a wider East Midlands
  network (chaired by Fisher†). Hearing Science researchers play an active and prominent role in
  PPI at the BRC and School level. We co-created the East Midlands Lay Assessor training
  programme and the East Midlands Sharebank (a novel model, based on reciprocation, for

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  organisations/staff/patients/public to share PPI research knowledge and skills). Service users
  engage in all aspects of research including consultation, collaboration and partnership,
  engagement in data collection and collaborative analysis, and co-leading studies. In addition to
  PPI groups attached to specific research teams and funded studies, we have established PPI
  groups hosted within SoHS and SoM. We deliver three Managed Innovation Networks for PPI
  supported by the IMH: Mental Health and Hearing Loss; Mental Health and Modern Slavery; the
  Youth Mental Health Advisory Group (Wright, Carter). We host several PPI groups which actively
  engages service users’ and carers’ involvement in research: The Nottingham Stroke Research
  Partnership Group (Fisher†, Walker); the Nottingham Maternity Research Network (Spiby), the
  Dementia, Frail Older Person and Palliative care PPI Group (Goldberg*†, Pollock), Nottingham
  International Collaboration on Educational Research Group, and the Trauma Research
  Partnership. The Nottingham Stroke Research Partnership Group leads an annual Stroke Lay
  Conference and attracts over 120 stroke survivors, carers and family members affected by
  stroke. We have delivered training to service users in research methods to support their
  involvement in externally funded participatory research undertaken across the UoA. Hui hosts
  research workshops at the Nottingham Recovery College, which is a session co-lead by service
  users for service users, to develop research knowledge, skills, training, ideas and networks.
  Slade* is the Academic Lead for PPI within the Mental Health and Technology Theme of the
  NIHR Nottingham BRC. We have engaged in significant capacity-building amongst community
  organisations and supporting their work in advocating for changes to healthcare practice,
  particularly for migrant communities (Evans†).

  Media Activities
  We have engaged in significant media activities for knowledge transfer and public engagements
  (e.g. dissemination through local and national BBC television and radio, The Conversation, The
  Washington Post, The Smithsonian Magazine, Velopex UK, YouTube and other social media
  platforms).

  Influence on the local economy and community
  We contribute to the local economy through spin-outs and engagement with local businesses.
  Molecular Profiles (Davies, C Roberts, Williams), sold to Catalent in 2018, focusses on early-
  stage development of small molecule drug candidates from the bench to clinic and employs
  150FTE. C Alexander, Dixon, Rose and others consult for Locate-Bio (CSO Shakesheff). Locate-
  Bio, formally Locate Therapeutics, had a significant investment from Mercia Technologies in
  2018 bringing the total investment to £8M and employs researchers in the area of regenerative
  medicine. Shakesheff is Non-Executive Director of Biocity Group, a life-sciences business
  incubator with five sites in Nottingham, Macclesfield and Glasgow, and is Chair of the Civic and
  Regional Committee, which has oversight of UoN’s civic and regional engagement and develops
  strategy to direct our civic and public value contribution [REF5a-2.2d].

  Indicators of wider influence
  All members of the Unit are proactive in undertaking activities that support the research base. In
  this section highlights are chosen to span all themes and Schools and to reflect all career stages.
  Awards and Fellowships: In the REF period staff have received many prestigious Fellowships
  and awards, including: Davies – CBE for services to pharmacy and pharmaceutical science
  (2018); Coad* – Fellow of the Royal College of Nursing (2013); Logan and Radford – Fellow of
  the Royal College of Occupational Therapists (2015, 2019); ShakesheffP – EPSRC RISE Award
  (2014); Anderson – Fellow of the International Pharmaceutical Federation (2015); C Alexander
  – Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award (2016); Crawford – Fellow of the Royal Society
  for Public Health (2018); Baguley – British Tinnitus Association Shapiro prize (2017, 2018, 2019);
  Sackley – Fellow of the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (2018); Knaggs – Fellow of the
  Faculty of Pain Medicine, Royal College of Anaesthetists (2016); C Alexander – Fellow of the
  Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining (2018); Baguley – Royal Society of Medicine Section
  of Otology Gamble Research prize (2018); Walker – Professional Excellence Award, Stroke
  Association (2015) and RCOT Excellence in Occupational Therapy Award (2018); Wharrad -

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Wharton-QS Reimagining Education Gold Award (2018); Hook – Vickerman Prize, US Surface
  Analysis Forum (2018); Sackley – Elected member of the Academia Europaea (2019); Piccinini
  – Elected member and Trustee British Society for Matrix Biology (2019); C Roberts – Academy
  of Pharmaceutical Sciences Award (2019); Shakesheff – UK Society for Biomaterials President’s
  Award (2019); Williams – Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology (2019); Kellam, Knaggs and
  Boyd – Fellow of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society (2014, 2014, 2020). In 2016, C Roberts was
  listed by Medicine Maker on the Power List of Top 100 most influential people in the world of
  drug development and manufacture.
  Our staffing strategies and staff development processes have resulted in significant success in
  winning prestigious research fellowships, including:
     British Tinnitus Association Senior Research Fellowship, Sereda (2015)
     EPSRC E-TERM Landscape Fellowship, Delcassian (2015)
     EPSRC Foresight Fellowship, Aylott (2016)
     EPSRC Healthcare Technologies Impact Fellowship, C Alexander (2016)
     Horizon 2020 Marie Curie Sklodowska Global Fellowship, Delcassian (2018)
     NIHR Career Development Fellow, Henshaw (2018)
     NIHR Senior Investigator, Logan (2019)
     Stroke Association Postdoctoral Fellowship, Kontou (2015)
     Stroke Association HRH The Princess Margaret Senior Lectureship Award, Fisher† (2016)
  Visiting positions: We receive regular visiting international scholars in our fields, and host a
  Visiting Chair in Vascular Medicine. Coulson is a Visiting Professor of Health Psychology,
  Staffordshire University, and Carter has a visiting scholarship with London Southbank University.
  Walker is Honorary Professor at the University of Queensland, and University of Gothenburg.
  Hendrick was Adjunct Professor University of Saskatchewan in 2016, Drummond was an
  Australia Visiting Scholar in 2017, and Henshaw was Honorary Senior Research Fellow at
  Macquarie University Sydney, 2017-2018. Naylor was a Distinguished Scholar in Residence at
  National Center for Rehabilitative Auditory Research, Oregon (2014-2016) and on their Scientific
  Advisory Board (2017). Stocks was a visiting lecturer at the Shanghai University of Traditional
  Chinese Medicine (2017). Buchanan received Thousand Talents Award for a visiting scholarship
  to Tianjin Normal University, China 2017-2020

  Journal Editing: Our staff serve on the Editorial Boards of >90 journals including: Age Ageing,
  Ear & Hearing, Cancers, Biochem. J., BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth, J. Psychiatr. Ment. Health
  Nurs., J. Chem. Biol., Surf. Interface Anal., Br. J. Health Psychol., Int. J. Stroke, Br. J. Neurosci.
  Nurs., Cell Death & Disease, The Practising Midwife, Clin. Rehabil., Int. J. Pharmaceutics,
  Biomaterials Science, Br. J. Pain, BMC Health Services Research, Microscopy and Analysis,
  Midwifery, J. Music Ther., Open Health, Sci. Rep., Life, J. Med. Chem., Stroke.

  Grant committees: Staff have taken roles on grant committees and charity grant awarding
  bodies and strategic committees, including: EPSRC: Peer Review College; Resource Allocation
  Committee; ARHER Science Advisory Committee; ARCHER embedded Computational Science
  and Engineering panel. BBSRC: Research Committees C & D Core Members; ALERT panels.
  NIHR: Clinical and Senior Lectureship committees; Chair Senior Investigator Selection Panel;
  Programme Grant for Applied Research committee; Long COVID Funding Panel; HTA Clinical
  Evaluation and Trials Panel; Research for Patient Benefit Panel Chair; Doctoral Research
  Fellowship Panel; Health Technology Infrastructure Centre Awards committee. H2020 expert
  review. Action Plan for Stroke Chair. UK Stroke Association Chair Rehab Awards Committee.
  German Systematic Review Panel. UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Panel. Wellcome Trust
  Basic Science Fellowship Committee.

  Services to advisory panels, grant committees, and professional bodies: C Alexander was
  Chair of EPSRC Physical Sciences Strategic Advisory Team (2016-2019) and is a member of
  the EPSRC Science, Engineering and Technology Board. Anderson is Chair of the Royal
  Pharmaceutical Society, English Pharmacy Board. Evans† is a founding member, and Coad*
  Chairs the Clinical Academic Roles Implementation Network and is member of the research


                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  advisory group of the Council of Deans of Health. Shakesheff is Board Chair of the National
  Centre for Replacement, Refinement and Reduction.

  National and international advisory roles: Our staff act as specialist advisors to national
  groups and societies such as the Stroke Association (Drummond, Walker), British Geriatrics
  Society (Gladman, Harwood, Logan), UK Occupational Therapy Research Foundation Advisory
  Group (Fisher†), Royal College of Nursing (Hui), British Society for Audiology - Dementia
  Guideline Development Group (Wright), British Society of Audiology Practice guidance and
  Tinnitus & Hyperacusis Special Interest Group (Sereda), Men's Health Forum Advisory Group
  for Digital Peer to Peer Support (Coulson†), Multidisciplinary European Tinnitus Guidelines
  (Sereda), UKSBM (Blake†). WHO (Slade*), International Confederation of Midwives Research
  Advisory group (Spiby), Australian Stroke Centre of Excellence NHMRC, The Florey Institute
  and University of Oslo Rehabilitation Research Centre, Norway (Walker) and EU Stroke
  (Drummond, Walker). Knaggs is a member of the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs and
  Chair, Technical Committee. Drummond is a member of the Executive Advisory Group of the
  Australian Universities Syndicate. Walker is UK lead for rehabilitation research priorities in the
  European Stroke Organisation Action Plan for Europe 2018-2030, Drummond sets research
  priorities as Chair of the Life after Stroke Stream, in the European Stroke Organisation Action
  Plan for Europe 2018-2030. We have representation on the Royal College of Physicians
  Intercollegiate Working Party for Stroke (Drummond, Thomas). C Roberts is an Advisory Group
  member of the Wellcome-sponsored Boots Online Archive Project.

  Other national positions and roles: Spiby is chairing the 5-year review for the Scottish
  Government Chief Scientist’s Office Nursing and Allied Health Professions Research Unit (2017-
  2022). Crawford is Director of the Centre for Social Futures at the IMH. Evans† is Co-Director of
  the Centre for Evidence Based Healthcare; a ‘Centre of Excellence’ within the global Joanna
  Briggs Institute network.
  Many of our members are Trustees and hold significant positions (Treasurer, Advisor, Committee
  Chair, etc.) with charities, including the British Geriatric Society, Dog’s Trust, Stroke Association,
  Dunhill Medical Trust, Ossie Newell Foundation Trust.
  Contributions to national and international guidelines: Our staff have contributed evidence
  and testimony to parliamentary committees and review bodies, including to the Secretary of State
  for Education on policy development for mental health in schools 2015; House of Commons
  Digital, Culture, Media and Sports Committee Inquiry 2018; All-Party Parliamentary Group on
  Arts, Health and Wellbeing Inquiry Report Creative Health 2018; the 2019 Independent Review
  of the Mental Health Act 1983. Staff advise bodies in specialist areas of health and wellbeing,
  including to Equality and Human Rights Commission, Cabinet Office; Health Education England;
  and NHS England and NHS Improvement; Royal College of Physicians; Welsh Centre for Public
  Policy; the expert working group for the revision of Ethics Guidelines for Internet-Mediated
  Research.




                                                                                                Page 21
