Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Keele University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 i)     Unit Context and Structure
 History at Keele produces internitionally excellent research in the field of historical study, whilst
 maintaining a wide chronological range and global geographical reach. It is characterised by
 strength of internal, mutual support and by its success in securing external funding and scholarly
 collaboration. Since 2014, we have:
 ● Almost doubled research income (£412,000 in 2014 to £791,000 in 2020) from Research
     Council and other sources to support our projects.
 ● Published over 108 peer-reviewed outputs.
 ● Maintained a strong record of funded PhD completions.

 The unit comprises fourteen full-time and two part-time members of staff (14.4 FTE) with a balance
 between senior, mid-career and junior colleagues. Six professors are joined by one reader, three
 senior lecturers and six lecturers. Retirements among senior colleagues since REF 2014 have
 been met with strategic appointments in early-modern and American History, while internal
 promotions and external appointments have maintained a spread of career stages. While the size
 of the unit has remained constant, the research profile has seen thematic and methodological
 innovations, with an ongoing commitment to interdisciplinary research. Staff expertise spans from
 c. 600AD to 2000AD and reaches across five continents. Research excellence is thematically
 diverse, with acknowledged expertise in economic, religious, social and cultural history and with
 shared interests in migration of people and ideas, gender and sexuality, intellectual and religious
 ideologies, material environments, and local versus national or international activity.

 Research in History functions within the School of Humanities within the Faculty of Humanities
 and Social Sciences. History participates fully in Keele’s Institute for Social Inclusion (KISI,
 founded 2018). Research strategy is discussed at regular programme meetings and a supportive
 intellectual culture is maintained through regular research seminar series that bring academics
 from across the UK to present their work: the History Seminar; the M6 Medieval Seminar; the
 David Bruce Centre seminar for American Studies; and an interdisciplinary Early-Modern Seminar,
 shared with English. In this way the University, Faculty, School, and UoA are knitted together in
 securing research excellence.

 ii)     Research and Impact Strategy
 History at Keele is a relatively small but dynamic unit. Our overarching strategic aim is to deliver
 excellent research to the global discipline, combined with application of its related research
 expertise to the benefit of our students, across a purposefully broad chronological and
 geographical scope. A specific ambition in 2014 was ‘to sustain expertise from the medieval to
 late-modern era’. We have maintained this position in this REF period and will continue to uphold
 this as our foremost principle of research strategy and research-related staff recruitment. Our core
 aim in this cycle and beyond supports our collective endeavour to offer breadth in our research-
 led teaching to undergraduates and postgraduates, whilst seeking out synergies between our
 varied research interests.

 A further specific ambition in 2014 was ‘to increase grant income from British and European
 sources, and to develop more large-scale collaborative projects’. We also committed to developing
 our long-standing collaborations with Staffordshire and Stoke Archive and Heritage services, to
 engage fully with the new AHRC North-West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership (NWCDTP
 [2013]), to compete for high-quality research students and to participate in the rich opportunities
 for postgraduate training and placements.

 To pursue these aims we:


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (i) support staff at all career stages to write high-quality publications for a range of audiences
       and secure grant income from national and other funders. We place great emphasis on
       colleagues’ research well-being, by providing mentoring and striving to allocate appropriate
       resources in time.
 (ii) provide an engaging and advantageous context for research students.
 (iii) foster impact from all colleagues to reach publics regionally, nationally, and internationally,
       including via web-based platforms.
 (iv) participate in interdisciplinary projects within and beyond the School of Humanities.
 (v) develop collaborations with non-academic partners, which in the period 2014-20 comprise
       archives, the heritage sector, practitioners of psychotherapy/ hypnotherapy, museums and
       arts organisations.

 History’s UoA lead works closely with the Humanities Research Director (RD) (from 2016-19
 Tomkins) to shape and meet the unit’s strategic aims through: mentoring; providing training and
 support for funding applications; identifying potential interdisciplinary collaborations; peer-
 reviewing outputs; developing impact case studies, public engagement and impact. The RD liaises
 with other RDs on the Faculty Research Committee to ensure that research in Humanities and
 Social Sciences meets Keele’s five strategic aims for 2016-20. The UoA lead also reviews staff
 research reports, offers advice on publishing, grant applications, and planning productivity during
 regular research leave. We support investment in substantial, excellent outputs, which can take
 years to refine, whilst encouraging colleagues to see impact as embedded in all our research.
 History staff report on public engagement and impact activities as part of annual research
 planning, are expected to envisage these activities as an outcome of research leave and are
 supported to mobilise engagement and impact work in promotion applications. Historians secured
 £94K in external follow-on funding for a project involving Cannock Chase, a heritage site in
 Staffordshire.

 Since 2014 History sustained breadth in chronological and geographical coverage despite change
 in research foci stemming from modest staff turnover. Major publications by Janes, Kallis,
 Kauders, Talbott, Anderson, Jackson, Sargent and Tomkins in social, economic and cultural
 history have extended our existing achievements in religious, political and military history. They
 also indicate our collective success in securing substantial research funding, which has markedly
 increased since the last REF period and which derives from our research support processes,
 operating in unison with University structures. Keele’s Research and Innovation Support
 Enhancement (RaISE), established in 2017, provides expertise in research development,
 governance, integrity, ethics, contracts, public engagement, and impact. It enables an integrated
 approach to research support, improving the quality and effectiveness of research proposals,
 implementation, and impact. Keele abides by the Vitae Concordat to support the Career
 Development of Researchers. Training in research management is provided by the Academic
 Development unit (AD) and in ethical, intellectual property, and impact matters by the Directorate
 of Research, Innovation and Engagement (RIE).

 Research Groups
 Keele’s staff clusters have made important contributions to the advancement of History during the
 assessment period. The medievalists, Cushing, Sargent (early-career researcher) and Jackson,
 share interests in cultural encounters between centre and periphery, identities, and the creation
 of textual communities, pursuing this in a range of times and places. Cushing’s meticulous
 manuscript studies on the transmission of church law between regional and broader networks,
 c.1000-1140, have provided springboards for networking and research on new interpretations of
 the significance of local ideas of legal precedence. Sargent’s Lichfield and the Lands of St Chad
 addresses the early-medieval historic landscape, innovatively combining documentary with
 archaeological and topographical evidence. Jackson’s The Mongols and the Islamic World has
 made a fundamental contribution to our understanding of the Mongols’ conquest of Western Asia
 and the cultural consequences both for the incorporated Islamic lands and the Mongol empire
 itself. Morgan’s (retired) work on the Gascon Rolls project (Leverhulme funded, straddling REF
 assessment periods) and on battlefields, memory, and commemoration c.1200-1400 aligns with
 that by Atherton for the sixteenth century onwards.

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The early-modernists, Atherton, Hughes, Liapi, and Talbott, share interests in the conflicts of
 seventeenth-century Europe, but pursue this in different contexts. Atherton’s expertise on the
 English Civil War focuses on issues of conflict and memory, particularly with battlefields and
 commemoration of the dead, whilst Hughes’ expertise on the relationship of the centre and the
 localities during the Civil War has moved towards new interpretations of memory that link trauma,
 life-writing, and state building. Talbott’s contributions have extended work in economic history
 through her focus on trade between France and Britain during and beyond periods of conflict. Her
 Conflict, Commerce, and Franco-Scottish relations 1560-1713 won the Senior Hume Brown prize
 in 2016, while her project on business news in the Atlantic world garnered substantial AHRC
 funding. Liapi is similarly interested in news, but with a cultural-history inflection around crime and
 print.

 Post-1800 histories of England and the United States bring together historians of gender, society,
 and culture. Brill’s publications address women’s experience in the American Civil War, offering
 new perspectives and resources to the field, which she will use to explore the global memory of
 Confederacy. Tomkins and Janes have made important contributions to the expanding field of
 masculinity in history, Tomkins by problematizing medical masculinity in Medical Misadventure in
 an Age of Professionalisation, 1780-1890. Janes has published several books on male sexuality,
 same-sex desire, and homosexual cultures; his next monograph (post-2020) Freak Chic and the
 Art of being Gay will discuss how fashion and glamour provided a context for queer expression,
 1900-60.

 Research into the social impact of medical relationships and clinical developments also unites
 Tomkins and Kauders. While Tomkins' work on nurses and nursing roles is at an early stage, it
 has won endorsement by the Royal College of Nursing (UK). Kauders’s Der Freud-Komplex on
 psychoanalysis in twentieth-century Germany, and subsequent articles on hypnosis and free will,
 has generated a keen response among clinical psychotherapists. This will underpin research for
 his next book, treating the psychology of antisemitism.

 Transnational perspectives, pervading much of our research, are prominent in the work of Bright
 and Sharma. Bright’s work on migration control is transforming our understanding of border
 officials, as setting criteria and operating discretion in the shaping of imperial populations -
 research that will leverage impact after 2020, given its potential application in the regulation of
 twenty-first-century migration. Sharma’s research is concerned with the transmission of ideas,
 starting with the Indian intelligentsia but tracking American influence on political and academic
 thought against crosscurrents of anti-American popular discourse throughout the subcontinent.
 Her new project from March 2021, ‘The Ownership of Public History in India’ funded by Global
 Challenges Research Fund (£49,617) will bring marginalised epistemologies and knowledge into
 school and university pedagogy.

 The consequences of political choice and expression are debated by Kallis in the context of
 interwar Italy and Rome, and Ballantyne in the post-war American South. Kallis’ The Third Rome
 1922-43. The Making of the Fascist Capital considers both the real and the imagined city as
 manifested in plans for the cityscape, buildings constructed in the Fascist era, and the investment
 of ideology in both old and new sites. His interests in the mobilities of ideas (the circulation,
 exchange, cross-fertilisation, and friction of ideas on an inter- and trans-national level) will be
 developed further in a new collaborative project funded by the University of Padua (2021). The
 connections between politicians, political evolution and welfare/civil rights sought by Ballantyne
 take a different geographical remit (USA) but are likewise concerned with pathways for the
 transmission of ideas into physical or practical manifestations. Anderson, meanwhile, examines
 the influence of physical and material practices on ideas and ideologies. His research into leisure
 cultures and mountaineering was recognised by a BBC New Generation Thinkers award and is
 the subject of his monograph. Anderson’s AHRC-funded ‘Decommissioning the Twentieth
 Century’ signals a new direction, where landscape, land use, and changing human priorities meet.

 Impact Strategy

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Keele historians achieved impact through enhancements to cultural and heritage interpretation,
 supporting practitioners/professionals in conducting their work, and public engagement/ wellbeing.
 These impacts are developed organically and strategically. The long-standing association
 between the Staffordshire Archives and Heritage Service, flagged in 2014 as a strategic
 relationship for impact development, has become a fully reciprocal relationship, where our
 research contributes to individual well-being, professional expertise, and community cohesion
 (see Impact Case Study: ‘Co-creating Local Histories’). Archival staff support historians in
 research-training events on campus, while historians advise on funding applications for archives’
 infrastructure and collections development. The symbiosis of the relationship is best illustrated by
 the multiple, weekly volunteer groups hosted by the Staffordshire Record Office that have been
 supported and run by Sargent and Tomkins in the three years up to 31 December 2020, and
 Tomkins’s AHRC-funded project developed an online methodological guide for archives seeking
 to work with volunteers.

 Strategic development was leveraged from research opportunistically when publications
 resonated with a public readership. This is exemplified by Kauders’ response to the reception of
 his publications concerning psychoanalysis and hypnosis in Germany. Initially psychoanalysts
 claimed professional development credits for attending conferences where his work was
 discussed, and more recently he was invited, with four German colleagues, to write the official
 history of the DGPT (German Society for Psychoanalysis) (see Impact Case Study: ‘The Impact
 of Psychology’).

 When conceptualising outputs, Keele historians believe in the capacity of our historical research
 to inform, challenge and entertain broad publics and we communicate with a wide variety of non-
 academic audiences and agencies for the achievement of impact. We contribute to public
 understanding and debate through outputs accessible to a broad readership, public lectures, and
 work with the media. Our research helps sustain the activities of independent researchers,
 professional groups, voluntary organisations, and public bodies in local, national, and international
 arenas. Within and beyond our immediate region, Keele’s historical research has influenced the
 practice of professionals including archivists, teachers, doctors, and NGOs concerned with human
 rights and the fight against Islamophobia. Kallis’s report ‘Islamophobia in the United Kingdom’, for
 example, was published in the European Islamophobia Report 2017 in June 2018.

 Our commitment to communicating our research results in a continuous and diverse involvement
 with public engagement. This dovetails with the University’s sense of its public role, promoting
 flexible working practices that enable staff to undertake these tasks across the UK including school
 talks, public lectures, radio and television programmes, editorial articles, and podcasts. The
 University enables us to achieve impact in a variety of ways. Venues and administrative support
 are provided for outreach events such as public lectures or workshops, while publicity is
 coordinated by the Directorate of Strategic Communications and Brands. Anderson’s activity as a
 BBC New Generation Thinker is possibly the pre-eminent example of this work, including national
 broadcasts on 29 May 2018 and 3 April 2019, and 15 January 2020.

 Local History
 English Local History is a notable strength of this unit, and despite retirements since 2014 (Hunt,
 Morgan, Tringham) we regard this consolidation as a prominent achievement within the REF
 period. History has long hosted a biennial public event, the Earl Lecture, which draws non-
 academic audiences of 200+, and provided an academic home for the Victoria County History for
 Staffordshire (VCH, edited by Tringham, then Sargent), sustaining the production of these gold-
 standard History reference works for the County. Since 2014, the VCH working model has
 diversified, placing greater emphasis on involvement of local volunteers in the generation of
 research. Sargent has fostered this methodology by collaborating with the County archaeologist
 on a project about land use on Cannock Chase, and others have carried it into parallel projects.
 Work by Hunt on the First World War home front in Staffordshire entailed her collaboration with
 the Staffordshire Archives and deployment of over forty volunteers in projects funded by both the
 Heritage Lottery Fund and AHRC. The result was a substantial body of work by academics and
 volunteers, calendaring documents to make them searchable by family historians via the

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staffordshire surname index and analysing the letters, diaries and (most notably) the rare surviving
 military appeals tribunal papers to write blog entries, potted biographies, and Staffordshire’s War:
 Voices of the First World War. Since 2018, focus has shifted from war commemoration to
 economic local history, whereby Tomkins and funded post-doctoral researcher Collinge have
 rolled out (in AHRC-funded project ‘The Poor Law’) a data-capture tool with archival volunteers to
 secure comprehensive information from historic receipts, with implications for Collinge’s work on
 the history of women in business.

 Interdisciplinary Activity
 The David Bruce Centre (DBC) brings together colleagues researching the United States through
 literary, historical or political topics. The Centre was founded by a bequest from David Bruce (US
 ambassador to Britain 1961-69) and is currently directed by Ballantyne. It offers bursaries to
 postgraduate students, support to visiting scholars, and hosts seminars, workshops and
 conferences. Activity during the period includes a colloquium on ‘The Civil War and Slavery’
 (2015), which led to the publication of The Civil War and Slavery Reconsidered: Negotiating the
 Peripheries (Routledge: 2019), edited by Marie Molloy (former PhD) and Laura Sandy (former
 History lecturer). The DBC funded Brill’s research in Virginia for her monograph on women during
 the Civil War, for PhD students Julia Lawton, Harry Richards, and James Williamson, and for MA
 student Sam Taylor. The DBC also supported gender-equality initiatives by funding Brill to be a
 mentor for the Aurora Women’s Leadership Development programme in London. Non-stipendiary
 Bruce Centre research fellowships have been held by Williamson and others, while visiting
 fellowships were held by Greg French in 2015 from Western University Canada, and Katrina Ponti
 in 2019 from the University of Rochester, New York.

 The diversity marking Keele historians’ research is also sustained by interdisciplinary cooperation
 across the School of Humanities, the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, and the wider
 University. Historians (Atherton, Talbott) contribute to the coordination of Keele’s early modern
 seminar shared with English. The supportive culture of this grouping has facilitated non-
 anonymous feedback across disciplinary boundaries and generated an AHRC CDA studentship
 shared by History and English. Janes collaborated with John Howlett (School of Social Political
 and Global Studies) on a research project on constructions of masculinity in elite education
 settings 1880-1939. This is one example of wider opportunities offered by Keele’s Institute for
 Social Inclusion (KISI), of which all colleagues in History are members and of which Kauders is
 the theme lead for ‘Interrogating Democracies’. KISI promotes collaborative, interdisciplinary
 research and its provision of funding for research networking and pump-priming activities helps
 colleagues in subsequent external bids.

 Collaboration with Keele’s Medical School is long-standing. Tomkins acted as the point of contact
 for the Medical School and Humanities disciplines from 2006-2018 and served on the Association
 of Medical Humanities’ conference steering group in advance of an international gathering held at
 Keele in June 2016; she coordinates research-grant planning between Humanities colleagues and
 those in Primary Care. Anderson is the Humanities representative on the University’s Institute for
 Sustainable Futures and collaborates with colleagues in geography on ‘Decommissioning the
 Twentieth Century’. Beyond Keele, all historians participate in relevant regional, disciplinary and
 international networks. Kallis was instrumental in organising the International Association for
 Comparative Fascism Studies’ first conference in April 2018.

 Open Research
 We are at the forefront of developing an open-access research environment; wherever possible
 outputs are made openly available, which began before the current REF policy and is reflected in
 100% open-access compliance for REF 2021. History goes beyond REF policy by making book
 chapters openly available. Historians work with partners to seek external funding for open
 research, and, where this isn’t possible, utilise Keele's research repository. We are anticipating
 the requirements that will apply to monographs in the coming period. The edited collection arising
 from the AHRC-funded Small Bills and Petty Finance project will be open from the point of
 publication, a commitment made in the funding application in 2017.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Conduct and Integrity
 History is committed to the principle of sustaining and enhancing research integrity as a vital
 safeguard of research excellence. This responsibility is overseen by the PVC for Research and
 Enterprise and professionally supported through RIE. The university is compliant with the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity (a condition of grant awards in English institutions); it
 publishes an annual statement of research integrity, signed off by University Council. Keele is a
 signatory to DORA (Jan 2018), underwriting its commitment to a responsible, balanced approach
 to the use of research metrics in decision-making. The Faculty Research Integrity Champion works
 with the HUMS Research Director and History to ensure that national concordat guidelines are
 applied in ways appropriate to the methodologies and datasets that historians use. We pride
 ourselves on offering comments to colleagues (internally, externally, formally or informally, for
 publications or funding) that offer constructive criticism. We therefore meet the high standards
 expected in anonymous peer-reviewing activity, with the additional proviso that we are/would be
 happy to attach our names to our reviewing work.

 Future Plans
 Over the next five years, History will continue to: develop individual, collaborative, international
 and interdisciplinary research; build on its existing strengths and enhance areas currently in
 development; and support and attract prestigious, competitive funding. We aim to:
 1. Maintain research expertise from medieval to late-modern eras and augment our
    global/transnational perspectives. History is at the forefront of the University’s plans for
    decolonising the curriculum and we see the application of historical research in
    global/transnational contexts as a vital development for the discipline. We will highlight how
    our historical research across all periods on race, religious intolerance, violence, cultural
    encounter(s) has a currency of critical importance.
 2. Continue our collaboration and public engagement with regional and national audiences whilst
    extending our international collaborations by developing projects on mobilities (Kallis), on
    digital humanities (Cushing), and on public histories in India (Sharma). Internally, we will build
    on our long-term collaboration with the Medical School to exploit opportunities with other
    schools, including Nursing and Midwifery and Geography, Geology and the Environment, as
    part of our strategy to explore further interdisciplinary and collaborative research through
    pump-priming applications to KISI and Keele’s Institute for Sustainable Futures.
 3. Build on recent successes in securing collaborative doctoral awards, to support the career
    development of the career-young both within and beyond the academy. Drawing on mentoring
    schemes, funding support, further training opportunities, and networking events offered by the
    newly established Keele Doctoral Academy (KDA), and the Keele Postdoctoral Scheme, we
    aim to extend our recruitment of PhD candidates by providing diverse opportunities for
    collaborative, cross-sector, creative and interdisciplinary projects that will prepare our PhD
    students for a transition to careers within and beyond academia.

 We have a strong sense of disciplinary mission in the value of researching History for
 undergraduate and postgraduate students, for researchers in academia and beyond, for our
 society and our world. The current crises facing our world presented by Covid-19, climate change,
 mass migration and ethnic, religious and racial tensions all have their roots in the historical past
 whether recent or distant. History remains committed to explaining those origins and
 communicating how they can inform the present-day manifestations.

 2. People

 i. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Our staffing strategy is underpinned by Keele’s People Strategy and focuses on the appointment,
 support, and development of the highest calibre of researchers and educators. It is directed
 towards maintaining a geographical and chronological spread of expertise, for the benefit of
 teaching and supervision from undergraduate to PGR level, combined with attentiveness to
 thematic connections between research foci as noted above. Our responsiveness to these
 synergies fosters an environment that is attractive to excellent new researchers, supports them at
 all career stages and provides strong mentoring to nurture future leadership potential. In this period

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 two colleagues were promoted to Chair (Kauders, Tomkins), while a new appointment (Talbott)
 was awarded a prestigious AHRC Leadership Fellowship.

 Research excellence is essential for appointment and promotion. In this period, three staff were
 appointed to permanent posts (Ballantyne, Brill, Sargent), while four early-career researchers
 were appointed to PDRA posts or fixed-term positions to replace colleagues on research grants
 (held by Kallis, Talbott, and Tomkins). These signal our collective commitment to properly funded
 post-doctoral opportunities for career advancement. Research time is protected under the
 School’s workload allocation model and new appointments are supported with reduced teaching
 loads. All colleagues are enabled to design and teach innovative undergraduate and postgraduate
 modules that reflect their scholarly interests in order to maintain a focus on research and foster
 research-led teaching.

 Early career colleagues, including post-doctoral researchers, and colleagues on open ended
 contracts who are on probation are fully integrated into our research culture and play an active
 role in School-wide research events, including presenting their own research. All ECR colleagues
 are allocated a mentor who provides advice on research. Research mentoring is guided by Human
 Resources policies in conjunction with the University’s Institute for Innovation and Teaching
 Excellence (KIITE). Research mentoring processes that have been put in place, particularly
 around research planning, recognise the need to manage career trajectories both in the
 immediate, medium and long-term future. ECR staff are allocated additional research time under
 the University’s workload allocation model. Support for the career development of all ECRs,
 whether Research Fellows, open-ended contract staff on probation or research-active temporary
 staff in History are all managed in line with the VITAE Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers which reflects why Keele holds an Excellence in Research Award.

 All post-probation staff participate in the University’s Staff/Professorial Performance Review and
 Enhancement (SPRE/PPRE). This provides opportunities to review objectives and progress, set
 targets, and review annual research plans. SPRE/PPRE meetings follow the Faculty’s Academic
 Role Expectations, so that objectives are clear and appropriate to career stage. Appraisals
 establish a structured and supportive approach to research and career planning over an extended
 period. They also enable the Head of School to identify training needs and allocate resources,
 contributing to a vital environment for researchers. Research achievements, including public
 engagement, feature prominently among the University’s criteria for promotion. All staff are trained
 before supervising research students. The Research and Innovation Support Enhancement team
 (RaISE)) supports the development of academic research projects and engagement with external
 partners.

 All staff with significant responsibility for research produce an annual report on their research
 activity, its impact and future plans. They are expected (with allowance for personal circumstances
 and for long-term projects) to produce at least one high-quality publication (peer-reviewed article
 or chapter) per annum, and to make two substantial grant applications over a five-year cycle. The
 Research Director reviews all plans, which are used to establish research-leave entitlement, to
 provide mentoring, advice on publications, sources of external funding, and promote collaboration
 across disciplines. We are committed to offering regular research leave to all researchers who
 meet this threshold. Staff are entitled to apply for one semester of research leave in every eight,
 with new appointments to open-ended posts eligible for leave no later than their seventh semester.
 Applications for leave, outlining the individual’s research plans and projected outcomes, are
 reviewed by the Research Director and Head of School. Leave applications are ratified at Faculty
 level. End-of-leave reports detail how goals were achieved, enabling supported career planning.
 During this assessment period, every permanent academic has had one and in some cases two
 semester’s leave.

 ii)    Research students
 Postgraduate research studentships are available through AHRC and ESRC doctoral training
 partnerships. Through these and other means we seek to maintain our PGR recruitment in a period
 when student debt has increased significantly. The excellence of our postgraduate provision is

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 evidenced by the award of funding via the AHRC North West Consortium for Doctoral Training
 Partnership in 2013. Students recruited through the AHRC or ESRC DTPs have access to training
 in-house and offered by partner institutions, training is also open to non-DTP students where
 space permits. History staff contribute to training workshops for both partnerships.

 History had 10 PhD awards in this cycle although in a small unit numbers are bound to fluctuate.
 Recruitment to Masters’ degrees in History remained high during this cycle and we look to convert
 these to doctoral study at Keele as a priority in the next cycle by building on our recent success
 with collaborative doctoral awards.

 History currently has 11 PGR History students. During this period, we had 3 AHRC doctoral
 studentships. We also had 3 students funded by graduate teaching fellowships, and 2 were
 awarded scholarships attached to Keele. The internal funding matches RCUK/UKRI funding.
 History also secured four collaborative PhD studentships in 2019, 2020 (one to start in 2021)
 across both Councils, that are CDA or Case studentships (requiring input from an external partner
 to meet supervision and research-resource needs) and we see these schemes as a key priority
 during the next cycle. These studentships to date required collaboration with archives
 (Staffordshire or Cumbria) and have enhanced the interdisciplinary qualities of the research
 environment by drawing supervision from across the School (English) or across the University
 (including Primary Care and Social Policy). This is indicative of our creativity in devising
 supervisory teams that stretch student capabilities and bolster staff expertise. The symbiotic
 nature of value added by Council-funded collaborative studentships is seen in two completions
 during this cycle: Cathal Rogers worked with Staffordshire Archives on cataloguing the Bridgeman
 family, while Hannah Reeves worked with the National Railway Museum to open collections to
 people whose interests lie beyond rolling stock (for example, railway ‘family’ of wives, children).

 In the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES 2019), Keele was tenth overall of 107
 UK institutions for research opportunities offered to postgraduate students. With overall
 satisfaction of 86%, Keele featured in the highest quartile for research culture, research skills and
 professional development and scored highly across many individual categories, including third in
 ‘Supervision’.

 Our success comes from an effective supervisory, monitoring, and support system overseen by
 the School’s Research Committee and aligned to Keele’s Code of Practice for Postgraduate
 Research Degrees. All students have one lead supervisor and one/two co-supervisors which
 benefits students by balancing expertise and experience. PGR students: develop a learning and
 development plan; complete 200 hours of tailored research training; submit progress reports every
 six months; and have a rigorous doctoral progression at ten months, providing vital opportunities
 for feedback. To monitor students’ progress and ensure timely completion, a pre-submission
 review checks readiness for submission.

 A major development during this cycle was the establishment of the Keele Doctoral Academy
 (KDA), an interdisciplinary hub for training, workshops and intellectual exchange. The KDA
 provides a platform for PGR support: governance, training, and provides opportunities for PGR
 students to connect with communities of interdisciplinary researchers across the university. In
 addition, the University’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Scheme, developed by the School, supports
 PGR students to make the transition from PhD to academic or academic-related careers by
 offering ongoing affiliation to Keele, an email address, library borrowing rights, and access to
 research events and training for two years post doctorate.

 All students are encouraged to participate as speakers and attendees in Keele History seminars,
 in regional and national networks, and to organise their own events. History PhD students have
 presented at, and co-organised, the annual Keele Humanities Postgraduate Symposium featuring
 internal and external speakers (2014-19), led the student organising committee of the AHRC
 NWCDTP’s first postgraduate conference (a two-day event at Keele with over 100 delegates in
 2016), and co-organised a BrANCH PGR/ECR workshop at Keele (2016). Julia Lawton co-
 organised the David Bruce Centre Colloquium (2015) and history PhDs (Harry Richards, James

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Williamson, Glenn Price, Ekpotuatin Ariye) have held key roles in organising the annual PGR
 symposia and Work-in-Progress seminars up to 2019.

 In this cycle, approximately £5,100 per annum was available to Humanities postgraduates for
 conference attendance and research trips with further funds allocated for training (either for
 individual courses or collective events). All students attend a workshop on external funding
 opportunities (resulting in awards for travel costs for two presentations at the History Lab (the
 IHR’s PG research network), and two presentations at the Social History Society Conference at
 Lancaster in 2016). Costs for specialised training are also accessible, for example for Hindi- and
 German-language courses (tailored to the students’ requirements), and qualitative or quantitative
 research methods modules. We also offered PGR students paid experience of teaching and
 academic administration roles to augment their postgraduate skills and employability. Harry
 Richards, James Williamson and Julia Lawton were appointed as Graduate Teaching Assistants
 and others had substantive sessional teaching opportunities (Craig Doughty, Gemma Scott,
 Anthony Mansfield, Glenn Price, Ashley Plum, Ekpotuatin Ariye). Support for PGR teachers
 includes a formal induction led by the School Director of Education (Atherton), being assigned a
 mentor, regular teaching observations, guidance in marking, and the ability to undertake the
 Keele’s CPD route leading to membership of the HEA. History PhD students, Scott and Price
 successfully applied for and participated in Faculty schemes for PGR development/training that
 ran in 2016/17 as ‘Faculty Social Media Ambassador’ and ‘Public Engagement Fellow’.

 Applications to external funders are strongly encouraged. External successes include a bursary
 from the Economic History Society (Glenn Price, 2016/17), and a Western Front Association
 Postgraduate Bursary (Harry Richards, 2018). Gemma Scott (graduated 2018) was awarded a
 number of prestigious benefits during her doctoral studies including participation in the AHRC
 International Placement Scheme Fellowship (Library of Congress, 2015), a Scouloudi Foundation
 Doctoral Fellowship (at the Institute of Historical Research 2016/17), and small grant funding from
 the Postcolonial Studies Association, the Women’s History Network, the International Oral History
 Association, and the British Association for South Asian Studies. Scott was awarded the Keele
 Postgraduate Association’s first Postgraduate Student of the Year Prize in 2017. Most recently
 Glenn Price has secured a university research grant from the Army History Society (£1K).

 We hosted events supporting PGR employment; Talbott organised 'Career development initiatives
 in the Humanities', funded by the AHRC NWCDTP in June 2016. Research students who
 completed their PhD in this cycle have secured posts in academic research management: Cathal
 Rogers is a Research Policy and Governance Manager at Staffordshire University, while Gemma
 Scott is an international research development officer at Keele (having previously held Impact
 Development roles at Birmingham and Keele). Harry Richards is a teaching fellow at Portsmouth
 University.

 Most impressive was the lead taken by History PGR students in developing a Keele community
 and offering early publication. History PhD students (Craig Doughty, James Williamson, Gemma
 Scott) were involved in founding Under Construction @ Keele, a postgraduate journal across the
 Faculty in 2015, and nine volumes published online. History PhD students have held the role of
 editor- in-chief: Glenn Price (Vol 4.2) and Gemma Scott (Vol 2.1)

 Equality and Diversity
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, understood intersectionally, are integrated and embedded in all
 our practices and are informed by the reports from the Royal Historical Society since 2015: Gender
 Equality and Historians in UK Higher Education (2015); Promoting Gender Equality in UK History:
 A Second Report and Recommendations for Good Practice (2018); Race, Ethnicity & Equality in
 UK History (2018); and Race, Ethnicity & Equality in UK History: Roadmap for Change Update
 (2019). During this cycle, History has helped to shape and is fully compliant with University and
 School protocols for advancing women’s and BAME careers.

 History at Keele is led by a Programme Director who serves for three years and in this cycle has
 been held equally by men and women. Professorial positions are held by men and women in a

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3:1 ratio; other designations are 1:1, with women better represented at Senior Lecturer, and with
 parity for new appointments in 2013/4-2020. In terms of gender balance, History is broadly in line
 with benchmark and pipeline expectations, although small numbers generate fluctuations, and we
 are taking steps to improve female representation at professorial level via mentoring and
 promotion workshops. The programme administrator is female. One colleague is BAME and two
 colleagues identify as LGBT, and the chair of the Faculty Research Committee is one of our LGBTI
 role models. No colleagues live with a disability, but two members of History live with long-term
 mental-health diagnoses. The ability of people to continue to work in History with declared mental-
 health issues is a testament to the support offered by other historians.

 Keele Humanities holds an Athena SWAN Bronze Award, Keele has received a Bronze Race
 Equality Charter Award in 2019 (one of only 14 in the country) and is now working towards
 developing and implementing School- and programme-level Race Equality Action Plans. Keele is
 also recognised as a Level 2 Disability Confident Employer. Our championing of diversity is
 evidenced in our explicit messaging in job adverts, and colleagues involved in staff and PGR
 recruitment undertake mandatory EDI training. EDI training (including ‘bullying and harassment’
 procedures supported by awareness raising and training) is part of our induction processes for
 new staff and PGR supervisors. Senior colleagues receive additional training, including
 unconscious bias training (now being rolled out to all). Our commitment to EDI is also embedded
 in our structures; the School has an EDI Committee (with an EDI Lead), which considers the EDI
 implications of decisions and procedures.

 This UoA further promotes gender equality by encouraging colleagues to engage with the relevant
 development opportunities offered by the University. Female colleagues have taken part in the
 Springboard programme and Aurora leadership development initiative and have benefited from
 women-focused promotion workshops and the female-only promotion mentoring scheme.

 Historians are closely attuned to the circumstances of those holding parental and caring
 responsibilities. In the years 2014-20, four periods of maternity leave were supported, along with
 one semester of shared parental leave. In support of work/life balance for staff and PGRs,
 meetings and seminars are typically scheduled between 10am and 4pm, with acknowledgement
 that departures by 3pm may be necessary to meet the needs of colleagues’ primary-school-age
 children. Two seminar series running 2014 to 2020, the Early-Modern seminar and the History,
 both enjoyed parity in fielding male and female speakers.

 History is fully compliant with University protocols for supporting/advancing women’s careers.
 Recruitment and Selection Training, including unconscious bias, is mandatory for all panellists and
 must be renewed biennially and gender parity is expected on all panels. Where women and BAME
 are under-represented, a positive action statement is included to encourage applicants of all
 genders to all roles. Recruitment panels are reminded at the outset of institutional targets (35%
 female Professors and 50% female Senior Lecturers). Action points include the avoidance of
 single-sex shortlists, the necessity to advertise on specific networks identified by discipline
 specialists where gender imbalance exists in recruiting programmes, the offer of childcare or video
 conferencing interview formats to candidates with childcare commitments and offers of
 constructive feedback to unsuccessful candidates.

 Recognising the potential costs of childbirth and child-rearing to female research-productivity, the
 School gives maternity- and adoption-leave returners lighter teaching and administrative loads for
 one year to enable them to get research back-on-track and this is embedded in our workload
 allocation model. We make use of the University Academic Returners Fund, a positive action for
 research-active women.

 We integrated EDI in the construction of our REF submission: all readers attended EDI training on
 unconscious bias, and we regularly reviewed race and gender balance within the reading and
 writing groups, including external readers.

 The inclusive and supportive nature of our research environment is evidenced in the breakdown

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of grants secured in the assessment period by gender of PI. Over 50% percent of net income is
 attributable to female applicants.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 With the support and infrastructure outlined in section 2i, History has almost doubled research
 income since the last REF (£412,000 in 2014 to £791,000 in 2020) from Research Council and
 other sources to support our projects. This significant increase was achieved with strategic support
 from the Faculty, Keele Institute for Social Inclusion (KISI) and research proposal support through
 RaISE, which provides infrastructure for grant applications. RaISE organises workshops on writing
 bids and capturing impact and offers close support for prospective PIs throughout planning, writing
 and submission stages for grant applications. History also held workshops on applying for grants,
 sharing good practice based on successful/unsuccessful applications, looking at recent examples
 and discussing research projects with potential for external funding and strategies for identifying
 the best funder. The investment represented by these grants has yielded impressive impact (see
 our two Impact Case Studies) and additional high-quality outputs which will emerge post-2020.

 Beyond funders of national significance, we draw funds from a diverse set of potential investors.
 We have continued to benefit from funding (£48,176) by Staffordshire County Council, to underpin
 the ongoing Victoria County History project and ‘The Chase through Time’ project. HESA data
 does not fully reflect our funding success as it does not include smaller pump-priming or dedicated-
 purpose awards from American, Australian and British sources. For instance, Brill secured over
 £14k from research centres in the United States, the largest subventions coming from the Fred W.
 Smith National Library for the Study of George Washington, and Bright used £4k from the
 Australian Menzies Centre to gather data on women’s naturalisation applications 1900-20. Smaller
 sums have been instrumental in advancing other research, including from the Economic History
 Society Carnevali small research grant fund, and the Leighton Charitable Trust.

 An average of approximately £5k per annum is allocated to staff for seed-corn research expenses
 and conference attendance, and to support seminars at Keele, enabling, among other
 endeavours, Bright’s research in Australia in August 2019. Additional money is accessible from
 the Faculty for strategic investment in research, engagement, and impact. In 2018 £2.5k was
 allocated for an innovative collaborative work, ‘Seams’, in conjunction with Restoke, a not-for-profit
 arts organisation based in Stoke-on-Trent (Anderson, with colleagues in English and Creative
 Writing). ‘Seams’ generated words, music and dance deriving from the history of mining in Keele’s
 immediate locality and was performed at the Social History Society conference. A further £500
 was allocated by Keele’s Institute for Liberal Arts in the form of an interdisciplinary stimulus award
 (Anderson).

 Notable library resources include the electronic Early English Books Online (EEBO), Medieval and
 Early Modern Sources Online (MEMSO) and Eighteenth-Century Collections Online (ECCO) used
 by staff and students, and, amongst manuscripts, the Paget papers consulted by many visiting
 researchers and the Foundations of Sociology Archive, used by Anderson and external
 researchers.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 History has significant influence within and beyond the academy in local, regional, national and
 international contexts. Keele historians contribute to the research base through cross-institutional
 collaborations, long-term national and international associations, networks, and discipline
 representation at the very highest levels.

 Collaboration
 Our most significant external partner is Staffordshire Archives and Heritage Service which
 provides premises/practical support for our work with archival volunteer groups and calls on our
 expertise and advocacy in securing Heritage Lottery Funding and other grant income. Archive staff
 were assisted in writing their successful bid to the Wellcome Trust to fund ‘A Case for the Ordinary:

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the patient experience of mental health care in Staffordshire, 1818-1960’ (Tomkins), and two
 ESRC CASE studentships were secured in partnership with Staffordshire Archives (‘Occupational
 health in the nineteenth-century asylum’ and ‘Popular understandings of time’ through the ‘The
 Bawdy Courts of Lichfield’ project (from 2019) https://lichfieldbawdycourts.wordpress.com/history-
 of-lichfield-consistory-court). The ‘Bawdy Courts’ project has also seen undergraduates,
 postgraduates and PhD students (Susie McGraw) and other volunteers work at Keele under the
 supervision of Staffordshire archivists and historians Atherton and Hughes.

 The largest collaborative project undertaken in this cycle is the AHRC-funded ‘Small bills and petty
 finance: co-creating the history of the Old Poor Law’. This unites Staffordshire archives with those
 in Cumbria and East Sussex, and Keele historians with colleagues at Sussex University, to unpack
 the potential of an unused historical source, the ‘overseers’ voucher’. The project has employed
 two full-time post-doctoral research associates for three years and has engaged more than fifty
 volunteers meeting at three archival centres of Stafford, Carlisle and Lewes. It secured
 endorsement from the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement and has generated
 over 45,000 lines of genealogical data for uploading by the commercial website FindMyPast.
 These achievements are testament to the vitality of our engagement with the archives sector, and
 the sustainability of the volunteer-working model when enriched by academic colleagues at Keele.
 The Staffordshire Archives’ foundation of archival volunteer groups was expanded by Hunt for
 annexing the information of Military Appeals Tribunal papers and has been consolidated by
 Sargent and Tomkins.

 Recent international collaborations include Kallis, who secured (2019) a competitive visiting
 professorship at the University of Padua aligned with a new international research project on
 mobilities in the humanities and launch of a new international MA, funded by the Italian
 government. Since 2018, Cushing is part of a new international digital humanities project
 revamping the Clavis Canonum, a key database for the study of medieval canonical collections
 (Monumenta Germaniae Historica http://www.mgh.de/ext/clavis/). From March 2021, Sharma’s
 Global Challenges funded project ‘The Ownership of Public History in India’ will bring together
 academic historians and community representatives of India’s indigenous people to puncture
 conventional historical practice by relying on multilingual and multi-ethnic sources and centring
 community traditions, orality and experiential knowledge for the benefit of diverse communities.

 Public talks, events, engagement activities
 The integration of Keele historians with archival projects has facilitated major engagement events
 such as the Æthelflæd 1100 conference at Tamworth (2018) organised by Sargent and Morgan.
 This was held with Tamworth Borough Council and other civic bodies including Tamworth Castle.
 Academic input helped foster popular enthusiasm for the anniversary of Æthelflæd’s death; a
 weekend of events in July 2018 appealed to several hundred participants and was the culmination
 of a social media campaign wherein members of the public photographed themselves in the same
 pose given to the town’s statue of Æthelflæd: #dotheaethel

 Since 2014, The Conversation UK has become a prominent outlet for academic research with a
 timely appeal. Keele historians contributed successful articles (Bright, Janes, Morgan, Sargent,
 Sharma, Tomkins) and some achieved republication in ‘The Independent’ newspaper. Janes’ work
 on homosexuality has reached very large audiences through The Conversation and in July 2017
 when his BBC interview about the fifty-year anniversary of the partial decriminalisation of
 homosexuality was broadcast across all 39 local radio stations, reaching 1.2m people.

 Contribution to the discipline
 Contribution to the discipline through service to learned societies and research councils includes
 membership of the AHRC peer-review college and participation on funding panels (Talbott,
 Tomkins) and the European Science Foundation’s College of Expert Reviewers (Cushing).
 Cushing is President of the Iuris canonici medii aevi consociatio. Kauders is on the board of the
 Leo Baeck Institute, London and the advisory board of the German Society for Psychoanalysis,
 Psychotherapy, Psychosomatics and Depth Psychology. Talbott served as Secretary of the
 Scottish History Society 2013-16 and since 2011 has been on the Academic Board of the Centre

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for Port and Maritime History (University of Liverpool/LJMU/National Museums Liverpool).
 Tomkins is a panel member for UKRI’s Research Leaders Fellowship scheme. Editorial roles
 include: Atherton on the Council of the Record Society of Lancashire and Cheshire; Atherton and
 Tringham on the editorial board of Midland History; Cushing on the editorial board of Revue
 d'histoire ecclésiastique; Tomkins on the editorial board of Family and Community History; and
 Talbott co-editor of Journal of Scottish Historical Studies. Brill serves on History UK’s Steering
 Committee (formerly Bright). Ballantyne is membership Secretary for the Historians of the
 Twentieth-Century United States.

 Keynotes and plenaries
 Colleagues have delivered keynotes and plenaries internationally. Examples include: Kauders
 hosting a panel on hypnosis in the Third Reich for the Milton Erickson Congress for Clinical
 Hypnosis; Cushing delivered a plenary lecture at the 14th International Congress of Medieval
 Canon Law at the University of Paris; and Anderson spoke at the opening of the ‘Hoch Hinaus’
 exhibition for the Institut für Baukunst in Innsbruck, all in 2016. Bright spoke at Meiji University on
 the History of Global Arms Transfer; Tomkins gave a keynote address at the Women Money and
 Markets conference at Sussex University; Hughes spoke at early-modern symposia at the
 Universities of Tokyo and Kyoto, all in 2019.

 Service to the Discipline
 Keele historians are committed to service in terms of important disciplinary conferences large and
 small, held at Keele or elsewhere. Large one-off gatherings at Keele were co-ordinated by
 Anderson and Bright (Social History Society 2018), Talbott (Economic History Society 2018,
 AHRC-funded project symposium 2019), and Tomkins (Association for Medical Humanities 2017,
 and History of Parliament Testament to Democracy 2018). Recurrent events at Keele include
 Tringham’s and Sargent’s organisation of the Earl Lecture, and Morgan’s work on the John Levitt
 memorial lecture (including topics of national interest such as the Staffordshire Hoard, and
 speakers of international standing such as Michael Wood). Janes organised LGBT/Queer Visibility
 Matters in London in 2016, and Anderson was an organiser of the British-Academy funded Rural
 Modernism conference in 2019.

 External examining
 Keele historians have undertaken external examining for 21 doctoral awards across Britain (St
 Andrews, Hull, Kent, York, Glasgow, Chester, Cambridge (x2), Huddersfield, Warwick,
 Nottingham, Queen Mary, Bristol, Oxford, Lancaster) and abroad (Paris (2), Lisbon, Istanbul and
 Sydney).

 Websites to facilitate global engagement have been devised by Talbott ‘Business News in the
 Atlantic World' (https://atlanticbusinessnews.net/) and Tomkins ‘The Poor Law: Small Bills and
 Petty Finance 1700-1834’ (https://thepoorlaw.org/ ).




                                                                                                Page 13
