Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East Anglia

 Unit of Assessment: 34: Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and Information
 Management
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a) Context and Structure
 This UoA has continued its mission to be a leader of Film, Media and Cultural Studies
 research, drawing on the expertise of colleagues from four individual departments: Film,
 Television and Media Studies (FTM), the Institute of Interdisciplinary Humanities (IIH), Politics
 (PPL), and International Development (DEV).

 The unit builds on UEA’s commitment to interdisciplinary research and makes a substantial
 contribution to established and emerging research areas including cultural studies, digital
 humanities, film and media history, gender studies, journalism, and media consumption. It
 also offers new research into complex, contemporary, and interdisciplinary areas such as
 audio-visual practice, childhood and media, cultural approaches to eating disorders, disability,
 journalism, masculinity and social media, and the impact of new technologies. Having built
 up a diverse range of cross- and interdisciplinary interests (including links with business
 studies, environmental studies, health, psychology, and sociology) these connections form
 an essential component of our mission to draw on multiple and intersecting methodologies
 which share the research strengths and expertise of colleagues within and outside the
 institution.

 Strategic expansion and development of media, journalism, politics, and digital humanities
 has seen the unit double in size since REF2014. At REF2021 census date the unit contained
 23 colleagues (21.8FTE) in contrast to 10 (9.5FTE, REF2014), and offers a more diverse
 group, with 12 women and 11 men in our return.

                    List of 23 research active / Category A colleagues
  Dr Filipa Antunes     Dr Victoria Cann         Dr Harriet Cooper Dr Christine
  Lecturer (IIH)        Senior Lecturer (IIH)    Lecturer (FTM)         Cornea
                                                                        Lecturer (FTM)
  Dr Geraint D’Arcy     Dr Rayna Denison         Dr Jamie Hakim         Professor Richard
  Lecturer (FTM)        Senior Lecturer (FTM) Lecturer (FTM)            Hand (FTM)
  Dr Claire Hines       Professor Su             Professor Mark         Professor Keith M.
  Lecturer (FTM)        Holmes (FTM)             Jancovich (FTM)        Johnston (FTM)
  Professor George      Professor Brett Mills Dr Tom Phillips           Dr Jenna
  McKay (FTM)           (FTM)                    Lecturer (IIH)         Pitchford-Hyde
                                                                        Lecturer (IIH)
  Dr Lorna              Dr Mark Rimmer           Dr Martin Scott        Dr Tim Snelson
  Richardson            Senior Lecturer (FTM) Senior Lecturer           Senior Lecturer
  Lecturer (IIH)                                 (DEV)                  (FTM)
  Dr Helen Warner                Professor Melanie              Dr Alison Winch
  Senior Lecturer (PPL)          Williams (FTM)                 Lecturer (FTM)

 This document also references other colleagues who have made a contribution across the
 period, including those who have left (Dr Jennifer Coates, Dr Paul Gooding, Dr Ulrich Heinze,
 Dr Sanna Inthorn, Dr Jessalynn Keller, Dr Emma Pett, and Professor Yvonne Tasker) and
 teaching colleagues who make specific contributions to impact culture (Professor Eylem
 Atakav, Dr Karina Aveyard, Dr Sarah Godfrey, and Dr Nadine Zubair).

 Research outputs:
 Staff were highly productive during the census period across a range of different publications: this
 includes 13 (of 23) colleagues producing one or more monographs:



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Type of output                                                 REF2021       REF2014
     Monographs                                                       16             8
     Essays/articles (refereed books, highly rated journals)         200+          100+
     Edited collections (books and/or special journal issues)         11             5
     Practice research outputs                                        10             0
     Working papers / reports                                          6             1

 Research and impact strategy

 Research culture and groups
 The unit’s research strategy emerges from a committed and long-running research culture,
 which all colleagues contribute to and help shape. Collaboration and interaction across the
 whole unit happens at regular seminar series, and research and social events. The gro wth in
 our research culture has meant it is increasingly driven by the strengths of four research
 groups. These operate as semi-autonomous spaces for mentoring and support of colleagues
 and PhD students, offering peer feedback on research outputs, and functioning as core sites
 to discuss engagement, impact and innovation opportunities, grant proposals, and the
 development of symposia and conferences.

 Developing out of our REF2014 future strategy, three existing groups have evolved dynamically
 via organic change in membership and the focus brought by new colleagues and shifting research
 foci. A fourth emerged via our REF2014 strategic aim to ‘centrally position’ the unit within Media
 and Cultural Studies, through colleague interests, research staff appointments (including a new
 Chair), and a growth of interlinked research areas.

    •   British Cinema and Television Studies (leads: Johnston/Williams): Central to our
        research culture for over three decades, the group has enhanced that reputation
        through new studies of the historical and contemporary British film industry: Williams’
        Sixties Cinema project, Johnston’s work on Eastmancolor in Britain, and Hines’ focus
        on the James Bond franchise. The group benefits from interaction with staff and
        materials from the East Anglian Film Archive (EAFA: see section 3), and was
        strengthened across the REF time period by the input and activities of four post-
        doctoral research associates (Dr Stephanie Clayton, Dr Richard Farmer, Dr Paul Frith,
        Dr Sarah Hill), and eight PhD students.

        Impact: The group’s British history and archival expertise developed the submitted
        impact project, ‘Gender and the Archive: Reclaiming Women Amateur Filmmakers’
        (leads: Johnston, Williams), which revealed unknown work by women creatives and
        influenced film archive policy.

    •   Feminist Media Studies (leads: Hakim/Holmes/Tasker): Producing world-leading
        gender research for over two decades, this group provides a supportive and collegiate
        space to explore debates in gender studies. Strategic shifts in leadership taken across
        the period has seen an expanded focus on feminist pedagogy and methodology. A
        large cross-unit research group, its strength lies in bringing together humanities and
        social science methodologies (Tasker, Warner, Winch), while reaching out into
        interdisciplinary topics such as girlhood studies (Cann), and health (Hakim , Holmes).
        This group has additionally been able to draw on the input of twenty doctoral students.

        Impact: The impetus for feminist research to shape and change cultural attitudes
        fuelled two impact projects: ‘Cultural Approaches to Eating Disorders’ (lead: Holmes)
        worked with health services and eating disorder charity Beat; ‘Empowering Girlhood
        in Semi-Rural Locations’ (leads: Cann, Godfrey) promoted issues around girls’ rights.

    •   Media and Cultural Consumption (lead: Hand): This group focuses on debates
        around audiences, industry, and reception in international, national, and local contexts:

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        e.g. cinema audiences (Aveyard); Japanese visual culture and media industries
        (Denison); horror consumption (Jancovich), humanitarian journalism (Scott), radio
        adaptation (Hand); and wrestling fandom (Phillips). It also strategically expanded our
        practice research through theatre and internet production (Hand) , and film-based
        cultural campaigning (Snelson). This group included contributions from one PDRA (Dr
        Ray Macauley), colleagues from the Sainsbury Institute for the Study of Japanese Arts
        and Culture (Coates, Heinze), and twenty doctoral students.

        Impact: This group developed collaborative industry partnerships that underpinned
        three impact projects: the submitted ICS ‘Influencing Humanitarian News Reporting’
        changed reporting policies in journalism (lead: Scott), ‘Rural Community Cinema’
        (lead: Aveyard) created a new network that promotes and supports community and
        rural cinema exhibition; ‘Poe Radio’ (lead: Hand) developed new live theatre podcast
        adaptations in collaboration with the Poe Theatre of the Air.

    •   Critical Cultural Studies (lead: McKay): the most recent group has been shaped by
        colleagues’ interests and research on cultural studies, cultural sociology, popular
        music, and participatory arts practice in order to revisit and revise the questions,
        methods, and problems of cultural studies. This research focused on music festivals and
        street music (McKay); music in education (Rimmer); and the representation of animals on
        screen (Mills). This group was strengthened by the input and activities of three PDRAs
        (Dr Lizzie Bennett, Dr Emma Webster, Dr Rachel Daniels) and fifteen doctoral
        students.

        Impact: This group’s desire to shape and influence arts and cultural festivals led to
        the development of the submitted ICS ‘Festivals: Space, Sound, Industry’ (lead:
        McKay) which changed festival policies.

 Each research group features a flat organizational hierarchy and demonstrates the unit’s
 commitment to promoting gender equality in research leadership: group leads were 43% female,
 57% male across the census period, with British Cinema adopting a co-lead policy.

 While their strategic purpose is to develop and support individual research foci, each group also
 feeds back into the unit’s wider research culture via reports from group leads, with cross-pollination
 and sharing encouraged via regular research seminar events, meetings, symposia, and
 publications: ‘Hallowed Histories’ events (Media and Cultural Consumption) have included
 contributions from British Cinema and Television colleagues; the ‘Mediated Masculinities’
 symposia have drawn on research from Feminist Media Studies and Critical Cultural Studies.

 Research Impact: rated 70% 3* in REF2014, the strategic imperative within research groups was
 to embed a more precise understanding of impact within our research culture. Key mechanisms
 were introduced that allowed groups to better target 4* impact:
     • Appointing an Impact Champion to help ‘mainstream’ impact. This role supports and
        advises research groups as they identify and workshop impact and engagement ideas,
        and agree measurable outcomes with partners;
     • Supporting bids for impact funds, including UEA’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account,
        UEA’s Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) allocation, and the AHRC Cultural
        Engagement Fellowship scheme (including a successful British Cinema group bid);
     • Supporting impact leads with workload buy-outs;
     • Expanding consultancy and innovation work with Plan UK (Cann), and Film Archives UK
        (Johnston, Snelson, Williams);
     • Working with the National Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement (NCCPE);
     • Cross-group sharing of information and expertise with government, media, and third sector
        organisations.

 Research groups built up different sectoral partnerships who could benefit from their research,

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leading to a wealth of co-created projects and relationships with organisations and institutions
 across the creative, cultural, and media industries (British Film Institute, London Jazz Festival,
 Sistema), third sector (Beat, Terence Higgins Trust), and different governmental agencies (UK
 parliament, the United Nations, UNESCO).

 Our three submitted impact case studies reflect the success of our focused and sectoral approach.
 Those strong impact case studies in different stages of development (Aveyard, Cann, Godfrey,
 Hand, Holmes) will continue to receive targeted support (including funding, mentoring, workload
 allowance) in preparation for the next REF.

 The unit has seen and supported a higher percentage of women (60%) leading impact case
 studies and partnership-building.

 Strategic aims
 We have met all our REF2014 strategic aims:
    a) We expanded three core research groups, supported them to continue producing high
        quality research and impact, and expanded cultural studies research via the new Critical
        Cultural Studies research group;
    b) We expanded our popular media focus to include film, music, journalism, podcasting,
        television, and social media;
    c) We explored options for expanding our global media focus via the work of Atakav, Aveyard,
        Denison, Inthorn, Pett, and Scott;
    d) We have developed internal partnerships with colleagues in Law, Business, and
        Computing through engagement opportunities, research and consultancy projects;
    e) Post-REF2014 institutional investment underpinned our expansion, including the planned
        chair in Media Studies, a Lectureship in Digital Media, and a chair in Media Practice;
    f) We have increased the number and range of grant funders to whom colleagues apply (see
        section 3).

 Related to two strategic aims (expanding media industries research; developing internal
 partnerships) colleagues have been instrumental in the creation and implementation of the UEA-
 wide research theme CreativeUEA (Hand, Johnston, McKay). Drawing on unit expertise has
 allowed this new initiative to develop strategic relationships around the creative and cultural
 industries and create interdisciplinary research projects informed by the needs of external partners
 in Norwich, Norfolk, and beyond (see section 4).

 Future research strategy
 We aim to build on our recent appointments and interdisciplinary growth through supporting
 existing groups to expand into new areas, and to grow newly emergent fields:

 Strategic development of existing areas
    • British Cinema: A cornerstone of our grant success and external profile, this group will
        develop new historical and archival projects via strong partnerships with the British Film
        Institute (BFI), the East Anglian Film Archive, Film Archives UK, and Studio Canal UK;
    • Digital Humanities (DH): Media and Cultural Communication colleagues lead on DH
        research across UEA (including recent appointment Richardson). We will focus on digital
        heritage (visualization and 3D photogrammetry with local heritage and media partners),
        digital preservation (including contributions to the Digital Preservation Coalition, and the
        East Anglian Film Archive), and digital media (including video game work in collaboration
        with our Eastern ARC partner, University of Essex);
    • Girlhood: Part of the Feminist Media Studies research group, colleagues (Cann, Godfrey)
        have delivered consultancy work for global children’s charity Plan UK, served on the board
        of the International Girl Studies Association, and (with Warner) run the annual International
        Day of the Girl Norwich. We expect this research and impact focus to grow over the next
        three-to-five years, with the 2017 launch of our MA Gender Studies having already led to
        two PGR research projects;


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Community and cultural industries: Led by the Critical Cultural Studies research group,
        this draws together interests in community music (Rimmer), arts and music festivals
        (McKay), and local cultural partnerships (Latitude, Norwich and Norfolk Festival, and
        Snape Maltings), as well as CreativeUEA expertise.

 Emergent areas
   • Global Media: A long-standing unit interest, with considerable cross-institutional interest,
      the development of this area will be led by existing unit expertise (Aveyard, Denison, Scott)
      and practice-based engagement work (Atakav, Cornea);
   • Health Humanities: The institutional lead for this initiative (Cooper) will be supported to
      expand this strategic cross-university area, drawing in unit interdisciplinary interests
      around eating disorders (Holmes), media and psychological sciences (Snelson), chemsex
      (Hakim), disability (Pitchford-Hyde), and endometriosis (Richardson);
   • Practice research: The strategic appointments of Hand and Darcy has expanded the
      creative-critical research currently embedded across existing research groups, including
      work on documentary (Atakav, Phillips, Snelson), radio and theatre adaptation (Hand,
      D’Arcy), zines (Cann), and videographic publications (Johnston, Frith). Planned growth
      here, including two more appointments, will enhance existing research strengths, respond
      to a growth of doctoral research interests, and be supported through ongoing investment
      in UEA’s BLOC Media facilities (see section 3).

 Collaboration and knowledge exchange remain key to the future plans for our unit, building
 expertise in engagement and impact:
     • Academic: We will build on the important research collaborations that underpin networking
         and grant success: e.g. projects with UK universities (Brighton, Bristol, Essex, Glasgow,
         Kent, Manchester, York), European institutes (Udine University, Italy, Umeå University,
         Sweden), and HEIs in Australia, Canada, Japan, Latin America, and the US;
     • Government and Third Sector: We aim to consolidate and expand on the existing work
         with different branches of government, and national third sector organisations, such as the
         Terence Higgins Trust, and the Women’s Equality Party;
     • Industry: We intend to expand our existing research collaborations:
         - Local: IntoOpera (Cann, Rimmer), Norwich Library Service (Cann, Richardson),
             Norfolk Museum Service (Hand, Richardson), Norwich Film Festival (Godfrey,
             Johnston), Norwich Theatre Royal (Hand, Snelson), Norfolk and Norwich Festival
             (McKay)
         - National: British Academy of Film and Television Arts (Jancovich, Warner), the BFI
             (Johnston, Snelson, Williams), Film Archives UK (Snelson), London Jazz Festival
             (McKay), and Studio Canal (Johnston, Williams)
         - International: The Public Media Alliance (Scott), Poe Theatre of the Air (Hand),
             UNESCO (Cornea), Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences Film Archive
             (Johnston).

 Research integrity and open research environment
 The University has implemented the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity, Open
 Access Policy, and Research Data Management Policy through a set of Guidelines on Good
 Practice in Research. For ethical review of its empirical research involving human participants,
 the unit has benefited from the University’s General Research Ethics Committee and (since
 2019) the new Humanities Research Ethics Subcommittee: UoA colleagues (Inthorn, Pett,
 Rimmer, Williams) have served on and helped shape those committees, and have worked at
 unit level to advise on research ethics.

 Research papers or pre-prints are made available through PURE, ensuring a majority of unit
 articles are available open access via UEA’s website: over 20 are available as Gold open
 access at the point of publication. Colleagues also use online platforms for dissemination,
 including academia.edu.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research dissemination benefits from an Open Access agreement between UEA and major
 publishers including Springer, Taylor and Francis, and SAGE. Funds from the UKRI Open
 Access Block Grant have been used to purchase Open Access rights for cultural, film , and
 media publications with high significance and potential impact not covered by these
 agreements. Members of the unit have benefited from Open Access awareness and training
 events organized by the University’s Open Access officer, while colleagues also serve on the
 editorial boards of open access journals (Johnston, Winch).

 2. People

 a) Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our research base has more than doubled in size, from 9.5 FTE (REF2014) to 21.8 FTE
 (REF2021), a strategic expansion intended to strengthen core research areas, grow impact
 activities, and support developing research strengths through:
      a) a recruitment approach that balanced the appointment of internationally renowned and
      established scholars with early career researchers who have the potential to be the next
      generation of world-leading scholars;
      b) support for internal promotion of excellence in research, including a ‘Development year’
      route (see below) where colleagues were supported to transfer onto research contracts;
      c) the continued use of mentoring and support schemes for staff development and research
      management;
      d) a growth in the contribution that doctoral and post-doctoral researchers make to our
      community;
      e) a commitment to a flexible working and open research culture that incorporates all staff,
      immaterial of contract type or contract duration (including part-time and short-term contracts).

 a) Appointment strategy
    Our blended approach has ensured new staff coming in at different career levels (early, mid,
    and senior career) and seniority (Lecturer, Senior Lecturer/Associate Professor and
    Professor). Two new Professors (Hand, McKay) expanded unit research expertise around
    media, media practice, and cultural studies, strengthening our developing provision.

     We exceeded our strategic aim to develop one post in Digital Media by appointing a Research
     Fellowship (Gooding) and Lectureship (Richardson): our expertise here directly led to the
     creation of UEA’s Digital Humanities incubator; equally, Cooper’s appointment is linked to the
     strong Health Humanities work within our unit. All research groups saw relevant appointments
     made to strengthen their provision: British Cinema and Television (Hines), Critical Cultural
     Studies (McKay, Pitchford-Hyde), Feminist Media Studies (Cann, Hakim, Keller, Warner,
     Winch), Media and Cultural Consumption (Antunes, D’Arcy, Hand, Phillips, Richardson).

     Impact: Unit strategy was to appoint key individuals who have the skills and expertise to
     promote engagement and impact work within those groups (Cann, D’Arcy, Hakim, Hand,
     Richardson).

     Our future appointment strategy includes an expansion across British cinema and television
     (one post), critical-creative research (two posts), and gender studies (one post).

 b) Internal Promotions
    Four professorial promotions occurred in the unit (Holmes, Johnston, Mills, Williams), six
    promotions to Senior Lecturer/Associate Professor (Cann, Denison, Rimmer, Scott, Snelson,
    Warner), and three from Lecturer A to Lecturer B (Antunes, Phillips, Pitchford-Hyde).
    Underpinned by a transparent and fair process at School, Faculty, and University levels, these
    promotions point to our desire to nurture talent and reward success.

     Running in parallel, the ‘Development year’ initiative offered a twelve-month programme of
     support for colleagues employed on teaching-focused contacts who wished to develop a
     research and impact portfolio. This included: research mentorship, developmental feedback,

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    activity planning, a reduced teaching workload, membership of the Early Career Researchers
    Forum, and targeted internal funding schemes (including a £1000 research development
    grant to support their research projects). Six colleagues (Antunes, Cann, Hakim, Pitchford-
    Hyde, Phillips, Warner) transferred to research contracts via this process.

 c) Mentoring, Staff development, and support
    Mentoring and support occur at different levels within the unit, and the Faculty system within
    which it sits. Unit growth fueled the creation of a new research mentoring scheme to cover all
    colleagues, including full- and part-time staff from research associates through professors
    (and those on the ‘Development year’). These one-to-one meetings allowed staff to reflect on
    their achievements and potential, while offering advice and support around career stage-
    specific grant bidding, developing impact and engagement, peer reviewing, and academic
    work-life balance. This unit-level scheme aimed to develop best practice, while sitting
    alongside those institutional management systems (annual appraisals with Head of
    Department; research activity plans with the Research Director) designed to relate unit
    strategy to institutional priorities.

     Colleagues’ research is supported by different mechanisms across the institution. Research
     Directors support annual individual research planning, and chair research committees that
     manage and award School-level funds. The Faculty research committee (chaired by the
     Associate Dean for Research) awards Faculty-level grants (see p12) and helps foster
     interdisciplinary work. To ensure an effective link between research and impact activities
     Research Directors work with Impact champions who lead on building partnerships, planning,
     and bidding for internal impact funding: both liaise with the Unit of Assessment coordinator
     who offers a fuller overview of collaboration and cooperation across all unit activities in
     relation to REF priorities.

    Unit colleagues have access to regular research training and skills workshops, delivered at
    UoA, School, Faculty, and University level. Such sessions ensure that colleagues are
    informed about the latest developments from research councils, in government policy, and via
    associated charity and cultural bodies (e.g. BFI, Leverhulme Trust, Plan UK, and Wellcome
    Trust). The increasing importance of international funding schemes is additionally supported
    by GCRF-specific training and sandpit events: one UoA colleague (Cornea) is part of a
    successful interdisciplinary UKRI-GCRF project, ‘Meeting the SDGs: creating innovative
    infrastructures and policy solutions to support sustainable development in Global South
    communities’. This experience will help inform our future involvement in GCRF.

    Research and impact training workshops are varied, and can range from those that are
    specific to UoA concerns (‘The Audio-Visual Essay and Research’, ‘Feminist Methodologies’,
    ‘Practice Research’, ‘Digital Methods’) to wider thematic concerns around ‘Animals’, ‘Climate’,
    or ‘Creativity’ that draw on parallel interdisciplinary research interests across UEA’s research
    park. Unit-led sessions are complemented by research and methods training from the Centre
    for Staff for Education Development (CSED), and targeted engagement and impact events
    run by UEA’s Research and Innovation Services (RIN). This team host workshops on
    developing impact partnerships, and effective impact assessments, often delivered in
    collaboration with organisations such as the National Centre for Coordinating Public
    Engagement, and Dr Eric Jensen/Methods for Change.

    Support for UoA staff includes the incubating and development of new research and impact
    ideas within mentor and Research Group meetings, and via research seminar series. These
    promote unit research via work-in-progress presentations that allow for peer review and
    sharing of relevant knowledge. Research groups and individual colleagues also invite external
    academic and industry speakers that fit with the unit’s interests. Increased attention to practice
    research and industry-related research has included talks by Adrian Wootton (CEO, Film
    London), and screenings/filmmaker talks including Beeban Kidron (InRealLife), Gideon
    Koppel (sleep furiously), and David Weissman (The Cockettes).


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     UoA Category A staff have 40% of their workload dedicated to research, with an additional
     allocation of up to 10% available for impact work (on application). This includes six
     semesters of a combined workload where research counts for 30% of contracted hours,
     followed by an application to UEA’s study leave system that offers a six-month research
     sabbatical for the seventh semester. Study leave applications have to outline clear research
     and impact outcomes that speak to the broader strategic aims of the unit and the Faculty.

     25 study leave periods were approved during the census period, to 19 colleagues. The slight
     disparity in numbers is due to some colleagues being eligible for two separate periods of leave
     during this cycle, while others had longer study leave granted in acknowledgement of the
     completion of a significant long-term leadership or administrative role (e.g. Associate Dean
     Research, Dean of the Faculty). Five colleagues in the unit have already had study leave
     awarded for 2021-22, with applications invited annually.

     Study leave has been used to instigate new research (Holmes’ work on eating disorders,
     Mills’ work on the representation of animals, Phillips’ work on women wrestlers); complete
     significant research monographs (Hakim’s Work That Body: Male Bodies in Digital Culture;
     Williams’ David Lean); write grant proposals (Snelson’s successful ‘Demons of the Mind’
     AHRC application); or develop impact case studies (the Women Amateur Filmmakers
     project).

     Having appointed a significant cohort of early career researchers, we quickly identified the
     need for ECR-specific support mechanisms to hone their research skills and expertise. The
     institution’s probationary system gives staff a reduced teaching and administrative workload,
     helping protect their work time and allowing them to focus on research: e.g. the monographs
     published by Cann and Antunes, Hakim’s successful ESRC grant. ECRs are included in the
     mentor scheme outlined above, paired (where possible) with a mentor who has been ECR
     within the last decade (able to speak from recent experience), and invited to join the research
     group most relevant to their research interests.

     ECR colleagues are also able to join the Faculty-wide Early Career Forum, which promotes
     interdisciplinarity and provides a supportive and inclusive environment for colleagues in the
     early stages of their research career, addressing specific issues for those at this career-stage
     and allowing the sharing of best practice. Meeting five times each year, these informal
     workshops include presentations on topics chosen by its membership (e.g. grant funding,
     research support, academic rejection, work-life balance). Unit ECRs (Cann, Phillips) have
     also successfully bid to a ring-fenced funding pot, ‘Annual Adventures in Research’, designed
     to help them develop innovative and distinctive research programmes (see page 12). During
     the COVID-19 pandemic, an additional cross-Faculty ECR ‘buddy’ initiative was established
     to provide support and combat isolation.

 d) Post-Doctoral Research Associates:
    The unit hosted ten early career post-doctoral students via research council funding and
    through institutional awards (a fourfold increase from REF2014). Dr Richard Farmer, Dr Paul
    Frith, and Dr Ray Macauley were Senior Research Associates on AHRC-funded research
    projects (‘Transformations and Tradition in British Cinema in the 1960s’; ‘The Eastmancolor
    Revolution in British Cinema, 1955-85’; ‘Demons of the Mind: “Psy” Sciences and Cinema in
    the Sixties’). The ‘Women Amateur Filmmakers’ impact project employed post-doctoral
    colleagues via an AHRC-funded Cultural Engagement Fellowship (Dr Sarah Hill) and UEA
    Pro-Vice Chancellor impact fund (Dr Stephanie Clayton, Dr Mark Fryers); Dr Emma Webster,
    Dr Elizabeth Bennett and Dr Rachel Daniels were Research Associates on the AHRC-funded
    Leadership Fellowship ‘Connected Communities’ project; while the UEA contribution to
    CREATe included one PDRA (Phillips) across two work packages.

     PDRAs are an important part of UoA research culture, included within research groups,
     contributing to research seminars, and co-producing significant research outputs with unit
     colleagues: e.g. Farmer and Williams’ co-written monograph, Johnston and Hill’s journal

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      article, Phillips and Rimmer’s report on community music, Bennett and McKay’s report on
      Street Music. They are also involved in developing engagement and impact activities such as
      film screenings or working with industry partners like Studio Canal UK.

      As part of the unit’s commitment to the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
      Researchers, and UEA’s Code of Practice for the Management of Research Staff, these
      research colleagues are additionally supported via a Faculty Research Staff Co-ordinator
      (Williams). They are invited to present at the annual Researchers Summit (designed to
      celebrate their achievements) and can be nominated for a Faculty-level Special Merit in
      Research award, to acknowledge their contribution to the University (won by Cooper in 2020).

 e)   Open Research Culture:
      Although the bulk of unit staff are on open-ended full-time or fixed term full-time contracts
      (e.g. our PDRA colleagues), the unit and University are committed to a flexible working and
      an open research culture that incorporates all staff, immaterial of contract type or contract
      duration (including part-time and short-term contracts). Where possible, research seminars,
      research groups, mentor meetings, or training sessions are scheduled within the working day
      and/or normal school hours to allow all colleagues to attend.

 Celebrating success
 We celebrate our staff research success via on- and off-campus book launches, through
 participation in the annual Faculty Research Showcase (which features publications and short
 talks from across the Faculty), and in updates via regular School and Faculty research bulletins.
 Colleagues are celebrated as ‘UEA Media Stars’ for effective media engagement (Atakav, Holmes,
 Johnston, Scott), and research success is acknowledged by congratulations cards from the Pro-
 Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation. Excellence in engagement and impact is celebrated
 and promoted via the UEA Engagement Awards (won by Cann, Cornea, Holmes, McKay, Phillips),
 and the Impact and Innovation Awards (won by Atakav, Scott). Many of our more developed
 impact case studies have been celebrated via one or more of these routes.

 Equality and Diversity: All appointments and promotions were undertaken within the framework
 of the University’s equality and diversity policies. The gender profile of the UoA at census date is
 52% women, 48% men: a 6.5% increase towards women since REF2014. There remains a bias
 towards men in professorial positions within the unit: this is skewed by the non-inclusion of Pro-
 Vice Chancellor (Humanities) Professor Sarah Barrow (returned to UoA25) and the recent
 departure of Professor Tasker (PVC Humanities until 2017) but it remains an area we expect to
 address.

 Women are the majority at Senior Lecturer/Associate Professor (57% to 43%), and
 overwhelmingly at Lecturer (70% to 30%): that latter figure is heavily influenced by four women
 early career researchers completing the ‘Development year’. PDRAs saw an equal split between
 genders.

 Significant research-related leadership roles have been broadly shared across gender:
    • Faculty: Associate Dean for Engagement and Innovation (Johnston), Associate Dean for
         Research (Jancovich), Faculty Research Staff Co-ordinator (Williams);
    • School: Athena Swan lead (Williams), PGR Director (Aveyard), FTM Research Director
         (Johnston 2014-16; Pett 2016-2019), IIH Research Director (Williams);
    • Unit: Impact case study leads (Godfrey, Holmes, Johnston, McKay, Scott, Williams), and
         striving for equality in research group leadership (see p. 2)

 Post-graduate candidates
 Our postgraduate research community has continued to thrive during the assessment period, with
 54 doctoral candidates currently registered on the programme. Across the period, 139 candidates
 have undertaken doctoral study with us: 91 (65%) Home, 18 (13%) EU, and 30 (22%) international.
 Of those, at least 48 (35%) have been successful in gaining external or internal funding for their
 doctoral studies, with at least 50 (36%) self-funding:

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                Main funder                                      Number
                CHASE (AHRC)                                     17
                ESRC                                             1
                Overseas government                              2
                UEA Faculty and school studentships              28
                Self-funded                                      50
                Not captured                                     41
                Total                                            139

 Recruitment is by open competition, with candidates developing applications with potential
 supervisors. Our doctoral research candidates receive support, training, and monitoring through
 School, Faculty, and University-level mechanisms. UoA34 colleagues have been instrumental in
 developing and enhancing the Graduate School programme of training and support, delivering a
 responsive skills profile that responds to AHRC guidelines, and student input. This includes field-
 specific academic needs around media archives, feminist methodologies, critical-creative
 research, and understanding impact. Bespoke block training programmes are available for those
 unable to attend regularly during term, and over a fifth of training programmes are now available
 online (with plans to increase this).

 All PhD candidates work with a supervisory team, formed either by a primary/secondary or co-
 supervisory structure. Relevant specialisms are important to create support and expertise,
 including colleagues from other disciplines for more interdisciplinary projects: current supervisory
 teams include collaborations with colleagues in Politics, Education, and Literature. Multi-university
 supervision is made possible through UEA’s role in consortia such as the Consortium for
 Humanities and the Arts in the South East (CHASE) and the Eastern Academic Research
 Consortium (E-ARC). Through regular meetings, each candidate’s progress is supported, and
 relevant training signposted; after presenting a portfolio of work at a probationary panel at the end
 of year one (year two for part-time candidates), their progress and development continues to be
 supported by the supervisory team. Those teams have updated supervisory training every three
 years, with new supervisors paired with more experienced supervisors to ensure candidates gain
 the requisite level of support.

 The unit sees doctoral candidates as an intrinsic part of its research culture. Each candidate is
 invited to join and participate in the unit research group closest to their research area. This allows
 them to function within the wider unit and PhD research community: interacting with ongoing
 academic discussions; learning and developing ideas with peers, PDRAs and scholars at different
 levels; helping to schedule the weekly research seminar series (including PhD-led ‘work in
 progress’ sessions), and planning larger symposia. In recent years this has included PGR
 involvement in ‘Festival Cultures’ (2015), ‘The Gothic and UEA’ (2015), ‘Mediated Masculinities:
 Power and Violence’ (2016), ‘Still Swinging: 1960s British Cinema and Popular Culture in the 21 st
 Century’ (2016), ‘“Everything is True and Nothing is True”: Exploring Truth, Lies and Media
 Consumption’ (2017), ‘Gender, Media and the Middle East’ (2018), ‘Colour and British Visual
 Culture’ (2019), and ‘Media Journeys: Looking Back, Stepping Forward – Ten Years of the Journal
 of Adaptation in Film and Performance‘ (2019).

 UEA’s role within the CHASE and E-ARC consortia opens up training and placement opportunities
 for our doctoral candidates: Marie-Allix Thouaille’s CHASE-funded placement with Vitae produced
 a report exploring professional and career development for Arts and Humanities postgraduate
 researchers; Erin Pearson’s placement with Unruly Media (a global video-advertisement
 distributor) developed new research on six-second advertising. Such placement opportunities are
 not restricted to CHASE-funded candidates and are promoted to all unit PGRs. CHASE funding
 has also helped PhD and unit colleagues deliver unique training sessions, such as the Feminist
 Research Ethics in Practice events (Cann, Warner).

 Our strategic development of creative-critical research has been matched by an increase in


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 creative-critical doctoral projects: ten such PhDs are active across the unit compared to one at
 REF2014. The diverse range of projects include research on representation (minorities, intersex,
 homosexuality), authorship, and trauma; explored through the creation of documentary, fiction and
 short films, videographic work, scriptwriting, and actor training and workshops. Several candidates
 have successfully premiered work at film festivals and presented at conferences.

 Our doctoral candidates have access to institutional funding scheme to allow them to conduct
 research (e.g. ethnographic work at the Sheffield DocFest) or present at major conferences (e.g.
 MeCCSA, Screen, SCMS). Our candidates also contribute to unit-level internationalisation trips
 (e.g. ‘HUM Goes to Japan’ 2019), and taken the lead in sector organizations: with Yuxin Liu the
 vice-president of the UK-China Media and Cultural Studies Association; and Ekky Imanjaya’s
 membership of Association of Southeast Asian Studies in the UK (ASEASUK). PGRs are also
 supported to develop and deliver engagement activities: e.g. Hallowed Histories (screenings and
 talks), and Sisters of Silents (silent film screenings), with PhD candidates such as Dean Bowman
 and Ekky Imanjaya winning UEA Engagement Awards for their work with external partners.

 Alumni (graduating since REF2014) have been employed in Category A posts at over 30
 universities across the world, including Arizona State, Bina Nusantara (Indonesia), Bradford,
 Bristol, Cardiff Metropolitan, Colorado State, DeMontfort, Edge Hill, Greenwich, Huddersfield,
 Leicester, Leiden, Newcastle, Northumbria, Norwich University of the Arts, Plymouth, Robert
 Morris (Illinois), St. Xavier’s College (Kolkata), Symbiosis International (India), Université
 Sorbonne Nouvelle (Paris), Yasar (Turkey), and York St. John.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The grant portfolio for UoA34 has more than doubled in this REF period, from a total grant holding
 of £3.4m (REF2014) to over £7.4m (REF2021). This has seen a concomitant increase in reported
 REF4b research income from an average of £147k p.a. (REF2014) to more than £440k p.a.

 In a competitive arts and humanities funding environment, we are proud of all our colleagues for
 achieving consistently strong grant scores and funding. The growth in unit income runs in parallel
 with a significant number of ECR colleagues who are at the start of their grant application careers.
 In part, this expertise will help fuel our intent to increase grant capture in forthcoming years.

 Alongside several larger awards from the AHRC and the ESRC we have seen regular smaller
 amounts from a more diverse group of funders including Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation
 (Denison), the UKRI Global Challenges Research Fund (Cornea), the International Broadcasting
 Trust (Scott), and Stiftelsen Marcus och Amalia Wallenbergs Minnesfond (Richardson): meeting
 our strategic aim to expand to a wider range of funders. This also allows us to explore our
 ambitions to grow funding routes for strategic interdisciplinary work and explore the global
 dimensions of unit research.

 All research groups have seen a significant amount of funded activity from that grant portfolio:

       Research group                    Amount              Indicative funders
       British Cinema and Television     Over £1.01m         AHRC, BFI, National Archives
       Feminist Media Studies            Over £1.72m         AHRC, ESRC, Plan UK, UKRI
       Media and Cultural                Over £3.22m         AHRC, International
       Consumption                                           Broadcasting Fund, Sasakawa
                                                             Foundation
       Critical Cultural Studies         Over £1.31m         AHRC

 Our culture around grant bidding is based around expertise-sharing and mentoring, preparing
 colleagues to put in major research bids every five years, on average. Our own mentoring support
 – including nine colleagues with AHRC and ESRC peer review expertise – is augmented by wider
 Faculty support (including specialist and generalist peer review expertise). Taken together, this

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has allowed us to build a stronger and supportive community around grant capture.

 That background has also helped us develop interdisciplinary research projects around the Health
 Humanities (Cooper, Holmes, Snelson) and the Digital Incubator (Richardson, Zubair), areas that
 will allow the unit to grow further its funder base beyond the sources listed above.

 School and Unit-level support includes research groups, mentors, the Research Director, Impact
 Champion, and Unit of Assessment coordinator. We also have access to the UEA Research and
 Innovation service (RIN), an experienced support team that aids colleagues in developing and
 submitting grant applications, and managing successful grants, including:
     • Delivering a range of research and grant-specific training sessions, often in partnership
         with academics with special expertise, or major external funders (e.g. British Academy);
     • Liaising with research councils, working on budgets, and administering the internal peer
         review process – including a specialised internal review panel to advise on ESRC grants
         (utilised by Hakim and Holmes);
     • Financial and management support when a grant is awarded;
     • Relationship managers and impact officers who advise on, and help develop, external
         partnerships with local and national organisations.

 Internal research structures and support
 Colleagues have access to a range of different internal funding schemes designed to help develop
 high quality research, at School, Faculty, and University level. Unit colleagues have secured over
 £6.5k from these schemes:

      Funding scheme                           Max. award per      Amount awarded per
                                               person, per year    annum
      ECR Annual Adventures in Research        £2500               Up to £10,000
      Childcare Conference Support             £500                Up to £5000
      Publications Fund                        £1000               Up to £10,000-£15,000
      Research Training Fund                   £1000               Up to £10,000
      Small Awards scheme                      £500                Up to £10,000-£15,000
      School-level Research Funds              £500-£1000          Up to £15,000

 Engagement, Impact and Innovation activities are also supported at School, Faculty, and
 University level:

      Funding scheme                           Max. award per       Amount awarded per
                                               project, per year    annum
      Engagement Fund                          £500                 Up to £10,000
      Faculty Innovation Fund                  Up to £2000          Up to £30,000
      University Proof of Concept Fund         Up to £20,000        Up to £100,000
      University Development Fund              Up to £50,000        Up to £200,000
      Pro-Vice Chancellor’s Impact Fund        Up to £20,000        £250,000

 The unit has been successful in bidding to these funds to support the impact cases studies
 developed via research groups and individuals, securing over £93k to develop six potential impact
 case studies (from which three were selected for submission). That funding supported a range of
 activities including travel costs to meet with external partners, partner-led meetings, conferences
 and workshops, and film digitisation.

 Facilities
 Alongside dedicated and individual office spaces for all colleagues, we have access to key
 university facilities:


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   UEA Library: Colleagues work with a dedicated subject librarian to identify key academic
        resources for our disciplinary research needs, with a balance between electronic resources
        (e.g. the Entertainment Industry Magazine Index, Film Index International) and physical
        materials (including microfilm collections of film trade papers Kinematograph Weekly and
        Variety);
    •   BLOC Media (UEA Media Suite): This state-of-the-art production facility comprises Avid-
        equipped edit labs, recording studio, a digitization suite, and television studio; it supports
        the delivery and development of critical-creative practice research for staff and doctoral
        students. The recording studio has produced live broadcast theatre (Hand), and podcasts
        for research group work (Hand, Johnston), while the edit suites have been essential to the
        development of documentary and videographic work (Atakav, Cornea, Frith, Johnston),
        and the successful completion of PhD practice projects. The digitization lab has supported
        projects with EAFA and external partners Norwich Museum Service (Richardson, Zubair).

 Specialist research facilities
    • East Anglian Film Archive (EAFA): Our unique film archival resource, EAFA contains a
       wealth of amateur and professional films and television programmes from the East of
       England, the UK, and abroad: with the oldest filmed material dating back to 1895. Under
       direct unit colleague stewardship (Johnston and Snelson both served as EAFA Academic
       Director in the census period), archive staff have supported a range of research activities:
        • The ‘Women Amateur Filmmakers’ impact project was developed from the Institute of
             Amateur Cinematographers film library collection, deposited at EAFA. The successful
             delivery of this impact project lies in the unique combination of archival and research
             skills found in the unit and EAFA;
        • EAFA makes a direct contribution to our research and engagement work, including
             ‘The Eastmancolor Revolution’ project (Frith, Johnston), 100 Years of Girlhood film
             (Cann, Godfrey), the Green Film Festival (Cornea), ‘Festival Cultures: Media, Place,
             Music’ symposium (McKay), and an interdisciplinary Health Humanities project on
             dementia and archival film (Snelson);
    • British Archive for Contemporary Writing (BACW): This UEA archive includes British
       comedy writers such as Charlie Higson (The Fast Show, the Young Bond novels).
       Cataloguing and organising this collection was achieved through a collaboration between
       unit research expertise (Mills) and the BACW project archivist;
    • British Cinema History Research Project: This legacy project was revitalized and
       updated through the current census period, through increased interaction with the British
       Entertainment History Project, and a revised Kinematograph Weekly online index.

 The emphasis on specialized archival resources has had a clear benefit on unit research projects.
 The two funded British Cinema history projects (Johnston, Williams) worked with the EAFA,
 utilized the Kinematograph Weekly index (and a collection of original magazines held at UEA) and,
 in the case of the Eastmancolor Revolution project, used the Avid editing facilities in BLOC Media
 to produce three videographic outputs. The importance of these archives is recognised in regular
 applications for the Faculty Archive and Visiting Fellowship scheme, launched in 2019: four
 fellowships to EAFA and the BACW were awarded in the inaugural year.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The unit regularly develops interdisciplinary projects with research users. Although such work can
 be untested, or often seen as a risk by funders, we continue to invest in the initiation and
 development of (potentially) disruptive research ideas. Many community and social projects
 developed by unit colleagues fit this category, predicated on using research and engagement-
 based collaborations to push disciplinary boundaries, encourage innovation, and create
 measurable change for partners and communities alike:
    • Connected Communities (McKay): this £40m cross-Research Council initiative to
        promote collaborative, innovative, and interdisciplinary research funded over 350
        community-based arts projects between UK universities and non-HEI partners;


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Digital Intimacies (Hakim): Working with the gay and bisexual communities to track how
        men use their smartphones to negotiate cultures of intimacy, this research was
        underpinned by partnerships with the Terrence Higgins Trust, Waverley Care, and London
        Friend;
    •   Gender and Eating Disorders (Holmes): Engaging with participants with experience of
        eating disorders, Holmes challenged existing medical conceptions of EDs. This included
        co-creating new support sessions at local clinics, delivering ED training for health
        organisations, and co-developing research with national eating disorder charity Beat UK;
    •   Plan UK: Cann led a UK team of qualitative and ethnographic researchers (including
        research users and research participants) to deliver Plan UK’s State of Girls Rights in the
        UK report (2020);
    •   You Can’t Move History (Snelson): This interdisciplinary and multi-university team from
        history, media studies, sociology, and town planning co-designed and delivered the project
        with partners at Long Live Southbank (LLSB). The partnership contributed to the successful
        campaign to save the London Southbank Undercroft.

 Local, national, and international collaborations
 Our work directly contributes to UEA’s status as a key anchor institution in our region, including a
 strategic relationship with the New Anglia Local Enterprise Partnerships (NA-LEP). Our creative
 industry expertise informs and interacts with partners including Anglia Television, BBC East,
 Cinema City, The Forum Trust, Norfolk Screen, Norwich Games Festival, Norwich Museum
 Services, Norwich Theatre Royal, and Tin Can Productions. This work has included audience
 research, consultancy, co-producing events, and sharing original research and sector expertise.

 The Norwich Green Film Festival demonstrates the strength of unit collaboration with local and
 regional partners. Originally developed in 2016 by Christine Cornea in collaboration with the
 national Green Film Festival, this has subsequently spun off into its own standalone event
 supported by the local branch of Greenpeace, Norwich Community Solar, Norwich FarmShare,
 Norwich FoodHub, The Broads Authority, and sponsors the John Jarrold Trust. The festival draws
 an annual audience of around 500 attendees and involves local environmental artists/activists in
 events and workshops that run alongside film screenings, encouraging Norwich residents to
 interact creatively with debates around sustainability. The festival supports doctoral candidate
 internships who gain organisational and engagement expertise.

 Beyond the region, we have equally strong national and international creative-cultural
 partnerships:
     • British Film Institute: The BFI-UEA association goes back over 40 years: in the census
        period, the BFI was a partner on three major AHRC-funded projects (Johnston, Snelson,
        Williams), contributed to the TRI-PACT project on films, broadcast media, and gaming
        (Phillips), and, through partnership working at the East Anglian Film Archive, funded
        archive, research, and restoration work, including digitising 580 EAFA films for ‘Britain on
        Film’. Snelson advises on the current BFI video preservation group, helping define the
        landscape of UK video collections and setting digitization criteria;
     • British Entertainment History Project: A continuing association with this oral history
        project, unit colleagues digitized existing interviews, provided transcripts, and deposited
        new industry interviews, boosting the organisation’s online presence and reach;
     • British Academy of Film and Television Arts: Developed across different research grant
        proposals and research projects (Jancovich, Warner, Pett, Tasker), this relationship
        including a 2018 report on a pilot study of underrepresentation of gender in BAFTA’s
        training programmes (Warner);
     • Cultural organisations: Colleagues conduct research or work in partnership with a range
        of cultural partners, including Balik Arts (Atakav), British Science Association Festival
        (Snelson), Cheltenham Jazz Festival (McKay); London Jazz Festival (McKay), Golden
        Island Film Festival (Atakav, Godfrey), National Centre for Writing (Winch), and as artistic
        advisor, Molotov Theater, Washington DC (Hand);
     • DVD distributors: Extending REF2014 impact work, colleagues have continued to


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        contribute to DVD or Blu-Ray releases for the BFI, Icon, Indicator, Shout! Factory, and
        Studio Canal. This includes preparing commentaries, creating new featurettes, filming on-
        camera interviews, sourcing archive footage, or writing new essays for films such as Dead
        of Night (1945), The Ladykillers (1955), Ice Cold in Alex (1958), The Old Dark House
        (1963), Masque of the Red Death (1965), Charlie Bubbles (1968), The Go-Between
        (1971), Don’t Look Now (1973), The Odessa File (1974), or It Follows (2015). Williams’
        work on The Pumpkin Eater (1964) was described as “a cracking read all round … a
        reappraisal of an overlooked gem” (Cineoutsider webpage);
    •   Film Archives UK: Snelson’s appointment to the executive committee of this national
        organization helps our research guide national screen archive priorities and initiatives;
    •   Media coverage: Unit colleagues appearing regularly in newspapers, on radio and
        television, and across numerous websites. Examples include:
         • Independent and donor-funded journalism in The Guardian, BBC Newsnight, NPR,
              The New York Times, El Pais (Scott);
         • British cinema history on the BBC (Radio 4 Film Programme, Radio 3 Free
              Thinking/Night Waves, Last Word; Radio 5 Drivetime, BBC Radio Scotland), the
              German broadcaster ARTE-ZDF, and the Talking Pictures TV podcast (Williams).
    •   Talking Pictures TV: The archive television channel is a significant partner, contributing
        to both major British cinema AHRC projects (Johnston, Williams), and screening newly
        digitised films as part of the ‘Women Amateur Filmmakers’ impact project.

 Charity, health, and policy work
 Our commitment to developing work around Health Humanities is led by Cooper, and that initiative
 builds on colleagues’ partnerships with charity and health organisations (Beat, Plan UK, St Giles
 Trust, Terence Higgins Trust) and dementia projects with AGEUK Norwich and the Norfolk Record
 Office. On the policy front, Scott’s work on humanitarian journalism has seen him engage with the
 Public Media Alliance, UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, and the United
 National OCHA (humanitarian division); with reference made to his research by the Assistant
 Secretary General for Humanitarian Affairs at the United Nations (February 2020). Our
 international research work with partners such as UNESCO (Cornea) is fuelled by the expansion
 in creative practice research across the unit.

 Awards and prizes
 While we regularly celebrate success within the unit, colleagues have also won external prizes:
 Snelson won the 2016 AHRC Best Research Film award for You Can’t Move History; Scott was
 awarded the 2019 Wolfgang Donsback Outstanding Journal Article of the Year, Journalism
 Studies division; and Hakim won the 2020 Stuart Hall Foundation SHF x Cultural Studies award
 for his 2019 article ‘The Rise of Chemsex’.

 Contributions to the discipline
 The unit makes a major contribution to research councils, associations, and sectoral bodies.

 Unit staff have a strong track record with the two major research councils that fund media and
 cultural research. Seven unit members served on the AHRC Peer Review College in the census
 period (Cornea, Denison, Hand, Johnston, Mills, Snelson, Williams), acting as Academic,
 Strategic, and/or Digital reviewers, and acting as panel members and panel chairs. Hakim and
 Scott serve on the equivalent ESRC Peer Review College, and other colleagues regularly
 contribute sector expertise via peer reviews for the British Academy and Leverhulme Trust, and
 internationally for funders, councils, and charities in Australia, Belgium, Canada, the Czech
 Republic, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, New Zealand, and Poland. Jancovich is also a
 member of the European Science Foundation College of Expert Reviewers.

 Colleagues offer their expertise as advisory board members for major AHRC and ESRC-funded
 projects and networks: e.g. ‘Jill Craigie: Film Pioneer’, ‘Middlebrow Culture’, ‘Global Cinema in the
 Age of Convergence’, ‘The Cultural Memory of British cinema-going in the 1960s’ and ‘The
 Academic Book of the Future’. We are strongly represented across a range of interdisciplinary UK,
 European, and international academic networks, including the ‘Europe Jazz Network’ (McKay),

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Generations’ (Winch), ‘Masculinity, Sex, and Popular Culture’ (Hakim), ‘Rhythm Changes Jazz
 Studies’ (McKay, also founding member), and ‘Tapping the Power of Foreign Language Films:
 Audiovisual Translation as Cross-cultural Mediation’ (Denison, Johnston).

 Our colleagues make key contributions to the leadership of subject associations. Jancovich
 was on the Executive Committee of the Media, Communications, and Cultural Studies Association
 (MeCCSA), with Pitchford-Hyde a member of the MeCCSA Disability Network. Godfrey was chair
 of the International Girls Studies Association (2016-19), for which Cann was also the ECR
 Representative: both Cann and Godfrey serve on the Executive Committee of the Gender and
 Education Association. Warner is on the Executive Committee of the Feminist Studies Association
 (formerly Feminist and Women’s Studies Association). Phillips is the co-founder and co-chair of
 the Fan Studies Network; Williams is the lead on the British Cinema and Television SIG at the
 British Association of Film, Television, and Screen Studies (BAFTTS), as well as a BAFTSS early
 career mentor. In addition, colleagues are members of over twenty other subject associations,
 including Animation Studies (Denison), European Confederation for Human-Animal Studies
 (Mills), and the Social Impact of Making Music (Rimmer).

 Our colleagues have significant engagement with leading publications, via editorial positions,
 serving on editorial boards, or peer review. Jancovich is the founding co-editor of the Bloomsbury
 book series Film Genres and edits the Horror Studies journal. Hand is the founding co-editor of
 the Journal of Adaptation in Film and Performance, while McKay serves on the editorial board of
 both Routledge’s Festivals book series and Policy Press’ Creating a New Research Landscape
 series. Holmes was the co-founder of Celebrity Studies and continues to sit on its editorial board.
 Williams is a Principal Editor for the Journal of British Cinema and Television. Beyond this,
 colleagues are active on editorial boards for over 30 other journals including Boyhood Studies,
 Cine-Excess, Frames, International Journal of Community Music, Intensities, Irish Journal of
 Gothic and Horror Studies, Journal of Gender Studies, Screen Bodies, and Transformative Works
 and Cultures. They serve on advisory/editorial boards for book series such as Cultographies
 (Wallflower) and Contemporary Cinema.

 The broad sectoral expertise of UoA researchers is clear from requests to peer review proposals
 and articles for book and journal publishers. Colleagues contribute to proposal and monograph
 reviews for over twenty national and international publishers, including Bloomsbury, Cambridge
 UP, Columbia UP, Edinburgh UP, Manchester UP, McFarland, Palgrave, Routledge, Rutgers UP,
 IB Tauris, and Wallflower. Colleagues also provided high quality peer reviews for over fifty
 individual journals, including Continuum, Critical Studies in Television, European Journal of
 Cultural Studies, Feminism and Psychology, Feminist Media Studies, Historical Journal of Film,
 Radio and Television, International Journal of Cultural Studies, International Journal of Cultural
 Policy, Journalism Review, Journal of Youth Studies, New Media and Society, Participations,
 Popular Music, Screen, and Television and New Media.

 In addition, colleagues have acted as external examiners on doctoral students at over 30 national
 and international universities, including Dun Laoghaire Institute of Art, Design and Technology
 (IADT Dublin), Durham, Kent, Kings College London, Leicester, Northumbria, Nottingham, Royal
 Holloway, SOAS, UCD Dublin, UCL, St Andrews, Southampton, University of Sydney, and Victoria
 University Wellington.
                                                 ***
 Overall, the unit recognises that every researcher’s plan for developing their research and
 engaging with the discipline is individual and distinctive. We respond to, support, and foster this
 approach so that research across the unit is enriched by a sense that colleagues are in control of
 their own research agendas. This creates a culture that strives for excellence and inclusivity; and
 has delivered both in large measure.




                                                                                            Page 16
