Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Swansea University
 Unit of Assessment: 14 Geography and Environmental Studies
 Section 1: Unit Context and Structure, Research and Impact Strategy
Swansea Geography is an ambitious and vibrant research community – one of six units in the
College of Science. We conduct cutting-edge and challenge-led interdisciplinary research spanning
the environmental and social sciences, and arts and humanities. Building on our REF2014 strategy
we achieved growth through excellence by further empowering our research groups; recruiting,
retaining, and nurturing outstanding staff at all career stages, including research students and
fellows; and cultivating strong external partnerships to expand the scale, scope, and reach of our
impact in the UK and abroad. We are driven by our collective ambition, supportive culture, and core
values of collegiality, collaboration, integrity, equality and inclusivity, and openness and
transparency. Our success is demonstrated by a significantly enriched community, with more early
career researchers (ECRs), fellows, and PhD students, more projects co-produced with external
partners, all supported by outstanding research infrastructure and resilient income streams,
especially from UKRI and EU (Table 1).


 Table 1. Highlights Since REF2014

 Our community                       Our achievements             Our co-produced research
 100% increase in ECRs & Fellows Athena SWAN Bronze               20% PhD projects co-produced
 30% of staff promoted           >500 published outputs           6.2% Outputs co-authored with
 59% increase in PhD awards      8 medals, prizes & awards            our non-academic partners

Since REF2014, we increased from 27.7FTE to 29.7FTE Category A staff (Table 2), doubling our
number of female (Senior) Lecturers, and growing our professoriate by 2 colleagues (which is now
22% female). Our department achieved an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2020, and we
appointed our first female Head of Department. We lead the ESRC Wales DTP Human Geography
Pathway (for Aberystwyth, Cardiff, and Swansea Universities), yielding a sustainable flow of PhD
students, with 46% men and 54% women over the REF2021 assessment period.


 Table 2. Change Since 2014                                   REF2014              REF2021
 Category A staff (FTE) at census date                          27.7                29.7
 Category A ECR (Headcount) at census date                       4                    6
 Research fellows (Headcount) over period                        3                    9
 Total PhD degrees awarded (REF4a)                               29                 46.0
 Total research income (REF4b)                               £7,374,155          £10,173,614
 Average annual research income over period                  £1,474,831          £1,453,369

Note: £853,829 research income-in-kind (REF4c) reported in REF2014. Negligible in REF2021

Our four research groups underpin our success: (1) Critical Human Geography; (2)
Environmental Dynamics; (3) Glaciology; and (4) Global Environmental Modelling & Earth
Observation (GEMEO). Our key objectives (set out in REF2014) of empowering our groups and
encouraging cross-group activity delivered innovative projects and novel outputs. Co-production
with non-academic partners is now fully embedded, as demonstrated by our impact case studies
and many collaborative PhD projects (see Table 4 in section 4).
Collaborations within our College enable impactful, interdisciplinary research: e.g. with
bioscientists on poverty alleviation and ecologists on wildfire (BBSRC/Newton Fund and NERC);
with computer scientists on digital preservation of decommissioned asylums (EPSRC); and with
physicists on science outreach to deprived communities (Welsh Government). Our well-resourced
College ensures resilient financial planning and comprehensive professional-service support.

                                                1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY: GROWTH THROUGH EXCELLENCE
We share the University’s vision of being recognized internationally as principled, purposeful, and
resilient, and we are committed to its mission of making a difference, being socially responsible,
striving for excellence, and maintaining a global outlook (REF5a). Our research is driven by scientific
curiosity and critical enquiry, practical relevance, and value to society and the planet. Our motivation
is to rise to the global challenges of social injustice and environmental change, and we lead on the
University’s determination to respond effectively to the climate crisis by aligning with the UN’s
Sustainable Development Goals.
Our REF2014 research and impact strategies have been aligned to the University’s strategic focus
on increasing the quality, scale, and impact of our research. We placed our research community and
its talents at the heart of our refreshed REF2021 strategy. We addressed 7 strategic aims that built
on our community’s research passions and scientific expertise (AIMs 1 & 2) and the research
drivers (optimizing outputs; maximizing income; ensuring research integrity) and impact priorities
(building partnerships; co-producing with stakeholders) laid out in our REF2014 submission.
Progress is reviewed at biannual away days, and we adjust our delivery enablers as necessary.
Our 7 strategic aims, main enablers, and key achievements over the assessment period are
detailed below.

                   ENABLERS                                         ACHIEVEMENTS
 AIM 1. Nurture talent for all career stages in an equal & inclusive research environment
  Athena SWAN action plan                        o 9 research fellowships including 6 women
  HR Excellence in Research                         (e.g. AXA, ESRC, UKRI Future Leader,
  Concordat to Support Career Development of        Marie Curie, Royal Society)
    Researchers                                   o  2 Fellows became permanent colleagues
  Family-friendly & flexible-working policies    o ECRs now 6 (33% women), up from 4
                                                  o 30% of staff promoted
  Equal-opportunities recruitment policy;
                                                  o 8 external awards and prizes
    mandatory equality, diversity & inclusivity
                                                  o 24 staff enjoyed research leave, including
    and unconscious-bias training
                                                     2 after parental leave
  3 distinct academic career pathways:
                                                  o Biennial working-culture survey
    Research, Innovation, and Teaching
                                                  o Regular community events, wellbeing
  Research-leave (typically 4-year cycle)           sessions, email charter, family friendly
  Research-leave after parental leave               core-hours policy, community champion

 AIM 2. Recruit and train excellent research students to enrich our research community
  Fully funded PhD studentship e.g. ESRC       o 59% increase in PhD awards
    Wales DTP, EU Social Fund (ESF) & EU        o 28% of PhDs moved to research posts
    Knowledge Economy Skills (KESS)             o 20% of PhDs co-produced with non-HEIs
  Matched and in-kind funding from co-         o 16% of outputs authored by PhD students
    producers; placement opportunities             (~2 papers per PhD student)
  Pursuit of interdisciplinary PhD projects    o £500 p.a. training grant for PhD students
  Vitae Researcher Development Framework o Co-supervision with other disciplines, e.g.
    & PhD student training                         Biology, Computer Science, Engineering

 AIM 3. Shape research agendas with world-class outputs, dissemination, and impact
  Internal peer-review to enhance quality     o Influential outputs, e.g. field-weighted
  Writing retreats and writing sessions         citation impact of 2.10 (SciVal analysis)
  Open access and page charge funds           o Committee roles, e.g. AAG, AGU, RGS
  Conference attendance funds                 o Media coverage of our research, e.g. ~20
                                                 BBC News items
  Authorship policy to ensure integrity
                                               o Policy influence, e.g. Welsh, Scottish, and
  Proactive College & University Press Office
                                                 UK Governments



                                                   2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    AIM 4. Maximize grant capture with enhanced support for funding bids
     Complete pre- & post-award support          o Sustained level of research income
     Quality enhancement of bids: EoIs; internal   (£10.2M total; £1.5M per year)
       peer review; mock interviews               o NERC standard grant currently at 40%
     Research incentive & seed-corn funds          success rate, well above the 20% demand-
     Pitch-to-peer ideas cafés to shape bids       management threshold
                                                  o 9 research fellowships
     Support for ERC grant capture with
                                                  o ERC Starting grant
       Université Grenoble Alpes, France

    AIM 5. Facilitate research integrity and open research and scholarship
     Research Integrity Policy Framework          o We subscribe to Epigeum research integrity
      aligned with UKRIO Code of Practice             training for all researchers
     Signatory to Concordat to Support            o  College  ethical approval process for all
      Research Integrity and DORA                     research   (UKRI and UKRIO compliant)
     Embedment of responsible innovation          o  Responsible    innovation integrated into
     College Research Ethics Committee               funding  proposal   development process
                                                   o Sustainable facilities & infrastructure budget
     Mandatory research integrity training
                                                   o Underpinning datasets archived in open-
     Institutional Publications Repository
                                                      data repositories
      (Cronfa) includes underpinning data
                                                   o Funded open access for 3 book chapters
    AIM 6. Co-produce research with external stakeholders
     College Impact Officer                     o Sabbaticals e.g. Forest Research, US
     Geography impact-seminar series              Forest Service
     Impact sabbaticals                         o NERC research with water agencies
     EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account          o Funding from stakeholders & knowledge-
                                                   exchange reports e.g. ESA, DEFRA, Forest
     Co-produced & co-funded PhD projects
                                                   Research, Ordnance Survey, Woodland
     Co-location of Natural Resources Wales
                                                   Heritage
       (NRW) water-analytical facilities
                                                 o Leverhulme Artist in Residence
     Media training and Press Office support    o Honorary Staff (Environmental Systems,
     Impact rewarded & promotion criteria         Forest Research, British Antarctic Survey)
     Honorary positions for research partners

    AIM 7. Cultivate strategic, interdisciplinary, and global partnerships
     College international ECR visitor scheme,      o 8 visiting researcher positions
      global mobility and seed-corn funds            o We lead 3 University Research Centres
     Overseas visiting researcher positions         o PhD agreements and co-supervision: Paris-
      (outgoing & incoming)                             Sorbonne, Grenoble, Tromsø, China
     International PhD agreements                      Scholarship Council, Waikato
     College interdisciplinary research sandpits    o  Honorary Staff, e.g. Luke Natural
                                                        Resources Institute, Finland; Scripps
     Support fund for research networks
                                                        Oceanography, Universities of Auckland
     Strategic partnerships with Université
                                                        and Vienna
      Grenoble Alpes, and 8 institutions in Texas
                                                     o 72% of our >500 outputs in census period
                                                        have international co-authors (Figure 4)


RESEARCH GROUP STRUCTURE
Our Unit of Assessment (UoA) has four research groups, which nurture and support our community
of 75 researchers on the census date (Figure 1):
    Critical Human Geography (10 Cat. A staff; 1 post-doctoral researcher; 16 PhD students)
    Environmental Dynamics (10 Cat. A staff; 7 post-doctoral researchers; 10 PhD students).
    Glaciology (5 Cat. A staff; 2 post-doctoral researchers; 4 PhD students).
    Global Environmental Modelling & Earth Observation (GEMEO) (5 Cat. A staff; 2 post-
     doctoral researchers; 3 PhD students).

                                                  3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




       Figure 1. Our research-group structure, key research foci, and underpinning values
               (Staff headcounts at census date; PhD headcounts for AY2019/20)


We continue to lead two University Research Centres – Centre for Migration Policy Research
(CMPR) and Centre for Urban Theory (CUT) – and established a new University Centre for
Wildfire Research (CWR). Although the Met Office National Centre for the Impact of Extreme
Weather anticipated in our REF2014 submission did not come to fruition, we nevertheless
strengthened our expertise in environmental hazards and forest health via new appointments.
Our groups enjoy research autonomy, setting their own agendas and goals. We prioritise support
for ECRs, including research students, and treat career progression as a strategic objective (AIMs 1
& 2). We regularly share best practice at research away days, and benefit from collective
endeavour: seminar series, reading groups, writing retreats, internal workshops, ideas cafés, mock
interviews for fellowship applicants, and viva training for PhD students.
The College facilitates interdisciplinary research activity through science cafés, away days,
sandpits, festivals of ideas, and substantial seed-corn funding and investment in PhD studentships
(>£600K per annum), especially where 50% match-funding is required. The generosity of the latter
enabled us to establish a collaborative PhD programme with Paris-Sorbonne University (Cluster of
Excellence in Territorial and Spatial Dynamics – LabEx DynamITe) for example.
We published >500 outputs during REF2021, with 72% having international co-authors (AIMs 3
& 7). Their interdisciplinarity is very well-illustrated by:
 SciVal topic-cluster analysis of our outputs in Elsevier’s Scopus database, with 50% in the fields
  of Environmental Sciences and Earth & Planetary Sciences, and 19% in the Arts & Humanities
  and Social Sciences (Figure 2a).
 Our field-weighted citation impact within the Scopus database is over twice the global average in
  13 fields, and over three times the global average in 5 fields (Figure 2b).
 Doerr received a Clarivate Web of Science, cross-field Highly Cited Researcher Award (2018),
  with multiple papers ranking in the world’s top 1% by citations.




                                                 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 2. SciVal analysis of our >500 outputs published in REF2021, held in the Scopus database:
(a) topic-cluster analysis; and (b) field-weighted citation impact, in rank order of number of outputs.

                                                  5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Each research group has embedded our co-production ethos, tackling key challenges (AIM 6). Our
impact case studies arose from our embedment of extensive co-production, and benefitted
considerably from the enablers listed under AIMs 6 and 7. Beyond our case studies, we influenced
migration policy (Scottish Government); biochar production (NRW); managing oak-tree decline
(Woodland Heritage, Woodland Trust) and deleterious insect outbreaks (DEFRA, Forest Research);
contaminated-land remediation (Salix River Wetland Services) and panada-habitat restoration
(Chinese Academy of Forestry); and volcanic-hazard scenarios (Ascension Island Government &
British Geological Survey). Our broader impact strategy has been enabled by UKRI impact-
acceleration funding, knowledge-exchange training, impact sabbaticals, and co-produced PhDs.
6.2% of our outputs have non-academic co-authors, which is well above the disciplinary norm,
with a field-weighted citation impact over three times the global average [3.24] (SciVal).
Supported by the University's Research Data Manager we are rapidly expanding our open-research
culture to cover datasets, source code, e-theses (PhD), and the reproducibility of our research.
 We have a long-standing policy of funding open-access articles (including page charges) and
  now fund open-access book chapters when publishers allow.
 We have released open-source code, such as the FLIGHT model of land-surface radiative
  transfer used by NASA, via the Automated Radiative Transfer Models Operator site (ARTMO).
 We make datasets available via the Centre for Environmental Data Analysis, UK Data Archive,
  NERC Data Analysis Service, Polar Data Centre, and Copernicus Climate Data Store.
 Our own institutional repository (Cronfa) enables the effective governance of funders’ open-
  access requirements, including underpinning datasets and source code, and we encourage
  researchers to use ORCID identifiers and apply FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, and
  Reusable) data practices.
 Enabling open-access monographs is a key objective for the next REF period.
Our research integrity and ethics processes are shaped by an institutional framework aligned to
the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and UKRIO Best Practice. This framework was
developed by one of our professors, who is Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor (Research & Innovation).
All researchers, including students, complete mandatory research-integrity training. We have a
Research Integrity Champion who sits on the College’s Research Ethics Committee, which approves
all research in the UoA. All staff participate in the ethical review process. We also benefit from the
University’s Research Institute for Ethics and Law, which provides our community with ethical
research insights, guidance on best practice, and a series of seminars, workshops, and events.

FUTURE STRATEGY
From October 2020, we will join a new Faculty of Science and Engineering. Its academic strength
and financial resilience – spanning 8 UoAs, 321 Category A eligible staff, with annual income of
£120M (including £48M research income) – will allow us to deliver our 2021–2026 Strategic Plan
for Swansea Geography – pursuing growth through excellence by: (1) enhancing existing areas of
excellence and investing in challenge-led research in climate change, environmental hazards,
international migration, and urban change; and (2) establishing a world-leading and transformative
One Earth Institute, shaped by pioneering researchers from across the Faculty, equipped with
cutting-edge facilities and high-performance computational capability. This will be accomplished by:
 Empowering groups to nurture our community’s talents, exploit core competences, identify new
  areas for strategic appointments, pursue large challenge-led projects, and host more international
  researcher and stakeholder events.
 Extending our innovative interdisciplinary research by leveraging our position within the new
  Faculty, via new centres of excellence and joint appointments in Data Science, with the
  University’s Computational Foundry (Computer Science and Mathematics), and with
  Environmental Engineering, to respond to the climate, societal, and environmental crises.
 Enhancing equality and diversity via our Athena SWAN action plan, increasing women in senior
  roles, supporting diverse career progression, and employing more BAME staff.

                                                  6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Expanding impact by broadening the range of projects co-produced with influential stakeholders,
  strengthening knowledge-exchange partnerships, and pursuing secondments.
 Expanding our PhD community by renewing the ESRC Wales DTP, and leveraging existing
  and new UKRI DTPs and CDTs in the Faculty through interdisciplinary research, and co-funding
  PhD projects with strategic partners.
 Boosting research-incentives with a much bigger return of overheads to PIs and research
  groups, allowing further strategic investment in new PhD awards and research infrastructure.
 Undertaking responsible research for climate action, promoting climate-science literacy, and
  reducing our own carbon footprint (e.g. virtual conferences and sustainable travel).
 Extending our open-research culture, working towards full compliance with the Concordat on
  Open Research Data, to embrace open scholarship, open-lab books, and open-source code. We
  will prioritize open-access monographs for our Critical Human Geography group.
 Continuing to ensure that all researchers are well trained in research ethics and integrity, and
  responsible innovation, and that all projects face robust ethical scrutiny and governance.

    Section 2: People – Note: All staff-related data in this section refer to Cat. A submitted staff

We pride ourselves on having a collegiate, inclusive, supportive, and stimulating research
community, culture, and environment (AIM 1). All 30 Category A eligible academic staff (29.7FTE)
have been submitted to REF2021, comprising;
    13 Professors.
    6 Associate Professors.
    9 Lecturers/Senior Lecturers and 2 Fellows, 6 of whom are ECRs.
The Head of Department line manages our community, drives our research-and-impact strategy (via
our Research Group Leaders and Impact Champion), and ensures our research culture is vibrant
and inclusive for everyone, including PhD students and visiting scholars. The Head is a member of
the College’s Leadership Team, and the College’s Director of Research and two of the University’s
Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellors for Research & Innovation belong to our UoA.
Our research groups, in which post-doctoral and PhD researchers play an integral role, are vital for
our collective endeavour. Empowering groups to define their own objectives has driven our success.
Their sustainability and vitality have been ensured via 10 permanent academic appointments,
including 4 more women and 1 more BAME colleague, to replace 8 colleagues who retired/left during
the assessment period (net change: +2.0FTE). This large reinvestment in talent has strengthened
key areas: cultural, economic, and political geography; migration studies and urban modelling; and
cryospheric modelling, forest health, soil science, and volcanic processes. Two of our appointments
held prestigious fellowships at Swansea, evidencing our career development of researchers (AIM 1)
and planning for succession. A Royal Society Fellow and UKRI Future Leaders Fellow further
strengthened our GEMEO and Environmental Dynamics research groups, respectively.
Our demographic profile across career stages became more balanced due to the promotion of 5
mid-career colleagues to personal chairs and the arrival of new ECRs and Fellows into our
community. 97% of our submitted staff hold open-ended contracts, an increase of 7% since
REF2014. The number of part-time staff remains low (2 people; 1.7FTE), largely due to the uptake
of family-friendly and flexible-working policies, which proved invaluable during the coronavirus
pandemic for those with caring responsibilities. Women comprise 29% of our submitted staff
(8.7FTE) and 22% of our professoriate (2.9FTE), and 13% are BAME (4.0FTE), equalling the UK
average for ‘Geography & Environmental Studies’ (AdvanceHE Staff Statistical Report 2020).
We support our ECRs’ career development through:
    3-year staff-development programme to ensure capable performance in all aspects of the role.
    Mentoring by an experienced researcher, and supported by a research group community.
    At least 20% reduction in teaching load and no significant administrative duties for two years.
    Start-up funds for two years and priority access to all other research-support mechanisms (e.g.
     conference funds; open-access publication funds).

                                                     7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Priority funding via College International Visitor scheme.
 Tailored training, mentoring, and support for grant capture and research impact (e.g. Florence
  Mockeridge Fellowship Group; ERC grant development).
Two ECRs were promoted to Senior Lecturers within two years of appointment. ECRs also benefit
from all of the University’s support arising from our commitment to the Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Research Staff and our HR Excellence in Research Award (REF5a).
Reward and recognition of excellence in research and research impact are further reflected in the
promotion of 30% of our submitted staff since REF2014. Women account for 55% of these
promotions (AIM 1). Our top priorities for succession planning, aligned with our Athena SWAN action
plan, are to improve the gender balance of senior roles (Associate Professor and Professor), and
appoint more BAME staff.
Our approach to staff development reflects our collegiality: reciprocal care and mutual support
in the face of both individual and collective disappointments and successes. Our performance-
enabling programme (PEP) ensures systematic appraisal via biannual professional development
reviews (PDR). PDRs are conducted by the Head of Department: a coaching style establishes
mutually agreed training needs and research goals to inspire, drive, and deliver our collective
ambition. Indicative performance levels for publications, grants, PhD supervision, and impact
underpin three distinct Academic Career Pathways (Research; Teaching & Scholarship; Innovation
& Engagement), tailored to each of the career stages on each pathway, from Lecturer to Professor.
This ensures career progression and promotion criteria are equitable and transparent, and adds
clear reward-and-recognition impetus for each of our strategic aims. Our 30 submitted staff are
on the ‘Research’ pathway, with 50% of time devoted to research and impact (AIMs 1 & 3). Our UoA
is supported by another 7 lecturers on the ‘Teaching’ pathway, who undertake pedagogic scholarship
and contribute to our research culture, especially via PhD training.
Our probation system for ECRs merges seamlessly with PEP and PDR. Training needs identified in
PDRs are co-ordinated by the University’s Development & Training Services, and all submitted
staff have benefitted from this training. We also fund staff to attend external leadership courses. A
third of our female colleagues participated in such courses, including the Aurora Leadership, Welsh
Higher Education Leaders, and Welsh Crucible for Future Research Leaders programmes.
Female staff have also benefitted from the All-Wales Women in Universities Mentoring Scheme.
Post-doctoral staff are full members of our research groups. Our commitment to them is
demonstrated by our celebration of external awards and academic progression (AIM 1; Figure 5 in
section 4). Many secured prestigious fellowships and academic positions (e.g. Marie Curie at Bern;
Leverhulme at Oxford and Durham; posts at Queen Mary, Leeds, and Alfred Wegener Institute).
Others returned to Swansea as academic staff and research fellows. Post-doctoral staff enjoy a
comprehensive skills development programme co-ordinated by the University that is mapped onto
the Vitae Researcher Development Framework.
The University demonstrates its ongoing commitment to the implementation of the Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers by publicly reporting against Concordat action
plans, and we have continuously held the European Commission’s HR Excellence in Research
Award since 2010 (REF5a). Post-doctoral staff are also fully supported by our Research Hub and
Research Group Leaders when submitting bids. The Head of Department holds a termly post-
doctoral forum to consult on their career development, which complements the work of the
University’s Research Staff Working Group. Research staff have a standing item on our staff meeting
agendas and they lead away-day sessions to foster an inclusive research culture.
Our research-leave scheme (sabbaticals) relieves staff of all teaching and administration for one
semester and adjoining summer (~8 months) (AIM 1). This enables substantial programmes of
research and extended visits to research partners, often overseas (AIMs 6 & 7). Research leave is
especially important for Human Geographers completing research monographs. Staff are eligible for
research leave, typically every four years. Staff on parental/adoption leave get an additional period
of research leave when they return to work, and 2 colleagues have benefitted from 3 such additional
periods over the assessment period.



                                                 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In total, 24 staff have enjoyed research leave, including 6 periods focused specifically on
impact (e.g. an extended stay at Melbourne University for our ‘wildfire’ case study, and frequent
visits to Forest Research to foster new impact using novel remote-sensing techniques). We will fund
more secondments to co-producers and host more stakeholders (e.g. US Forest Service),
augmenting the 3 honorary researchers from key partners (British Antarctic Survey, Environmental
Systems Ltd, and Forest Research). We will extend more honorary and visiting researcher invitations
to broaden and deepen our impact.
Recognition-and-reward mechanisms promote a vibrant research culture, including grant capture
(AIM 4). Our own research-incentives scheme rewards staff for grant submissions and securing PhD
studentships, and we return some research-overheads to PIs and Co-Is, which will substantially
increase in the new Faculty. New staff receive start-up funds, and everyone can apply for
Departmental, College, and University research-support funds, spanning blue-skies and proof-of-
concept funding to impact-acceleration and grand-challenge funding. We fund activities promoting
impact, such as knowledge-exchange visits, research-translation reports, and public engagement.
Our Departmental Impact Champion assesses the potential impact of all our research and directs
support to ensure its realization (e.g. via the College’s Impact and Engagement Officer, and the
University’s Impact Manager). 6 potential case studies were supported over the assessment period,
and the most mature submitted. We will continue to cultivate these and other areas of impactful
research in the future. 3 have already won Swansea University ‘Research and Innovation Awards’:
 ‘Outstanding Impact in Research’ – for our use of satellite data to improve climate models
  (submitted case). It was also nominated for the 2015 Queen’s Award, reaching the final 30.
 ‘Global Reach and Significance’ – for our wildfire research (submitted case).
 ‘Outstanding Contribution to the Arts, Culture, and Society’ – for our participatory action
  research to alleviate poverty in aquacultural communities in Bangladesh and India.

RESEARCH STUDENTS
PhD students are integral members of our research groups (AIM 2). PhD awards were 46.0 in
REF2021, compared to 29.0 in REF2014 (Tables 2 and 3), with an average of 1.55 PhD awards per
Category A submitted staff FTE over the REF2021 assessment period. We are proud to have
sustained a thriving and gender-balanced PhD community (46% men; 54% women), partly through
gender-balanced recruitment panels, unconscious-bias training for all selectors and supervisors, and
recruitment policies sensitive to protected characteristics and neurodiversity.
Since REF2014, our PhD community grew by 59%, and 28% of doctoral graduates have
secured research and fellowship positions in the UK, Europe, and Canada. We are particularly
proud that 3 fellows returned to us for their fellowships (AXA, ESRC, and Royal Society).

  Table 3. Panel C Supplementary Criterion – Disaggregation of Doctoral Awards (REF4a)
            AY                13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 19/20                  Total
      PhDs Awarded              8     8    11     6     4     5     4                     46
  Professional Doctorates       0     0     0     0     0     0     0                     0

Our PhD topics and supervisory teams increasingly reflect interdisciplinary projects with other
departments and co-production with partners. Our ESRC Wales DTP Human Geography Pathway
ensures a sustainable flow of studentships, most of which are co-produced (Table 4). We also
benefitted considerably from University scholarships, and our participation in the EU’s Knowledge
Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS) scheme, which is supported by European Social Funds and
the Welsh Government. Other PhD studentships come from a diverse range of funders, such as
AXA, China Scholarship Council, Commonwealth Commission, ERC and NERC projects, National
Centre for Earth Observation, Royal Society, and Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol, which is testimony
to the breadth and reach of our impactful research.
Research-student supervision occurs in a framework of effective induction and comprehensive
training tailored to individual needs. Robust progression monitoring is ensured via the online ‘e-

                                                 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
vision’ research-monitoring system, which entails monthly engagement and quarterly progression
reporting. PhD students enjoy discipline-specific training:
 Human Geographers select modules from the research-training element of our ESRC Wales
  DTP 1+3 programme (MSc Social Research Methods). This includes an annual Postgraduate
  Conference, annual Theory School, and series of Methods Masterclasses delivered in conjunction
  with Aberystwyth and Cardiff Universities (open to other UK-based PhD students).
 Physical Geographers select modules from our MSc programmes in Environmental Dynamics
  & Climate Change, and Geographic Information & Climate Change.
Skills-development workshops by the University include public engagement, academic writing,
research integrity, research methods, interdisciplinary thinking, achieving impact, networking, and
entrepreneurship. Supervisors also receive mandatory training in PhD supervision and progression
monitoring. During the pandemic our PhD community benefitted from online group-supervision
meetings, virtual writing retreats, and online symposia. Along with real-time reporting on ‘e-vision’ of
any adverse impact of coronavirus on their work, these virtual events sustained students’ wellbeing.
Our PhD community is a major asset for our Unit and contributes vitality to our research culture via
a wide range of activities, such as seminar series and reading groups. A research-student forum
with the Head of Department occurs termly and a postgraduate representative joins our departmental
staff meetings. We have away days with research students to reflect on their experiences and needs,
and we appreciate that postgraduates are influential ambassadors for Swansea, especially when
they present their research at conferences and in print.
All PhD students have their own desks and personal computing equipment in recently refurbished
offices, and we provide ergonomic furniture when it is required for their health and wellbeing.
We welcomed visiting PhD students into our community from as far afield as China, Denmark,
Finland, Germany, Iceland, New Zealand, Russia, Slovenia, and Sweden, which was particularly
enriching for our own PhD students and ECRs.

EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
Our commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusivity (AIM 1), including statutory Welsh Language
Standards, accords with the University’s Strategic Equality Plan and Welsh Language Standards
Action Plan. The University holds an Athena SWAN Silver Award (2017), is a Race Equality
Charter member, and subscribes to Stonewall’s Diversity Champions Programme, creating an
inclusive workplace for LGBTQ+ and non-binary staff and students. Swansea ranks 6th among
educational bodies in Stonewall’s Workplace Equality Index, placing us in the top 50 of all UK
employers (REF5a). The Geography Department holds its own Athena SWAN Bronze Award
(2020), and we are proud to work for a ‘Living Wage’ employer recognised for its commitment to the
European Charter for Researchers and Code of Conduct for Recruitment of Researchers.




                                                  10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our Athena SWAN Self-Assessment Team (SAT), which includes PhD students, devised a 5-year
Equality Action Plan. Our former Head of Department (Clarke) was awarded the 2018 Mary Williams
Award for advancing equality and diversity within the University. Our current Head (Davies) serves
on our SAT, ensuring equality, diversity, and inclusivity suffuse everything we do. We held 14 Athena
SWAN events in the assessment period, ranging from dignity at work to decolonizing the curriculum.
Research applications and awards within the assessment period for our submitted staff reveal that
women made relatively more bids than men, given that women comprise 29% of our staff
complement. Women submitted 42% of our applications and won 41% of our awards, with an
average award value of £104,127. This compares well with the average award value won by men:
£117,769. This testifies to our concerted effort to ensure our grant submissions are competitive and
genuinely inclusive (AIMs 1 & 4).
In 2018, we launched a biennial staff research-culture survey to inform our strategy. Our equality,
diversity, and inclusivity practices range from a family-friendly flexible-working policy to mandatory
equality and unconscious-bias training for all staff. This training has been invaluable for research
endeavours ranging from Departmental decision-making, staff and PhD recruitment, and reviewing
academic performance and student progress, as well as for our REF2021 preparation activities,
including our selection of outputs and impact case studies for submission.
All submitted staff, and all post-doctoral researchers, are eligible for our research-support
schemes, including those employed part-time or fixed-term, and all are treated equitably (e.g.
research-leave, research-support, and research-incentives schemes). Staff on the Teaching &
Scholarship pathway are also supported in their pedagogic research. Some schemes, such as the
College International Visitor Scheme, prioritize ECRs but do not exclude others.
Staff with disabilities and long-term illnesses (7% of submitted staff: 2.0FTE) are supported by
the University’s Wellbeing and Occupational Health units, and we make reasonable adjustments to
their work where necessary. We adopt a flexible, bespoke approach to support individuals returning
from periods of leave and those managing long-term illness and disabilities. Our practices include
automatic research-leave (~8 months) for staff returning from parental leave, establishing a
schedule of meetings with the Head of Department to monitor wellbeing and adjust workload, co-
developing individual action plans, and blocking teaching into one semester, where appropriate.
The University was the first in Wales to join Employers for Carers and has an established Carers
Network, and provides very extensive health and wellbeing services, including a Health and
Wellbeing Academy for the University community and wider population of South Wales (REF5a).
Our flexible and caring approach extends to our PhD community and we have supported several
PhD students during maternity/parental leave, long-term illness, and caring responsibilities. We
provided funded extensions for PhD students experiencing significant disruption, especially during
the coronavirus pandemic. The University offers PhD students extensive emotional support,
including an array of wellbeing resources, counselling, and mental health services.
To promote work–life balance all staff are required to take all of their annual leave. For wellbeing,
a range of institutional workshops, events, and support is available, and we have our own community
champion and include wellbeing in our Athena SWAN action plan. To nurture a caring environment,
we have developed an email charter to ensure its responsible use. We also hold social events to
bring staff and PhD students together, ranging from fieldwork talks to geographical quizzes.
Abiding by the University’s Code of Practice, and our UoA Statement of Intent, the distribution of
outputs across staff reflects our unwavering commitment to equality and diversity. The submission
comprises the best-quality output from each Category A submitted staff member with the balance
made up of the remaining best-quality outputs from the available pool of outputs, which includes
outputs of former eligible colleagues. All outputs were assessed in line with our Statement of Intent.
The University's Equality and Diversity Sub-Group carefully considered all self-reported individual
staff circumstances that may have impaired productivity over the assessment period, and made
consistent recommendations on reductions to an individual’s expected contribution to the output
pool, which we have respected. The disproportionate cumulative effect of these individual reductions
led us to request a unit-level reduction, which we have applied according to our Code and Statement.


                                                 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Section 3: Income, Infrastructure, and Facilities

We increased our external research income (REF4b) from £7,374,155 in REF2014 to £10,173,614
in REF2021 (Table 2, AIM 4). This overall 38% uplift, once annualized, has ensured that we have
sustained our research-income level for the UoA at £1,453,369 per annum (compared to £1,474,831
per annum during the REF2014 assessment period). This equates to an average annual research
income per submitted staff FTE of £48,935. This is significantly above the median figure for HESA
cost centre 124 (Geography & Environmental Studies), which ranged from £27,040 to £37,350
between FY2013/14 and FY2018/19, and is on a par with our performance during REF2014.
While we reported £853,829 research income-in-kind (REF4c) in REF2014, we only had £27,300
in REF2021. Rather, we benefitted hugely from research-partner support and use of their key
research infrastructure (e.g. Figure 3), enabling some of our very best and most impactful
research: research forests in Australia, Canada, China, Malaysia, Sweden, US, and UK; FLUXNET
global network of meteorological sensors; the Oxford Dendrochronology Archive; Ice-drilling sites
at EastGRIP (Greenland) and ice-core facilities at Niels Bohr Institute; tephra-analytical facilities
at Oxford University and Royal Holloway; field logistics and scientific support from British Antarctic
Survey; data-and-equipment packages from Ordnance Survey and Natural Resources Wales,
whose water-analytical facilities are on our campus; and NERC Geophysical Equipment Facility.




 Figure 3. An array of Swansea Geography field sites: experimental forests in Canada; drones in
   Germany; Monitoring Helheim Glacier, Greenland; and Ice-cores at EastGRIP, Greenland.

We increased our research income from Research Councils by 7% per annum, to £5,221,812 in
total (equating to 51% of our total research income over the assessment period), particularly from
NERC, where a series of awards and a 40% success rate in 2020, meant that we avoided demand-
management restrictions (REF5b). This is an important strategic achievement (AIM 4).
We further diversified our income sources, with a big increase from UK Central Government
Bodies (£862,193 in total; fourfold increase) and EU Industry (£191,895 in total; 2.4-fold increase).
                                                 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our diversification includes new income for public engagement and science communication (e.g.
Welsh Government and ESF-funded All-Wales STEM Outreach Consortium, Leverhulme-funded
Artist in Residence, and Royal Society), and impact-boosting awards from organizations as varied
as DEFRA, European Space Agency (ESA), Forest Research, Historic England, Lloyd’s of London,
and Sydney Catchment Authority.
Grant capture is supported by a comprehensive University framework. Our well-resourced
Research, Engagement & Innovations Services (REIS) support the entire lifecycle of research, from
grant capture and horizon scanning to project management and commercialization. This is
complemented by our College Research Hub (established in 2015), which provides a researcher-
centred approach to enhance the quality and quantity of bids (pre-award, including bid development,
demand-management, and quality enhancement) with agile support for project delivery (post-
award, including legal and contract services, IP expertise, and research governance).
The Hub’s pre-award support improved the quality and competitiveness of NERC bids by working
with researchers in the year prior to submission. We extend this support to non-Swansea
researchers seeking fellowships with us. The Hub has also professionalized our networking and
partnering with key funders, especially UKRI, and we benefit from the Hub’s Bid Writer, Impact and
Engagement Officer, and Research Development Officer. This comprehensive professional service
support complements our own research groups’ quality enhancement activities, such as peer-review
and mock interviews.
Since 2014, the University has invested heavily in pump-priming funds. It established the Swansea
University Research Grant Enabler, which supported many proof-of-concept projects seeking to
lever UKRI awards; a GCRF Funding Scheme, which helped us win a Royal Society GCRF award;
and a Fellowship Group that mentors researchers to develop competitive bids. The value of this
support is evidenced by our sustained increase in funding from a more diverse portfolio of funders.
Notable successes range from prestigious individual awards – e.g. ERC Starting Grant, Royal
Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship, Royal Society University Fellowship, Philip Leverhulme Prize,
and UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship – to a succession of collaborative projects. The latter
include 7 NERC Discovery Science awards, 3 NERC Strategic grants, AHRC GCRF award, BBSRC
and NERC Newton Fund awards, 3 European Commission awards, and ESRC awards. Many other
awards sustain the diversity of our research, including British Academy, British Council, EPSRC,
Heritage Lottery Fund, National Geographic, and STFC.
We have been very successful in securing research fellowships for our academics, including 4
Leverhulme/Royal Society, and 8 visiting positions. These have been instrumental for nurturing talent
(AIM 1), expanding our global networks (AIM 7), and enabling monographs to be written. Partnership
building and interdisciplinary collaboration have been boosted by funding 3 early-to-mid-career
researchers from the College’s International Visitor Scheme and CHERISH Digital Economy Centre.
Our visiting researcher positions include Fulbright Scholar Award (University of Maine); University
of California Humanities Fellowship; Haury Visiting Scholar Fellowship (University of Arizona); and
visiting professorships at Nicolaus Copernicus University (Poland), and the Universities of Angers,
Monash, and Tasmania. We also hosted many overseas researchers, including an Association of
Commonwealth Universities’ Fulton Fellow from Macquarie University (Australia), and numerous
domestic and international PhD students.
We enjoy exceptional research infrastructure, including wonderful laboratories and important
field sites (e.g. Figure 3), and extensive refurbished social and meeting space. The College’s 22
research technicians support their use, with 7 dedicated to laboratories and 5 to computing. The
University provides all researchers with an extensive suite of software, including Adobe, DigiMap,
Endnote, MATLAB, Microsoft Office, NVivo, and SPSS, and specialist software for modelling and
simulation, illustration and visualisation, and video editing. We also enjoy access to many research
databases and unlimited interlibrary loans.
Our infrastructure reflects sustained strategic investment to meet the ambitions of our groups:
 Our climate-reconstruction capabilities are underpinned by laboratories for: (1) stable-isotope
  analysis, with 3 mass-spectrometers; (2) microscope/image analysis for pollen, macrofossils,


                                                 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   tephrochronology, and dendrochronology; (3) biogeochemical analysis, including XRF, FTIR, GC-
   IRMS; and (4) use of the University’s £10M Advanced Imaging of Materials facility.
 Our wildfire, forest, and soil research has laboratory and field facilities including: (1) full access
  to experimental field plots for controlled burns in the UK and as far afield as Australia, Canada,
  Spain, and US that are run in collaboration with external stakeholders such as United Utilities,
  Water New South Wales, and US Forest Service; (2) autologging thermal sensors and high-
  temperature thermal cameras to monitor wildfires and experimental burns; (3) South East Asia
  Rainforest Research Project (SEARRP) in Malaysia; (4) CO2-flux-measurements (Li-Cor); (5); soil
  and sediment fingerprinting (lab-based and portable XRFs, mineral magnetic sensors, and
  automated sediment capture); (6) mobile fast-pyrolysis unit for biochar research; and (7) DEFRA-
  licensed storage/disposal facilities.
 Our Glaciology and GEMEO groups benefit from innovative monitoring capabilities, including:
  (1) a network of cryospheric sensors; (2) geophysical exploration instruments, including the
  College’s new £1.3M large boat for seafloor surveys and oceanography; and (3) drones with
  multiple sensors for cryospheric and vegetation investigation.
Our laboratory infrastructure enticed external fellowships and visiting researchers seeking novel
methods training, underpinned impact, and enabled scientific breakthroughs. For example:
 Stable-isotope analysis facilities allowed the development of an annually resolved record of
  tree-ring oxygen isotopes for the last 800 years. This provided a uniquely strong reconstruction
  of past summer rainfall and led to a new approach for dating timbers in historic buildings (e.g. the
  Tower of London’s portcullis windlass). Our infrastructure and expertise enabled us to train
  researchers from China, Fiji, Germany, New Zealand, Slovenia, Sweden, and UK.
 Tephra-analysis facilities underpin our ERC work on advancing the use of tephrochronology to
  constrain rapid climate changes and reconstruct far-travelled ash clouds. Our clean room and
  micro-manipulation facilities have been crucial for extracting microscopic ash particles from
  Greenland ice-cores. Our capabilities and reputation in this field attracted a UKRI Future Leaders
  Fellow, and we trained researchers from Denmark, Finland, New Zealand, Norway, Russia, and
  UK, many of whom then established their own facilities.
 Fire and erosion monitoring capabilities applied at our experimental field plots have enabled
  advancements in wildfire research and management (impact case study), and were instrumental
  to us securing 3 NERC and 3 EU grants, and a Marie Curie fellowship.
 Notable research enabled by our field capabilities include using geophysical instruments and
  sensor networks to investigate glacial earthquakes during iceberg calving, and seismic and
  radar equipment to demonstrate how seawater, not temperature, controls suture zones and
  Antarctic ice-shelf stability. Our glaciological and remote-sensing capabilities, including drones
  and satellites, helped us secure 4 fellowships (AXA, Marie Curie, Royal Society, Sêr Cymru).
Our modelling and monitoring of ice and vegetated landscapes is enabled by state-of-the-art
high-performance computing facilities, including access to Wales’s £16M supercomputing facility
through its Swansea University Hub, which was updated in 2018 to deliver exceptional computational
power (1 petaflop), the National Centre for Environmental Data Analysis, and National Centre for
Earth Observation (NCEO). Our resulting satellite datasets underpin our weather-prediction impact
case study, and they have been widely adopted by stakeholders:
 Our open datasets are used by the European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts and
  UK Met Office, and their migration to the NCEO facility safeguards them for future use.
 Our FLIGHT model has been used by NASA, and has informed the development of a new ESA
  satellite mission to observe global photosynthesis.
 We are co-developing the NERC Centre for Polar Observation and Modelling’s BISICLES ice-
  sheet model and land–ice component of the Met Office’s UK Earth System Model with
  Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory and US National Energy Resource for Supercomputing.
 Our cryospheric computational abilities also helped secure EU Horizon 2020 funding for the
  PROTECT project and NERC funding for Antarctic ice-sheet modelling.

                                                  14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Section 4: Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

Collaboration with scientists, artists, industry, policy makers, and other users is vital to our work. We
enjoy worldwide collaborations through the University’s strategic partnerships with the Université
Grenoble Alpes and 8 institutions in Texas (REF5a); PhD agreements and co-supervision with Paris-
Sorbonne, Tromsø, and Waikato Universities; visiting researcher positions overseas; honorary
appointments for key collaborators; and extensive funding for incoming and outgoing exchanges,
especially to foster interdisciplinary and impactful research (AIM 7). Our networks span the globe,
as evidenced by the worldwide distribution of the co-authors of our >500 outputs published in the
assessment period (Figure 4).




         Figure 4. Location of our output co-authors in the REF2021 assessment period.
             (Note: Each location may represent several co-authors and/or outputs)

We lead and participate in many major international networks and programmes (AIM 7). For
example, Doerr co-leads EU COST ACTION on ‘Fire in the Earth System,’ which includes 132
scientists from 37 countries, and Shubin participates in an EU Horizon 2020 consortium of 15
partners examining migrants’ perceptions of Europe.
We also contribute to networks such as the Association of Southeast Asian Studies, ESA’s Climate
Change Initiative and Fluorescence Explorer Mission Advisory Groups; East Greenland Ice-Core
Project (EastGRIP); the IPCC; Integrating Ice-Core, Marine and Terrestrial Records Network
(INTIMATE); Past Global Changes (PAGES), including PAGES2k and Volcanic Impacts on Climate
and Society working groups; SEARRP; and several Australian Research Council Antarctic projects.
We play many national roles, for instance in NERC Centre for Polar Observation and Modelling;
Northern Network of Medical Humanities; Political Sociology Network; Quaternary Research
Association (QRA); Royal Geographical Society (RGS); Wales Institute of Social and Economic
Research, Data and Methods (WISERD); and the UK Arctic and Antarctic Partnership.
Engagement with research users, typically as co-producers, drives our impact strategy (AIM 6). We
engage with local, national, and global stakeholders and engagement includes co-produced projects,
co-managed field sites, policy advice and knowledge transfer, and co-authored outputs and datasets.
We have established relationships with policy makers and civil servants to facilitate knowledge
transfer and provide expert advice on topics such as climate change, forest health, wildfire impacts,
carbon capture, forest management, soil restoration, volcanic activity, and language and migration
policy (Table 4). Our outputs co-authored with non-HEI partners have a field-weighted citation impact
of 3.24, which is over thrice the global average (SciVal).


                                                   15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 4. Swansea Geography: Key Research Co-Producers, Collaborators & Stakeholders


                                   Co-Produced PhD Projects
Arts Council of Wales              Frog Environmental                 Salix Environmental
Brecon Beacons National Park       National Museum of Wales           SE Asian Rainforest Prog.
British Antarctic Survey           Natural Resources Wales            South Wales Police
Coastal Housing                    National Botanic Garden, Wales     Trussell Trust
Fire and Rescue Service            Ordnance Survey                    Woodland Heritage
Forest Research                    Refugee Council                    Woodland Trust
                       Co-Produced and Collaborative Research Projects
British Geological Survey          EUMETSAT & ESA                     Scottish Government
Brockmann Consult GmbH             Fire and Rescue Service            Sydney Catchment Authority
Cabildo de Tenerife                Forest Research                    US Forest Service
Cambodian Living Arts              Government of NW Territory         United Utilities
Chinese Academy of Forestry        Lloyds Global Insurance            Welsh Water
DEFRA                              Melbourne Water                    Wildfire Operation Research

                             Policy Advice and Knowledge Transfer
Ascension Island Government        Welsh Government                   UK Government /
Forest Research                    Woodland Heritage                  Parliamentary Committees
                                                                      (Office for Science)
Scottish Government                Woodland Trust

                             Co-Authorship of Outputs and Datasets
Access Arctic                      Forestry Museum                    Shelter
Aerodyne Research                  GeTech Group                       Sigma Space Corporation
Brockmann Consult GmbH             Gamma Remote Sensing               TerraDat UK Ltd
Centre for Science Ltd             LiCor Biosciences                  Thales group UK
CSIRO Land and Water               Met Office                         UN Environment Programme
ECMWF                              NASA                               (UNEP)
                                                                      UNICEF
Earthwatch                         National Botanic Garden, Wales     US Department of Energy
ENVEO IT Gmbh                      Oxfam                              US Forest Service
Environmental Protection           Remote Sensing Solutions           US Geological Survey
Department
FP Innovations                     Science Advisory Council Wales     VTT Technical Research
                                                                      Finland
Impact beyond our case studies focuses on the environment and society. For instance, software
developed by our GEMEO group feeds into developing the atmospheric data-capture capabilities of
the Sentinel-3 satellite mission by ESA and the European Organisation for the Exploitation of
Meteorological Satellites (EUMETSAT). Funding from Forest Research and Woodland Heritage has
facilitated the co-production of growth histories of oak trees in England based on our tree-ring-
analysis expertise to inform management tools to combat oak decline. Other examples of our impact
include engagement with children to effect attitudinal change towards migrants, travelling theatre to
address post-conflict identity amongst young Cambodians, and co-produced PhD projects with
Coastal Housing and NRW on studentification and contaminated-land remediation, respectively.
Our remote-sensing expertise underpins our new methods for monitoring forest change, including
forest inventories and forest health, thereby enhancing time-saving and cost-saving opportunities for
DEFRA and Forest Research. Remote-sensing expertise also underpinned our GCRF-funded
monitoring of the restoration of precious Giant Panda habitats in China’s Sichuan province after their
destruction by the Great Wenchuan earthquake. Our innovative approach to dating lava shed new
light on volcanic hazard risk scenarios for the Ascension Island Government.

                                                 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We contribute significantly to public understanding of science through many outreach activities,
such as a six-part climate-change documentary series (Her yr Hinsawdd) for the Welsh-language
television channel S4C, the English version of which (Climate Challenge) enjoyed global distribution
via Sky Vision/NBC Universal Distribution/Apple TV; extensive global press coverage of the Larsen
C ice-shelf calving event (impact case study); and contributing our tephrochronological findings to
the Varve Museum (Lake Suigetsu, Japan), which is the first such museum in the world.
We often contribute to the media (e.g. Al Jazeera, BBC Online News, BBC World News, Euronews;
The Conversation, The Independent, and National Geographic). We regularly contribute to national
outreach events (e.g. Geography Presidential Address at the British Science Festival; National
Eisteddfod of Wales; Cheltenham Science Festival; and Hay Festival), and to regional outreach
events (e.g. Swansea Science Festival; Soapbox Science; and Oriel Science).
We worked hard to reach new and diverse audiences, especially children from deprived
communities with low participation in STEM. Led by Gagen, Swansea Science for Schools Scheme
(S4), which has already reached >5,000 ‘Key Stage 3’ pupils in South Wales, is now part of the
£8.2M All-Wales STEM outreach consortium ‘Trio Sci Cymru,’ with Aberystwyth, Bangor, and
Cardiff Universities, Institute of Physics, and Welsh Government’s National Science Academy.
Our PhD students and post-doctoral researchers also contributed to the research base, through
peer reviewing and organizing conference sessions. A PhD student co-ordinated ECR events for the
International Glaciological Society (IGS), and another served as the QRA’s Postgraduate
Representative. A post-doctoral researcher and fellow contributed to the Association of American
Geographers’ (AAG) Covid-19 Rapid Response Task Force.
We hosted and trained a great many visiting international research students from as far afield as
China, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Iceland, New Zealand, Russia, Slovenia, and Sweden, as well
as many UK students. Luckman served as Adjunct Professor at the University Centre in Svalbard
(2013–2018). Closs Stephens taught at the 2018 PUC-Rio Institute of International Relations Winter
School on Affective Nationalism. We also served as external examiners in the UK (including
Aberystwyth, Bristol, Cambridge, Cardiff, Exeter, Open, Oxford, and Leeds) and overseas (including
Australia, Canada, Denmark, and Norway).
We gave extensive service to the discipline via journal editorship, editorial board membership,
and guest editorships of international journals (Table 5), and peer-review work for >100 journals
and publishers and many funding agencies (e.g. Austrian, French, German, Icelandic, Irish, and
Norwegian Research Councils; European Commission and ERC; AHRC, ESRC, NERC; British
Academy and Leverhulme Trust; and US National Science Foundation).
Our contributions to professional associations include AGU Cryosphere Sciences Section Vice-
President and President (Murray), and Tree-Ring Society Vice-President and President (Robertson),
and service for AAG, EGU, QRA, and RGS. During the coronavirus pandemic, we organised and
delivered a virtual seminar series for the IGS, reaching >500 researchers around the world.
We hosted prestigious seminars and workshops, notably Border Struggles, Migrant Digitalities,
Migrants’ Europe, and Populisms, and helped organize international events, for instance Meanings
of the Rural (Portugal 2015), New Rural Geographies in Europe (Germany 2017), Transnational
Families and Care (Iceland 2018), and Applied Baudrillard (Oxford 2018). We also convened many
conference sessions for AAG, AGU, EGU, RGS, International Association of Sedimentologists,
International Union for Quaternary Science (INQUA), Nordic Geographers, and PAGES.
We gave keynote addresses at many international meetings, such as AGU, EGU, ESA,
EURODENDRO, EUROSOIL, INQUA, INTAV, INTIMATE, QRA, and RGS; Association of
Hydrological Sciences, Conference on Forest Fire Research, and Workshop on Rural Research; and
Living Planet, Rural Sociology Congress, and Society of Exploration Geophysicists).
We contributed to special meetings, lecture series, and international panels, such as Dead
Reckoning/Crossing the Med (Tate Modern 2017), Baudrillard’s Photographic Theory (Rome 2018),
and Journeys Festival International, as well as Geological Society of London lecture series, and the
International Association of Volcanology and Chemistry of the Earth’s Interior Workshop.



                                                17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 5. Contribution to the Research Base
                                                                                   Number of roles
 Journal Editorships
 (In Chief, Associate Editor, Assistant Editor, Scientific Editor, Book Review Editor)           11

 Annals of Glaciology                     Baudrillard Studies            SOIL
 Citizenship Studies                      Environmental &                Tree-Ring Research
                                          Engineering Geophysics
 Cultural Geographies                     Journal of Glaciology          The Holocene
 International Journal of Wildland Fire   Quaternary Geochronology

 Editorial Board Membership                                                                      12
 AGER: Depopulation & Rural               Baudrillard Studies            Proceedings      Geologists
 Development Studies                                                     Association
 Agricultural & Forest Meteorology        Quaternary Science             Scientific Reports

 Environment and Planning D               Journal of Rural Studies       Social Cultural Geography

 Geographical Journal                     Urban Cultural Studies         Sociologia Ruralis

 Guest Editorships                                                                                4
 Geophysics                               Children’s Geographies         Remote Sensing
 ISPRS Journal of Geo-Information

 Service to Publishers                                                                           11
 Bloomsbury                               Oxford University Press        Routledge
 Edward Elgar                             Palgrave Macmillan             Rowman & Littlefield
 IB Taurus                                Policy Press                   SAGE
 Nebraska University                      Polity Press

 Service for Peer-Review Colleges                                                                 9
 NERC                                     ESRC                           EU

 Committee Service for Professional Bodies                                                       13
 AAG (Disability Speciality Group)        NERC Geophysical Equip. RGS Research Groups:
                                          Facility
                                                                    Economic
 Association of SE Asian Studies          NERC Radiocarbon
                                                                    Health & Wellbeing
 American Geophysical Union               Research Advisory Board,
                                                                    Population
                                          National Museum of Wales
                                                                    Rural
 International Glaciological Society      UK Arctic and Antarctic
                                          Partnership               Social & Cultural


We invested considerable effort in co-operative postgraduate-research training, both nationally
and internationally (AIMs 2 & 7), particularly through our leadership of the ESRC Wales DTP’s
Human Geography pathway, our Welsh-medium capacity-building role for the Coleg Cymraeg
Cenedlaethol, and our joint supervision of PhD students with key partners (e.g. Grenoble, Paris-
Sorbonne, Tromsø).
Three more staff were elected Fellows of the Learned Society of Wales (Davies, McCarroll, Street-
Perrott), and Davies was awarded Honorary Life Membership of the International Focus Group on
Tephrochronology and Volcanism (INTAV).




                                                  18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We celebrate all research-related prizes and awards within our community, of which there have
been 8 in the assessment period (Figure 5):
   Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol’s Eilir Hedd Morgan Prize (Davies 2016).
   Quaternary Research Association’s Croll Medal (Street-Perrott 2016).
   Learned Society of Wales’s Dillwyn Medal (Rogers 2017).
   Clarivate Web of Science Cross-field Highly Cited Researcher Award (Doerr 2018).
   Learned Society of Wales’s Hoggan Medal (Murray 2019).
   British Society for Geomorphology’s Linton Award (Murray 2019).
   Dutch Tourette’s Association’s inaugural Hans Eijsackers Award (Beljaars 2020).
   European Geosciences Union’s Katia & Maurice Krafft Award (Meara 2020).




     Figure 5. Swansea Geographers receiving awards from LSW, QRA, DTA, and The Coleg.
As we look beyond our 2020 Centenary, the vitality and sustainability of our research environment
will be ensured through our enduring values, our collegiality, our empowered research groups, and
our commitment to addressing the global scourge of environmental crisis and social injustice.




                                               19
