Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: King’s College London
 Unit of Assessment: History (28)
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context of the History UOA
UOA28 at King’s College London now constitutes one of the most diverse clusters of historians in
the country, returning 84.3 FTE staff, more than double the number returned in 2014 (39.85 FTE).
For the first time, the Unit comprises historians not only in the Department of History (49.7 FTE) but
also those based entirely in the Departments of Defence Studies (18.4 FTE), War Studies (11.2
FTE), Political Economy (2 FTE) and Psychological Medicine (1 FTE), bringing King’s historians
together despite administrative separation. The Unit provides new approaches to significant areas
of the historical field, including: broad and inclusive British and Irish histories; a chronologically deep
history of Europe and European empires; global histories encompassing the pre-modern era; and a
reconceived history of warfare and history of science which offer historical approaches to
contemporary issues, such as security and technological change. By offering our research to broad
audiences – academic, public and official – in the UK and abroad, we are able to address the key
challenges faced by history as an academic discipline, including: its role in policy and politics; its
need to establish fruitful and sustainable collaborations with cultural institutions; its role in
communicating and negotiating between global, imperial and national narratives of the past; and,
accordingly, how it shapes and intervenes in public memories. The Unit uses its broad historical
research expertise to look outwards, bringing history into discussions about our futures as well as
our pasts.

The three main departments in the Unit – History, DS, WS – offer both breadth and diversity and a
rich set of interweaving research strands and perspectives. The Department of History, now
housed in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities (A&H), has long fostered expertise in British and
European political and imperial history but, since REF 2014, has expanded to provide global
coverage from modern Latin America to South and South-East Asia. Its coverage of European
history has also expanded, with specialists ranging from East and Central Europe to the Iberian
Peninsula and Ireland, covering the medieval as well as the modern. Its imperial history has
responded to the post-imperial and post-colonial world and is unusually comparative, having
specialists in the British, French, German, Spanish and Portuguese empires. In REF 2014, the Unit
highlighted globalisation as key to the History Department’s research and staffing strategy; this aim
has been fulfilled and also developed into an outward-facing approach to historical research,
establishing the Unit as a leader for history in the public sphere.

The Department of War Studies (WS) was set up in 1962 by the military historian Sir Michael
Howard to promote a new kind of military history, one which showed ‘how the history of war affected
history in general’. It is now housed in the Faculty of Social Science and Public Policy (SSPP)
and has become the leading academic centre for the study of conflict and security. Within this
interdisciplinary department, the history of warfare has taken a methodological leap forward, now
addressing concerns key to the present day: technology, security, intelligence, regime changes. The
Department of Defence Studies (DS) is a younger department, founded in 1998 to provide higher
education to the military. Since then, it has become an international centre of gravity for military
history, establishing a PhD programme in the last five years. While both History and WS are based
at the Strand Campus in London, DS is based at Shrivenham (Wiltshire) to deliver the UK’s higher
defence education to the military through the Joint Services Command and Staff College, the
Defence Academy, and the Royal College of Defence Studies. The policy-directed focus of the
history of conflict and strategy (embodied in WS and DS) has enriched and stimulated an already-
vibrant tradition of engagement, impact and the application of history to political, social and cultural
issues across the Unit as a whole (§4).

Despite being spread out across two faculties and two campuses, the Unit is regularly brought
together in research activities (§2) as well as through a longer-term strategy to foster durable
research collaborations through the establishment of cross-faculty research centres. The Unit also
delivers shared degrees: there are c.800 undergraduate History students, spread over five degrees,

Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
two of which are delivered jointly by History with WS, and one by History with Political Economy.
Research across the Unit is directed by the Research Lead in History: the Unit communicates
through collaboration between History Leads in WS and DS and the Research and Impact Leads in
the History Department.

1.2 Research and impact strategy
Our numerical growth, combined with our broad and deep expertise, corresponds to our reputational
rise (14th worldwide/4th in the UK in QS rankings 2020). Since REF 2014, our research and impact
strategy has had six key prongs:

   1. To increase our global and chronological reach and deepen our then-new area of expertise
      in the history of science, technology and medicine (the Centre for the History of Science,
      Technology and Medicine (CHoSTM) transferred from Imperial to King’s History in 2013).

   2. To position the Unit as a leading centre for a globalised approach to the history of modern
      Britain and Ireland and the history of warfare, conflict and security through strategic
      investment across the Unit.

   3. To support the quality of our research outputs by providing mechanisms for individual and
      collaborative research planning, and regular funding opportunities to develop ambitious
      projects.

   4. To support and promote an interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary research environment
      through organisational investment in grassroots research activity.

   5. To develop and sustain a strategy for impact which sees it as integral to the responsibilities
      of conducting historical research and cements the place of the Unit as leader for history in
      the public sphere.

   6. To embed equality, diversity and inclusion (ED&I) commitments into all aspects of our
      research environment.

Since 2014, we have realised these aims by:

   1. Making new appointments of historians to increase our global and chronological reach,
      which simultaneously connect with existing expertise. A new appointment in modern Latin
      American history (Mathias) also speaks to expertise in the area of human rights and political
      thinking (strengthened by Dawson), and expands our American expertise outside North
      America (enhanced by the appointment in History of Balbier and in WS of Laderman). We
      have cemented our position as a hub for modern late colonial and post-colonial African
      history (Hiribarren, Oke (fixed-term) in History, Ryan in WS) and expanded our reach into
      pre-modern and modern South-East and South Asia (Guyot-Réchard, Weil in History,
      Condos in WS). Although Altehenger (appointed 2012) left King’s in 2019, we will make a
      new appointment in the history of modern China in 2021. We extended the chronological
      depth of our British and Irish coverage by appointing historians of pre-modern Britain and
      Ireland (Naismith, left in 2019, Redmond). We have deepened our expertise in the history
      of science and medicine from the middle ages to the 20th century (Hellawell, Manias,
      Murphy, Weil), and appointed a historian of 20th-century Germany (Dillon). In 2021,
      Murphy begins a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship in History, exploring the early–modern
      relationship between race and medicine.

   2. Investing in a globalised approach to the history of modern Britain and Ireland, and the
      history of warfare. We have made six very diverse appointments in modern British and Irish
      history, from the history of gender and sexuality, to political and economic history, to
      appointments in race and ethnicity (Harris, Kowol, Morrissey, Mesevage, Lidher, Liburd
      – all in History, the latter two appointed after the census date). This last focus has been

Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         sharpened by formal collaboration with Black Cultural Archives (BCA) (§3). Seven
         appointments have been made in the history of modern conflict, warfare and international
         relations across the Unit: Fox, Moody, Morgan-Owen (DS); Laderman, Ryan (WS);
         Brydan, Guyot-Réchard (History). The Unit has established two research centres in each
         area to encourage cross-faculty research collaboration:

            (1) King’s Contemporary British History (KCBH) – set up in 2016 – which brings
                together the c.30 historians of modern Britain and Ireland returned here with those
                from literature departments, cultural studies and History & Policy. KCBH has become
                a national and international hub for defining what modern British history is and how
                historians can shape public discourse of the past (Edgerton ICS). It runs an annual
                conference and lecture, and hosts an MA in Contemporary British History.
            (2) Sir Michael Howard Centre for the History of War (SMHC) – set up in 2014–15 –
                to bring together the Unit’s c.35 specialists in the history of war, conflict and security
                with the purpose of forging interdisciplinary connections and embedding historical
                approaches into the fields of, e.g., deterrence, intelligence and counterinsurgency. It
                organises seminars, conferences and events (often with key stakeholders, such as
                the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst), runs an MA in the History of War, and hosts
                an annual lecture, attracting c.500 online attendees in 2020.

   3. Instituting unit-wide research activities through biannual Research Conversations (in
      which individuals’ research plans are discussed) and Grants Greenhouses (where grant
      applications are discussed). Our success in supporting the quality of our outputs and grant
      applications is indicated by the award of the discipline’s most prestigious prizes (e.g. three
      Philip Leverhulme Prizes since 2014 (Bew, Green, Taylor); the Wolfson Prize (Vinen); two
      Templer Medals (Fennell, Vinen); the Nayef Al-Rodhan Prize for Cultural Understanding
      (Green); two British Academy Rising Star Awards (Green, Guyot-Réchard)) and by a series
      of successful grant applications (e.g. Welch’s Wellcome-funded, five-year Renaissance Skin;
      Woods’s Wellcome-funded, five-year FIELD project). See further §§3, 4.

   4. Facilitating colleagues to engage in interdisciplinary research through, primarily, research
      centres. In addition to SMHC and KCBH, Unit members participate and lead in
      interdisciplinary research centres and strands in A&H, managed through the Arts and
      Humanities Research Institute, including: the Centre for Late Antique and Medieval
      Studies (CLAMS), bringing together the largest collection of medievalists outside Oxbridge;
      the Centre for Early Modern Studies; the Centre for Enlightenment Studies; CHoSTM,
      supported by a £3m endowment from the Arcadia Fund; and the Menzies Australia
      Institute. King’s historians have headed or been deputies of these centres (Crick, Edgerton,
      Gowing, Sleight, Sutcliffe). Within SSPP, the Centre for Grand Strategy (CGS) (Bew,
      Laderman, Ryan) is not only interdisciplinary in nature but is also a leading centre for ‘applied
      history’, in which historical insights are marshalled to shape global strategy and policy. All
      members of WS and DS are involved in interdisciplinary research strands (‘Themes’), which
      run research seminars, provide feedback on grant applications and offer small research
      funds. Our major collaborative projects involve interdisciplinary work, e.g. with political
      science and strategy (Bew, Goodman), arts and science (Welch, Murphy), digital
      humanities (Burns, Crick, Jackson, Readman, Rio, Taylor, Todd).

   5. Developing a strategy for impact to widen the reach of our work nationally and
      internationally, in which nearly all staff are involved. We have focused on four main
      institutional audiences, stakeholders and priorities: (1) museums, galleries, archives and
      other cultural institutions (represented by Carpenter, Green & Hiribarren, Readman ICS);
      (2) schools and curricula development (Green & Hiribarren ICS); (3) traditional and digital
      media, and collaboration with the arts, to intervene in national and international conversations
      about history (Bew, Edgerton, Carpenter ICS); (4) government, policymakers and the
      military (as in Benbow, Bew, Edgerton, Goodman ICS). Our impact strategy is overseen
      by the Unit’s Research and Impact Leads, sustained by internal and external funding, and


Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         often facilitated through collaborations with History & Policy (of which King’s is a partner) and
         the Strand Group (involving politicians, diplomats, civil servants).

   6. Committing to a dynamic ED&I agenda which shapes our research, teaching and public
      engagement. Our Unit was one of the first history departments to have been awarded an
      Athena SWAN Bronze Award (2017); considerations of equality inform much of our activity.
      An event showcasing postgraduate and staff research on the history of women and gender,
      held in 2018, led to the successful application for a King’s Undergraduate Research
      Fellowship (supervised by Harris and Taylor) to conduct oral history interviews with past
      King’s alumnae. The success of this oral history programme led to an appreciation of the
      strengths of oral history in the department (not limited to Hiribarren, Harris, Readman) and
      the design of an undergraduate oral history research module, co-delivered with CitizensUK
      (a partnership led by Ferente and Balbier).

1.3 Future research and impact strategy
The wide research expertise of our Unit means that it is one of the few History units that embed the
history of war, science and medicine into broader fields, take a broad-ranging, inclusive and diverse
approach to British history, bring post-colonial narratives to bear on the history of Europe and its
empires, balance western periodisations with historical chronologies from other parts of the world,
and, finally, understand deep historical change and continuities. Our research strategy over the
next REF period is to deepen intellectual connections across the Unit to place King’s History at the
heart of public discussions of the discipline’s significance to the future. This agenda becomes all the
more compelling as the dominant narrative of historical change – how to explain modernity – comes
under challenge from the global, environmental and religious turns. The Unit’s chronological and
geographical breadth makes it particularly well placed to meet these challenges: both global and
pre-modern history can interrogate modernity rather than, as previously, support it. We will fulfil these
aims by:

        Bringing the Unit together by continuing to develop SMHC, KCBH, CHoSTM and CGS as
         Unit-wide research centres, with wide external reach. We will also draw on our strengths in
         pre-modern, European, imperial and global histories to develop two new centres: the first on
         Empires and Decolonisation, where we already have significant expertise; the second on
         Communication and Belief, which will reconceptualise long-term narratives of historical
         change in response to the growing fragility of secularism as an historical telos and the
         challenges presented by the digital age. This centre will build on two major areas of existing
         research concentration: religion and politics (e.g. Balbier, Harris, Sutcliffe, Taylor, Vakil)
         and communication and information (e.g. Crick, Dillon, Goodman, Lovell), and inform
         staffing strategy (§2).

        Developing these research centres as international hubs for a diverse range of national
         and international stakeholders, thus further establishing King’s as a leading centre for a
         connected, applied approach to history. We will achieve this through developing a centre-
         focused as well as individual-focused strategy to grant capture. As a model, the CGS
         currently hosts the Forum on Future British Grand Strategy as well as the Englesberg Applied
         History Programme, and provides wider support for individual research projects (e.g.
         Chaudhuri’s Ceasefires). SMHC is currently establishing a Conflict Records Unit to
         consolidate mechanisms for ‘creating, acquiring, preserving, managing and making use of
         conflict records’, thus positioning itself as an international archival hub.

        Facilitating, through these centres, and through small-scale and large-scale investment, the
         development and support of discrete interdisciplinary research networks (particularly
         digital collaborations with King’s Digital Lab (KDL)) which aim to reframe local and global
         issues in historical terms to sustain and deepen our role in creating new research agendas.
         Guyot-Réchard, for example, is currently developing the scholarly and policy-focused
         network, New International Histories of South Asia, which is at the forefront of a shift towards
         writing South Asian history in international rather than domestic terms. Other examples

Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         include Balbier’s co-convening of the International Research Group: A Global History of US
         Evangelism.

        Deepening and formalising our links and collaborations with key groups, organisations and
         institutions in London, including government ministries, the armed services, think tanks
         and political parties, publishers and the press, television and radio, and heritage centres in
         London, including BCA, the Migration Museum, the National Archives, the British Library, the
         British Museum, the Imperial War Museum, the Science Gallery, the East End Women’s
         Museum, OnTheRecord, The National Army Museum and CitizensUK. This builds on existing
         collaborations and speaks directly to King’s 2029 Vision of establishing King’s as a ‘civic
         university at the heart of London’.

1.4 Open access and research integrity
The Unit has adopted all REF Open Access Policies, requiring all staff to update their online
Research Profiles regularly (using Pure), where explicit guidance is given about open access (OA).
Three of our submitted books are wholly OA, and the department and faculty offer competitive
publication subventions to enable this. King’s Library is part of JISC and will benefit from the
forthcoming OA agreements with Wiley-Blackwell and Cambridge University Press. From 2020, the
Unit runs biannual information sessions on OA, run by our Research Integrity representative
(ordinarily the Deputy Research Lead/Impact Lead).

Our substantial OA digital output and databases exceed REF requirements and constitute
meaningful resources for academic and public history. Examples include the Historical Pageants
database (Readman ICS) and an innovative new text and translation of Exon Domesday (Crick);
the expanded People of Medieval Scotland database (Hammond, Taylor), whose underlying data
is publicly available in RDF. The Georgian Papers Programme (Burns) is the largest digitisation of
manuscripts in the Royal Archives. Other KDL collaborations have focused on the sustainability of
digital resources, particularly ensuring that older sites are maintained and/or their data remains
accessible. For example, the Henry III Fine Rolls Project (Carpenter) remains available via the KDL
data catalogue with citeable metadata and downloadable files.

From 2019, research integrity across the Unit is supported by a Faculty Research Integrity
Champion and 10 RI advisers (including Murphy). Research integrity is supported by the King’s
Research Governance, Integrity and Ethics Office, which implements the National Concordat for
Research Integrity. Our research staff and doctoral students receive ethics and integrity training
through the Centre for Research Staff Development and the Centre for Doctoral Studies,
ensuring that all research is safe, lawful and of the highest standards of integrity and rigour, including
compliance with GDPR. From 2021, in History, an RI representative will sit on both the D&I
committee and the Research Committee.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and the current UOA
Since REF 2014, our appointment strategy has had three aims:

        To appoint researchers of the highest quality who reflect our dual priorities of globalising our
         expertise and investing in two strategic areas: (i) inclusive histories of modern Britain and
         Ireland; (ii) a global history of science, technology and medicine.

        To support our curriculum needs and meet student demand, particularly in areas of urgent
         historical enquiry – including around colonialism and decolonisation, imperial and global
         history, and modern slavery.




Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        To align the Unit with King’s D&I policies, most recently: King’s Race Equality Charter, A&H’s
         2018 Academic Recruitment Review and SSPP’s D&I 2019 Strategic Action Plan to appoint
         historians from traditionally under-represented groups.

In History, the HoD determines staffing with a Steering Committee; in WS, the HoD with a Senior
Leadership Team; in DS, appointment strategy is, by contrast, determined by its main educational
contractor, the MoD. The Unit has made 10 FTE open-ended appointments in non-European history;
three open-ended appointments and one ECR development position in the history of science and
medicine; seven open-ended appointments and one ECR development appointment in the history
of Britain and Ireland; and appointed five colleagues from under-represented groups. The Unit has
developed expertise specifically in Black and Asian British History and, through an A&H Faculty BME
Staff Working Group (including Gowing, Green, Wilson), devised strategies to encourage BME
applicants for posts under the terms of the Equality Act.

Profile of the Unit
The Unit consists of 87 Category A Staff and four Category B staff. Of Category A Staff, 22 are
female and 65 are male (B: 2F; 2M), and 73% are white, 9% are BME and 15% have preferred not
to make a disclosure. Within Category A staff, there are 30 Professors (6F; 24M), 14 Readers (3F;
11M), 23 Senior Lecturers (7F; 16M), 13 Lecturers (4F; 9M) and seven research staff (2F; 5M). The
breakdown across the three main departments is:

History (19F; 34M): 20 Professors (6F; 14M), six Readers (2F; 4M), 12 Senior Lecturers (5F; 7M),
seven Lecturers (2F; 5M), seven researchers (2F; 5M).

Defence Studies (3F; 16M): three Professors (3M), eight Readers (1F; 7M), six SLs (1F; 5M), two
Lecturers (1F; 1M).

War Studies (1F; 11M): five Professors (5M), four SLs (4M), three Lecturers (1F; 2M).

Eight out of the 87 submitted Category A staff are on fixed-term contracts, all in History. Two hold
three-year KCL-funded ‘early career development fellowships’ (1F; 1M); three hold three-year
Leverhulme ECRFs (3M); one is a Research Associate (1M); one a Senior Research Fellow (1F);
and one a British Academy Global Professor (1M). All other Category A staff are on open-ended
contracts.

The Unit’s demographic profile is relatively consistent across the three main departments: 15 Unit
members are 25–35, 33 are 36–45, 20 are 46–55 and 23 are 56 and above. The Unit contains many
younger scholars: 17 out of the 45 books submitted for this REF are first books, of which eight have
won major awards. The Unit’s strategy for staff support acknowledges that, by the next REF, many
of the Unit will be mid-career academics.

The Unit has not achieved gender parity during this REF census period (26%F; 74%M); indeed, the
balance has tilted since REF 2014, when History submitted 18F and 22M. This is despite History’s
leading role in embedding D&I into its research, curriculum and environment. Although our gender
ratio has become unbalanced, the Unit has identified it as a pressing strategic priority, especially
given our leadership in this field, our support of female progression and our prominent public
expertise in the history of women and gender (particularly Dawson, Gowing, Harris). All three
departments are alert to the importance of gender and BME equality and have built D&I into their
respective staffing strategies, which is already having an impact: of the 20 new appointments made
across the Unit in the REF census period, 10 were female.

2.2 Staff development and support
Since REF 2014, the Unit has developed a clear framework for staff development. Drawing on
departmental, faculty and college-level funds, policies and opportunities, the Unit supports



Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
colleagues through key career transitions: joining the department, moving beyond ECR status,
promotion, managing changes in personal circumstances, and training for leadership roles.

(i) Personal development and peer support
      Mentoring and D&I. Colleagues meet twice a year to mentor each other’s research plans in
        Research Conversations (with an ECR strand), in which publications, grant applications
        and future development are discussed in small groups. All staff have an annual PDR with a
        trained senior member of department. Grant applications are supported in the Unit through
        biannual Grants Greenhouses, organised through History, and in Research Themes in DS
        and WS (§3). Female colleagues can participate on the leadership courses Springboard and
        Aurora. History runs Sharing Strategies for Success, open meetings discussing promotion,
        grant capture and publication strategies. All departments have Away Days to discuss, e.g.,
        curriculum reform or combining teaching and research. The Unit runs an annual Book Party
        to celebrate all recently published books by colleagues.

        Skills training. All staff can spend up to five days per annum on skills training, including on
         strategic areas, including Unconscious Bias and Diversity Matters. Training on research
         integrity is provided by faculty Integrity Champions. Staff and PGRs benefit from discounted
         rates at the Modern Language Centre, and the Unit runs specific workshops on, e.g.,
         mapping software and digital archives, available to staff and PGRs.

(ii) Sabbatical policy and leave allocation
      KCL has a generous policy of sabbatical leave entitlement: all post-probation staff on open-
        ended contracts (E&R and AEP) can apply for a six-month period of leave for every three full
        years of service. In History, until 2020, one four-month term is accrued every two years. It is
        rare for applications to be refused: regular sabbatical leave is an expected part of our
        research culture.

        Staff are supported through parental and maternity leave, which counts towards research
         leave entitlement. History has supplemented the College’s Parents & Carers Fund in
         providing financial awards to support the research of staff coming back from maternity and
         parental leave (e.g. the employment of a research assistant to compile an index for a
         colleague returning from maternity leave). All staff can apply for sabbatical leave for the
         semester immediately following their probationary period.

(iii) Research and impact funding
      All staff, whether on E&R, AEP or teaching fellowship contracts, have access to a personal
        research budget (£1,000 in A&H; £1,500 in SSPP).

        Both History and WS have a yearly Research and Impact (RISM) budget of c.£40,000–
         £50,000, which supports conference travel and organisation, archival visits, impact activity
         and book launches. The block grant DS receives from SERCO as part of its contract with the
         MoD underpins much of its individual research activity (§3).

        All staff can apply for faculty research and impact funds for, e.g., publication subventions,
         seed funding and conference organisation, as well as College-wide competitions, such as
         King’s Together (§3). Particularly important cross-Unit ventures have been funded from
         departmental, faculty and college research funding, including the research centres CGS
         (SSPP funding), KCBH (King’s Together) and SMHC (WS and History).

(iv) Different support for different career stages
     Joining King’s History. All staff have a three-year mentored probationary period, access to
        ring-fenced funds for new staff and are allocated a mentor and a buddy. All new colleagues
        across History, WS and DS have a lower teaching load during their probationary period.

Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         £1,500 of History’s research budget is ring-fenced for new staff in addition to their personal
         allowance. In WS, new staff have conversations on arrival with WS’s Research Lead to plan
         their research trajectory. From 2021, this will be introduced in the History Department.

        ECR support. The Unit pays particular attention to supporting ECR research, including all
         types of contract – open-ended and fixed-term, teaching fellowships, AEP or research
         contracts. All ECRs are allocated mentors and participate in the Unit-wide ECR Research
         Conversations, held biannually, and run by professorial staff with relevant experience. ECR-
         specific Q&A sessions on research are run twice a term. The Unit has supported two King’s
         Early Career Development Fellowships, a three-year position with a reduced teaching load
         and an institutional commitment of support for a major grant application to be held at King’s
         (one such application is currently with the AHRC). The Unit holds an annual Early Career
         Researcher Workshop and a Jobs Bootcamp, involving detailed feedback on draft
         applications and job presentations. Of the 33 TFs and fixed-term AEPs and ECRs leaving
         since 2016–17, 31 have secured follow-on posts: 13 have gone on to research fellowships
         (including three Leverhulme ECRFs); one an ERC Starting Grant; 10 to permanent
         lectureships or other permanent academic positions; and seven to other temporary contracts,
         either at King’s or other institutions. One Research Fellow was awarded a £1.4m UKRI Future
         Leaders Fellowship at King’s, resulting in permanent employment.

        Career progression, recognition and promotion. The Unit has worked hard to make
         promotion and progression transparent and accessible, in line with the faculties’ Academic
         Performance Frameworks (revised 2016 and 2019). Promotion is a standing item on PDRs,
         as are initiatives to promote inclusion. The Unit has a 100% success rate in probation
         reviews. History and WS have a 100% success rate in promotion applications (80% across
         DS): three colleagues have been promoted from Lecturer to Professor since 2014 (2F; 1M);
         five promoted twice (2F; 3M); and 4 ‘double-jumps’ (2F; 2M). High performance of staff is
         rewarded by Recognition Pay, promotion, and nomination for internal and external awards
         (e.g. King’s Awards (Carpenter nominated); King’s Supervisory Excellence Awards
         (Woods); and the RHS’s Jinty Nelson Award for supervisory excellence (Crick)). Mid-career
         researchers are supported through, particularly, faculty workshops on preparing to lead
         larger grants and, at College level, the King’s Leading Researchers Programme, initiated
         in 2017.

(v) D&I embedded in all of the activities and strategies of the Unit
Each department has an ED&I lead, who reports to School and Faculty ED&I officers. Everyone
serving on appointment panels must take Diversity Matters training, and a D&I statement is part of
every promotion application. Staff are encouraged to request reasonable adjustments because of
declared disability, in particular through the PDR process.

        King’s History is acknowledged as a leader in the field of gender equality both within and
         outwith the university: the department was one of the first history departments to be awarded
         Bronze by Athena SWAN in 2017. Woods and Harris received a King’s Award (2017) for
         their work on the submission and an Advance HE Grant to co-author ‘The Impact of Athena
         SWAN on Arts and Humanities Departments’. They have been consulted by at least nine
         other history departments as ‘critical friends’. For Athena Swan, History conducted focus
         groups with academic and professional services staff around stage- and category-related
         concerns, e.g. PGRs, PGTs, maternity leave, paternity and parental leave, early career, mid-
         career and professorial staff. PGRs also sat on the AS working group. The Unit encourages
         a flexible approach to caring and parenting without any negative effect on career progression:
         since 2019, three members of staff (1F; 2M) have taken shared parental leave; of the current
         female professoriate, two worked part-time for prolonged periods following maternity leave.
         There are also twice termly Women’s Lunches, and Gowing and Harris are members of the
         College’s Parent & Carers’ network. Anonymised experiences about gendered issues are
         provided on our VLE for staff to consult, e.g. on returning from maternity and parental leave,
         including examples from same-sex parents.

Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        The Unit’s commitment to ED&I means that it is responsive to wider issues of equality. In
         immediate response to Black Lives Matter, PhD students, academic staff and PGT students
         developed a programme of online events in summer 2020, connecting new research (e.g. by
         Bethencourt) with questions of decolonising the curriculum, and support for efforts for
         greater BME representation among staff. Unit members serve on the RHS ED&I working
         groups (Race & Equality: Harris and Gowing; LGBTQ+: Harris). WS and DS have
         introduced an Equality and Diversity Café, available on YouTube, a new seminar series (New
         Voices), a guide to inclusive conference and network planning, and plan to resubmit their
         School’s Athena Swan bid in 2022. WS has established four working group D&I strands, each
         supported by a £5,000 budget, on: Events and Communications; Gender and Gender
         mainstreaming; Internationalisation and Decolonisation; Disability & COVID. WS has
         launched the network Women in War and International Politics, a network involving female
         staff, students and alumnae.

        ED&I and output selection. According to KCL policy, all Unit members self-ranked their top
         six outputs, which were then read in small groups by the entire Unit following training on REF
         criteria. The resulting gradings were used as a guide by a representative sub-committee to
         identify possible submissions. At least three readers then commented on each output.
         Further opinions were sought if there was disagreement. Those with predicted rankings on
         the 3/4 boundary were identified and reread by a wider panel. The Unit’s output return is
         roughly gender-balanced according to our profile (26%F; 74%M): 34% of the Unit have been
         submitted with one output (26%F; 74%M); 32% with two (28%F; 72%M); 18% with three
         (37%F; 63%M); and 14% with four or five (16%F; 84%M). Given the attention paid to D&I
         across the three main departments in the Unit, we anticipate that our gender and BME
         representation will be significantly better in the next REF than in REF 2021.

(vi) COVID mitigation
The Unit is aware of the impact COVID restrictions have had on research, particularly for colleagues
with caring responsibilities and limited access to space, and those dependent on access to overseas
archives. Both faculties have run COVID-response funds and History has opened up its 2020/21
budget to support staff specifically affected. Finally, through Research Conversations, there is an
evolving record – updated biannually – of the precise ways research and impact within the Unit have
been affected since March 2020.

2.3 Research students – admissions, support and future
(i) PGR recruitment and funding
The Unit has a thriving PhD community, with c.220 students. Since 2015, the History Department
received 337 applications, and enrolled 67.5 students; WS and DS received 461.3 and 154.7
applications, and enrolled 107.7 and 57.8 students respectively. Of this c.220, 93 received full
funding through a combination of the AHRC’s consortium (London Arts and Humanities Partnership
(LAHP)), the ESRC’s London consortium (London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral Training
Partnership (LISS)), the Rick Trainor Awards, the Rausing Fund, through AHRC Collaborative
Doctoral Awards and, in the case of History PhDs in WS and DS, Her Majesty’s Forces Funded
Scholarships and the UK government.

Of these, 75% are full-time in history, just under 50% FT in WS and c.25% in DS. DS has a higher
rate of distance-learning PT PhDs, of whom 28% are self-funded, and 72% funded by overseas
government scholarships or the HM forces scholarships. Our last cohort had a completion rate of
100% across A&H and 82% in SSPP.

(ii) PGR training and development
All three departments have PGR Leads who supervise a broad range of training and research. A
PGR representative liaises with the Lead and sits on Research Student Committees. Training

Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
comprises subject-specific research skills and guidance on engaging other stakeholders by, e.g.,
attending work placements in other sectors, including the civil service and political think tanks. Our
PGR training operates on five levels:

   1. All PGRs receive rigorous inductions from departments, A&H and SSPP faculties, the
      College of Doctoral Studies and UKRI funding consortia, LAHP and LISS. PhD students are
      assigned a ‘buddy’, have regular socials, and attend sessions on giving papers, publishing
      in journals, job applications and working outside academia. In WS and DS, all PGRs belong
      to a Theme. Faculty centres provide other communities: CLAMS runs an interdisciplinary
      PGR reading group. All PGRs are required to present their work at internal seminars as part
      of their upgrade from MPhil to PhD status.

   2. The Unit also provides specialist training and funding to support PGRs. Language courses
      are available through LAHP and LISS, as well as the Modern Language Centre. Courses in
      medieval Latin and palaeography at beginner/advanced levels are also available. LAHP and
      LISS provide a rich array of training courses and Student Placement Schemes. Funds are
      allocated from RISM budgets and faculty schemes for reading groups (e.g. Decolonising
      Histories of Science, Technology and Medicine) and PGR-organised conferences. All PGRs
      can apply for research grants of up to £200, three times a year, from departments and are
      eligible for faculty funding; A&H has provided £60,861 in small grants to History PGRs; since
      2018, SSPP has provided £4,200.

   3. The Unit has developed exchanges and collaborations with other HEIs for PGR students.
      The 10-year agreement with University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill (§3) involves a PGR-
      organised, cross-Atlantic workshop. Murphy co-organises a Humboldt-Universität/KCL/UC
      Berkeley/CEU workshop for PGRs researching the period 1200–1850. KCL is part of the
      Guild of European Research-Intensive Universities’ annual PGR History Summer School and
      a partnership headed by Monash University (Australia), which runs annual PGR workshops
      in the Monash Centre in Prato. History was a founder member of the European Association
      for Political History; the 2019 workshop was largely organised by PGR students.

   4. The Unit gives opportunities for PGRs to develop teaching portfolios by acting as Graduate
      Teaching Assistants (GTAs). Since 2014–15, History has offered 207 GTA contracts to King’s
      PGR students to teach UG modules; WS and DS have offered 253 since 2015–16.

   5. The Unit also offers placements for its PGRs through its Historians in Residence scheme,
      launched in 2016 by Wilson and Woods, particularly in government offices and think tanks.
      Examples include: Angelica Agredo Montealegre to the House of Lords to produce a history
      of British government policy on AI; Tom Kelsey to the Resolution Foundation; and George
      Evans to the Cabinet Office.

(iii) PGR support and supervision
All PGRs are assigned a primary and secondary supervisor and joint supervisions are also
conducted with other London institutions. Supervisory expectations are determined at faculty level,
with fortnightly meetings the norm during the first year. Progress reports are completed biannually,
with training and funding needs identified. All supervisors must take Research Supervision training
every three years to retain familiarity with up-to-date supervisory policies and practice.

(iv) PGR success and placement
Since 2014, 17 PGRs have been awarded major external prizes, including: the IHR’s Pollard Prize
(Estfandiary, Maguire, Duggan); the Roy Porter Prize (Hipperson), the RHS’s David Berry Prize
(Lloyd-Jones), the Leonard Boyle Prize (Duggan). Our students have published – while PhD students
or within a year of completion – articles in the major journals in the field, including English Historical
Review; Historical Journal; History; History Workshop Journal; Historical Research. Two PhD
students were awarded the Elsevier Outstanding Thesis Award (2016, 2020). PGRs have also edited


Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
collections of essays while at King’s, such as Naomi Lloyd-Jones and Maggie Scull’s Four Nations
Approaches to Modern ‘British’ History (Palgrave 2017).

Many of the c.160 students from the Unit who have completed since 2014 have secured positions in
academia and other research institutions. These include:

      Permanent/tenure-track lectureships or above: Francis Grice, McDaniels College, USA;
       Laura Forster, Durham; Michael Humphries, Buckingham; Christian Melby, INN University,
       Norway; Naomi Lloyd-Jones, Hertford College, Oxford; Mads Bomholt Nielsen, Copenhagen;
       Sebastian Felten, University of Vienna; Maggie Scull, Syracuse University, London; Will
       Tullett, Anglia Ruskin.

      Post-doctoral positions: Leverhulme ECRFs: Brian Wallace, Manchester; Dorothée
       Boulanger, Oxford; Anaïs Waag, Lincoln; Past & Present fellowships: Janel Fontaine, Will
       Tullett; Jonah Miller, JRF, Cambridge; Mark Frost, Royal Military College of Canada; Colleen
       Curran, Oxford.

      Other research/teaching positions: Alexander Wilson, Assistant Head of Strategy
       Analysis, the British Army; Cristian Ispir, British Library; David Kohnen, United States Naval
       College.

2.4 Future strategy: staffing, ED&I and PGRs
The Unit’s future staffing strategy responds to areas of student demand, the intellectual rationales of
the new centres, Empires and Decolonisation and Communication and Belief, and will further
connect our PGR community to our academic staff. Particular areas of identified investment include
the early Islamic World and non-Western political thought. ED&I considerations, particularly around
gender, race and ethnicity, will be at the forefront of staffing strategy.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income from external grants
External funding
The Unit’s dynamism and sustainability are demonstrated in its international success in generating
external funding and its internal support, which has significantly increased since 2014. Then, the Unit
reported the award of c.£2.5m; for REF 2021, the Unit has been involved in 117 externally-funded
active research grants worth over £38.9m (where the PI is at King’s), led by 46 individuals from the
Unit (18F, 28M). Of this, over £23m was directly received by the Unit, of which the primary contributor
was the c.£15.6m allocation from SERCO, received by DS through its contract with the MoD. The
remaining c.£7m includes: over £3.3m from the AHRC, ESRC and British Academy; £2.9m from UK-
based charities (The Wellcome Trust and The Leverhulme Trust); and just over £870,000 awarded
from the European Union. The Unit has made 106 applications since 2014, of which 45 were
successful and 53 unsuccessful (eight are pending). Staff are encouraged to apply for grants at all
career stages, with a particular responsibility for developing major collaborative grants at professorial
level (although, of the nine listed below, three were formulated at lecturer level). DS has submitted
fewer applications because the SERCO grant funds its primary research and impact activity (as in
Benbow ICS).

The Unit has been successful in obtaining prestigious awards and grants for individual and
collaborative research. Examples of individual success include:

      Three Philip Leverhulme Prizes (Bew, Green, Taylor, combined value £300,000).

      Three AHRC Leadership Fellowships (Green, Altehenger, Naismith, the latter two left for
       Oxford and Cambridge in 2019, but awarded and developed during their employment by


Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       King’s, combined value £540,574). Green and Hiribarren also received AHRC Follow-On
       Funding, which underpinned their ICS (£80,460).

      Four Leverhulme Research Fellowships (Gowing, O’Flaherty, Sutcliffe, Zia-Ebrahimi:
       £206,019).

      Two Leverhulme Major Fellowships (Bethencourt, Rio: £255,810).

      Network awards: AHRC (Manias); BA’s Tackling the UK’s International Challenges
       (Chaudhuri, Taylor – PI-ed at Sheffield).

Examples of major collaborative projects (with funded awards over £300,000) PI-ed from the Unit
include:

      Wellcome Trust: Renaissance Skin (Welch (PI); Murphy), a five-year (2016–21)
       interdisciplinary project which examines the changing conceptualisation and uses of human
       and animal skin in early modern Europe in an era of ‘increasing global connections and
       scientific innovation’ (£878,939: £632,397.99 to King’s).

      AHRC: The Conqueror’s Commissioners: Unlocking the Domesday Survey of South-Western
       England (Crick (PI)), a three-year (2014–17) interdisciplinary project between King’s and
       Oxford, to develop digital editorial and palaeographical tools with KDL to edit and translate
       Exon Domesday for the illumination of early medieval England (£824,029: £573,874.81 to
       King’s).

      AHRC: The Redress of the Past: Historical Pageants in Britain (Readman (PI); Hutton), a
       three-year (2013–17) interdisciplinary project on historical pageantry in 20th- and 21st-century
       Britain, which analysed pageants as means to understand public history, and created a
       significant public pageantry database with KDL, with significant impact (Readman ICS)
       (£777,579: £474,484 went to King’s, with AHRC Follow-On Funding received in 2019:
       £76,398).

      Leverhulme Trust/Ax:son Johnson Foundation: The Centre for Grand Strategy (Co-
       Directors: Bew, Ryan). Various different projects run from CGS, including the Forum on
       Future British Strategy; the Engelsberg Applied History Programme (£221,605 from Ax:son
       Johnson); the World Order Group (£70,000 from Ax:son Johnson); the £1.5m Leverhulme-
       funded project, ‘Interrogating Visions of a Post-Western World’; and ‘The British Empire and
       the Geopolitics of Human Rights in the Nineteenth Century’ (Ryan, Leverhulme ECRF:
       £47,428); Chaudhuri’s ‘Ceasefires’ (BA: £48,000).

      Wellcome Trust: One Medicine? Investigating human and animal disease, c.1870–2015
       (Woods (PI)), a five-year interdisciplinary project (2012–17) developing an integrated
       approach to human and animal health to meet global contemporary challenges of disease,
       antibiotic resistance, climate change and food insecurity (£354,686).

      Leverhulme Trust: Bees in the Medieval World: Economic, environmental and cultural
       perspectives (Sapoznik (PI)), a three-year (2018–21) archivally rich and comparative
       research project on medieval Europe and North Africa, examining the role of bees and bee
       products in the pre-modern economy, environment and culture (£387,679).

      AHRC: The Making of Charlemagne’s Europe (Rio (PI)), a three-year (2012–14) project
       developing a database with KDL for early medieval documents of around 1,000 charters
       surviving from the reign of Charlemagne (£666,975 to King’s).

      AHRC: The Community of the Realm in Scotland, 1249-1424: history, law and charters in a
       recreated kingdom (Taylor (PI)), a three-year (2017–20) project examining political rhetoric


Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       in medieval Scotland and, with KDL, developing a new model of digital editing, the ‘dynamic
       edition’ (£812,959: £455,689 to King’s).

      The Georgian Papers Programme (GPP) (Director: Burns), a 10-year (2015–25) project to
       digitise, transcribe and interpret the c.450,000 pages in the Royal Archives and Royal Library
       relating to the Georgians. A partnership between the Royal Collection Trust and King’s, it
       also collaborates with the Omohundro Institute of Early American History and Culture, and
       William and Mary in the US. The GPP has been funded through long-term strategic
       investment, including a 0.5 institutional buyout from King’s for Burns.

3.2 Internal infrastructure for supporting research and generating external research income
The strategy for generating research funding, framed by the College’s Research Strategy, is to
ensure that internal investment generates external investment to ensure the sustainability of
longer-term and larger-scale research projects, as well as vitalising and incentivising individual
research endeavour. Departmental, faculty and college infrastructure all work together to support
larger grant income from external sources.

(i) Departmental and Unit infrastructure
      Unit members talk through their plans for grant and research fellowship applications in
       biannual Research Conversations and PDRs, supervised and organised by the Research
       Lead.

      Applications at early stages are discussed in at the Unit’s Grants Greenhouse (run through
       History) and also for WS and DS in their School’s Research Themes. RISM budgets can be
       allocated for ‘seed funding’ purposes.

      Successful applicants are supported in their departments by a Research Administrator and
       a Research Business Support Manager.

(ii) Faculty infrastructure
      Faculty Research Development Managers meet with anyone interested in applying for
        middling and major grants and guide them through the initial process of application. All
        applications with a substantial digital component have a pre-grant analysis by KDL.

      All applications for awards above £50,000 go through Peer Review in both faculties, and,
       from 2020, those for amounts above £250,000 are considered in A&H by the Faculty Peer
       Review College.

      Internal triage competitions at faculty level are run for competitive research competitions,
       where funding bodies have placed limits on the number of applications an institution can
       make (e.g. Philip Leverhulme Prizes).

      A&H offers a substantial range of funding opportunities from seed funds, network grants and
       the Career Development Fund. Since 2014, members of History received over £81,000
       (ranging from £270–£3,000 per person). Historians in WS and DS apply to SSPP, which runs
       two competitive strands (research grant development; research networks) for awards up to
       £10,000.

      Particularly successful examples of the use of internal funding are: Ferente’s faculty-funded
       International Collaboration for developing her BA-funded project, Cultures of Voting; Taylor’s
       seed funding for her AHRC project, Community of the Realm; Ryan, Bew and Chaudhuri’s
       receipt of £10,000 from SSPP for CGS to develop networks with the public and private
       sectors, resulting in their successful Leverhulme grant for a £1.5m doctoral programme.


Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      The Postdoctoral Research Projects Fellowship Scheme, which funds a post-doctoral
       researcher to work on a major grant application with a PI (and to be a named researcher on
       that application). Balbier benefited from this in developing a major international comparative
       project on the rapid rise of Pentecostalism in Africa and North America.

(iii) College infrastructure
      King’s Together. A fund of £1m per annum investing in interdisciplinary work across the
         college. Since 2016, colleagues have made nine successful applications to the scheme,
         totalling £179,171, including the initial financial support for KCBH (led by Edgerton, Harris,
         Maiolo, Vinen). Other examples include: Gainty’s ‘Evidence and Expertise in the Time of
         COVID-19’ (£23,913); Manias’s ‘Cultures of Science’ (£12,307); Hiribarren’s ‘Finding Africa:
         exploring the potential of a continent’s archives’ (£19,215).

      King’s Undergraduate Research Fellowship. This is a college-wide competition enabling
       staff to employ UG Research Fellows over the summer (four to eight weeks). Colleagues
       have made 30 successful applications to this fund, so that UGs can engage in, e.g., Burns’s
       Georgian Papers; Readman’s Redress of the Past; Mathias’s Women and Politics in
       Argentina; and McCartney’s Commemoration of WW1.

      PLuS Alliance. Instituted in 2016, a wide-ranging collaboration between Arizona State
       University, UNSW, Sydney and King’s funds projects and networks around four strategic
       priorities (see 5a). Beneficiaries of this include Sutcliffe (a PLuS fellow, 2016–18) and Bjork,
       whose interdisciplinary project on the experience of migration received PLuS Alliance funding
       and £23,913 from King’s Together, setting up a major collaborative project.

3.3 Research facilities
The Unit has access to particularly specialised archives and other facilities which underpin both our
innovative collaborations in digital humanities and our diverse research specialisms and links with
the government and MoD. These include:

      The Liddell Hart Centre for Military Archives (LHCMA). Crucial to research into modern
       defence policy, the LHCMA was established in 1964 and holds the files of over 800 senior
       defence personnel in office since 1900. The Liddell Hart Archives are also involved in our
       undergraduate and postgraduate curricula as well as supply PGR training, running sessions
       and exhibitions with UG, MA and PGR students. Liddell Hart is also key to the development
       of the Conflict Records Unit by SMHC, mentioned in §1.

      King’s Digital Lab. KDL was established in 2015, and builds on 40 years of digital
       humanities research software engineering in A&H. KDL hosts 14 projects led by Unit
       members (and collaborated on 24 grant applications worth over £16m), involving XR
       experiences and online editions, including Exon Domesday (Crick), PoMS database
       (Carpenter, Hammond, Taylor), the ‘dynamic edition’ (Taylor), Georgian Papers (Burns),
       Redress of the Past (Readman), Room to Breathe (Bjork), Charlemagne (Rio).

      Palaeography & Manuscript Studies. In addition to its endowment of the UK’s only Chair
       in Palaeography and Manuscript studies (Crick, who leads the UK’s only palaeography PhD
       programme), the Unit is home to a large collection of palaeographical reference and research
       works, formed out of the collection of two of the world’s leading palaeographers, Julian Brown
       and A.C. de la Mare. As a highly skilled but minority field, palaeographical knowledge is even
       more crucial as manuscripts are becoming more accessible through the global IIIF scheme.

      The Black Cultural Archives. Located in Brixton and founded in the 1980s, BCA is the
       ‘home of Black British History’. The History Department has a formal arrangement with the
       BCA (Harris, Lidher) to support collaborative initiatives, grant capture and public


Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       engagement programmes, as well as the delivery of a research-focused undergraduate
       module.

      King’s Library; King’s Archive. As well as offering a generally comprehensive collection,
       the Maughan Library houses the Foreign & Commonwealth Office Historical Collection,
       comprising c.80,000 volumes from the early 16th century to the present. All members of
       King’s benefit from access to the Senate House Libraries. In 2018, King’s Archive received
       the David Clarke Collection, a major source for historical pageantry, whose acquisition was
       managed by Readman.

      The Hobson Library (HL). Located at the Defence Academy, the HL is the largest defence
       library in the UK. DS has access through its SERCO contract with the MoD.

The Unit has increased the number of our formal cross-HEI collaborations from one to three during
the current REF period. Other collaborations are detailed in §4.

      The History Department’s exchange with University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill
       continues to thrive and is currently in its 10th year. Involving staff exchange, PGR
       collaborative workshops and research events, the partnership has produced notable
       research outputs (e.g. Burns and Readman’s Walking Histories; Rowe’s War,
       Demobilization and Memory) and, in 2019, began to develop KCL/UNC joint grant
       applications.

      Since 2017, History has partnered with Fudan University (China) to run jointly organised
       annual research workshops, alternating between Fudan and King’s.

      From 2020, the History Department has entered into a new collaboration with Sciences Po
       (Paris), involving UG, MA, PGR and staff exchange, and the delivery of an international dual
       degree in Global and International History.

3.4 Future income and infrastructure strategy
Internal infrastructure has been key to our success in obtaining external research funding, and feeds
into all aspects of our research and impact environment. Fifty-seven of our 195 REF2 outputs have
been supported by external research income, and the SERCO grant sustains all research activity in
DS. All but one of our seven impact case studies received significant levels of external funding. Much
of the activity referenced in §4 has been supported by research income, whether from UKRI (e.g.
Crick, Jones, McCartney, Taylor), Wellcome (Gainty, Murphy, Welch) or King’s schemes, such
as the PLuS Alliance (Bjork, Sutcliffe). Our infrastructure is relatively robust. However, over the
next REF period, we plan to:

      Use our research centres, particularly our new hubs, Empires and Decolonisation and
       Communication and Belief, as intellectual and administrative umbrellas for the development
       of major collaborative research projects.

      Develop, from these centres, applications for doctoral and post-doctoral studentships to
       ensure the long-term sustainability and dynamism of these research priorities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our contributions to the research base, economy and society are unusually varied and wide-ranging,
impacting on government policies, military doctrine, school curricula, national and international public
histories, and local and regional communities in the UK and across the world.




Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.1 National and international collaborations
In addition to the cross-HEI collaborations outlined in §3, the Unit has developed a broad range of
collaborative research activity. As examples:

      SMHC collaborates with the History Department at the Norwegian University of Science and
       Technology in Trondheim, supported by the King’s Global Engagement Funding Scheme,
       and has developed a proposal for a £1.8m research centre on The Global History of
       Resource Extraction.

      The CGS partners with the Forum on Geopolitics at the University of Cambridge to run the
       Engelsberg Applied History Programme. CGS also runs the Maymester programme on the
       origins and future of Anglo-American Grand Strategy with the University of Texas. It is a key
       node in Harvard’s Applied History Network.

      The Laughton Naval Unit has an endowment of £1m and partners with the United States
       Naval College and the John B. Hattendorf Center for Historical Research, involving
       exchanges and collaborative research projects, such as Corbett 100 (co-directed by two
       PGRs and supported by Bew, Lambert).

      Colleagues collaborate with at least 70 HEIs and research institutions through research
       projects, networks and visiting fellowships. Examples of collaborations include:

           o   Ferente’s State and Religion in Medieval Eurasia (National University of Singapore).
           o   Manias’s Popularizing Palaeontology, an interdisciplinary AHRC network, with UCL,
               the Huygens Institute and the North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences.
           o   The Second World War Research Group (Fennell), a global network of scholars,
               including colleagues from the University of KwaZulu-Natal (Durban), Mississippi State
               University and the Royal Military College of Canada.

      At least six collaborative doctoral awards awarded by the AHRC Doctoral Training
       Partnerships. Partners include: The Science Museum, The British Museum, the British
       Library, the Imperial War Museum.

      Partnerships with London-based heritage and archival institutes which provide
       resources for UG modules, such as: our Oral History module, arising out of a partnership with
       CitizensUK, and ‘Black in the Union Jack’, with BCA. Four colleagues also collaborate with
       the Migration Museum (Bjork, Matlin, Sleight, Sutcliffe).

      Visiting fellowships. The Unit has hosted 15 visiting postdoctoral fellows and over 25 PGR
       students (including: The National University of Singapore, Istanbul University, Melbourne,
       Johns Hopkins, Helsinki, Utrecht) and been awarded two BA Global Professorships
       (Singaravélou, Gioe) and a Leverhulme Visiting Professorship (Ogle, Yale).

4.2 Contributions to the research base and sustainability of the discipline
Our first contribution is our research outputs. The Unit has submitted 54 books, of which 15 have
been awarded major prizes. Four were awarded multiple prizes: Bew’s Citizen Clem (including the
Orwell Prize for Political Writing); Green’s A Fistful of Shells (including AHA’s Jerry Bentley Prize;
the BA’s Nayef Al-Rodhan Prize for Global Cultural Understanding); Vinen’s National Service (the
Wolfson Prize; the Templer Medal); Laderman’s Sharing the Burden. Others were for first books,
e.g.: RHS’s Whitfield Prize, the Templer Medal for First Book (twice), Best First Book in American
Studies from the Arthur Miller Institute (twice) and the Istvan Hont Award for Intellectual History.
Others have made major shortlists, including: the Wolfson History Prize; the Cundill History Prize;
Longman-History-Today Book Prize; the RHS Gladstone & Whitfield Prizes. Many books have been
very widely reviewed and disseminated. Books by Bethencourt, Burns & Readman, Edgerton,


Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Heather, Vinen and Zia-Ebrahimi have been translated into Chinese, French, German, Italian,
Korean, Japanese, Persian and Portuguese.

The Unit also makes a significant contribution to the sustainability of the discipline, in particular
through (1) its editorial and review work of scholarship; (2) its support of the current and next
generation; and (3) its role in organising research events and running scholarly societies.

(1) Editorial and review work

      Unit members edit 22 journals and sit on the editorial boards of a further 45, including: History
       Workshop Journal (Gowing), Past & Present (Rio, also Publications Editor; Taylor); Journal
       of Imperial and Commonwealth History (Drayton); Journal of Strategic Studies (Bew, Foley,
       James, Maiolo); Intellectual History Review (Dawson); Middle Eastern Studies (Kelly);
       Global War Studies (Jackson, Kennedy); Contemporary British History (Goodman); Jewish
       History (Sutcliffe); Journal of Ecclesiastical History (Harris); Contemporary European
       History (Brydan, Edgerton).

      Colleagues have reviewed book manuscripts for over 50 presses, including: Oxford
       University Press (39), Cambridge University Press (33); Routledge (24); Princeton University
       Press (13); Palgrave Macmillan (23); Yale (17). Colleagues sit on the editorial boards for at
       least 18 book series, including: Cambridge Imperial and Post-Colonial Studies (Drayton),
       The Past & Present Series (Rio), Histories of Internationalism (Brydan), Monumenta
       Palaeographica Medii Ævi (Crick); Cambridge Texts in the History of Political Thought
       (Dawson).

      Colleagues have peer-reviewed articles for almost 200 academic journals from across the
       world.

(2) Support of the next generation of scholars

      Colleagues have examined theses at nearly 70 HEIs, including: the University of the Free
       State, South Africa, the Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais (Brazil), the University of
       Hong Kong, the University of Singapore, Université de Paris (I, IV, VIII, X, XIII), as well as
       Cambridge (26 theses); Oxford (17); QMUL (21); UCL (13); York (12); Birkbeck (17);
       Birmingham (13).

      Colleagues have delivered national and international interdisciplinary training courses,
       including the London International Palaeography Summer School and the Autumn School for
       Medieval Languages and Culture at the Henri Pirenne Institute for Medieval Studies in Ghent.

      Colleagues have served on over 50 major grant and fellowship boards. Rio, Green, and
       Readman are part of the AHRC’s Peer Review College, with Readman serving as a Strategic
       Reviewer, working on COVID-specific funding calls in 2020 and acting as a panel member of
       the inaugural AHRC/Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (DFG) partnership (for which he
       was commended for ‘outstanding contributions’). Stockwell was part of a delegation to
       Moscow in 2019 to secure the AHRC-Russian Federation for Basic Research Collaboration.
       Colleagues have reviewed for: the European Research Council (Crick); the Leverhulme
       Trust; DFG, among others. Kennedy is a member of Canada’s Social Sciences and
       Humanities Research Council.

      Colleagues serve on doctoral and post-doctoral fellowship committees, including the
       IHR’s doctoral studentship committees (Gowing, Harris, Morgan-Owen, Sapoznik,
       Taylor), and P&P’s post-doctoral fellowships (Rio, Taylor).




Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(3) Organisation of seminar series and scholarly societies, which often reach into non-
academic communities

      Since 2014, colleagues have run over 70 conferences and workshops at King’s and almost
       60 conferences and workshops elsewhere, including: Cambridge, Glasgow, Greenwich,
       Manchester, Oxford, SOAS, UCL, York, the Joint Services Command; internationally:
       Amsterdam, Leiden, Universidade Federal da Bahia, Salvador (Brazil), Kwame Nkrumah
       University of Science and Technology (Ghana), Universidade Lúrio (Mozambique).

      The research centres SMHC, KCBH, CGS, CLAMS, CHoSTM and the Second World War
       Research Group host seminars, annual conferences and lectures, such as the Grand
       Strategy Lecture (CGS, first given by Margaret Macmillan), the Ben Pimlott Lecture (KCBH);
       the Kass Lecture (CHoSTM). SMHC has hosted 94 events, involving c.3,200 physical
       attendees, including five annual public lectures. The Unit also supports one of the oldest
       continuous PGR conferences, Revealing Records.

      Colleagues are invested in the world-leading IHR seminars, and co-convene 20 of the
       IHR’s 65 seminars, while PGRs co-convene a further three, including: History of Political
       Ideas (Dawson, Jennings, O’Flaherty); North American History (Balbier, Edling, Matlin);
       Imperial and World History (Drayton, Green, Stockwell, Wilson); International History
       (Hughes, Kandiah); Earlier Middle Ages (Crick, Heather, Rio); European History, 1150-
       1500 (Carpenter, Ferente, Taylor); British History in the 17th century (Redmond); Women’s
       History Seminar (Gowing); Military History (Lambert, Philpott); Britain at Home and Abroad
       (Condos, Edgerton, Lidher).

      Colleagues serve on and/or lead boards and act as trustees of over 75 scholarly societies,
       commissions, projects and museums. As examples: Harris is Honorary Secretary of the
       RHS, a major role in the national charitable leader of the discipline; Readman is on the RHS
       Council; Burns is a Trustee and Council Member of the Historical Association and was
       Council member and VP Education of the RHS. Green was Honorary Treasurer of the African
       Studies Association of the UK (2014–20) and was lead developer of the ASA’s writing
       workshops for early career researchers in Africa. Murphy is Treasurer for the Society of
       Renaissance Studies and sits on the Board of Directors for the Renaissance Society of
       America. Todd is Chair of The Rothschild Archive’s Academic Advisory Committee; Welch
       is a Trustee of the Victoria and Albert Museum.

4.3 Contributions to the economy and society
Our rich and varied relationships with research users, beneficiaries and audiences fall into four
main categories, all offering broad avenues for cross-sector collaborations and allowing our research
to make meaningful contributions to diverse publics outside academia.

(1) Museums, exhibitions, databases and archives
The Unit sees collaboration with museums and other local and national heritage institutions as key
to shaping public narratives of the past, as demonstrated in three of our ICS: Carpenter, Green &
Hiribarren and Readman. Since 2014, at least 38 Unit members have collaborated with c.73
heritage institutions. Crick, collaborating with the Friends of Exeter Cathedral, organised a free
exhibition of Exon Domesday with the Museum of Somerset, attracting over 13,000 visitors. As
examples beyond our ICS:

      Collaborations with heritage institutions leading directly to policy change. On the basis
       of his book Racisms (translated into Portuguese in 2015), Bethencourt curated an exhibition
       in 2017 on Racism and Citizenship at Padrão dos Descobrimentos (Lisbon). Intended to
       challenge what Bethencourt described as a ‘racist narrative that denied citizenship to
       significant minorities’, it attracted c.60,000 visitors, including the Portuguese President, and
       received national and international media coverage, leading to Bethencourt calling for the

Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       introduction of anti-racist education in schools. In 2020, the National Council for Education
       recommended the introduction of such a programme, directly citing and quoting
       Bethencourt’s Racisms as historical justification.

      Research significantly affecting an exhibition’s content and reception. Lambert was
       the lead academic for the 2014 National Maritime Museum’s Forgotten Fighters: the First
       World War at Sea (which received c.10,000 ‘unique visitor interactions’ a month). Lambert
       was responsible for the exhibition’s global presentation of the war instead of a narrower one,
       on British and North Atlantic waters. Harris’s excavation of the 1960s’ debates among
       Catholics about contraception led to her collaboration with the composer Ion Marmarinos and
       the visual designer Stephanie Bickford-Smith on the installation Period Piece, exhibited at
       the Science Gallery in a 2017 series on Blood. Reported in the media for challenging taboos
       around menstruation, Period Piece attracted the highest number of visitors of the Blood
       series.

      Collaboration leading to substantial changes in public perception. Many collaborations
       with museums, libraries and archives were part of significant changes in perception about a
       historical period (e.g. Crick’s role on the Advisory Board of the British Library’s 2019 Anglo-
       Saxon Kingdoms, which attracted over 100,000 visitors). Jones collaborated with Wunderbar
       (Newcastle) and Daily Life Ltd (London) on the award-winning 2018 installation Great & Tiny
       War. Described by its organisers as speaking directly to marginalised groups, the exhibition
       centred on the psychological trauma caused by war (Jones’s research) and linked it directly
       to current difficulties, particularly in the post-industrial north. Through extensive media
       coverage, Great & Tiny War reached c.4m people.

      Archival creation. The Unit, often through its collaborations with KDL, has created several
       datasets which are key resources for academic and public history, from the UK to China to
       the global south. In addition to those listed in §1, Hiribarren has created WordPress websites
       for the National Archives of Congo-Brazzaville, the Ivory Coast and Nigeria, raised £28,000
       to fix the roof of the Nigerian National Archives and sits on the Board of the UCLA
       Endangered Archives Programme. Green worked with The National Centre for Arts and
       Culture in The Gambia, obtaining a grant from the BL Endangered Archives Programme for
       a significant digitisation project. Although now returned with Oxford, Altehenger’s online
       curated archive of The Mao Era in Objects was conceived at King’s and developed with KDL.

(2) School and adult education
Our research has helped to reshape history as it is taught and received in secondary education, as
demonstrated in Green & Hiribarren’s ICS. The Unit constantly engages with schools: at least 31
Unit members regularly give school talks and provide resources. As Vice-President of the RHS’s
Education Policy, Burns worked with the HA on GCSE reform, organising a 2018 event on history
curricula, attended by all awarding bodies in England and Wales. In 2018, History established King’s
History Teachers Network (Dillon, Sutcliffe), running masterclasses and events, and often
collaborating with the Schools History Project. The Unit has also made educational intervention
through:

      Our collaborative research projects: GPP (Burns), The Making of Charlemagne's Europe
       (Rio), The Magna Carta Project (Carpenter) all developed materials used in schools. The
       Charlemagne database is used by A-level students in England and also by schools in
       Canberra (AUS).

      Wider grass-roots activity, including: contributing to A-level textbooks (Dillon for Edexcel’s
       A-level coursebook Nationalism, Dictatorship and Democracy; Brydan’s Exploring and
       Teaching Twentieth-Century History for the HA); creatively engaging local schools in the
       wider environment of London (e.g. the faculty-funded Redesigning Trafalgar Square
       (Hellawell, Sutcliffe and Brydan, with Atwal and Maguire), imagining how pupils would
       redesign this public space to reflect different narratives of history); and showing school-age

Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       children how new technologies create new experiences of the past (e.g. Bjork’s
       interdisciplinary development of a prototype XR experience in Room to Breathe).

      The establishment of, from 2018, an annual Guardian Masterclass – ‘A weekend history
       Degree’ – organised by Dawson, involving 20 colleagues from History and open to members
       of the public (200–400 attendees).

(3) Shaping public histories through media appearances and collaboration with the arts
The capacity to shape wider narratives through interventions in and collaborations with the media
and arts sectors have been an enduring part of our research environment, exemplified by Bew,
Carpenter and Edgerton’s ICS. This activity includes:

      Writing trade books. The Unit has published 12 trade books, reaching wide audiences:
       Carpenter, Magna Carta (Book of the Year, TLS, Guardian), Henry III (Book of the Year,
       Spectator); Bew, Citizen Clem (A Book of the Year in, e.g., The New Yorker, The Times) and
       Castlereagh (A Book of the Year in, e.g., The Wall Street Journal, The Spectator); Edgerton,
       Rise and Fall of the British Nation (Book of the Year: The New Statesman, Prospect); Green,
       Fistful of Shells (Book of the Year: Observer, Wall Street Journal); Lloyd, Passchendaele;
       Philpott, Attrition; Vinen, National Service (Sunday Times Top 10 bestseller); and Long ’68;
       Wilson, India Conquered.

      At least 25 colleagues write regularly for major newspapers, magazines and supplements,
       including The Times, The Guardian, The New Statesman (to which Bew is a contributor),
       The Daily Telegraph, The LRB, the TLS, The Financial Times, The Economist, The New York
       Times, The Observer, Dissent, Washington Post, BBC History Magazine, History Today and
       non-English language publications, including Le Monde, L’Expansion, Público (in which
       Bethencourt has a column), Libération (where Hiribarren maintains a blog), Infobae
       (Mathias).

      At least 37 Unit members have appeared on and/or hosted at least 170 radio and podcast
       shows, including In Our Time (Carpenter, Dawson, Jennings, Rowe, Sutcliffe), Making
       History, History Hit, We Have Ways Of Making You Talk, Front Row, Women’s Hour, Free
       Thinking, The History of Ideas, Channel 4 News Podcast, France 24. Redmond was a
       contributor on the 2019 R4 series The Invention of Britain. Carpenter appears regularly on
       BBC Radio. Jones was lead collaborator on and appeared in the R4 series: In Search of
       Ourselves: A History of Psychology and the Mind (2014).

      Creating our own platforms. In 2017, Rio and Taylor produced and hosted Medieval
       History for Fun and Profit, which had over 100,000 downloads. WS hosts its own podcast
       showcasing departmental research; Hiribarren’s blog for Libération, Africa4, has received
       over 2.2m unique visits since 2013. Ten colleagues have over 3,000 Twitter followers
       (Chaudhuri, Dawson, Edgerton, Gowing, Foley, Fox, Morgan-Owen, Maiolo, Naismith,
       Singaravélou), as do CGS, CLAMS, SMHC and departments History, WS (46,500), DS
       (14,100).

      Theatre and the arts. At least 16 Unit members have worked with the theatre and the arts:
       Burns and the GPP collaborated with the actor Michael Jibson (George III in Hamilton) for
       an exhibition of George III’s original papers, subsequently put online, and reported in The
       Daily Telegraph (2018). Murphy and Welch collaborated on Carnivore, a dance piece
       inspired by Renaissance Skin. Gainty’s collaborator on Healthy Scepticism produced the
       short Box, currently shortlisted for several major film awards. Jones was the psychological
       consultant on Nobody’s Home, performed in the UK and US, on veterans suffering from
       PTSD. Matlin provided a historical briefing for the NT’s 2015 production of August Wilson’s
       Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom, showing the intersections of racism and homophobia.



Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Television. Around 20 colleagues have appeared in or advised on history documentaries
       and programmes. Examples include: Dillon, Hitler’s Circle of Evil (2018); Goodman, Spy
       Wars (2019); Maerker and Burns, George III – the Genius of the Mad King (2017);
       Hiribarren on Boko Haram (2015); Fox, The Great War in Numbers (2017); Wilson on David
       Olusoga’s The Forgotten Empire (2020). Jackson has appeared on seven programmes,
       including Cunk on Britain (2018), David Olusoga’s The British Empire: Heroes and Villains
       (2017), and was an adviser on Black and British (2016).

      Unit members have been especially prominent in enlarging the national public memory of
       the two world wars to (1) retell the real effects of war and hardship on mental health
       (Jones); (2) complicate the narratives of incompetent leadership (Jones, McCartney); (3)
       highlight the diverse experience of localities (Jackson); and (4) represent Britain’s national
       effort within an imperial and global perspective (Barr, Fennell, Jackson). Jones was the
       consultant for the 2018 BBC documentary World War 1’s Secret Shame: Shell Shock
       (audience: over 2m), resulting in the inclusion of psychological injury in other programmes,
       such as Gary Lineker, My Grandad’s War (2019). McCartney’s research was instrumental in
       shaping Chloe Dewe Mathew’s transformative photography exhibition on desertion, Shot at
       Dawn, first shown at the Tate Modern (2014–15). Finally, the Unit is writing the history of the
       two world wars: Penguin has commissioned Lloyd and Fennell to write three-volume
       histories of the first and second world wars respectively.

(4) Making significant interventions in government and military education, policy and law
The Unit supports a unique vein of work, demonstrating the importance of longue-durée history to
modern politics, diplomacy and the UK military (exemplified in Bew, Edgerton, Goodman and
Benbow’s ICS). King’s research has led to changes in government policy around intractable issues,
including: the Irish border in Brexit (Bew); the development of new governmental training resulting
from high-profile governmental failings and oversights (Goodman); and naval doctrine (Benbow).
The Unit makes such frequent and significant interventions through:

      Co-ordination of activity through existing research centres and groups, in particular CGS,
       History & Policy, and the Strand Group. CGS launched the Forum on Future British
       Strategy, in which academics discuss strategy with politicians, security experts,
       policymakers, the military and leading journalists, including: the Director General, Security
       Policy, MoD; the Foreign Affairs Editor of The Times; the UK’s National Security Advisor. At
       least six colleagues have organised History & Policy events, including Guyot-Réchard’s
       with FCO, DFIF, DoD and the French Ministry of Defence in 2018 to establish common
       expectations between policymakers and historians to encourage more historically informed
       decision-making on South Asian politics and international relations.

      A close relationship with the Foreign & Commonwealth Office and, streamlined through
       DS, institutional connections with the UK military and its international partners. At least
       10 Unit members have given talks to the FCO, including Bridge, Carpenter (ICS), Kennedy
       and Laderman; Chaudhuri is director of the FCO’s Diplomatic Academy of South Asia. DS
       staff influence military doctrine: they educate military officers, are present at briefings, provide
       reports and take military officers on staff rides: Fennell’s information on the German advance
       through seemingly impenetrable forested areas on a 2018 staff ride resulted in the Infantry
       Battle School re-writing their training guidelines and doctrine for fighting in such areas.

      Maintaining international policy-centred connections. Goodman collaborates with the
       EU’s Intelligence and Situation Centre, Germany’s Bundesnachrichtendienst, the Polish
       Military Intelligence Directorate and the Austrian Ministry of the Interior to develop a pan-
       European professional educational intelligence programme, based on ‘the Goodman-
       Omand’ approach (ICS). As Director of Carnegie India, Chaudhuri has, since 2018,
       overseen its policy and international media interventions. Drayton’s research on the legacies
       of British colonial rule for Caribbean laws led to: collaboration with senior members of the
       Caribbean Court of Justice; the establishment of a working committee for the reform of legal

Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       education; and proposals for the digital repatriation of archives to provide the historical
       context for colonial era legislation and its legacies.

The Unit’s infrastructure for and commitment to outward-facing research allows it to respond quickly
to new challenges. Examples include: Jones and Gainty’s contributions to the coverage on COVID
(The Guardian, Lancet Psychiatry, The Independent, The Times, Washington Post); Mathias and
Carpenter’s on authoritarianism, populism and the rule of law; Edgerton’s on Britain’s post-Brexit
future. Gainty’s Wellcome-funded Healthy Scepticism, on tensions around scientific knowledge, has
developed a sub-strand on ‘Evidence and Expertise in COVID-19’, a direct response to the
pandemic.

4.4 Future strategy for collaboration and contributions
Since 2014, the Unit has established itself as a leading centre of history in the public sphere. Our
future strategy is to strengthen our connections with our London heritage partners, as well as with
government, policymakers, the military and the mainstream media to demonstrate and advocate for
the importance of historical research to understanding and conceptualising a rapidly changing world.




Page 22
