Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: A2 Public Health, Health Services and Primary Care

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context

 1.1.1 Overview
 Warwick Medical School (WMS) (Dean, Kumar) provides a dynamic and enterprising
 environment for world-class research in the UoA A2 area of Public Health, Health Services and
 Primary Care. Building on strong REF2014 performance, our research has continued to grow
 through investment in people in areas of excellence and partnerships to deliver our strategic
 aims, as described below.

 Established as a graduate-entry medical school in 2000, our strategy has been to build
 internationally-renowned expertise in design, evaluation, and implementation of healthcare
 interventions, including behavioural, medical, technological and organisational interventions. We
 deliberately focus on challenging settings, including emergency and pre-hospital care, trauma
 surgery, community settings such as residential and nursing homes, or low/middle-income
 countries. Recently, this has included COVID-19 work (see Section 4.2.7)

 Our mission remains to be a leading UK medical school, internationally renowned for our
 excellent and significant research, with activities focussed on maintaining and improving health
 locally, nationally and internationally. This aligns with the mission and outstanding
 multidisciplinary research environment of the University of Warwick (UoW) (REF5a-1.0, 2.1).

 We have maintained and built our international reputation for applied health services research
 excellence by focussing on four strategic priority areas (Box 1). Our impact case studies
 illustrate how research in these areas, underpinned by excellent methodological and theoretical
 work, enables us to publish in highest quality journals and ensure that this informs and changes
 healthcare.



                                  Box 1: Strategic priority areas

                       Clinical trials of complex interventions
                       Evidence synthesis and health research methodology
                       Health services research and mental health
                       Global health




 1.1.2 Major strategic developments
 Notable achievements and specific strategic developments during the review period within each
 priority area are described in Section 1.3. Major highlights include:

       Continuing research income growth by ~25%, including two substantial EU FP7 projects,
        17 major (> £1M) multicentre clinical trials, and two major NIHR Global Health projects.


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Growth in Warwick Clinical Trials Unit (head, Perkins) to the largest number of NIHR
        studies of any UK CTU and the second largest NIHR income, now established as a
        separate division within WMS alongside the Division of Health Sciences.

       Growing global health strength and establishment of Warwick international Centre for
        Applied Health Research and Delivery (W-CAHRD) including a £6M NIHR Global Health
        Unit focused on slum health (founding director, Lilford; acting director, Oyebode).

       Continued demonstrable improvement of gender equality and inclusivity leading to an
        Athena SWAN Silver award.

       Sustained capacity-building through internal promotions, maintaining good gender
        balance (~45% independent researchers and professors female).

       Strengthening links with local NHS including 7 new clinical Professor posts, along with
        Associate professors and 18 NIHR Research Capability Funding (RCF) funded posts,
        establishing new and effective partnerships outside traditional clinical academic models.

       Engagement with health services research locally and nationally through NIHR
        Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) and
        Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) (director: Lilford, deputy director: Clarke, theme
        leads: Lasserson, Singh).

 1.1.3 Impact and collaboration with external bodies
 In all four priority areas, we maximise the impact of our research, changing healthcare policy and
 practice at local, national and international levels (see Section 4.2). To achieve this, we work
 with NHS trusts and local authorities within our region, and national and international bodies
 such as NICE and the World Health Organisation, patient groups, and specialist societies such
 as the Resuscitation Council and British Orthopaedic Association. Important roles in these
 organisations held by many of our staff help ensure we deliver the highest priority research with
 maximum possible impact on health and healthcare delivery. Impact activities such as
 engagement with external bodies are facilitated through University schemes and encouraged
 through annual review and workload management and recognised in promotion criteria (see
 Section 2.1).

 Our research strength is achieved by recruiting and retaining excellent people who receive full
 support and mentoring, enabling them to achieve their best (see Section 2). We have
 intentionally built our divisional organisational structure to actively encourage work between
 academic disciplines, including embedding clinical academics in methodological groups,
 enabling them to flourish. Our impact case studies show how we work closely across disciplines,
 focussing on disease areas where we produce high-impact work of international excellence.

 1.1.4 Setting within University and local healthcare environment
 The University of Warwick creates a lively collaborative research culture through its strong
 departments, network of research centres and programme of Global Research Priorities (GRPs),
 including Health, specifically established to encourage interdisciplinary research (REF5a-2.9.1).
 WMS forms a single department situated within the Faculty of Science, Engineering and
 Medicine (chair, Meyer) (REF5a-1.6). Whilst providing a high level of research autonomy for
 WMS, this enables faculty-level strategic development such as the Health GRP, facilitating


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaboration with other departments and within WMS essential to our interdisciplinary research.
 We also have strong and successful partnerships with our local NHS trusts, specifically
 University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire (UHCW) and University Hospitals Birmingham
 (UHB) (see Section 4). These collaborations have allowed us to appoint to posts of mutual value
 and invest in integration with frontline clinicians. An established base at UHCW includes WCTU
 staffing and facilities, actively engaging with frontline clinical staff to maximise research impact.
 WCTU staff are a regular presence at UHB following the same model. UHCW has an active and
 successful pathway for developing clinical academic careers in Nursing/Allied Health
 Professional roles and our high-achieving clinical academics include nurses, physiotherapists,
 paramedics, psychologists and midwives, amongst a range of professions. This allows us to
 deliver high quality research with broad scope and high impact on patient care.

 1.2 Unit structure

 1.2.1 Overall unit structure
 Warwick UoA A2 staff are predominantly based in the Division of Health Sciences and
 Warwick Clinical Trials Unit, two of the three divisions of WMS, the other being the Division of
 Biomedical Sciences (DoBMS), mostly returned to UoA A1.

 1.2.2 Warwick Clinical Trials Unit (WCTU)
 WCTU (head, Perkins), established in 2005 with full UKCRC registration in 2007, has ~140 staff
 housed in a facility purpose-built in 2009. Internationally renowned for our expertise in
 development and delivery of large multicentre pragmatic clinical trials, we currently manage 41
 trials, and are the largest CTU in the UK in terms of number of NIHR studies (currently 37) and
 second largest by NIHR funding (currently £6.3M/year). By embedding high-achieving clinical
 staff in a methodologically successful unit we have broken down traditional barriers to delivery of
 trials in challenging and complex environments. We are proud of our pioneering achievements in
 delivering trials in especially difficult settings, such the national ambulance network
 (PARAMEDIC, PARAMEDIC2), residential and nursing homes (OPERA), community dementia
 care (DAPA), ventilator support for COVID-19 patients (RECOVERY-RS), post-COVID chronic
 disease (REGAIN) and very large trials (including PreFIT, a >9,000 patient falls prevention trial).
 RECOVERY-RS was directly commissioned by the UK Chief Medical Officers due to WCTU’s
 recognised excellence in this area. We have developed large clinical trials networks in
 specialities traditionally under-represented in academic medicine, including Emergency and
 Critical Care, Trauma and Orthopaedics, Physiotherapy, Maternity Care and General Practice.
 Trials in all these specialities have had demonstrable impact on the delivery of care nationally
 and internationally. With particular success in developing senior academic careers across a
 broad range of health professions, our chief investigators include:

       Physiotherapists (AIR, ARTISAN, SARAH, DAPA trials)
       Nurses and midwives (SELECT-D trial)
       Behavioural psychologists (I-WOTCH trial)
       Paramedics (PARAMEDIC, PARAMEDIC2 trials).
       Surgeons (RACER, START:REACTS, SAFE-TKR, FASHION trials)
       Anaesthetists and critical care consultants (RECOVERY-RS, PARAMEDIC,
        PARAMEDIC2, REGARD trials)
       General practitioners (OPERA, Pre-Fit, CHESS trials)




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have numerous high impact papers in the highest-ranking medical journals including New
 England Journal of Medicine (NEJM) (3 papers), Lancet (3 papers), Journal of the American
 Medical Association (JAMA) (3 papers) and British Medical Journal (BMJ) (2 papers) since 2014.
 PEDRO ranked two WCTU trials (SARAH and FASHION) in the five most impactful trials 2014-
 2019. PARAMEDIC was declared Society of Clinical Trials International trial of the year in 2014,
 and the NEJM paper by Perkins reporting PARAMEDIC2 evaluating use of adrenaline in out-of-
 hospital cardiac arrest was rated by Altmetric in the top 30 most-mentioned scholarly articles of
 2018 in all disciplines.

 1.2.3 The Division of Health Sciences (DoHS)
 DoHS (head, Gill) focusses on design and evaluation of interventions, including behavioural,
 technological and organisational interventions, and application of knowledge in these areas to
 change clinical practice and health outcomes. Our research includes applied health services
 research, methodological development and evidence synthesis, and our expertise in quantitative
 and qualitative methods informs understanding of physical health, mental wellbeing, social care
 and nursing, and patient and public involvement in research. DoHS also includes,

       £31M NIHR CLAHRC and £9M NIHR ARC West Midlands, established at WMS to
        improve health service management and support,
       £8M NIHR Technology Assessment Review group, Warwick Evidence,
       W-CAHRD conducting research in low and middle-income countries,

 as well as being part of the Warwick-led NIHR Health Protection Research Units (HPRU) in
 Genomics and Enabling Data (theme leads, McCarthy and Staniszewska) and in
 Gastrointestinal Infections (theme leads, McCarthy and Oyebode).

 1.2.4 Unit research groups
 WCTU and DoHS comprise a number of focussed research groups contributing to our four
 strategic priority areas. This administrative structure facilitates support for research staff,
 including early career researchers (ECRs) (see Section 2) whilst enabling interdisciplinary work.
 Our researchers often work across groups to innovate; some key examples are given in Box 2.

 Each group arranges a series of research meetings, often organised and/or chaired by ECRs,
 held in WMS and partner hospitals. These provide opportunities for interactions between staff
 within groups, spark new research ideas and facilitate development of grant applications. They
 also provide a friendly and supportive environment for informal peer review and refinement of
 research proposals, particularly those led by ECRs and other junior staff.

 1.3 Research and impact strategy

 1.3.1 Overall research and impact strategy
 Our strategy, aligning with the aims in Section 1.1.1, is to pursue excellent research in applied
 health sciences which impacts healthcare policy and practice, locally, nationally and
 internationally, underpinned by world-leading research methodology and theory. To achieve
 this, we have developed world-class expertise in the substantive areas in which we focus, and
 internationally excellent methodology research. Specifically, our strategy has been to continue
 to grow strength in our four strategic priority areas as described in the remainder of this section,
 through recruitment and retention of excellent staff (see Section 2).



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                           Box 2: Examples of cross-group working

          START:REACTS, an adaptive trial of a new surgical procedure and
          RECOVERY-RS, a multi-arm multi-stage trial of respiratory support in COVID-
          19 both utilise WCTU clinical and trials delivery expertise (Perkins, Metcalfe,
          Lall, Underwood) and DoHS innovative statistical methodology (Parsons,
          Stallard).

          I-Wotch, a trial of opioid treatment for chronic pain, combines WCTU RCT and
          clinical expertise (Sandhu, Underwood) with DoHS specialist qualitative and
          process evaluations input (Seers)

          Development and evaluation of the ReSPECT (Recommended Summary Plan
          for Emergency Care and Treatment) process by with DoHS medical ethics
          (Slowther) and WCTU clinical (Perkins) expertise.



 1.3.2 Clinical trials of complex interventions
 (Bick, Brown, Bruce, Couper, Griffin, Hoad, Kearney, Lall, Metcalfe, Nolan, Parsons,
 Parsons, Perkins, Playford, Sandhu, Smyth, Underwood, Wall, Yeung)

 Clinical trials in emergency and critical care, trauma and orthopaedics and rehabilitation have
 been a major focus of WCTU since its creation in 2005 and remain a particular strength and
 important strategic priority. We continue to appoint new PIs into these core fields (Metcalfe,
 Kearney, Wall, Yeung, Couper, Smyth, Sandhu since REF2014).

 By embedding clinicians directly into methodological teams, we bring together clinical and
 methodological expertise, enabling us to deliver the high-impact large-scale pragmatic clinical
 trials in challenging settings in which we specialise. We have established national research
 networks covering almost all UK acute NHS trusts across our portfolio. Impact case studies in
 emergency and critical care and orthopaedic surgery demonstrate the major changes in NHS
 practice and savings arising from our work.

 Our WCTU structure (established by Perkins in 2017 when WCTU became its own division),
 emphasises shared working between clinical academics, statisticians, health economists,
 qualitative researchers and operational teams, and enables truly collaborative work without
 artificial departmental boundaries hampering delivery of large and complex research projects.
 Completed trials have led to numerous high impact publications in the most prestigious journals
 and our Impact case studies demonstrate that our impact on healthcare has been widespread
 and demonstrable, including for example a substantial change towards the use of simpler
 cheaper surgery for wrist fractures following the DRAFFT trial, saving the NHS £2M/year.
 Through our highly successful strategy of investing in our strengths, WCTU studies are the
 major contributor of RCF funding to our partner NHS trusts. This leads to further investments
 from trusts into WCTU, improving our partnership with the trusts and their staff.

 Major strategic developments for this group:



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           Expansion of WCTU to become a division within WMS.
           New professorial appointments in Resuscitation medicine (Nolan), Neurological
            rehabilitation (Playford), Maternity care (Bick), Trials methodology (Lall).
           Promotion to professorship (Bruce, Kearney).
           Strengthening of ongoing collaborations including those with Oxford, (UK STAR,
            CORKA, WOLFF and PROVE trials, SCORE evidence review), Leeds (KARDS trial),
            Monash, Australia (Lancet Back Pain series) and in the USA and Canada
            (STABILITY2, $4M NIH/CIHR)

 1.3.3 Evidence Synthesis and Health research methodology
 (Andronis, Bouliotis, Clarke, Dunn, Grove, Hamameeh Al Wattar, Hiller, Kimani, Madan,
 Marshall, Mason, McCarthy, Mistry, Parashar, Rees, Stallard, Sutcliffe, Taylor-Phillips,
 Warwick)

 Covering research in Evidence synthesis, Health economics, Epidemiology and Medical
 statistics, our strategy in this area has been to consolidate existing strengths through the
 appointment of 2 new Professors in Epidemiology (McCarthy) and Health economics (Mason),
 with further Professorial appointments in each of Statistics and Public Health planned.

 We continue to host a NIHR Technology Assessment Review (TAR) team, Warwick
 Evidence, undertaking evidence synthesis on clinical and cost-effectiveness of healthcare
 interventions for NIHR HTA on behalf of policy makers including NICE. One of nine TAR
 Teams in the UK facilitating NICE decision-making, this supports improvements in healthcare
 delivery and reducing NHS drug costs through rigorous appraisal.

 The Communicable Disease Control Evidence and Epidemiology group (lead, McCarthy) is a
 co-funded and staffed research and training unit with Public Health England and Health
 Education England, and a strategic research partner with the national syndromic surveillance
 centre. We provide research to support public health (health protection) and academic public
 health training, and contribute to the HPRUs in Genomic and Enabling Data and Gastrointestinal
 Infections (McCarthy leading themes in each).

 The Centre for Health Economics at Warwick (CHEW) (lead, Mason), with a team of 15
 health economists ranging from Research Associate to Professor, undertakes methodological
 research and collaborates widely within WMS and externally. We conduct economic
 evaluations alongside randomised clinical trials and systematic reviews of health economic
 evidence, leading to high impact publications in journals including Lancet and BMJ.

 The medical statistics group (lead, Stallard) has world-leading expertise in adaptive clinical
 trial design. This underpins methodological contributions to clinical trials in WCTU and other
 groups at Warwick and elsewhere, including multi-arm or adaptive trials in surgery and
 neurodegenerative diseases. Dunn leads WCTU cancer trials statistics. With research
 interests in the evaluation of prognostic and predictive factors, we are running NIHR funded
 practice-changing clinical trials with collaborators including Cambridge, UCL and Birmingham
 and have published in journals including Lancet, Annals of Oncology and NEJM.

 We host the NIHR Research Design Service (RDS) for the West Midlands Warwick hub
 providing methodological expertise for local health and social care researchers (hub leads



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Stallard and Rees, and including Clarke, Griffiths, Kimani, Mason, Parsons, Sandhu,
 Seers).

 Major strategic developments for this group:

       Establishment of Communicable Disease Control Evidence and Epidemiology group
        (lead, McCarthy)
       Creation of an interdisciplinary cross-departmental University research centre in Health
        economics (lead, Mason)
       Strategic expansion of research strength in core methodologies, including new
        professorial appointments in Health economics (Mason) and Epidemiology (McCarthy)
        and additional senior statistician posts funded by NHS partner trusts
       Promotions to professorships in Health economics (Madan), Medical statistics (Warwick)
        and Population health (Taylor-Phillips)

 1.3.4 Health services research and mental health
 (Atherton, Birchwood, Boardman, Briggs, Crawford, Dale, Draper, Fitzmaurice, Furtado,
 Giacco, Griffiths, Haywood, Lasserson, Meyer, Nanton, Ocean, Roberts, Schmidtke,
 Seers, Singh, Slowther, Staniszewska)

 This research theme includes mental health, nursing, primary care, patient experience and
 ethics research, and focusses on work that improves health and health service management
 locally, nationally and internationally.

 The group includes the NIHR-funded West Midlands Collaboration for Leadership in
 Applied Health Research (CLAHRC) (Director, Lilford), and Applied Research
 Collaboration (ARC) West Midlands (Director, Lilford; Deputy Director, Clarke; theme
 leads, Lasserson and Singh), and our new Unit of Academic Primary Care (chair, Dale).

 Warwick Research in Nursing (Director, Seers) and the Medicine, ethics and society
 research groups have expertise in patient experience and involvement, social and ethical
 implications of medicine, patient-reported outcomes and mixed methods. These groups
 collaborate extensively within WMS, including contributing ethical and patient perspectives
 and qualitative research expertise to clinical trials including PARAMEDIC2, I-WOTCH,
 SPHERE, REGAIN and high-impact interventions such as the RESPECT process (see
 Impact cases and examples in Section 4). The group is also part of the HPRU in Genomics
 and Enabling Data (theme lead, Staniszewska).

 Major strategic developments for this group:

       Establishment of NIHR £31M West Midlands CLAHRC at WMS in 2014 and of £9M
        NIHR ARC West Midlands in 2019.
       Creation of an interdisciplinary University research centre in Mental health (lead,
        Singh).
       Establishment of Unit of Academic Primary Care (chair, Dale) in October 2017 part-
        funded through Coventry and Rugby CCG.
       Appointment of new Professors in Primary care (Fitzmaurice), Bioethics (Draper) and
        Ambulatory care (Lasserson) and new Associate Professors.



                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Promotions to professorships in Health research (Staniszewska), Clinical ethics
        (Slowther) and Social science in medicine (Boardman)

 1.3.5 Global health
 (Cappuccio, Chen, Ellard, Gill, Haenssgen, Kumar, Lilford, Miller, Oyebode, Saravanan,
 Tuomainen, Uthman, Watson)

 Capacity-building in Global health has been a key strategic priority, enabling us to develop from
 links with Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine to independence in this area. A major part of this
 development has been establishment of the Warwick international Centre for Applied Health
 Research and Delivery (W-CAHRD) (director to January 2020, Lilford; acting director,
 Oyebode). This global network brings together individuals, disciplines and organisations to
 pursue applied health research, transform health systems and improve health in low- and
 middle-income countries.

 W-CAHRD adds to existing strength in global cardiovascular disease (CVD) and epidemiology of
 the World Health Organisation (WHO) Collaborating Centre for Nutrition (Head,
 Cappuccio). Established in 2008 and recently re-designated for a further 4 years until 2022, the
 Centre has influenced WHO guidelines for preventing CVD and supports implementation and
 evaluation of salt reduction policies globally with WHO and other international partners (see
 Section 4).

 The group also contributes to the HPRU in Gastrointestinal Infections (theme lead Oyebode).

 Major strategic developments for this group:

       global health research capacity expansion through establishment of the W-CAHRD
        funded by £30M NIHR and MRC grants.
       capacity-building through appointment of professors in Public health (Lilford) and
        General practice (Gill) and three Associate Professors.
       promotion to professorships in Diabetes, endocrinology and metabolism (Saravanan)
        and Global health informatics (Uthman).

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 2.1.1 Staffing strategy overview
 DoHS and WCTU have a total staff of approximately 200 FTE, with 76 independent researchers
 (38 Professors, 38 Associate/Assistant Professors) and a REF-eligible 65.72 FTE, returned to
 UoA A2. Other DoHS and WCTU staff are research fellows, administrators, trial managers and
 teaching-only staff. Our culture is one of informality and friendliness, with all our staff valued as
 vital parts of our team and treated fairly and with dignity.

 Our strategy has been one of sustained growth underpinned by increasing research income (see
 Section 3). We have made strategic expansion of research capacity in WCTU and DoHS,
 through key new clinical and non-clinical academic appointments at Associate and full Professor
 levels. Significant appointments since 2014 include 11 new professorial posts (4 female) in
 Ambulatory Care, Resuscitation medicine, Neurological rehabilitation, Maternity care, Trials


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 methodology, Health economics, Epidemiology, Public health, Bioethics, Primary care and
 General practice, representing expansion across all research activities, with a particular focus on
 clinical trials and global health. Future growth will be additionally enabled through the launch of a
 Health and Medical Sciences BSc in 2020.

 Our people are our primary asset, and we are proud of our diverse research community and the
 intellectually stimulating and inspiring environment that we nurture. We have a strategic
 commitment to continue to grow capacity by recruiting excellent researchers and implementing
 policies to retain and develop current staff.

 2.1.2 Awards and international recognition
 The excellence of our staff at all levels is demonstrated by awards and international recognition
 as described in more detail in Sections 2.2 and 4. The most prestigious are listed in Box 3.

 2.1.3 Staff development
 We take pride in our staff, who work in small groups led by senior academic researchers,
 ensuring that they receive support, mentoring and training to enable them to attain their full
 potential. Groups often include expertise across multiple domains and methodologies, routine
 interdisciplinary working, regular seminars; and research meetings within and across research
 groups which provide peer-to-peer interactions that are essential to the open and vibrant
 interdisciplinary research culture for which we are known. These have enabled us to maintain
 the feeling of a small medical school through this period of expansion.

 All staff are offered an annual Personal Development Review (PDR). Training for reviewers and
 reviewees ensures that this enables all staff to have positive and structured conversations with
 their line manager. PDR focusses on individual achievement and contribution towards
 departmental objectives and gives the opportunity to discuss personal development goals and
 career development, review activities and agree future priorities and activities in a supportive
 setting. PDR is also used to review and encourage external activities including roles on
 external professional bodies and funding panels, to promote research impact activities, for
 example through the University Impact leave scheme, and to plan workload accordingly. In
 addition, PDR is used to identify training and support needs. Training opportunities are available
 through the UoW Organisational Development (OD) Centre, which includes the Academic
 Development Centre and offers training programmes and workshops as well as online and self-
 directed training in personal and career development, leadership and management tailored to
 academic staff at all grades and roles (REF5a-2, 3). OD also offers coaching and mentoring
 support. Where training needs cannot be met within UoW, funding for additional external
 training can also be made available for all staff. This is particularly encouraged for ECRs (see
 Section 2.2). Grant-writing workshops for research-active staff at all levels, including those on
 applying for large grants for more senior staff, also help researchers to achieve their full
 potential.

 We appreciate the value of our staff and celebrate success and reward excellent performance
 and extraordinary contribution from individuals above and beyond that which would normally be
 expected in their job role, through annual staff awards, merit pay and the Senior Performance
 and Remuneration Review and Clinical Excellence Awards for professorial staff and clinical
 academics respectively. Merit pay is awarded annually to ~25% of non-professorial researchers
 (females and males similar).



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                                    Box 3: Prestigious Awards

               CBE for Services to Health Research (Lilford)
               OBE for Services to Medicine and Diabetes Care (Kumar)
               OBE for Services to Midwifery (Bick)
               RCGP John Fry medal (Lasserson)
               Fellowship, Academy of Medical Sciences (Lilford, Perkins)
               Inclusion in Thompson Reuters Highly Cited list (Seers)
               NIHR Senior Investigator (Dunn, Lilford, Perkins, Underwood)
               Lifetime Achievement Award, American Heart Association (Nolan)
               Lifetime Achievement Award, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and
               Harvard Medical School (Nolan)
               Fellowship, European Society of Cardiology (Cappuccio)
               Founding Fellowship, British and Irish Hypertension Society (Cappuccio)
               Honorary Life Membership, Italian Resuscitation Council (Nolan)



 We prioritise academic career development, reward performance and build capacity through
 internal promotion at all levels. Clear and recently-revised University-wide criteria for promotion
 (REF5a-3.3) reflect achievements in four domains of Research and Scholarship; Teaching and
 Learning; Impact, Outreach and Engagement; and Collegiality, Leadership and Management.
 Annual PDR is timed to provide opportunities for initial discussion of promotion, with applications
 reviewed within the divisions and school to ensure equality of opportunity and make cases as
 strong as possible. Since 2014, internal promotions have included 12 to Professor (7 (58%)
 female) and 19 to Associate Professor (11 (58%) female).

 We are proud to hold an Athena SWAN Silver Award (see Section 2.4). The effectiveness of our
 equality and diversity strategy is demonstrated by our excellent gender balance at all levels, with
 44% of independent researchers and 45% of professors females.

 Within WMS, the Head of Academic Career Development leads the WMS-academic mentoring
 scheme available to all staff. All Assistant Professors are placed on probation and assigned a
 mentor, with monitoring via annual review at departmental and university levels, including a
 personal meeting with the WMS Dean, providing support, clear targets for research, impact,
 teaching and administrative activities, and career development advice. Promotion to Associate
 Professor is automatic upon successful completion of probation for Assistant Professors.

 All staff, including those on Research-focussed contracts, can apply for Study leave through the
 University Academic Leave Committee, normally granted in the proportion of one for every six
 terms of service. Impact activities of all research-active staff are taken into account in workload
 planning and promotion criteria. The UoW Impact funding and Impact leave schemes (REF5a-
 2.6) also provides dedicated time to enable activities leading to maximisation of the impact of
 research, including impact at an early stage of development.

 We actively back internal and external leadership training for all staff through the Warwick
 Leadership Training programme and programmes like Aurora which have substantially improved
 promotion applications, and enhanced development activities for senior staff such as senior


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leadership training. In addition to the University’s leadership shadowing scheme for senior
 positions, we have developed a WMS shadowing scheme for academic and professional support
 staff.

 Staff wellbeing, informal networking and social relationships, both within and between WMS
 divisions, is encouraged through numerous social events, including winter celebration lunches,
 summer BBQs and monthly ‘Coffee, Cake and Catch-Up’ meetings. These develop a sense of
 collegiality without relying on social activities outside core hours and are held at different times to
 accommodate flexible working patterns. This sense of collegiality has been maintained following
 the coronavirus lockdown by regular informal online meetings including ‘virtual coffee mornings’
 for research groups, with these augmented by online wellbeing sessions organised by WMS and
 open to all staff and PGR students. We encourage all our staff to find a work-life balance that is
 appropriate for them, with the option of part-time, flexibility and remote working and UoW
 schemes to enable career breaks or the purchase of additional annual leave facilitating this.

 2.2 Early career researchers (ECRs)

 2.2.1 ECR development strategy
 Our ECRs are valued members of research groups, taking a full and active role, and are
 essential to our current research success as well as the future of research in the discipline. We
 have a specific academic development programme for ECRs, who are also encouraged to have
 a senior academic mentor, with this obligatory for probationary staff.

 Regular ECR network meetings provide a forum for discussion of relevant issues and training
 and other needs. These also give important networking opportunities and encourage
 interdisciplinary collaborations. ECRs are represented on key committees within the divisions
 and school.

 ECRs are encouraged to be active in external activities relevant to their disciplinary area. This
 includes opportunities to attend appropriate national or international conferences to network,
 present their work and keep abreast of international research, with funding specifically available
 to support such activities. This funding can also be used for external training or to support
 collaboration between ECRs and relevant researchers/groups at other institutions within the UK
 or overseas, and ECRs are encouraged to consider with their line managers and mentors what
 external activities would be appropriate to advance their careers, build their reputations and help
 them become fully established independent researchers (see Section 2.2.2). Through regular
 reviews with line managers and mentors, they are also encouraged to take appropriate external
 roles, including editorial panel and society committee membership. These facilitate networking
 within their discipline, advance their research careers and maximise the impact of their research.

 Appropriate training and development are encouraged and provided for all staff levels. Funding
 is specifically available to support ECR training when this cannot be provided internally. In
 response to ECR feedback, the UoW Academic Development Centre now offers a route to
 Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy specifically designed to allow ECRs to
 map their current teaching portfolios with the pedagogic requirements of the UK Professional
 Standards Framework and supports ECRs who might not realise that they can work towards this
 because of their contractual arrangements.

 ECRs are encouraged to take part in the WMS shadowing scheme (see Section 2.1.3), enabling
 them to learn more about WMS management and decision-making processes and leadership

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 roles. We have an active programme of seminars and specialist discussion groups in core
 methodologies and clinical topics, supporting our inter-disciplinary activities. ECRs appointed
 without a doctoral degree are encouraged to register for a PhD to facilitate their career
 progression.

 To ensure ECRs successfully progress in their research careers, our ECR policy gives up to 10
 days/year of protected time for research-related development activity including work on personal
 research publications and fellowship or grant applications. Development of fellowship and grant
 applications are supported by senior staff through a system of internal peer review to ensure that
 applications are of the highest standard. Peer review is provided informally within the
 individual’s research group, and through a formal WMS programme including two rounds of
 internal peer review by academics from other research groups within the applicant’s division.

 We see fellowship applications as being particularly important for ECR career progression, we
 hold regular well-attended seminars to give information on fellowship programmes and
 encourage applications. ECRs making fellowship applications are supported through a tailored
 programme including funder visits and training days including sessions from successful
 fellowship applicants, Research and Impact Services (REF5a-1.7, 2.6) and the NIHR RDS. In
 addition to the peer review programme, mock interviews are provided for fellowship applicants
 with input from previous successful applicants as well as current and former funding panel
 members. Feedback on the support given includes the comment from an ECR that “I think this
 internal peer review has been extremely helpful which in combination with the RDS goes beyond
 what other institutions offer”. Since 2014, 86 fellowship applications have been submitted (42%
 female) with 21 (24%) successful (33% female). ECRs of whom we are particularly proud are
 presented in Box 4. The impact of the work of Boardman and Taylor-Phillips on screening is
 described in Section 4.



                              Box 4: Notable ECR Success Stories
                           (all promoted to full Professor within the unit)

               Kearney
               Arthritis Research UK Fellowship (2009-2012)
               NIHR Clinical Lectureship (2013-2016)
               NIHR Career Development Fellowship (2017-2021).
               NIHR and charity funding for multi-centre RCTs in trauma and orthopaedic
               rehabilitation
               High-profile publications including in Lancet
               Taylor-Phillips
               NIHR fellowship (2011-2014)
               High-profile publications including in JAMA
               Project funding from NIHR and Public Health England.
               Boardman
               ESRC Future Research Leaders Fellowship (2013-2017)
               Wellcome Trust Investigator Award.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.2 NIHR Integrated Clinical Academic Training Programme
 WMS currently hosts 21 Academic Clinical Fellows (ACFs) (plus 1 non-clinical Public Health
 ACF) and 6 Clinical Lecturers (CLs) through the NIHR Integrated Clinical Academic Training
 (ICAT) Programme. To date we have had 42 ACF posts, 77% of completing ACFs have gone
 on to academic posts and 78% of these doing PhDs. We have had 19 CLs complete their posts,
 of whom 84% have gone on to academic posts. Only 1 has not continued in an academic post
 and 2 took a locum post as an interim measure before securing academic posts. None have
 returned to clinical training, demonstrating our ability to attract and develop independent
 researchers of the future. Completed CLs include Wall, who gained a NIHR Postdoctoral
 Fellowship and an Associate Professor post at Warwick and oversees the Warwick ICAT
 programme, two moving to Associate Professor posts in Oxford (one now a professor in
 London) with large NIHR portfolios, and one awarded a prestigious Harvard scholarship.

 2.3 Training and supervision of postgraduate research (PGR) students
 We have around 30 PGR students/year with primary supervisors within the unit. These students
 are part of a single Doctoral College (REF5a-3.8, 3.10) that streamlines admission processes
 and includes development and mentoring activities, bringing them together in a single cohort to
 provide an inclusive, supportive and stimulating environment. This enables our PGR students to
 interact in an interdisciplinary setting and develop core skills. PGR students are part of 3 cross-
 campus Research Council doctoral training centres/partnerships (DTCs/DTPs); the complexity
 science DTC, the ESRC DTC including a ‘Health and Social Care’ pathway and the MRC DTP
 (REF5a-3.9.1) in Interdisciplinary Biomedical Research, including iCASE studentships
 collaborative with industry, which includes Microbiology and infection, Artificial intelligence and
 data science themes. In addition, we host a DTP funded by Novo Nordisk and led by Saravanan
 focussing on diabetes, and have hosted numerous successful doctoral fellowships including
 fellows funded by NIHR, MRC, Wellcome, British Heart Foundation and Versus Arthritis, in
 addition to industry-funded students.

 We maintain excellent PGR supervision by ensuring that all students have at least two
 supervisors including at least one experienced supervisor, and all supervisors completing
 mandatory training every five years. PGR student progress is monitored rigorously through
 monthly reviews and annual appraisal by an independent Advisory Committee. Students initially
 register for MPhil/PhD with a formal upgrading process approving registration for PhD during the
 first year if progress is satisfactory. We offer all students training and development including
 sessions on academic writing, oral communication, networking, team working and teaching
 skills. Students can also access modules from our extensive taught Masters programmes
 including research methods, critical appraisal and medical statistics. An annual research day
 gives PGR students the opportunity to present their work to peers and staff, and students are
 encouraged to engage with seminar programmes within their division and research group. PGR
 students are administered by a single, dedicated member of the academic support team to
 ensure consistency and continuity.

 Many of our current and former PGR students have notable achievements including Imran
 Ahmed, currently funded by NIHR Doctoral Research Fellowship (DRF) (supervisor: Metcalfe,
 Parsons, Hutchinson, Staniszewska) attending the Global Young Scientists Summit of high-
 achieving young researchers in Singapore in Jan 2020, Sarah Mitchell funded by NIHR DRF
 2014-2020 (supervisors: Dale, Slowther) receiving the Society of Academic Primary Care
 award for outstanding ECR, and Grove (supervisor: Clarke) funded by NIHR DRF 2013-2016
 now holding a NIHR Advanced Fellowship.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.4 Equality and Diversity
 We are proud to have Equality and Diversity embedded in all of our decision-making processes,
 with a 2019 departmental Athena SWAN (AS) Silver award building on our previous Bronze
 award. Our processes support all our researchers in achieving their full potential and ensure
 that this is recognised and rewarded (see Sections 2.1 and 4).

 The WMS AS self-assessment team and Welfare Strategy Group (WSG, co-Chaired by two
 females, an academic and Chief Operating Officer), embraces the wider departmental working,
 environment and culture of WMS. Members come from all areas of WMS, bringing together a
 wealth of differing staff and student welfare experiences. The chair of the University-wide AS
 Group sits on the group both to advise on University and national matters and to ensure that
 WMS initiatives contributed to successful retention of the UoW AS Silver award. WSG
 endeavors to take a strategic, pro-active approach to establishing and embedding fair working
 practices across WMS. The WSG initiatives and AS Action plan are progressed and
 implemented by ‘Task and Finish Groups’ with the WSG membership leading groups comprised
 of the wider department and research community.

 Training in Unconscious bias and Diversity in the workplace are obligatory for all staff (REF5a-
 3.3). To encourage diversity in applications, our job adverts have gender-neutral language and
 standardised objective job specification criteria. Adverts highlight our commitment to Equality
 and Diversity. Shortlisting is undertaken by at least two members of staff, with HR oversight to
 ensure adherence to University recruitment guidelines. We strive to ensure gender balance for
 shortlisting and interview panels.

 Preparation of the UoA A2 submission was led by a group of 6 (3 female) including one ECR,
 overseen by the UoW REF Submission Steering Group. Outputs were scored independently by
 two members, with checks on scores and on the gender split both for papers internally rated 4*
 and 3* and for independent and non-independent ECRs. Average output numbers were similar
 for females (2.21) and males (2.18) and for BAME (2.20, n=15) and white (2.34, n=50) (n=6
 prefer not to say).

 We acknowledge the importance of a good work-life balance for our staff, supporting both
 formal/informal flexible working arrangements to accommodate this (see Section 2.1). We are
 fully committed to providing appropriate support and promoting equality for all staff during and
 after all types of parental leave, and staff are encouraged to take appropriate paternity/shared
 parental/adoption leave (REF5a-3.2). Induction highlights arrangements with guidance and links
 to UoW policies and processes detailed on the WMS website. Support offered includes up to 10
 paid Keep-in-Touch days and time off for ante-natal appointments. The University’s Warwick
 Academic Returners Fellowships (REF5a-3.4) enables for staff returning from parental leave to
 apply for funding to enable buy-out from teaching and administrative duties to allow a focus upon
 re-establishing their research activities. Cover for staff on maternity/adoption leave is assessed
 on a case-by-case basis with cover arranged where appropriate. Vacancies covering
 maternity/adoption leave are either advertised as FTC, secondments or filled using temps, and
 timed to enable hand-over of duties prior to and post- leave whenever possible. Recognising the
 challenges new parents often encounter on returning to work, WMS strives to ensure a smooth
 return. Line-managers and HR advisors welcome returners and provide information on the
 University’s Returning Parent’s Network, Returning Parents Mentoring Scheme and Working
 Parents Staff Network Buddy Scheme (REF5a-3.4). We are proud that our supportive attitude
 has led to an excellent maternity return rate. Within WMS of 46 women taking maternity leave in
 the review period, 6 did not return to work or left within 3-months of returning. Retention over

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the longer-term is also excellent, with 35 women still working here 18-months after their
 maternity leave.

 Induction is a crucial element of our recruitment process ensuring all new staff are welcomed
 through University, School and Division/ Unit level induction activities. Recognising the size and
 complexity of WMS, we hold termly induction events for new colleagues to meet one another
 and learn about WMS through presentations from senior team members.

 Equality and diversity is also a key part of UoW strategy (REF5a-3.3, 3.7). UoW maintains an
 institutional AS Silver Award achieved in 2013, has recently been awarded the HR Excellence in
 Research Award and implements the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers. The UoW Single Equality Scheme and associated Equality
 Objectives explicitly cover all research full-time, part-time and fixed term staff.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income

 3.1.1 Research income overview
 Our financially stable position has given sustainability and the capacity for steady growth through
 the census period that we expect to continue. This enables us to maintain our thriving vibrant
 research community, with researchers provided with the security they need to achieve their full
 potential and for their research to flourish.

 Strategic plans for sustainable growth are encapsulated through an annual five-year financial
 plan developed by WMS and approved by the University with longer-term planning (REF5a-2.3)
 enabling us to set our research direction beyond the scope of individual project funding.

 Excluding the exceptional 2019-20, our external research income exceeds £13M/year (~£200k
 /PI), a growth of ~25% since 2013-14, the majority coming from competitive and prestigious
 peer-reviewed national or international grant or fellowship schemes. The largest single funder is
 National Institute for Health Research (NIHR), the major UK funder for pragmatic clinical trials
 and applied health services research. Other major research funders include the European
 Union’s seventh framework programme (EU FP7), the Medical Research Council (MRC) and
 Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) and charities including the Royal College of
 Nursing, Versus Arthritis, and Wellcome trust along with smaller disease-specific charities.
 External grant funding is underpinned by RCF-funded posts and by UoW funding for impact-
 promoting activities and seed-funding for new interdisciplinary projects.

 3.1.2 Core funding and major research awards
 As indicated below and in Figure 1, alongside a substantial portfolio of research grants and
 fellowships core NIHR funding underpins each research priority area and interdisciplinary
 partnerships. Particularly significant research grants held since 2014 include two EU FP7
 projects and 17 NIHR-funded major (£1M+) multi-centre clinical trials. In these projects,
 Warwick leads multi-disciplinary research teams of world experts. The projects are supported by
 specialist operational staff within the divisions and, for the EU grants, funding experts within
 UoW’s Research Finance team, ensuring the smooth running and successful completion of
 these large and complex projects. In addition to the prestige associated with successful
 applications to these international and national research funders and leading such major
 research projects, this work also leads to research outputs of the highest quality with the


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 potential to yield practice-changing impact at a global scale as described in more detail in the
 following paragraphs.

 Clinical trials of complex interventions
 Large-scale multi-centre pragmatic clinical trials are the primary focus of WCTU, with NIHR as a
 major funder, WCTU has the highest number of NIHR studies and is the 2nd highest ranking CTU
 in the UK by NIHR grant income. Our exceptional achievements have been made by strategic
 investment in areas of strength and development and maintenance of an organisational structure
 within WCTU that ensures full interdisciplinary working. This allows research to be delivered
 without organisational barriers between academic and administrative teams.

 Alongside £2M NIHR core funding, major clinical trials ongoing or completed during the review
 period include:
      Adrenaline for out of hospital cardiac arrest (£2.3M)
      Prevention of fall-related injuries (£2.7M)
      Wound management of open lower limb factures (£2.2M)
      Mammography surveillance in breast cancer patients (£2.1M)
      Arthroscopic surgery for hip impingement (£1.8M)
      Exercise in dementia (£1.7M)
      Robotic surgery for knee replacement (£1.6M)




                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Personalised treatment of early breast cancer (£1.5M)
       Hyperosmolar therapy in traumatic brain injury (£1.3M)
       Invasive and non-invasive weaning off ventilation (£1.3M)
       Exercise to prevent shoulder conditions in breast cancer treatment (£1M)
       Antibiotic prophylaxis in myeloma (£1.3M)
       Chronic headache (£1.4M)
       Rehabilitation following anterior shoulder dislocation (£1M)
       Image directed redesign of bladder cancer treatment (£1M)
       Respiratory strategies in COVID-19 (£1M)
       Rehabilitation programme for chronic COVID symptoms (£1.2M)
       Improving the wellbeing of people with opioid treated chronic pain (£1.58M)

 Evidence synthesis and health research methodology
 Core funding for this group includes:
    - £8M: Warwick Evidence
    - £1.2M: Health Protection Unit in Gastrointestinal Infections for the Communicable
        Disease Control Evidence and Epidemiology group
    - £2M: RDS West Midlands with renewed funding to Warwick of £1.4M for 2018-2023
        Faculty of Public Health award for public health training

 In addition to the £1M EU FP7 grant on the development of methods for research in small
 populations (PI: Stallard), funding for methodology research comes from MRC Methodology
 grants (PIs: Stallard, Kimani) and as a component of NIHR projects, for example large scale
 trials run by WCTU needing advanced statistical input. Additional funding comes from
 collaborative grant applications with colleagues in WMS and elsewhere, and methodological
 grants from Charities.

 Health services research and mental health
 Core NIHR funding for this group includes:
    - £31M: West Midlands CLAHRC
    - £9M: ARC West Midlands
    - £1.5M: Global Mental Health Research alongside £1.5M from Royal College of
        Nursing (RCN) for RCN Nursing Research Institute.

 Other major funding includes the EU FP7 project on strengthening transition from child to adult
 mental health care (£4.3M) (PI: Singh).

 Global health
 Core NIHR funding in Global health includes the £6M NIHR Global Health Research Unit on
 Improving Health in Slums. This sits alongside a substantial portfolio of over 40 NIHR and MRC
 grants worth £25M.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 3.2.1 Infrastructure for interdisciplinary research
 Our complex research is effectively achieved through interdisciplinary team working. This is
 facilitated by our unit structure that co-locates clinical academics with strong methodologists,
 including the Warwick hub of the NIHR RDS, statisticians, health economists, trialists, ethicists,

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reviewers and social scientists, who also conduct world-class research in their own disciplines.
 The resulting collaborations ensure that our clinical, health services and health policy research is
 conducted to the highest methodological standards. Close links with local NHS trusts, GP CCGs
 and patient groups (see Section 4) also maximise the impact of our research.

 Unit research staff are co-located with the remainder of WMS and Warwick School of Life
 Sciences on the Gibbet Hill Campus on the main University site (REF5a-4.2), facilitating
 collaboration with other departments. We also host permanent staff at offices within our partner
 hospitals, UHCW and UHB (see below).

 3.2.2 Research facilities
 Modern office space for research academics in DoHS is provided in the main Warwick Medical
 School Building (MSB) along with staff in DoBMS, while WCTU staff are located in their own
 adjacent building, purpose-built in 2009. The Medical Teaching Centre sits alongside these
 buildings on the same site and provides additional purpose-built teaching space and office space
 for teaching-focussed academics.

 All full-time staff, and all part time staff primarily based at the University have personal office
 space and we have dedicated offices and study spaces for our PGR students. In addition, we
 are well provided with hot-desking space for clinical and scientific staff whose primary base is off
 campus. All staff and PGR students have access to fully supported IT facilities that are available
 anywhere in the world via secure internet access. Wi-Fi for staff, students and visitors is
 available throughout all buildings. The MSB includes a dedicated ‘Learning grid’ library and
 study space and all staff and PGR students have access to full library facilities here and at the
 main UoW library as well as access to online journals and ebooks. Dedicated library staff
 support WMS researchers and students, for example giving training and support in systematic
 reviews and literature searching.

 In addition to dedicated research office and laboratory space, our fully accessible buildings
 include four large auditoriums seating 100, 200, 200 and 300 respectively. Two of these were
 refurbished since 2014 and now incorporate electric charging points for all students, and all are
 equipped with modern high quality projection equipment. Numerous smaller seminar and
 meeting rooms are also available throughout all buildings and can be booked for use by all staff
 and PGR students. These rooms are equipped with projection equipment and most also have
 full tele/video-conferencing facilities. Open ‘atrium’ spaces have been incorporated into the
 buildings’ designs to encourage meetings and have been furnished with comfortable seating to
 provide areas for work and informal discussion, and the building also includes a Family room
 and Multi-faith prayer room available for use by all staff and students.

 We also have a purpose-built research building and academic offices at our main NHS partner
 trust (UHCW), including clinical trial teams (where we host five full trials), statisticians and
 laboratories, with AV facilities used to share meetings and educational events across both sites
 simultaneously. UHCW has a successful research team, and was the top recruiter to NIHR
 trauma trials in the UK in 2018. Working at UHCW allows our trial teams to integrate closely with
 clinical and research teams at our lead site, maximising the impact of our research by
 embedding it effectively into day-to-day clinical practice.

 3.2.3 Research management and support
 Formally, research strategy within the unit is overseen by WCTU and DoHS Divisional Strategy
 Groups, each including representation from individual research groups in addition to ECRs and

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 educational leads, chaired by the head of division. Within WMS, these groups report to the
 Senior Management Group and Research Committee, the latter taking responsibility for overall
 research strategy and development.

 Research support is provided by the University’s Research and Impact Services (R&IS), with a
 dedicated team supporting WMS located in the same building as DoHS. R&IS support
 researchers preparing grant applications, providing costings information and overseeing
 approval processes. For funded applications, they oversee the research contracts process and
 provide research governance support. Support is specifically available to staff writing large
 applications, with a University office supporting EU applications and grants. R&IS also support
 development of research and impact strategy at school and divisional level, the latter through
 their roles on the WMS Research Committee and Divisional Strategy Groups for DoHS and
 WCTU, and provide a link to development at a university level including internal funding
 schemes to facilitate and promote impact.

 All research involving human subjects is subject to appropriate ethical review. Where the
 research involves the NHS this is through the Health Research Authority and, where required,
 the relevant NHS Research Ethics Committee and otherwise through the University Biomedical
 and Scientific Research Ethics Committee (REF5a-2.4, 2.5). Training in Research Integrity is
 provided and is mandatory for all research-active staff, with additional training, including Good
 Clinical Practice training, required for staff involved in the conduct of clinical trials. All research
 data are collected and stored according to the University’s Research Data Management Policy
 and Information Security Framework, with mandatory GDPR training and online training in
 Information Security covering these policies.

 We have a culture of open research, with funding available for open access publications when
 not covered by research grants. All research outputs are also available through the open access
 Warwick Research Archive Portal (REF5a-2.10).

 3.2.4 Response to COVID-19 pandemic
 Since March 2020 all unit staff have been primarily working remotely, with a return to campus
 since September where this is essential and can be achieved safely. Collaborative work has
 continued during this time with online video meetings for both formal meetings and more
 informal ‘coffee and chat’ meetings maintaining connection within research groups. Much of our
 research work, including new work on COVID-19 (see Section 4.2.7) has continued
 uninterrupted, but some has necessarily been temporarily halted, resulting in a small reduction in
 income. Where necessary and unavailable from other sources, UoW funding has been provided
 to extend projects, with impacted PGR students supported by the UoW hardship fund.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration
 The success of our mission for WMS to be a leading medical school in the UK, internationally
 renowned for the excellence and significance of our research is built on effective collaborations
 achieved through partnership with policy makers, service providers, commercial organisations,
 clinicians, patients, carers and the public.




                                                                                                  Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1.1 National and international collaboration
 We collaborate extensively with other groups within the University (REF5a-2.7, 4.2) and other
 HEIs both in the UK and overseas as an important way to strengthen our research outputs and
 impact. A high proportion of our submitted outputs involving collaborators from other parts of the
 University or from outside of Warwick.

 Regionally, we are part of the Midlands Innovation Health group, a network of seven midlands
 universities working to deliver improved health and regional growth through research
 collaboration and joint initiatives. We have numerous UK collaborators, including almost all
 Russell Group universities, and our joint research funding with international partners including
 those with African Population and Health Research Centre, Erasmus Medical Centre Rotterdam,
 Goettingen, Harvard, Leuven, London Ontario, Monash, Montpellier, Paris, Pittsburgh, Ulm,
 Vienna, WHO and Witwatersrand.

 We pride ourselves on interdisciplinarity as a key feature of our research. UoW has always
 maintained a ‘low walls’ culture and WMS senior management support our researchers in
 collaborating widely with other departments as well as WMS colleagues in DoBMS (returned in
 UoA A1). Interdisciplinary research is encouraged through UoW seed funding available for new
 collaborations and fostered through joint seminars.

 Within UoW we have particularly strong collaborations with Warwick Business School, which
 includes a team working on the Implementation and Organisational Studies theme of the West
 Midlands CLAHRC and ARC, and with the Institute of Digital Healthcare, a major partnership
 between Warwick Manufacturing Group (WMG) and WMS which includes collaboration on
 teaching and funded research housed in a separate facility. We also have strong links with UoW
 departments of Mathematics, Statistics, and Computer Science, including joint research grants
 and PGR students.

 4.1.2 NHS collaboration
 We work closely with the NHS locally, particularly with our key NHS partners UHCW and UHB.
 There are 12 clinical academics with substantive joint Warwick:UHCW posts and 3 clinical
 academics with substantive joint Warwick:UHB posts. This close working has led to multiple
 highly successful collaborations such as the £15M PathLAKE national centre of excellence in
 Artificial Intelligence at UHCW, the £7M Tommy’s National Miscarriage Centre, and multiple
 clinical trials co-sponsored between UHCW and WCTU. Further collaborative working is
 illustrated in our submitted Impact case studies.

 Our clinical academic researchers play an active role in the NIHR Clinical Research Network
 (CRN) West Midlands. In particular, within CRN West Midlands, Perkins is Clinical Research
 Lead for Research Division 6 (including Anaesthesia, Critical Care, Surgery, Infectious diseases,
 Ophthalmology, Respiratory disorders and Gastroenterology) and Clinical Research Speciality
 Lead for Critical Care, and Cappuccio, Dale, Gill, Saravanan and Singh are/have been
 Speciality Clinical Leads for Stroke, Primary Care, Diabetes and Mental Health respectively.

 We provide methodology and statistical expertise to both UHCW and UHB to ensure delivery
 and ongoing growth in high quality collaborative research. In particular, 7 full time
 methodologists are supported through RCF from UHCW and UHB to support research
 collaborations between UHCW, UHB and WMS. Statistical advice clinics are held regularly at
 UHCW and UHB with support from WMS statisticians. We also host a hub of the NIHR RDS


                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 West Midlands (see Section 1.3.3). This maximises the impact of our methodological expertise
 within the region and strengthens our links with local NHS research networks.

 We have a thriving NIHR Integrated Clinical Academic Training programme (see Section 2.2.3),
 and our researchers also play an active role in MBChB and foundation year training including the
 Warwick Academic Medicine Society that supports our MBChB students to engage in research.

 4.2 Contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Our research makes a substantial contribution to the research base, economy and society
 across all four of the strategic priority areas described in Section 1.1. Particularly notable
 contributions in each area are highlighted below.

 4.2.1   Notable contributions in clinical trials of complex interventions
         (see also Impact case studies from Perkins and Griffin)
        Emergency and critical care trials including:
             o The PARAMEDIC2 trial of adrenaline in out of hospital cardiac arrest (PI:
                  Perkins). Altmetric rated the NEJM paper in the top 30 in 2018 across all
                  disciplines
             o PARAMEDIC trial (PI: Perkins) received the International Clinical trial of the Year
                  2014 award from the Society of Clinical Trials
        Trials in Trauma and Orthopaedics including:
             o FASHIoN trial of hip arthoscopy (PI: Griffin); published in Lancet and listed in the
                  top 5 most influential trials 2014-2019 by PEDRO
             o FixDT trial of locking plate fixation for distal tibia fracture (Parsons) published in
                  JAMA
        Other influential papers published in highest ranking journals including:
             o Lancet (Underwood; SARAH rheumatoid arthritis trial) listed in top 5 most
                  influential trials 2014-2019 by PEDRO)
             o JAMA (Bruce, Parsons; WOLLF negative pressure wound therapy trial)
             o BMJ (Lall, DAPA physical activity in dementia trial)
             o Lead-author contribution (Underwood) to Lancet series on Low back pain in
                  2018 featured on The Times front page and in other major national and
                  international newspapers.
        Contributions to guidelines including:
             o NICE:
             o Underwood, chair of Accreditation Advisory Committee
             o Metcalfe, Guidance Committee member and clinical lead for the External
                  Reference Groups
             o Osteoarthritis Research Society: Underwood as one of 2 UK contributors
             o British Association of Surgery of the Knee: Metcalfe as working group chair
             o WHO: Maternity Guideline on Intrapartum Care: Bick
        Contribution to Reporting template for exercise trials (Underwood, Rees)

 We have 41 ongoing trials fully managed within the unit (37 NIHR-funded, 2 charity-funded, 2
 industry-funded) with major ongoing/completed trials listed in Section 3.1. Completed trials
 have led to research outputs of the highest quality in the most prestigious journals including
 NEJM, JAMA, Lancet and BMJ.




                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our Impact cases demonstrate impact on clinical practice in emergency care, and trauma and
 orthopaedics. Ongoing trials have potential to lead to similar quality outputs and impact
 excellence in the future.

 4.2.2 Notable contributions in evidence Synthesis and Health research methodology
         (see also Impact case study from Stewart-Brown)
      Development of outcome measures including Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-being
        Scales (WEMWBS) (Stewart-Brown, Clarke)
      Hosting NIHR Technology Assessment Review team (PI: Clarke) contributing to NICE
        guidance with additional UK National Screening Committee funding (PI: Clarke,
        Taylor-Phillips) (see below)
      Hosting NIHR RDS Warwick hub (lead: Stallard) supporting local health and social
        care research
      CO-OPS trial including 1.1M participants to assess effect of case order on breast
        cancer screening funded by NIHR fellowship published in JAMA (Taylor-Phillips)
      Presentation by Taylor-Phillips to the UK Parliamentary Health Select Committee
        and House of Commons Science and Technology Committee enquiry into Health
        Screening
      £2M NIHR funding for SMALL trial addressing over-treatment of small screen
        detected breast cancer (PI: Taylor-Phillips)
      Coordinator on €2.3M EU FP7 grant (PI: Stallard) developing novel methods for
        clinical trials in small populations
      Publications in high-ranking methodology-focussed journals including Biometrika,
        Medical Decision Making, PharmacoEconomics, Statistical Methods in Medical
        Research, Statistics in Medicine and Value in Health.

 Research impact is demonstrated by the work of Warwick Evidence, with particular expertise
 in multiple sclerosis, diabetes, trauma and orthopaedics and diagnostic screening. This work
 contributed to changing guidance including NICE guidance TA304 on Total hip replacement
 and resurfacing arthroplasty which, with work published in BMJ, led to a major change in UK
 practice, and NICE guidance TA477 and TA508 on autologous chondrocyte implantation for
 repairing articular cartilage defects of the knee, which were the first NICE approvals for a
 regenerative medicine product in the UK, and led to staff being invited to carry out a set of
 HTA reports by the European Society of Sport Traumatology, Knee Surgery and
 Arthroscopy. Other particularly impactful review work includes assessments of aspirin for
 prophylactic use in the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease and cancer and of the
 clinical and cost-effectiveness of second- and third-generation left ventricular assist devices.
 We also contribute to systematic reviews and economic models of screening for national
 policy-makers including the UK National Screening Committee. This led to national roll-out of
 new non-invasive prenatal testing for trisomies and to a decision not to roll out screening for
 Group B Streptococcus in pregnancy despite extensive pressure. In the latter case we
 advised that randomised controlled trial evidence is required, which HTA have now funded.
 We make a substantial contribution to national research priority setting with multiple NIHR
 commissioned calls based on our research, and several examples within the unit of the
 sequence of systematic review-identify research needs-design trial-secure funds-do the trial,
 including the NIHR-funded EMERALD and DIAMONDS trials in diabetic eye disease, and
 MRC-funded studies in gestational diabetes in Malaysia and Thailand.




                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2.3 Notable contributions in health services research and mental health
        (see also Impact case studies from Birchwood, Dale and Staniszewska)
      £4.3M EU FP7 MILESTONE study (Singh), only cohort study of transition from child and
        youth to adult mental health services, recruiting >1000 from 52 sites across 8 countries
      Design of UK’s first reform of young people’s mental health services replacing
        CAMHS/young adults services in Birmingham (Birchwood). Featured in 2019 NHS plan,
        this will be rolled out nationally. Birchwood has been involved in NHSE planning for this
        development and Singh and Birchwood were invited to the Cabinet Office to give
        expert evidence for Government Green Paper on Youth mental health
      Contribution to NHS guidance on intervention in psychosis (Birchwood) leading to
        proportion of first episode psychosis patients waiting < 2 weeks rising from 50% to 75%
      Contribution to NICE guidance on transition from child to adult mental health services
        (Chair, Singh) and psychosis and schizophrenia in adults (Member, Birchwood)
      Publications in Lancet Psychiatry on trials of early intervention in psychosis for those
        with high disability; and CBT trial for violence and self-harm linked to commanding
        hallucinations (Birchwood)
      Contribution to NICE guidance on patient experience (Staniszewska)
      Development of EQUATOR guidance GRIPP2 on PPI reporting (Staniszewska, Seers)
      Presentation of online Care Companion to Minister of State for Care (Dale)
      Contribution to NHSE Primary Care Digital Transformation advisory group (Atherton)
        leading to national guidance in 2020
      A major contribution to Emergency Care ReSPECT process, rolled out to all NHS trusts
        with a substantial impact on care across the UK in elderly patients and care of the dying
        (Griffiths, Slowther)
      Contribution to Faculty of Intensive Care Medicine guidance on end of life care
        (Slowther, Griffiths, Dale)
      Raising awareness and providing evidence of socioethical dilemmas around
        screening, informing Nuffield Council on Bioethics; Genetic Alliance UK, SMA Support
        UK, Fragile X Society, Thalassaemia Society, Haemophilia Society and Cystic
        Fibrosis Trust, and the general public (Boardman).

 4.2.4 Notable contributions in global health
      Over 160 peer-reviewed publications from W-CAHRD since 2014 including two in Lancet
        and one in BMJ Global Health
      W-CAHRD contribution to WHO technical advisory group on slum health and the United
        Nations 1st Technical Meeting for Human Settlement Indicators of the Sustainable
        Development Goals
      2017 award to W-CAHRD of a Rockefeller Foundation Bellagio Conference on statistical
        and demographical characterisation of slums, including senior representatives of national
        agencies, research institutions, NGOs, multilateral UN agencies, bilateral donors,
        professional associations, and policymakers
      Inclusion of papers on sleep in policy documents produced by the Parliamentary Office of
        Science and Technology presented to UK parliament at Sleep and Health event
      Contribution to NICE and WHO guidelines (Cappuccio)

 An example of our research impact in this area is the work of Cappuccio’s team who have
 delivered national salt reduction policies and empowered communities and health professionals
 through the training of over 75 health professionals and building capacity in Greece, Italy,
 Slovenia, Moldova and Montenegro.

                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.2.5 National and international roles
 Our researchers are on national funding panels for NIHR (Bick, Clarke, Dunn, Griffiths,
 Kearney, Lasserson, Lilford, Mason, Perkins, Seers, Stallard, Staniszewska, Underwood),
 NIHR/UKRI (Lasserson), MRC (Gill, Griffiths, Lilford, Singh, Stallard), EPSRC
 (Underwood), Health Research Board, Ireland (Staniszewska (chair), Bruce), Swedish Medical
 Research Council (Dunn), Research Foundation – Flanders (FWO) (Hoad) and other funding
 bodies including healthcare charities, as well as contributing widely to funding bodies as
 reviewers.

 Staff have served on/chaired, NICE panels (Gill, Kearney, Metcalfe, Staniszewska,
 Underwood) and Warwick Evidence has provided evidence for NICE technology appraisals on
 many of its most high profile recommendations (such as the UKs first approval for a regenerative
 medicine technology [TA477], and the macular degeneration guideline [NG82] with a potential
 NHS saving of £500M).

 Staff also act as journal editors (Bick, Cappuccio, Clarke, Gill, Nolan, Stallard, Staniszewska,
 Underwood), with numerous staff on journal editorial and/or reviewing panels and giving
 keynote or invited international conference presentations.

 Other contributions to national or international bodies:
     Bick: Chair of the RCOG Intrapartum Care Clinical Studies Group, Invited Expert
        Advisory Group member, HRB Mother and Baby Clinical Trial Network Ireland
     Boardman: Invited member, European Neuromuscular Centre Advisory Group on
        Newborn Screening for Spinal Muscular Atrophy, Muscle Study Group Scientific
        Committee of the International Neuromuscular Research Group; member Institute of
        Medical Ethics Research Committee; member National Screening Committee’s Fetal
        Maternal and Child Health Group
     Bruce: Invited member, Scientific Committee for British Pain Society
     Cappuccio: President, British and Irish Hypertension Society; Head, WHO Nutrition CC
     Clarke: President, Society for Social Medicine and Population Health; Member, CIRC
        (RCGP expert advisory group)
     Haywood: Board member, International Society for Quality of Life Research
     Kearney: Research lead, Association of Trauma and Orthopaedic Chartered
        Physiotherapists; Committee member, UK Fragility Fracture Network
     Lasserson: Member, NHS England Same Day Emergency Care Committee, NHS
        England COVID Ambulatory Care Reference Group, National academic training lead for
        the Specialty Advisory Group for Acute Internal Medicine (JRCPTB).
     Metcalfe: Research lead, British Association of Surgery for the Knee
     Nolan: Chair, European Resuscitation Council, UK National Cardiac Arrest Audit
        Steering Group, Research and Development Committee, Resuscitation Council (UK)
     Perkins: Co-chair, International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation
     Seers: Honorary member, British Pain Society
     Singh: Member, Equality and Human Rights Commission board
     Slowther: Trustee, Institute of Medical Ethics; member, UK National Screening
        Committee
     Staniszewska: Member, WHO Alliance and BMJ Steering group on special collection of
        articles on Coproduction of Knowledge; Expert advisor, Wellcome Trust; Expert advisor,
        Health Data Research UK

                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Taylor-Phillips: Member, National Screening Committee’s Adult Reference Group
       Underwood: Chair, NICE Accreditation Advisory Committee; Member, Cabinet Office
        Cross-Government Trials Advice Panel
       Yeung: Deputy Director, UK Peri-Operative Medicine Clinical Trials Network

 4.2.6 Public engagement and outreach
 UoW and WMS have supported embedding public involvement and engagement within the
 academic community and research lifecycle (REF5a-4.3.4), drawing on the NIHR strategy
 (Staniszewska et al 2018) focussing on co-production of knowledge with patients and the
 public. This draws on our programme of research focused on involvement and engagement (see
 impact case study). We have demonstrated our commitment to the area by establishing the first
 international journal building the evidence base for practice using a co-production model with
 Staniszewska and a patient as co-editors.

 Warwick Institute for Engagement, established 2020, aligns with WMS focus on evidence-based
 practice, bringing together extensive practical engagement expertise with pioneering academic
 research with evidence-led best practice at the core of our thinking, driving real impact for our
 communities. This complements the International PPI Network, with WMS a founding member
 alongside NIHR, INVOLVE, COMET and Cochrane.

 Our culture supports and values public involvement and engagement in research, providing
 training for staff in key concepts as well as developing more specialist knowledge such as high-
 quality PPI reporting. We have a number of research Centres with strong public involvement
 strands of work, including the ARC, HPRU Genomics and Enabling Data and HPRU
 Gastrointestinal Infections. These enable us to build capacity and capability across WMS.
 Additional support is available through the RDS. Our involvement and engagement practice is
 supported by clear promotion criteria that value this activity, and recognised in the annual UoW
 awards. Coventry City of Culture 2021 will provide opportunities to strengthen our community
 collaborations further.

 A variety of events aiming to be as interactive, creative and engaging as possible, bring local
 public onto campus and take our research out into the wider community. The central PE Team’s
 PE (seed) Fund aims to help researchers start their PER journey, funding up to £1000 per
 project to try out engagement ideas, and has supported several WMS projects. Several WMS
 staff took part in the 2019 British Science Festival held at UoW, with Parashar presenting on the
 main programme. The festival ended with a UoW Family Day with staff and students presenting
 hands-on displays of our research to inspire younger members of our community.

 4.2.7 Response to COVID-19 pandemic
 We have led or contributed to a number of research projects on COVID-19. These Include a
 major clinical trial of respiratory support (Perkins) and a further multi-centre trial of rehabilitation
 for chronic COVID-19 (Underwood), a Warwick Evidence review of the COVID-19 risk for those
 delivering treatment for cardiac arrest (Taylor-Phillips), a Public Health England study on
 contact tracing (Seers), and publications on Intensive Care Unit decision-making (Slowther),
 primary care video consultations (Atherton) outcomes from orthopaedic surgery in the presence
 of COVID-19 (Metcalfe, Parsons) and clinical trial design (Stallard, Kimani) in COVID-19.




                                                                                                 Page 25
