Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 25b - Area Studies: Institute of the Americas (UCL-IA)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Institute of the Americas was established as a new department in the Faculty of Social and
 Historical Sciences (SHS) at UCL in 2012, and is submitted to the REF for the first time. We are
 the only Area Studies Unit in the United Kingdom that covers the whole of the western
 hemisphere. Building on this unique profile, we aim to make the Institute the leading centre in
 the world for disciplinary and interdisciplinary research in Canadian Studies, Caribbean Studies,
 Latin American Studies and United States Studies. We have invested in a dynamic, fast-growing
 research community, having appointed eight new permanent members of academic staff during
 the census period (out of a total of 12.3FTE), strengthening and diversifying our transnational
 and comparative hemispheric study of the Americas, and advancing our efforts to realize the
 potential impact of our research.

 The Institute’s research activity is underpinned by the principle that the western hemisphere,
 while marked by tremendous diversity, shares distinct linguistic, political, historical, and cultural
 commonalities. Our research therefore covers: experiences of colonialism; struggles for
 independence and democratisation; histories of racism and racial diversity; economic and social
 inequality; dependence upon resource extraction and exploitation, with attendant environmental
 degradation; traditions of revolutionary, labour, and feminist mobilisation; battles over the
 relationship between capitalism and democracy; and the centrality of migration within, between
 and beyond the countries of the Americas. At the same time, the logic for embracing the entire
 western hemisphere lies not in its singularity but in the diversity of cultures, societies, and
 national experiences that it encompasses. This diversity allows us to subject claims about
 national or regional uniqueness to critical scrutiny. More importantly, the vast historical, climatic,
 ethno-racial and topographic variety of the Americas allows the Institute to participate in
 genuinely global conversations about both historic and present challenges.

 Our academic mission as an Area Studies Unit is one of intellectual and policy engagement with
 these major global problems. This mission has shaped – and will continue to drive, post-
 REF2021 – our unique strategic focus on history and the social sciences. In contrast to
 American Studies departments at other HEIs, which often combine language, literature, and
 history of either North America or Latin America, our main disciplinary areas include
 anthropology, development and environmental studies, history, human rights studies,
 international relations, political economy, politics, and sociology. This range of expertise allows
 us to study key issues that impact the Americas from multidisciplinary perspectives. Our
 research focuses on questions of democracy, governance and human rights, ethnic diversity and
 racism, economic development, environmental justice, social policy, and gender and sexual
 equality. These questions lend themselves not only to high-quality academic research, but also
 to recognised interventions in public policy in the UK and beyond, to a degree that is unmatched
 by any other American Studies programme in Europe.

 The Institute has been central to a broader effort at UCL to build capacity in Area Studies, which
 has resulted in the establishment of research clusters and centres focused on the study of
 Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia, as well as the European Institute, in order to
 complement the long-established School of Slavonic and Eastern European Studies (SEESS).
 This Area Studies expertise is put into dialogue in the context of the UCL Institute of Advanced
 Studies, which facilitates cross-disciplinary Area Studies activities across UCL.

 At its establishment in 2012, the Institute had specific strengths in US political history and in the
 history, sociology, politics and human rights of Latin America and the Caribbean. From 2014
 onwards, we expanded our research profile in modern US history, with four new appointments
 (Bell, Witham, Hyman and Davies), including two appointments at full Professor level (Bell and
 Davies), extending expertise into areas such as race, gender, sexuality, social movements, and

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 environmental history. The appointment of a political scientist (Hilliard), who specializes in
 American political development, has further extended our coverage of the study of the modern
 US. We have also enhanced our coverage of Latin American political science and political
 economy with two appointments, who have specialisms in gender politics and electoral
 behaviour (Gatto), and in the political economy of development (Castañeda). We also made a
 new appointment in urban anthropology (Saunders-Hastings), bringing particular expertise in the
 study of crime and state formation. In doing so, we were also able to fill significant gaps in our
 country-specific expertise by appointing colleagues with expertise in Brazil (Gatto) and Central
 America (Saunders-Hastings).

 We have also expanded and contributed to the development of our disciplinary coverage by
 strategically supporting early career fellowships (ECFs) from the British Academy (Grigera), the
 Leverhulme Trust (Grisaffi), the EU’s Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship scheme
 (Simonetto) and UCL’s Institute of Advanced Studies (Bollington). These ECFs have enhanced
 our engagement with the political economy of industrialization, social movements and the drug
 trade, and visual politics, and brought additional country expertise on Argentina (Grigera,
 Simonetto) and Bolivia (Grisaffi).

 This combination of disciplinary and interdisciplinary expertise, together with the Institute’s
 unique hemispheric focus, has driven our research strategy, which has three principal
 elements:

    1. Strategy 1: to serve as a centre for the development of early career researchers
       (ECRs) and academic leaders of the future whose commitment to excellence in
       research is matched by the ambition to ask big questions that place scholarship on the
       Americas at the centre of pressing debates about the world. Following the appointment of
       Bell as Professor and Head of Department in 2014, we decided to focus on recruiting
       early career scholars into permanent positions; six out of eight new appointments since
       our creation at UCL have been Lecturers. By advertising academic posts with broad
       thematic parameters, we have been able to attract the most promising early career
       scholars, whatever their specialism. We have encouraged and nurtured the individual
       research agendas of both our new academic colleagues and our early career fellows.
       One indicator of the value of this strategy has been the success of our ECFs, all of whom
       have secured academic appointments after their fellowships have ended (Grisaffi at
       Reading, Grigera at King’s College London, and Bollington at UCL). We also have a
       large and vibrant community of postgraduate researchers (over 30 at any one time).

    2. Strategy 2: to shape a collective research identity for our scholarly community,
       mindful that the small size of the Institute makes the formation of research centres or
       formal clusters impractical and limiting. The nature of contemporary Area Studies, and
       specifically the place of the Americas within it, encourages scholars to understand their
       research in terms of common agendas that lead to more ambitious collective research
       priorities. The following priorities frame our research mission:

        -   Human rights and struggles for reparative justice: Led by the work of Engstrom
            (nurtured by a Leverhulme Network Grant) and the focus of one of our impact case
            studies for REF2021, this topic is central to many countries in Latin America, as well
            as the postcolonial Caribbean, and informs the work of Witham on US solidarity
            movements in Latin America, and Quinn on colonial legacies in the Caribbean
            (awarded an AHRC Network Grant).
        -   Histories of race and racism: We have a longstanding research focus on themes of
            racial diversity and exclusion, from the perspectives the African diaspora, and
            whiteness and white supremacy. For example, Quinn specialises in Caribbean
            history, especially on the ideology of Black Power and anti-colonialism (evidenced by
            two AHRC grants), while Hyman explores racism through the lens of white
            supremacist politics in transnational context, bridging the Americas, Britain, and
            southern Africa. The recent creation of the Sarah Parker Remond Centre for the

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           Study of Race and Racialisation at UCL (directed by Professor Paul Gilroy) is
           particularly exciting for the Institute and will provide further opportunities for staff to
           strengthen research networks in these areas across UCL.
       -   Social policy and the politics of health and welfare: Molyneux’s pioneering work
           on social cash transfers and innovative policy formation in Latin America is the focus
           of our second impact case study and demonstrates the productive effects of
           collaborations between academics and public policymakers in this field. The
           overarching theme of social policy and welfare also frames the work of Bell on the
           relationship between sexuality and healthcare in the US, Drinot’s work on the history
           of sexuality and public health in Peru, and Saunders-Hastings’s work on the informal
           social networks in Guatemala that replace a formalised welfare system. We also saw
           the award of an EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship for Patricio
           Simonetto, for work on the dynamics of sex change practices in Argentina.
       -   The challenges of democracy and governance: As well as being key themes in the
           politics of the Americas, democracy and governance represent a central interest of
           political scientists more generally, and thus inform much of our work, including Hilliard
           on democratic accountability in the US state, Gatto on gender dynamics in Brazilian
           legislatures, Morgan on the US Presidency, Davies on environmental disaster and
           state capacity, Castañeda on the influence of business elites and corporate capital on
           the democratic process, Middlebrook on how international trade relationships shape
           democratic norms, and McCulloch on federalism and regional identity in Canada.

       These themes indicate the affinity between our individual agendas as historians and
       social scientists of the Americas with certain integrative themes that unite us as a group
       and facilitate our task in understanding key global challenges through both a historical
       and a contemporary perspective. This connection between past and present drives our
       research strategy.

    3. Strategy 3: to facilitate links between our research and wider communities of
       policymakers, researchers and community partners in order to extend the impact
       of our research beyond UCL. The Institute is a unique point of reference for academics,
       policymakers, the press, and the corporate sector in the UK and more broadly. Our deep
       connection to non-academic stakeholders is particularly evident in the two case studies
       submitted for REF2021: Molyneux’s on the connection between her research on cash
       transfers and the policy of the UK government, NGOs and development consultancies;
       and Engstrom’s on the contributions his research has made to policy design and
       government practice on torture prevention in Latin America. These case studies highlight
       how research from the Institute informs both the implementation of public policy and the
       activities of NGOs and other comparable organizations.

       The Institute is also the home to the largest programme of public events on the Americas
       in the UK. Between 2014 and 2020, the Institute held 519 events, which were attended
       by over 21,000 people, including staff and students from the Institute and the wider UCL
       and UK HE communities, representatives from Whitehall, the City, embassies and
       consulates, NGOs, the press, and the general public. McCulloch runs our seminar series
       on Canadian Studies, which is funded by external sponsorship, primarily from the
       Canada-UK Foundation. Academics, diplomatic staff from the Foreign and
       Commonwealth Office (FCO), the Canadian High Commission, the Quebec Delegation
       and from various NGOs regularly attend. The Caribbean seminar series, the largest in
       the UK, is run by Quinn, and holds regular seminars and panel sessions with
       contributions from academics and speakers from other sectors (museums, NGOs,
       government, think tanks). The Latin American seminar series serves as a forum for the
       latest research on Latin America from a broad range of disciplinary and cross-disciplinary
       perspectives. In addition, Institute staff help convene both the North American History
       (Bell, Hyman, Morgan, Witham) and Latin American History (Drinot) seminars at the
       Institute of Historical Research. These seminars, which draw their audience of scholars


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         and students from London and elsewhere in the UK, play a key national role in the public
         dissemination of research on the Americas.

         We also host visiting academics from around the world as scholars-in-residence. Since
         2014, we have hosted colleagues from 24 universities from across the Americas and
         Europe. Upon their return to their home institutions, these visiting academics continue to
         serve as bridges to institutions and international networks. These connections ensure
         that the Institute is a major hub for research on the Americas in both the UK and Europe.

 Our future strategic vision is oriented towards long-term excellence rather than short-term
 targets. It rests on the consolidation and development of our research base, along with the
 expansion of the number of world-leading staff. The strategic appointment of a new Professor in
 2020 (Davies) allowed the Institute to deepen senior leadership in the department while we
 continue to nurture and promote our pool of promising early- and mid-career researchers. The
 appointment signifies UCL’s commitment to the mission and importance of the Institute and
 cements our reputation as a global centre for the study of the Americas. Davies’s interest in the
 politics of the environment and climate change adds an exciting new strand to our research
 priorities, one that links with the recently established cross-faculty UCL Anthropocene Initiative.
 We have not benefitted from significant QR income to date. As we move forward from the
 REF2021 financial settlement, we will therefore appoint additional research-active staff in areas
 that remain underrepresented in the Institute, including International Relations, Caribbean
 Studies, environmental challenges, and the history of Latin America.

 We will also facilitate additional opportunities for collaborative research, supporting another key
 strategic driver of the next five years: increasing the Institute’s number of competitive research
 grants. In this regard, we can already record several funding successes that will initiate projects
 at the start of the next REF cycle. These include:

     -   A collaborative AHRC Research Grant with Quinn as Co-I alongside researchers from
         Royal Holloway, the School of Advanced Study, the University of Southampton and the
         University of the West Indies (2021-24, £252,653 of a total £825,417) to support
         research on Queen Elizabeth II and the Caribbean;
     -   An ERC Advanced Grant with Saunders-Hastings as Co-I alongside colleagues in the
         UCL Department of Anthropology (2021-26, £54,964 of a total £2,530,667) on
         anthropologies of extortion;
     -   A Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship for Drinot (2021-24, £200,988) to write a
         biography of José Carlos Mariátegui;
     -   A Leverhulme Visiting Professorship for Ricardo López-Pedreros (Western Washington
         University, 2021-22, £91,500) to support work on the history of the middle class and
         democracy in Latin America.

 Knowledge exchange and research impact lie at the heart of our academic mission, as
 evidenced by our case studies for REF 2021 (Engstrom and Molyneux), both of which engage
 public policy and NGO stakeholders internationally, and by our plans to develop impact beyond
 the census period. We nurture knowledge exchange with non-academic audiences, regularly
 hosting representatives of government bodies, diplomatic missions, NGOs, and interested
 community groups as participants in events. Such regular exchange leads organically to the
 charting of pathways to impact, as academic colleagues move in public policy and NGO circles
 and are asked to produce reports or to share their research with interested stakeholders. Our
 short course delivered to Latin American specialists in the UK FCO is an example of the robust
 links between our research and policymakers. Such links underpin work undertaken by several
 colleagues (e.g., Bell’s current policy work on LGBTQ health issues with medical student-led
 NGO Polygeia, Castañeda’s collaboration with policymakers from the Inter-American
 Development Bank on their Behavioural Economics Initiative, and Davies’s investigation of the
 politics of climate change in coastal cities, which rests on work with government officials,
 universities and pressure groups). Linking individual research to broader debates outside


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academia is part of the agenda for individual research meetings all staff undertake twice a year
 (see detailed discussion in section 2.2).

 We are fully committed to fostering an open research environment, and our commitment to
 engaging non-academic as well as academic stakeholders is embodied in our sponsorship of a
 new Open Access book series entitled Modern Americas, published by UCL Press as a fully
 accessible, online publishing forum for cutting-edge academic work on the Americas. The series
 is edited by three members of Institute staff: Molyneux, McCulloch, and Quinn. In addition, staff
 regularly publish public-facing policy digests related to their research. As the Institute develops
 its Open Access strategy in future years, we intend to use significant funds drawn from the
 REF2021 financial settlement to underpin a more expansive approach to Gold Open Access
 outputs.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 Since our establishment in 2012, when six research academic staff (5.1 FTE) transferred to UCL
 from the School of Advanced Study, University of London, the Institute has more than doubled in
 size to 15 (12.3 FTE) research-active staff. The Institute is staffed by six Professors (three full-
 time, Bell, Davies, and Drinot; three part-time, Middlebrook, Molyneux, Morgan), four Associate
 Professors (Castañeda, Engstrom, Quinn, Witham), and five Lecturers (Hilliard, Hyman, Gatto,
 McCulloch, Saunders-Hastings). Additional appointments falling within the REF period include a
 Research Fellow working on a Ford Foundation-funded programme and research network on
 Cuba (Morris) and a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow appointed in 2020 (Simonetto). The
 Institute has hosted a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow (Grigera), a Leverhulme Early
 Career Fellow (Grisaffi), and a Junior Research Fellow, funded by UCL’s Institute of Advanced
 Studies (Bollington).

 Three strategic drivers shape our staffing strategy:

     -   Securing strategic and research leadership: The Institute embraces UCL’s
         institutional commitment (see REF5a, 3.1) to inspiring and empowering research
         leadership. In 2014 Bell was appointed as Professor and Head of Department (HoD). He
         has led the Institute throughout the census period (appointed to a five-year term 2014-19
         and a subsequent three-year term 2019-22). He arrived with four years’ experience as
         HoD in a larger department, and a strong record of research leadership. In terms of
         succession planning, in 2020 Davies was appointed as Professor. This strategy of
         bookending two senior strategic appointments in 2014 and 2020, with early career
         appointments in between, allowed the Institute to gain vital leadership at a time when
         other senior staff were moving towards retirement.

     -   Ensuring academic career development for all staff: Preparing staff for academic
         promotion and reward is a central part of our staff development strategy. Promotion is
         discussed as part of the annual appraisal process, and each year the Institute convenes
         a promotions committee consisting of Professorial staff who support colleagues with their
         promotion applications. During the census period, Drinot (2020) was promoted to
         Professor, and Engstrom (2016), Quinn (2017), Witham (2018) and Castañeda (2019)
         were promoted to Associate Professor. Our policies for flexible staff work patterns and
         for equality, diversity, and inclusion are detailed under 2.4 below.

     -   Nurturing early career researchers: We see the creation of a thriving research culture
         for junior scholars as a key part of our mission. We appointed six full-time, permanent
         Lecturers between 2015 and 2018, all of whom were as ECRs at the time of their
         appointment (Castañeda and Witham in 2015, Hyman and Saunders-Hastings in 2016,
         and Gatto and Hilliard in 2018). Four of the six are female, and only two of the six had
         permanent posts before coming to UCL. Of the four early career fellows we have hosted,

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        the three who have completed their fellowships now hold permanent academic posts
        (Bollington at UCL, Grigera at King’s College London and Grisaffi at Reading). We do not
        employ staff on fixed-term contracts in the department, other than to cover maternity
        leave or research grants, and in such cases we do not use contracts of shorter duration
        than twelve months. In line with UCL’s new concordat on teaching contracts, we ensure
        that all those on teaching contracts have dedicated time for research and scholarship.

 2.2 Staff development
 Staff development is supported in several ways. In addition to annual appraisals conducted by
 the HoD, the Institute conducts bi-annual research planning exercises, when the HoD, the
 Director of Research, and an external member of staff meet each researcher to review individual
 research strategies. Staff submit a research plan in advance, detailing publication plans, grant
 bid ideas, and collaborative research activity, thus facilitating the establishment of challenging
 but realistic milestones. Furthermore, the Institute has a Research Committee, comprising, in
 addition to the HoD (Bell) and Director of Research (Witham), five other colleagues representing
 all career stages (Davies, Drinot, Molyneux, Castañeda, Saunders-Hastings). This committee
 oversees the Institute’s research strategy, evaluates and approves applications from visiting
 research fellows and postdoctoral students, and provides advice to staff on research grant
 applications. Early career staff as well as postdocs are assigned a mentor who advises on
 career progression, grant capture, and publication strategies. This process also encourages staff
 to consider research impact as they develop projects, with the Institute’s two case studies
 indicating its success.

 Research-active staff are entitled to one term sabbatical after three years of qualifying service,
 and they are awarded a yearly £1,000 personal research allowance from departmental funds,
 which supplements a £1,000 research allowance from the Faculty. Academic staff, particularly
 ECRs, are encouraged to make bids to the department for additional research funding to support
 the development of their research agendas, especially those involving collaborators from outside
 UCL. Staff are also supported in applications to the SHS Dean’s Strategic Funds initiative for
 further research support. In addition, Institute staff have been successful in raising funds from
 central UCL funding schemes, such as that provided by the Global Engagement Office (£11,384
 from four successful bids) and the UCL Grand Challenges Scheme (£8,000 from three
 successful bids).

 Research leave is continuing at UCL in 2020-21, rather than being suspended in response to the
 COVID-19 pandemic. The senior promotions process has been altered to allow staff to account
 for the impact of COVID-19 on their research, with appropriate adjustments to accommodate its
 impact on travel, collaboration and caring responsibilities, and this will continue for a number of
 years. Colleagues impacted by the pandemic are supported by UCL’s COVID-19 Career Support
 Scheme, an equity and inclusion-based initiative that aims to mitigate adverse impact that
 results in lost work productivity that may cause longer term career harm without additional
 support from UCL. The arrival of Simonetto as a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow was delayed
 until September 2020 (meaning that his outputs could not be included in the Institute’s
 submission) to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on his research plans.

 Staff training in research integrity is underpinned by UCL’s Code of Conduct for Research, and
 supported by the university’s Research Integrity Team, based in the Office for the Vice-Provost
 of Research. The Institute has a dedicated research ethics lead (Saunders-Hastings), and an
 internal ethics committee that advises staff and students on questions of research integrity.

 2.3 Support mechanisms for, and evidence of, the training and supervision of PGR
 students
 The Institute has built a thriving community of PhD students (averaging 30 students at any one
 time), working on a broad range of topics from both disciplinary and interdisciplinary
 perspectives on all four regions of the Americas (the Caribbean, Canada, Latin America, and the
 United States) as well as on topics that connect these regions to other parts of the world. We are


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 committed to the recruitment of the highest quality researchers to join our postgraduate
 community.

 A majority (54%) of our doctoral students receive funding from UK or overseas funding bodies.
 During the REF period, this included three AHRC-LAHP studentships, one AHRC Collaborative
 Doctoral Partnership with the British Library; four UCL internally funded places for both home
 and overseas students; six UCL Wolfson scholarships; five students funded by CONACYT-
 México; six by CONICYT-Chile; one funded by the Universidad de los Andes-Colombia; and two
 by SENESCYT-Ecuador.

 PhD students receive a thorough induction upon arrival and are paired with primary and
 subsidiary supervisors. Training is provided through regular meetings with the supervisory team,
 which happen at least once a month, via fortnightly research seminars where students and staff
 present their work, and through skills training courses offered by the UCL Doctoral School and
 the AHRC and ESRC Doctoral Training Partnerships. Students develop skills related to ethics
 and research integrity via specific training courses. Students gain further skills via opportunities
 to teach as PGTAs on undergraduate modules. The department employs 8-10 PGTAs each
 year, and students tend to undertake this work in their second year of study. Given their cross-
 disciplinary and hemispheric character, this equips students with a unique portfolio of teaching
 experience, which is supplemented by participation in UCL Arena One, a development pathway
 for PhD students leading to Associate Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy.

 Students are required to upgrade nine to 18 months after registration. They are provided
 extensive feedback on their progress by an upgrade committee consisting of the subsidiary
 supervisor and an additional member. The Departmental Graduate Tutor oversees PhD student
 experience, and monitors student progress alongside supervisors. Students in their second or
 third years present their work to the Institute’s regular lunchtime research seminar, attended by
 both staff and research students, and receive extensive feedback. Moreover, staff provide
 regular career development sessions to students on a range of topics, from the current HE
 environment in the UK and elsewhere, to publication strategies, developing an impact agenda
 for their work, and the REF.

 The Institute provides funding that allows every student the opportunity to undertake at least two
 fieldwork and/or conference trips abroad during the course of their studies. During the COVID-19
 pandemic, we deployed this funding to support students who have been adversely affected.
 Research students have successfully applied for UCL Global Challenges fund to further their
 research. The Institute encourages and supports student initiatives, such as the UCL-based
 Americas Research Network.

 Academic staff guide research students in disseminating their research via publications and
 conference presentations. Our students have published articles in leading disciplinary and
 interdisciplinary journals such as Development and Change, Foreign Affairs, Journal of Policy
 History, and Modern American History. Furthermore, in recent years students have organized
 panels and presented papers at a series of major conferences (e.g., The Organization of
 American Historians, the Latin American Studies Association) and have won awards from
 international scholarly organizations (e.g., the Southern Labor Studies Association’s Robert
 Zieger Award).

 Since 2014, 21 students have earned PhDs, embarking on a range of careers, including the
 Belizean diplomatic service (as ambassador to the EU), the UK’s Equality and Human Rights
 Commission, the National Institute for Health Research Collaboration for Leadership in Applied
 Health Research and Care at the University of Southampton, the US Council on Foreign
 Relations in Washington, DC, human rights NGOs in Mexico and Colombia, the NGO Global
 Justice Now, as well as in academic posts at Universidad Tecnológica de Chile INACAP,
 Karlschochschule International University, Germany, SOAS, the University of Texas Rio Grande
 Valley, and the University of Oxford.


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.4 Evidence of how the submitting unit supports and promotes equality and diversity

 Our policies and hiring profile from 2014-20 reflect a strong commitment to equality, diversity
 and inclusion, and UCL’s overarching EDI strategies (REF5a, 3.2). We have made a concerted
 effort to redress gender imbalances through recruitment, achieving a near balance of male (nine)
 and female (eight) colleagues (compared to five male and two female in 2014). Having focussed
 our staffing strategy on the recruitment of ECRs, many of our female staff hold junior positions.
 To support their career development and to address gender disparity at senior levels, we have
 initiated a series of training sessions to support staff in applying for promotion. We thus aim to
 eliminate the gender imbalance at higher career grades by promoting our current junior
 colleagues.

 We will submit an Athena SWAN application for a Bronze award in April 2022, and our action
 plan will provide a roadmap to deepen our commitment to equality and diversity. Our Athena
 SWAN lead (Gatto) relates her own work on gender politics to a wider EDI strategy. In 2017, she
 co-founded (and has since co-organised) the Summer School for Women in Political
 Methodology at the University of Zurich, a fellowship programme targeting the gender gap in the
 field of computational social science research by offering advanced training for women working
 in the field. Applications to the summer school more than doubled in two years, to 647 in 2019.

 We are committed to implementing the SHS Faculty Pledge to Promote Race Equality and have
 to date succeeded in increasing BAME representation from 0% of the staff profile in 2014 to 20%
 in 2020. We will continue to focus our attention on attracting greater numbers of BAME
 candidates to the department through the use of Fair Recruitment Specialists and the
 development of Positive Action approaches. We all encourage staff to make use of UCL’s
 leadership training programmes, including Accelerate to Leadership. In particular, we support
 the promotion of BAME staff to senior positions within the Institute.

 The Institute supports part-time and flexible working, which is currently taken up by three
 colleagues. We make full use of UCL’s occupational health facilities when supporting colleagues
 in making adjustments to work patterns due to issues such as ill health. The personal and family
 circumstances of individual members of staff are taken into consideration when scheduling
 classes and meetings. Research leave policy is applied in a manner that is attentive to the
 career development needs of individual academic members of staff, especially those of early
 career staff. We have accelerated research leave for ECRs where necessary to allow for the
 completion of monographs after maternity leave. We also follow UCL standard policy in offering
 an extra term of research leave for staff returning to work after a period of maternity leave, to
 help them re-establish their research. Additional support will be provided for ECRs and staff from
 protected groups who return to research after the COVID-19 pandemic in the form of additional
 research funding, and, where appropriate, accelerated research leave.

 The Institute’s EDI Committee brings staff and students together to jointly identify priorities for
 change in terms of diversity and equality issues. It is a safe space for staff and students to
 communicate issues and report key actions and recommendations. The committee is tasked
 with discussing and taking appropriate action on a range of areas, including: training;
 progression of projects such as work towards charter marks; assessment of curricula;
 organisation and management processes within the Institute; and anything raised by staff or
 students via surveys on EDI issues.

 As of 2020-21, the Institute’s PhD cohort comprises 19 male and 16 female researchers. Of
 these, 11 are overseas students, 5 from the EU, and 19 from the UK. In 2020, the Institute
 secured one of UCL’s Research Opportunity Scholarships, which fund BAME research students.
 We have a strong record in supporting applications from students from the global South,
 especially Latin America and the Caribbean. A high proportion of our doctoral students do not fit
 the once ‘traditional’ profile: several are mature students; many have families and other
 dependents and caring responsibilities. We have found that international students, in particular
 those who may have family responsibilities in the UK and/or in their country of origin, often

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 require additional support. Supervisors, the Departmental Graduate Tutor, and the professional
 services staff all work to support students through parental leave, serious health problems,
 financial issues, and complex family circumstances to allow them to complete their PhDs, for
 example by facilitating periods of interruption where appropriate, signposting them to relevant
 support services, or offering video conference meetings when family responsibilities make in-
 person supervisions difficult. These processes are rooted in a principle of shared effort to ensure
 that the Institute takes care of its researchers.

 To prepare our submission to REF2021, we established a Review and Selection Group (RSG)
 comprising a representative cross-section of staff: one Professor, three mid-career staff, and two
 ECRs; four male, two female. Staff were regularly updated of the progress of the development of
 the submission and encouraged to approach the RSG with any questions or concerns. Output
 selections were reviewed in light of the equalities analysis carried out by the UCL REF team.
 Given the small size of the Institute, there is low statistical power in the data collected. However,
 we can confidently say that while all our staff are included in the submission, and outputs by
 BAME staff are well represented, women have fewer outputs than other staff groups. This is
 largely the result of the preponderance of women in junior career posts. We know from our
 analysis of ongoing research projects that all our ECRs will make substantial contributions to the
 next REF exercise.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 The Institute has pursued a strategy to capture research income in order to support and
 enhance its coverage of cross-disciplinary and hemispheric study of the Americas. During the
 census period, the Institute was awarded a total of £786,353 in external research funding (with
 research income equalling £609,644).

 Human rights research (Engstrom) has received extensive funding from three sources, which
 has fed directly into outputs included in this submission as well as the development of an impact
 case study on the prevention of torture in Latin America:

     -   A Leverhulme International Network Grant, for “The Inter-American Human Rights
         System: Assessing its Development and Impact” (2014-16, £124,799);
     -   A Leverhulme Visiting Professorship for Professor Roberto Gargarella of Universidad de
         Buenos Aires (2014, £44,695);
     -   The Association for the Prevention of Torture, for “Torture Prevention in Chile and Peru”
         (2014, £49,702).

 The Institute has also secured research income through three successful bids for early career
 fellowships:

     -   From the British Academy (Grigera: “Bringing the Global Market Back In: Industrialising
         and Exporting Commodities, Argentina and Brazil, 1950-2010”, £251,732);
     -   The Leverhulme Trust (Grisaffi: “Indigenous Visions of Democracy: An Ethnographic
         Study of Political Values and Betrayal in the Chapare Province, Bolivia”, £69,603);
     -   The EU’s Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship scheme (Simonetto: “Was Sex
         Inflexible? Practices, Knowledge, Techniques, and Technologies of “Sex Change”
         Embodiment in Argentina during the Twentieth Century, £170,347).

 The Institute has developed income streams to support research networking in Latin America. A
 clear mark of esteem in this regard was the award of a British Academy Global Professorship for
 Marcos Cueto (FIOCRUZ in Brazil) in 2019 totalling £647,604. While he was unable to come to
 UCL for personal reasons, this built on Drinot’s collaborative work with him on academic
 publishing in Latin America and the UK, which received funding from the British Academy
 Newton Mobility Grant Scheme (£9,930) and was also supported by a Santander Catalyst Award

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (£1,870). Together with a team based at Aberdeen, Oxford and Cambridge, Drinot was awarded
 in January 2020 a British Academy Writing Workshop grant (£19,993) to run a series of
 workshops in Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, and Peru to build capacity in the local academic
 community in submitting articles to international peer reviewed journals.

 Funding from several sources supports our different sub-regional research strands. Research on
 the Caribbean has benefited from a major AHRC Research Network Grant led by Quinn on
 Westminster in the Caribbean: History, Legacies, Challenges (2012-14, £41,238). Funding from
 the Ford Foundation (£38,087), with additional project support from the FCO (£3,418) and UCL
 Global Engagement Fund and Grand Challenges Small Grants, enabled Morris to develop a
 multi-disciplinary research programme on Cuba, in collaboration with Cuban research partners,
 community organisations and public authorities. The Institute’s Canadian Studies programme
 (McCulloch), including the regular seminar programme, conferences and publications, is
 supported by regular funding from the Canada-UK Foundation (£35,000 to date) as well as
 occasional funding from the British Association for Canadian Studies, the London Conference on
 Canadian Studies, the Quebec Government (£5,000).

 A number of smaller grants have also supported the research of academic staff and led directly
 to outputs included in this submission. Bell’s research on AIDS policy in the United States
 received support from British Academy Small Research Grant (2015-16, £3,977). Witham’s
 research on popular historical writing in the United States was awarded British Academy Small
 Research Grant (2016-17, £4,702). Castañeda received a British Academy Small Research
 Grant (2016-17, £9,772) to support his work on tax compliance and tax morale in Latin America.
 Gatto has received funding from the Europa Institute and Wilson Center totalling £16,010 and
 the University of Zurich totalling £16,882 (2016-17) to develop her research agenda on women's
 political ambition in Latin America.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 The Institute is located in a substantial townhouse on Gordon Square in Bloomsbury, close to
 cognate departments in the Faculty of Social and Historical Sciences (Anthropology,
 Archaeology, Economics, History, History of Art, Political Science). It contains staff offices, a
 dedicated workspace for every PhD student that they share with no more than three other
 students, postdoc and visitor shared office space, plus two teaching rooms. The vast majority of
 our events are held here, allowing us to foster a sense of community and a vibrant research
 culture. The central location in Bloomsbury means that our regular events are easily accessible
 to a large and diverse public. We are close to six major libraries and specialist collections on the
 Americas (at the British Library and Senate House), which are used regularly by staff, students,
 and academic visitors.

 The Institute is well positioned in our faculty to benefit from close collaborative relationships with
 cross-faculty initiatives such as the Institute of Advanced Studies, the Sarah Parker Remond
 Centre for the Study of Race and Racialisation, and the cross-faculty UCL Anthropocene
 Initiative. In collaboration with the History Department, the Institute also draws on significant
 cross-departmental strengths in Caribbean, Latin American and US history. The Institute’s
 relationship with the Department of Political Science is similarly productive, especially in the
 areas of human rights research and US politics, in the latter case via the Centre on US Politics.

 When developing funding bids, researchers in the Institute receive expert support—ranging from
 assistance with identifying appropriate funding schemes to detailed feedback on draft
 applications and mock interviews—from a three-person team in the Office for the Vice-Provost of
 Research and a Research Development Manager in SHS. Public engagement and impact
 activities are assisted by two full-time professional services staff in SHS, appointed during the
 current REF cycle, with whom staff in the Institute work closely.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Establishing and nurturing international scholarly networks

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Collaboration, across disciplines and national borders, as well as between sectors, is at the
 heart of the Institute’s activity. Support for networks is one way in which collaboration takes
 place, and external bodies, including NGOs and governments, actively benefit from our
 infrastructural support. For example, initiatives such as the Westminster in the Caribbean:
 History, Legacies, Challenges (established by Quinn) and the Inter-American Human Rights
 Network (established by Engstrom) bring together academics and policymakers to examine how
 research taking place in the Institute intersects with public policy in the Americas. The latter
 network has informed Engstrom’s work on Torture Prevention in Latin America, developing
 research, policy and capacity-building projects that have strengthened the capacity of National
 Human Rights Institutions in Latin America to engage with the Universal Periodic Review at the
 UN Human Rights Council. The capacity of this network is demonstrated in Engstrom’s impact
 case study.

 Additionally, a UCL Global Exchange Grant enabled Molyneux to establish a collaborative oral
 history research project entitled Latin American Feminisms, 1968-Present, with key partners
 in FLACSO (Mexico) and the Universities of Valparaiso (Chile). This web-based initiative
 receives institutional support from Florida International University, which funds the two pilot
 cases and hosts the archive.

 The Institute also hosts the Canada-UK Network. Established by McCulloch, it keeps an open
 register of expertise in Canada-UK relations; fosters links with UK-based organisations such as
 the FCO, the Canadian High Commission, the Quebec Delegation in London, and the Canada-
 UK Council; develops partnerships between UCL and appropriate universities and organisations
 in Canada, such as the University of Toronto; attracts funding for scholarships and activities in
 the area of Canada-UK relations; and organises events that lead to publications on Canada-UK
 relations. In doing so, it fosters research and teaching on Canada-UK relations, a field that tends
 to be overshadowed by the attention devoted to the “special relationship” between the UK and
 the USA.

 The Cuba Research Network (established by Morris) connects UCL, Humboldt University
 (Germany) and the University of Salamanca (Spain) – covering expertise in engineering,
 epidemiology, management, disaster reduction, urban planning, and transport policy – with
 Havana University and the Technological University of Havana. The network’s main funders to
 date, the Ford Foundation and British Embassy in Havana, have sponsored policy-oriented
 research projects to support social, environmental and economic improvements.

 The Institute is also a focal point for national and international networks focused on US Studies.
 Staff enjoy a fruitful and multi-faceted partnership with the British Library Eccles Centre for
 American Studies. In addition to co-hosting conferences and research collaborations, the Centre
 sponsors an annual lecture at the British Association for American Studies annual conference.
 Two colleagues from the Institute have given this plenary: Morgan in 2014 and Bell in 2019.
 Since 2018, the Institute also participates in a US History research network with the History
 departments of Boston University, Stanford University, UC Berkeley, Emory University, and UC
 Davis. Through annual meetings, the network showcases the latest research of staff and PhD
 students in each department, providing opportunities for feedback from a high-quality yet
 supportive group of international peers. The collaboration is led by Bell, with support from
 Davies, Hyman, and Witham. Participation by staff and PhD students in the inaugural event in
 Boston, and the Institute’s hosting of the 2019 event in London, was funded by UCL’s Global
 Engagement Office and the UCL Commonwealth Fund in American History.

 The Institute collaborates frequently with UK government agencies, international organisations,
 and civil society organisations in the UK, Europe and the Americas. For example, since 2017,
 the Institute has provided an annual training course for diplomats at the UK FCO. Delivered by
 the Institute’s subject-matter experts, the half-day course offers an overview of key
 contemporary themes and issues in Latin America that are of particular relevance to the role of
 the UK in the region. The Institute has also organised high level conferences for policy
 communities such as the FCO-funded events on Mexico after the Return of the PRI: An Initial

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Assessment of the Peña Nieto Administration (2013) and Argentina After Kirchnerismo (2016).
 In addition, staff have delivered briefings to British diplomats serving in Canada, Belize, Guyana,
 Cuba, Mexico and Peru, to the Permanent Parliamentary Group on Latin America, to the Home
 Office’s global network on Serious and Organised Crime, and to the FCO’s Research Group on
 the Americas.

 Staff from the Institute have also offered ad hoc advice for governmental and non-governmental
 organisations. Hilliard has advised members of the United States National Academy of Public
 Administration and the Bipartisan Policy Center on Inspector General reform. The Human Rights
 Subcommittee of the European Parliament commissioned Engstrom to prepare an expert study
 on “The Situation of Rule of Law and Human Rights in Cuba and Venezuela and EU
 Engagement”. Molyneux has participated in webinars and presented papers at policy
 conferences on social protection for the ILO, the FAO, UN Women, UNICEF and UNRISD. She
 has also served as expert adviser to DFID on social protection. Drinot has provided advice on
 asylum cases by Peruvians before courts in New York. Saunders-Hastings has used her
 research on Central American street gangs to work with US pro bono law networks and provide
 expert testimony on asylum claims by Guatemalans before courts in California, Georgia, New
 Mexico, and New York.

 Staff from the Institute regularly share their research expertise with journalists and broadcasters.
 They have provided comments on US and Latin American affairs in venues such as El País, The
 Guardian, the Financial Times, Deutsche Welle, the Daily Telegraph, and The Conversation.
 They have also appeared on a range of media, including radio (e.g., BBC Radio 4, National
 Public Radio, LBC Radio) and television (e.g., CNN News, Sky News, the Canadian
 Broadcasting Corporation).

 4.2 Supporting the research base

 Both nationally and internationally, several members of staff have supported the work of, and
 provided leadership to, subject associations that promote the study of the Americas. Bell was
 Chair of Historians of the Twentieth-Century United States (HOTCUS) from 2013 to 2017.
 Molyneux served as a Committee Member of the British Academy’s Latin American and
 Caribbean Areas Panel from 2008 to 2017. McCulloch was President of the British Association
 for Canadian Studies from 2013 to 2016, and Immediate Past President in 2017. Quinn was
 Chair (2012-14) of the Society for Caribbean Studies, Chair of the Haiti Support Group (2014-15)
 and is a Trustee and Secretary of the David Nicholls Memorial Trust. Castañeda is convenor of
 the UK Political Studies Association's Specialist Group on Latin American Politics. Several
 members of staff have played key roles in the Latin American Studies Association (LASA).
 Middlebrook was co-creator, co-fundraiser and selection panel co-chair (2016-19) of LASA's
 newest endowed prize, the Guillermo O'Donnell Democracy Award and Lectureship. Together
 with colleagues at several universities in the UK, Drinot established in 2020 the United Kingdom
 Latin American Historians Network.

 In their capacities as key members of research council committees, Institute staff have helped to
 provide direction to scholarship in their fields and encouraged the development of new research
 agendas and priorities with respect to the study of the Americas in the UK. For example, Bell has
 been an AHRC Strategic Reviewer since 2013, and in 2016 Molyneux served as Chair of the UK
 Research Council Awards Panel for the Newton-Picarte Fund.

 Similarly, as editors of book series and as reviewers of book manuscripts, Institute staff
 contribute to shape the fields in which they work. The Institute hosts two book series: the
 Palgrave Studies of the Americas (edited by Molyneux) and the new UCL Press Modern
 Americas, a unique Open Access series (edited by Molyneux, McCulloch, Quinn). The online
 journal Radical Americas, established by a former PhD student, is also published by UCL Press.
 All of these publications encourage the submission of proposals on the whole of the hemisphere
 and on cross-disciplinary themes. In addition, academic staff review manuscripts for several


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 major academic publishers (e.g., University of Pennsylvania Press, Duke University Press,
 Oxford University Press).

 Several staff make substantial contributions to major journals in their fields as editors and
 members of editorial boards and thus contribute to the development of new scholarship and
 debates in their fields. In so doing they contribute to enhancing the visibility of hemispheric
 American studies in the UK around the world. Drinot and Witham have co-edited the Journal of
 Latin American Studies and the Journal of American Studies, respectively, two world-leading
 journals in Area Studies. Similar leadership in the field of Canadian studies is demonstrated by
 McCulloch, who is the editor of the London Journal of Canadian Studies, which has been
 published by UCL Press as an Open Access journal since 2014.

 Academic staff serve as editorial board members of high-profile journals (European Journal of
 American Studies, Journal of Latin American Studies, Economy and Society, Development and
 Change, Oxford Development Studies, International Journal of Canadian Studies, British Journal
 of Canadian Studies) and regularly referee for a broad range of Area Studies and disciplinary
 journals and in this way contribute to shaping new scholarship in the study of the Americas and
 in their disciplinary areas.

                                                  ***

 Since 2014, the Institute has pursued a research and impact strategy that has emphasized its
 cross-regional expertise, a vision of multi-disciplinarity rooted in history and the social sciences,
 and its concrete contributions to genuinely global conversations about historic and present
 challenges that have faced all humanity. This strategy has consistently informed the research of
 continuing staff within the Institute, as well as a series of high-calibre new appointments at both
 early-career and senior levels. For its modest size, the Institute has excelled in grant capture
 across the disciplinary and geographic spectrums of its research agenda. This has led to a
 series of important contributions to the research base at the academic level, as well as with
 stakeholders in government and the NGO sector.

 Ultimately, then, this is a new, dynamic unit that has delivered on its key strategic goal of acting
 as the leading centre in the United Kingdom and the world for disciplinary and interdisciplinary
 research in Canadian Studies, Caribbean Studies, Latin American Studies and United States
 Studies and in the transnational and comparative study of the Americas.




                                                                                               Page 13
