Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: 24 - Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Summary:
 The University of Hull (UoH) has increased its support for multidisciplinary and translational
 research within sport, exercise, and related healthcare research, through substantial investment
 in staff and infrastructure. The University has undergone a major re-organisation and all
 healthcare-related research, including Biomedical Science, Medicine, Psychology, and Sport,
 Health & Exercise Science (SHES), all now located within the Faculty of Health Sciences (FHS;
 August 2017). This re-organisation has strengthened existing collaborations between UoA24 staff
 and other areas and facilitated strategic investment in a number of new cross-cutting initiatives,
 for example the Institute for Clinical and Applied Health Research (ICAHR). A strength of sport
 and exercise science research (UoA24) in Hull is the close working relationships across the health
 professions involving staff at both the University and The Hull University Teaching Hospitals
 (HUTH) NHS Trust. Cross-institution collaboration also includes longstanding relationships with
 elite sporting organisations across the region, especially professional rugby league and
 association football in the city. This close partnership benefits SHES research at all levels and
 facilitates translation into practice for both clinical patient benefit and sporting-related outcomes.

 The UoA24 submission comprises 12 members of staff (11.6 FTE; 22.4 % female / 77.6 % male;
 10.6 SHES staff; 1.0 FHS Associate Dean Research). This REF period has seen the further
 development of UoA24 research leaders at the UoH (4 Professorial and 1 Readership) and early
 career research (ECR) staff appointments. There has been continued investment and
 development of extensive research facilities, together with the widening of the scope and impact
 of important regional and worldwide multi-disciplinary research collaborations. This has secured a
 strong pathway for the development of nationally and internationally recognised impactful
 research.

 The UoA24 shows substantial improvement in independent research income from various
 sources, including competitive international sporting organisations and NHS Research funding
 streams. Total (all years) research income has increased progressively from 89.9 K (RAE2008) to
 270.0 K (REF2014); to over 937.0 K in REF2021; with an associated grant award level of over 1.5
 million in this period. UoA24 research income (per FTE, per year), has increased from 4.92K
 (REF2014) to 11.6K (REF2021). Furthermore, there has been significant external grant income
 success as part of University consortia and larger-scale international research collaborations.
 Such partnerships have resulted in a substantial improvement in research capacity and capability
 and are evidenced by high-quality research outputs. Historically, doctoral student awards were
 above sector norms (REF2014) and have further increased from 0.29 per staff FTE per year
 (REF2014) to 0.32 in the current period. The UoA24 research remains primarily applied and multi-
 disciplinary in its overall orientation within the sport and exercise sciences, and increasingly
 influential in its capacity to impact on clinical and community health-related exercise settings
 regionally. The research also impacts on elite sporting organisations regionally and globally, multi-
 centre national and European trials of healthcare and sporting interventions, and to inform on
 specific healthcare and sport-related guidelines.

 Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy:

 Sport and exercise science research at the UoH can be broadly classified under 5 thematic areas
 (see Figure 1). As shown, several senior staff contribute to more than one thematic area. Each
 area is led by at least one senior staff member with established publication record and research
 income, and these provide a vibrant research environment in which ECR and postgraduate
 students are trained in critical evaluation skills, cutting-edge technologies and research and
 methodological skills relevant to their area of investigation. Core equipment and seminar series


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are shared across the disciplinary subjects at SHES departmental and the FHS level, with staff
 and students being actively encouraged to research across the interdisciplinary boundaries.

 Figure 1. Overview of the sport and exercise science research clusters (UoA24) at University of
 Hull




 1. Sport and Exercise Rehabilitation. This multi-disciplinary theme has focused intensively on
 exercise-based rehabilitation for patients with chronic disease conditions/comorbidities, including
 cardiovascular disease and chronic heart failure phenotypes, peripheral vascular disease with
 intermittent claudication, older postmenopausal women with osteoporosis, and lower limb
 amputees (LLA) (Impact case study on LLA). This research area led by Professors Ingle, Vanicek
 and Carroll, has distinct and direct relevance to contemporary clinical practice and health service
 development in exercise rehabilitation. Research within these areas incorporates quantitative,
 qualitative and mixed methodologies and UoA24 staff work in collaboration with NHS service
 providers, including the vascular laboratory at Hull Royal Infirmary (Chetter and colleagues), City
 Healthcare Partnership, Hull (Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Rehabilitation) and different NHS
 multi-disciplinary care teams supervising patients following both traumatic brain-injury and lower
 limb amputation. In collaboration with the City Healthcare Partnership, Hull, cardiac rehabilitation
 exercise classes have been delivered/researched from SHES and contribute to the regional
 coverage by NHS clinically supervised, structured exercise classes for individuals recovering from
 cardiac events. Prosthetics services within the NHS are an under-researched area, especially in
 relation to provision for older and below-knee amputees. Vanicek and colleagues (Hull & East
 Riding multidisciplinary healthcare team in prosthetics rehabilitation led by Salawu, HUTH NHS
 Trust) have recently established the ‘KEEP MOVING’ (KM) supervised exercise programme at the
 Allam Sport Centre, UoH. This provides specialist exercise rehabilitation, health and well-being
 for clinician referred amputees living within the community. This multi-component programme
 designed and developed with evidence-based biomechanical improvements in gait parameters,
 falls reduction and quality of life outcomes. Funded by the NIHR (Research for Patient Benefit),
 Vanicek and multi-disciplinary colleagues (consultants, prosthetists, physiotherapists) have
 demonstrated the feasibility for a large national, multicentre, trial investigating effectiveness
 (patient benefit and cost implications) of a novel prosthesis compared to standard treatment
 (Stepforward Study). King's complimentary research expertise in the biomechanics of
 gait/movement patterns of vascular disorders and the impact of routine NHS-delivered exercise
 interventions can have on these movements, physical function and balance (and the
 musculoskeletal system).




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. Clinical Exercise Science. Staff in this thematic area have developed on the work submitted
 to REF2014, investigating the mechanisms and adaptations to acute and chronic exercise
 interventions in a range of primary and secondary settings, including obesity, polycystic ovarian
 syndrome, Type 2 diabetes and following a cardiovascular or cancer diagnosis collaborating with
 HUTH and Leeds University Teaching Hospitals NHS Trusts. Staff in UoA24 have longstanding
 involvement with the Centre for Cardiovascular and Metabolic Disease (CCMR), HYMS. This
 wider university cluster aims to increase our understanding of molecular and cellular mechanisms
 responsible for development of disease, and translate these findings into clinical benefits. This
 innovative work tackles major global health challenges that have significance locally. This
 facilitates direct access to relevant patient cohorts required for UoH translational research
 programmes. Vince, Carroll and Hobkirk have worked closely with the CCMR (especially
 Sathyapalan and colleagues), researching the effects of exercise and lifestyle interventions on
 adiposity, insulin resistance and associated metabolic disorders. Research in this area has been
 bolstered by a generous philanthropic gift of £8 million from Dr Assam Allam (an alumnus of the
 University and highly successful local businessman) to establish a new Diabetes Centre based on
 local clinical requirements but underpinned by a cutting-edge research programme. Collaborative
 work has been undertaken on collective areas of interest, including the modulation of
 cardiovascular risk through both pharmacological and nutritional/exercise-based interventions in
 diabetes, PCOS, obesity and metabolism. Notably, UoA24 staff have collaborated on
 investigations of the effects of exercise training on lipid-induced insulin resistance and the effects
 of standard diabetic medications (statins and metformin) on aspects of lipolysis, endothelial and
 inflammatory responses.

 3. Personal Technologies in the Sport and Exercise Sciences.

 Led by Reader Abt, this new interdisciplinary research group has been established to understand
 how wearable personal technologies, such as smartwatches, can influence physical activity
 behaviours and clinical exercise prescription, as one component of a multifactorial solution to the
 physical inactivity crisis affecting health and disease states. This group have conducted a range
 of fundamental studies on the validity and reliability of key personal technology devices in
 apparently healthy adults, as well as the setting of cardiovascular rehabilitation (and interfacing
 with the other thematic areas). This group will continue their work on understanding the
 measurement capabilities of wearable devices, including the development of innovative
 applications for improving the accuracy of measurement and behaviour change. For example, a
 novel Apple Watch app (‘MVPA’) has recently been funded through the Higher Education
 Innovation Fund (HEIF).

 4. Sports Performance and Monitoring.

 This group is developing an international research profile focused tightly on performance and
 physiological responses to intermittent exercise, including methods of individual player monitoring
 and match analysis, especially within elite rugby league and association football. The group has
 also focused on the effect of biological maturity on sports performance, and player selection and
 development within elite football academies. This research (led McLaren-Towlson) has recently
 been funded by UEFA, the governing body of football in Europe. With external collaborators
 (Weaving and others, Leeds Beckett), Abt and colleagues have published widely on improving
 multivariate data monitoring and quantification of internal and external sporting training loads. The
 collaboration has made recommendations for commercial companies to improve their
 sporting/athlete monitoring software platforms by “combining” unique aspects of information
 provided by multiple training-related variables. Future research using multivariate approaches will
 further develop knowledge of the dose-response nature of training load monitoring with potentially
 important outcomes, such as changes in fitness, performance, and injury risk. Group members
 also contribute to internationally collaborative research on the interdisciplinary understanding of
 fatigue-related processes (St. Clair Gibson), including cerebral regulation during maximal
 exercise. Other group members research the influence of psychological stress and coping as a
 mechanism of enhancing performance (Nicholls).


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 5. Anti-doping in sport and Exercise.

 Doping practices represent a significant threat to the fairness and the physical and mental health
 of all sports performers and athletes. Led by Nicholls, researchers have rapidly established
 themselves as leaders in the area of anti-doping educational programmes. This includes creating
 the first measurement tool to assess adolescents and the development of a series of alternative
 approaches to complement traditional anti-doping testing programmes. UoA24 staff have devised
 innovative education programmes designed to lessen athlete doping susceptibility and reduce the
 likelihood of coaches recommending banned substances to their athletes. The development and
 validation of the Adolescent Sport Doping Inventory (ASDI), and the implementation of acclaimed
 novel educational programmes for young high-level athletes (iPlayClean) and grassroots coaches
 (Anti-Doping Values in Coach Education; (ADVICE)) to reduce favourable doping attitudes have
 been key outcomes of the group. This internationally recognised research has been supported by
 competitive funding from the International Olympic Committee (IOC), the World Anti-Doping
 Agency (WADA), and the European Commission and there are continuing collaborations with
 numerous national anti-doping organisations across Europe.


 Research & Impact Strategy

 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism was identified as the most improved UoA within
 the UoH in RAE2014. The University has continued investing in multidisciplinary, translational
 health research with the aim of delivering world-class research that benefits patients and the wider
 population. The major reorganisation of the University, as described above, has significantly
 strengthened the focus and multidisciplinary nature of SHES research within a broader Faculty-
 wide approach. Psychological well-being, cancer, chronic cardiovascular disease, Type 2 diabetes
 and obesity with their associated disorders remain some of the major health issues facing society
 and are highly endemic within the city of Hull. Researchers at Hull, in collaboration with academics
 around the world and in partnership with patients, user groups and commercial entities have
 continued to work closely with clinicians from the local NHS Trusts (Primary and Acute) in
 developing successful research programmes leading to improvements in knowledge and patient
 care.

 UoH is committed to promoting equality of opportunity for all, giving every individual the chance to
 achieve their potential, free from prejudice and discrimination. The University’s Equality Scheme
 was published in 2017, and in the same year the University committed to ‘Disability Confident’.
 There is an active LGBT Staff Network, which advises, and responds to, the University’s position
 in this context. It is the University’s aim to use its staff’s diverse backgrounds to enhance
 professional knowledge and bring challenge and new perspectives to all that is done on campus.
 The goal is to build capability and support for our students and staff. UoH is an organisation that
 embraces equality, diversity and inclusion as we believe this will deliver better results and greater
 innovation, more motivated staff, and increased recognition from our partner organisations. The
 UoH is committed to:

    ·   Treating all staff and students fairly;
    ·   Creating an inclusive culture for all staff and students;
    ·   Ensuring equal access to opportunities to enable students to fully participate in the learning
        process;
    ·   Enabling all staff and students to develop to their full potential;
    ·   Equipping staff and students with the skills to challenge inequality and discrimination in
        their work and study environment;
    ·   Making certain that any learning materials do not discriminate against any individuals or
        groups;
    ·   Ensuring policies, procedures and processes do not discriminate.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to the above ethos, that is supported by relevant codes of practices and statutes, to
 support our commitment to equality of opportunity, the University has a network of staff as Dignity
 and Respect Advisors (DARAs) from a wide range of roles and departments. DARAs are
 approachable, independent, fully trained and ready to help all staff and visitors who may be
 experiencing problems with harassment and bullying, should it occur.

 SHES have produced a 3-year research strategy document, that is reviewed annually at Faculty
 Research Committee. Research strategies include a SWOT analysis that includes equality and
 diversity and ECR. All new research staff are required to complete an online Research Integrity
 course, that covers all aspects of good practice, this must be redone on a 3-yearly basis.

 Staff from UoA 24 collaborate actively with several areas within the FHS and the Institute for
 Clinical and Applied Health Research (ICAHR). The Institute is based in the new Allam Medical
 Building, opened by Her Majesty The Queen, in November 2017, which is at the heart of the
 University’s £28-million investment in its Health campus. The Allam building has state-of-the-art
 teaching and research facilities, with more than 50 networked computers, bookable research
 rooms, and breakout space. The Institute encompasses the expertise of the Hull Health Trials Unit
 (HHTU) which leads and supports high quality clinical research studies, many of which are
 sponsored by the local NHS Trusts. The HHTU employs 8 high-specialist staff, including
 Information, Systems, Operations and Trials Managers, who deliver a range of practical and
 specialist support throughout the research process. The unit, which gained provisional registration
 to the UK Clinical Research Collaboration registered clinical trials unit network in 2019, provides
 regulatory compliant information systems which allow for the management of data, including data
 cleaning, exporting data for reporting and analysis. HHTU provides a data capture framework and
 offers the provision of safe and secure storage for datasets requiring compliance with NHS
 information governance toolkit standards. UoA24 staff have been supported by advice on
 appropriate funding sources, generating costing models, providing statistical expertise.

 Research Seminar programmes

 SHES hosts a UoA24-specific research seminar on a monthly basis. This seminar series has
 invited speakers from inside the unit, from other UK institutions, and from abroad. For example, in
 the last two years presentations have been delivered by:

    •   Dr Kate Button (Bath): Grassroots training for reproducible science
    •   Prof Tony Myers (Newman): An introduction to Bayesian data analysis
    •   Dr Ian Lahart (Wolverhampton): Exercise and cancer
    •   Dr Sean Cummings (Bath): Biological maturity in young athletes
    •   Dr Clym Stock-Williams (TNO, Netherlands): Machine learning: What is it and why should
        we care?

 This seminar series is complemented by two multidisciplinary seminar programmes in Biomedical
 Science and ICAHR. Since 2011 the annual, endowed, FHS Allam lecture series has included
 prestigious speakers from across the breadth of medicine relevant to UoA24 and UoH wider
 research programmes. Below are examples of selected speakers;

    •   2014 – Sir Magdi Yacoub, ‘The glory and threat of science and medicine’
    •   2016 – Professor Maria Belvisi, ‘How the lung senses its environment’
    •   2017 – Professor S Richard Underwood, ‘Cardiac imaging: the next decade’
    •   2018 – Professor Stephen Shalet, ‘Cancer survivors: the new endocrine epidemic’




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Strategic Aims and Goals 2021-2028

 Our aims are to continue to produce high quality impactful research and develop and nurture the
 research leaders of the future. Specifically, during the next REF period we aim to focus on our
 areas of research strength, as outlined below;
        • Sport anti-doping and educational initiatives.
        • Developing and evaluating contemporary methods of delivering tailored exercise
            rehabilitation in clinical groups and examining their efficacy and effectiveness.
        • Evaluating the role of personal technologies in providing personalised physical activity
            and exercise prescriptions and their contribution to adherence and compliance with
            evidence-based guidelines.
        • Improving multivariate training-load monitoring measures in sporting contexts.
        • Mentoring ECR and new interdisciplinary PhD clusters.
        • Develop research partnerships via funded PhD clusters with Team GB (partner of the
            UoH) athletes, coaches, and sport scientists.

 We will meet the aims identified above by increasing external grant funding in part through
 increased collaborative projects with commercial partners and an extended range of end-users.


 People

 The FHS research strategy is underpinned by investment in new appointments and facilities, with
 the explicit aim that staff are empowered to produce outputs of the highest quality and impact. All
 new appointments are placed in existing research teams, or where a new strategic area is created
 this will be led by a Chair appropriately supported by senior and junior academics. The UoA24
 submission comprises 12 members of staff (11.6 FTE; 22.4 % female / 77.6 % male; 10.6 SHES
 staff; 1.0 FHS Associate Dean Research). Since 2014, several members of senior staff from within
 the UoA24 have been supported to attain professorial posts in SHES, including Nicholls (sport
 psychology), Vanicek (clinical biomechanics) and Ingle (clinical exercise physiology). Abt has
 also been promoted to Reader (sport & exercise physiology). Matsakas an ECR initially appointed
 within SHES, has been promoted internally to Senior Lecturer within HYMS. All early career staff
 members (ECR) in whichever academic discipline are supported extensively. Measures include
 the allocation of both research and teaching mentors, and support in joining PhD clusters to
 provide studentships, together with start-up funds to pump-prime research. Postgraduate
 students, postdoctoral researchers and ECR are explicitly encouraged to apply for FHS and UoH
 internal funding to facilitate research development (especially new initiatives by allowing research
 visits, conference attendance, purchase of small items of equipment, publication charges); also,
 opportunities for HEIF and other central funding sources.

 SHES has been successful in recruiting promising ECRs; appointed on the basis of their existing
 high-quality outputs and their capacity to develop into strong independent researchers within areas
 that complement or bring additional strengths to the main research foci of both SHES and UoA24.
 In this period, ECR recruits include Simpson (in respiratory physiology), King (clinical exercise
 biomechanics) and McClaren-Towlson (developmental physiology/sports coaching). Overall,
 UoA24 submission shows a maturing of the academic staff profile with fewer ECR (from 45% of
 all submitted staff in REF2014).

 The Research Funding Office supports these staff in applying to other sources of start-up funding.
 Plans for study leave of varying lengths (up to a semester every 3 years) are encouraged from all
 members of staff to ensure staff develop / remain abreast of advances in their field through
 collaborative networks of peers, industry and colleagues in practice.

 During the 2018/2019 academic year the University initiated a Transformation programme, with a
 key component of this being a new academic careers’ framework where all staff were aligned to
 one of 4 strands that best reflected their job role: Research, Teaching, Entrepreneur, or

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Transitional. All staff on the Research domain had nominally at least 40% time for research in their
 workload, and all are returned under the relevant REF UoA24. The allocation to the most
 appropriate strand was done in consultation with the line manager and allowed all staff the
 opportunity to reflect on their current role and future career plans.

 The University is fully committed to the principles of Athena SWAN and a steering committee,
 chaired by the Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research & Enterprise), oversees this and all staff
 development activities. UoH has a Bronze Athena Swan award. Plans are in place for the entire
 FHS, with the exception of HYMS, to submit an Athena Swan Bronze application in April 2022. In
 a similar manner that Athena Swan seeks to advance gender equality across all aspects of
 academia, the University recognises the need to value and enhance the career development of
 post-doctoral research scientists. A steering group, comprising representatives from all faculties,
 oversees the adoption of the Concordat supporting the Career Development of Researchers.
 importantly this group has representation from the post- doctoral researcher community itself. The
 Faculty Ethics Committees (with SHES representatives) ensures that any research carried out by
 SHES staff or students meets the highest standards of ethical behaviour and report to the
 University Ethics Committee. Further, UoA24 staff have served as NHS LREC members. The UoH
 Learning and Development provides a series of comprehensive training packages for all new staff
 commencing with an induction course and personal/ professional development and upskilling for
 all academic staff; many courses are specific for the post-doctoral community, including research
 supervision. Staff research is actively monitored by Heads of Department as part of appraisal and
 development reviews.

 UoA24 PhD student (FTE and headcounts) increased substantially during the 2008-13 period.
 Subsequently, doctoral degree headcounts of 19-25 students were attained in the years 2013/14
 to 2016/7 (16 to 19.3 FTE). This postgraduate investment strategy included the continued
 departmental investment in Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs). Table 1 below summarises the
 UoA24 entire PGR community (students registered for a doctoral or other PGR degree); and PhD
 completions in the period. This summarises to an annual mean of 2.9 PGR students per SHES
 staff member (2.0 student FTE) over the period. In REF 2014, 16 research doctoral degrees were
 awarded (0.29 students per staff FTE). This has increased by approximately 21% to 26.7 PhD
 awards in the current period (0.33 students per staff FTE; REF 2021). Doctoral degree completions
 (per SHES staff FTE) were higher 0.36, excluding St Clair Gibson (the FHS ADR). Continued
 financial and academic investment is planned for PhD clusters in the next REF period, and there
 is an agreed strategy to focus on jointly funded PhDs with external partners to enhance the
 translational aspect of UoH’s programme.

 Table 1. PGR students in UoA24 2013/4 to 2019/20.

  Year                     PhD & other PGR PhD & other PGR Doctorate
                           (FTEs)          (Headcount)     completions
  2013/4                   22.3            32              2
  2014/5                   25.3            38              2
  2015/6                   25.2            33              1
  2016/7                   20.3            28              8
  2017/8                   17.6            24              4.5
  2018/9                   17.7            33              3.2
  2019/20                  15.3            25              6

 UoH has also changed the way it supports PhD studentships. In an effort to concentrate research
 and build critical mass in areas that align with the Institution’s strengths, and its important local
 and regional role, the UoH has invested in a series of PhD studentships in healthcare. Since 2016,
 the Doctoral College, UoH has operated a competitive scheme to award inter-related PhD clusters.
 An internal competition is held, facilitated by external expert panel members, to select the best
 strategic fit projects and culminates in the award of 5 to 8 PhD clusters (3-6, fully-funded
 studentships and/or fee waivers) each year. Supervisory teams are required to be multidisciplinary
 and ideally cross-faculty in nature, to promote interdisciplinary. Students become embedded in

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the relevant research groups contributing to the PhD cluster, and the cluster itself forms the
 nucleus of the multidisciplinary activity fostering new research ideas and funding, whilst benefiting
 from the existing research ethos in the various groups. UoA24 staff (Abt and Ingle) have attained
 institutional support for PhD clusters since 2014, including PhD students in ICAHR/HYMS. Other
 UoA staff comprise supervisory teams for medical doctorates within HYMS (Carroll, Hobkirk and
 Vanicek).

 Importantly, within this REF period, UoA24 has benefitted considerably from the appointment of
 several postdoctoral research assistants (PDRA) (such as, Hobkirk, Nichols S, and Thompson).
 These PDRA posts represented a step-change in the research culture and capacity for the UoA
 and have typically been funded in partnership with other university research centres, external
 healthcare providers, or supported by external grant income.

 Numerous SHES PhD graduates have, in this REF period, attained academic posts within HE
 institutions (examples include McClaren-Towlson and Bray both SHES, Hull); also Orange
 (Newcastle), Taylor (Leeds Beckett), Nichols, S (Sheffield Hallam) and Birkett (Central
 Lancashire), O’Doherty (Northumbria); others have secured research-based posts within regional
 clinical trials units (O’Carroll (Leeds) and Northgreaves (Hull Health Trials Unit). Giving
 postgraduates chances to network and present their data is considered an essential part of their
 training. Most PhD students have published articles in peer-reviewed journals and presented
 widely at national/international conferences (ECSS, ASCM) (for example Page, Birkett, O’Carroll,
 Scott, Orange). Impressive first and co-authored scientific outputs in higher-impact journals among
 several recently completed doctoral students (including former GTA’s such as Nichols S, Orange,
 McClaren-Towlson, Taylor, Thompson, Weaving) are further testimony to a highly productive
 postgraduate environment. There is good evidence within REF2021 submitted outputs of ongoing
 collaboration between former postgraduate students and UoA staff. The development of
 postgraduate taught MSc degrees in Cardiovascular and Cancer Rehabilitation and Clinical
 Exercise Physiology (all with a 3-module research dissertation component) has contributed to a
 research culture within UoA24. For example, former MSc graduate Pymer is now a doctoral
 student within the Academic Vascular Surgery Unit, HYMS. These programmes have integrated
 well with the now established annual SHES undergraduate /postgraduate student thesis
 conference (supported by a University teaching and learning funding) and formed an important
 strategy of recruiting PhD and postgraduate researchers. The UoA often provides PhD fee waiver
 for its undergraduate students of distinction (for example, Gleadall-Siddal, Jackson, both PhD
 submissions within this REF cycle).

 The University’s Doctoral College is both the administrative centre for postgraduate research
 students and a purpose-built resource, with its own 24-hour access IT facilities and student
 common rooms. It oversees the monitoring of all research student progress and provides a range
 of administrative supportive structures, including supervising training to ensure successful PGR
 students. PhD students produce annual reviews at the end of year 1 and year 2, academics
 independent of the supervisory team contribute to an oral examination. Furthermore, the Faculty
 records the monthly supervisory meetings held between all postgraduate students and their
 supervisors (these are held at appropriate times for part-time students). If progress issues are
 raised by supervisors or students, the relevant departmental Postgraduate Research Director will
 attempt resolution.


 Income, infrastructure and facilities

 UoH receives approximately £7.5million in QR of which around £3.3million was allocated to the
 FHS. The Institution has taken the strategic decision to invest almost half its QR funding to support
 the aforementioned PhD/PDRA clusters, with the remaining funds to be used by Faculties to
 support new appointments and infrastructure. The University has invested in a significant
 refurbishment and redesign of the library (£27 million). In addition to dedicated PhD workspace
 within departmental facilities, there is increased access to fully networked computers and
 extensive journal collections, the majority of these being available online. The library is host to a

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 highly regarded art collection and regularly hosts cultural events, to which all PGR students have
 access.

 The current UoA24 submission is returning 11.6 FTE staff which is consistent with the number in
 REF2014. However, the UoA24 has been able to demonstrate considerably more success in
 attracting higher levels of external funding from a range of sources. Notably, the total (all years)
 research income has increased substantially from 89.9K (RAE2008), 270.0K (REF2014) to 938.0
 K (REF2020). There has been 1.5 million of grant income awards for UoA24 staff, as principal or
 co-investigator, within the REF2021 period. The very positive trends in research income spend
 over the last 2 REF cycles are illustrated below (Figure 2). Improved research income has been
 derived from significantly increased contribution from European Union Govt, UK Central/Local
 Govt, UK Charities (open competition), NIHR Research Funding (open competition as Project
 grants and Research for Patient benefit studies). Further, non-EU international sporting
 organisation grants, and local health charities and related sources are an emerging feature of an
 improved and expanding portfolio of external research.

 Numerous prestigious awards achieved in the period are detailed below, and exemplify the
 breadth and nature of direct/collaborative awards to UoA24 staff;

    •   $61, 193.09 : Nicholls et al. Development and validation of the Adolescent Sport Doping
        Inventory;2014-2017; World Anti-Doping Agency.
    •   $188, 719.00 : Nicholls et al. The Effectiveness of the Play Clean Group Based and the
        Mobile Application (iPlayClean) Anti-Doping Education Programs for High-Level
        Adolescent Athletes and their Entourage: A Randomised Control Trial. (July 2016- June
        2019; International Olympic Committee.
    •   €487, 529.75: Nicholls et al. Anti-Doping Values in Coach Education (ADVICE); 2017-
        2019; European Commission: Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency [Unit
        A.6, Erasmus +: Sport, Youth and EU Aid Volunteers].
    •   $22, 606.00 : Duncan, et al. Enhancing attention and recall of doping prevention messages
        by testing the influence of adolescent athletes’ perceived vulnerability to doping; 2019–
        2019; World Anti-Doping Agency Social Science.
    •   £149, 291.64: Chetter et al. High Intensity Interval Training In pATiEnts with intermittent
        claudication (INITIATE): a proof-of-concept prospective cohort study to assess
        acceptability and clinical efficacy; 2019–2021; National Institute for Health Research.
    •   £249,000 Vanicek et al. Self-aligning prosthetic device for older patients with vascular-
        related amputations: protocol for a randomised feasibility study (the STEPFORWARD
        study); 2018-2020, National Institute of Health Research.
    •   €473,406.00: Nicholls et al. Understanding and promoting WhIstle-blowiNg on DOPing
        irregularities in the EU (Win-Dop); 2020-2021; European Commission: Education,
        Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency [Unit A.6, Erasmus +: Sport, Youth and EU Aid
        Volunteers].




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Figure 2 UoA24 Research Income Spend (2008/9 to 2019/20)

  Research income spend
  (all sources) £ K/per annum    UoA24 Research Income Spend 2008/9 to 2019/20
 300000


 250000


 200000


 150000


 100000


  50000


      0
          2008/9 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20


 Of note has been the success in winning competitive funding of over £1.0 million (March 2014 to
 January 2020) for anti-doping research conducted at Hull, led by Nicholls A. Other smaller grant
 spend within the period (up to £20 K), includes those associated with research projects from a
 variety of representative and regulatory sporting organisations, including Federation International
 Football Association (FIFA), International Olympic Committee (IOC), International Tennis
 Federation, Sport England, and Sports Coach UK. Local collaborations with competitive sporting
 teams include Hull City Tigers Ltd. and the Hull Kingston Rovers partnership. Led by Abt, there
 has been continued research income from local professional soccer (approx. £163 K) and rugby
 league (£15 K) organisations which have been utilised to create a series of departmental PhD/MSc
 studentships and improve research infrastructure for sport science support for these local sporting
 teams. Abt has also obtained funding to support various innovations in the application of mobile
 monitoring technology applied to both the sporting and healthcare fields. McClaren-Towlson has
 received funding (£15K) from the Union of European Football Association (UEFA) Research Grant
 Programme; for bio-banding as a tool for identifying talented academy soccer players. Research
 funding for specific health-related research projects has come from local government (East Riding
 of Yorkshire Council), local pharmaceutical companies (Reckitt Benkiser Healthcare) commercial
 / industrial projects (with City Health Care Partnership, Hull) and national (Iliostomy Association)
 and regional health charities, including Help for Health, East Riding Cardiac Trust Fund and
 Osprey. Ingle, Carroll, Nicholls collaborate (Chetter and colleagues) on the INITIATE study with
 funding provided by the NIHR. Ingle and Carroll secured the PDRA post (Nichols, S) part-funded
 by the NHS City Healthcare Partnership. Vince and Marshall have obtained funding from the East
 Riding of Yorkshire Clinical Commissioning Group for exercise interventions.

 UoA24 staff have made an increasingly important contribution to numerous prestigious University-
 wide external research income awards and projects (NIHR), including Academic Cardiology and
 Academic Vascular Surgery, Rehabilitation Medicine (within HYMS and HUTH NHS Trust). The
 research income of these projects has been captured with the Allied Health (UoA03) submission
 of the UoH.

 The UoA24 staff and PGR students have access to dedicated human research laboratories with
 breath‐by‐breath, laboratory metabolic gas analysers (including several Oxycon Pro metabolic cart
 (Jaeger) and other portable metabolic devices. There are extensive exercise testing ergometers,

                                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including Woodway and other treadmills, a range of electronically driven cycle and rowing
 ergometers. Other dedicated units in the Washburn building laboratories, include integrated Case
 12-lead ECG/ Treadmill (GE Healthcare), Vivid ultrasound (GE Healthcare), including 2D, M-
 mode, pulse wave Doppler echocardiography, ECG‐gated automated blood pressure devices
 (Tango, SunTech Medical) and Innocor® metabolic cart with expired gas re-breathing facilities.
 Our validation (Nichols,S et al. Clin Physiol Funct Imaging 2016) of the Cardiohealthstation® by
 novice operators allows the reliable, rapid early detection of atherosclerotic vascular disease
 (Panasonic Biomedical).

 UoA24 staff and PGR’s have also made extensive use of laboratories across the HUTH NHS Trust
 for cardiopulmonary evaluation and exercise testing in clinical groups. These includes the
 cardiorespiratory laboratories of the Daisy Research Building (Castle Hill Hospital, Hull) and the
 exercise testing laboratory at the Vascular Unit, Hull Royal Infirmary. These collaborations and
 facilities allow medical supervision of testing in higher risk participants. Facilities at the vascular
 laboratory, Hull Royal Infirmary, include an integrated motorised treadmill and cycle ergometer
 with metabolic cart (MedGraphics Ultima™ CardioO2; Medical Graphics) and 12-lead
 electrocardiogram with automated analysis (Mortara mobile system; Medical Graphics). The Daisy
 Building also allows access to more advanced body composition analysis equipment using dual
 energy X‐ray absorptometry [DEXA] (Lunar iDXA, GE Healthcare). The Daisy Charity has
 significantly improved research and treatment facilities for people in the Hull & East Yorkshire
 region since completion of the scientific laboratory facilities, a clinical trials unit, teaching
 accommodation. In 2004 the Jack Brignall PET-CT Scanning Centre was opened to complement
 the research base, both facilities totalling £12.5M are on the Castle Hill Hospital site. The final
 component of the state-of-the-art imaging infrastructure will be the opening of a Positron Emission
 Tomography research Centre (PETRC), comprising radiochemistry and cyclotron units capable of
 producing radioactive tracers (led by Prof Archibald and clinical advisors). This £8.2M facility offers
 a unique research base in the North-East of England. Hobkirk and Carroll are commencing
 studies on cardiac metabolism (with Archibald and Trust cardiologists) with innovative tracer
 research to benefit patients with cardiovascular disease).


 Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As exemplified in Figure 1, the vast majority of UoA24 research has an external impact both in
 terms of collaborations and the outputs themselves. The following section will take each sector in
 turn and the impact that Hull makes will be described.

 Summary of contribution to journals and grant review:

 Overall, UoA24 staff have published over 200 separate peer-reviewed scientific publications in the
 period 2014-2020 with multiple contributions to some of the higher impact factor journals across
 different medical and scientific specialties (BMJ Open [x3]; Heart; International Journal of
 Cardiology; J Vascular Surgery [x3]; PLOS One [x4]) and sport and exercise science-related
 journals; including, British J Sports Medicine [x3]; Frontiers in Physiology [x2]; Frontiers in
 Psychology [x3]; Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise [x4]; International Journal of Sports
 Medicine [x2]; Gait and Posture [x5]; J. Sports Science [x3]; Int. J. Sports Physiol and Performance
 [x3]; J. of Strength and Conditioning Research [x6], amongst others.

 The staff submitted in UoA24 contribute significantly to a breadth of editorial boards; these include;
 Frontiers in Psychology, Research in Sports Medicine, Open Heart Failure Journal, Case Studies
 in Cardiology, Journal of Sports Science, Journal of Strength and Conditioning.

 UoA staff are heavily involved serving on grant panels, current examples include a range of
 national and international grant awarding bodies, including the Medical Research Council, British
 Heart Foundation; World Anti-Doping Agency; Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research
 Council, Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, National Institute for Health
 Research Programme Grants (Applied Research and for Patient Benefit). Likewise, staff have

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 peer-reviewed extensively for journals across their respective disciplinary areas (for example Brit.
 J. Sport Med., J. Appl. Physiol., J. Physiol., Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. Journal of Sports Sciences,
 Journal of Science and Medicine in Sport, International Journal of Sport and Exercise Psychology.
 Gait and Posture, Frontiers in Psychology).

 National and international awards/positions of esteem for UoA24 staff, include the following;

    •   Abt is now a BASES Fellow and Executive Editor of the Journal of Sports Sciences.
    •   Nicholls is Associate Editor Frontiers in Psychology.
    •   Vanicek is an honorary associate of the BAGPAR scientific group on guidelines
        development for amputee rehabilitation, and Associate Editor of the Journal of Sports
        Sciences.
    •   Ingle is fellow of the European Society of Cardiology.
    •   Carroll served as President of the Lipid, Metabolism and Vascular Risk section of the
        Royal Society of Medicine (RSM), London (2017-2019).
    •   Carroll and Hobkirk are Council members of the newly formed RSM section; Vascular,
        Lipid and Metabolic Medicine.
    •   McLaren-Towlson; a UEFA Research Committee Member.

 Nicholls (and Cope) lead a substantial international project funded by the European Commission
 and others in the area of anti-doping in sports. In collaboration with six international organisations,
 Nicholls led a systematic review, which informed the development and testing of the ADVICE anti-
 doping mobile application for coaches. Nicholls (and former colleague Perry) developed an
 appropriate framework for understanding the factors that predict doping attitudes among young
 athletes, called the Sport Drug Control Model for Adolescent Athletes (SDCM-AA), which identified
 new psycho-social factors that influence attitudes towards doping among adolescent athletes.
 Funded by WADA, Nicholls (with Perry, PDRA Thompson) then used the SDCM-AA to create and
 validate the Athlete Sports Doping Inventory (ASDI) among athletes from 4 continents (Nicholls et
 al. Psychological Assessment 2019). The purpose of this app is to increase knowledge and reduce
 favorable attitudes towards doping among grassroots coaches working with young athletes. To
 date, the ADVICE app was tested in seven different languages, including Russian. Nicholls, Abt,
 developed and evaluated the iPlayClean anti-doping education programme for young athletes on
 a talent pathway programme within the UK, within a clustered randomised controlled study. The
 ASDI, has been adopted by the World Antidoping Agency (WADA), which recommends that
 national anti-doping organisations and academics use the ASDI to screen athletes and assign
 them to empirical “susceptibility” groups. More details of the wider impact are highlighted in the
 anti-doping impact case study.

 Funded by the NIHR (Research for Patient Benefit (£249 K), Vanicek as Chief Investigator,
 developed a body of research underpinning the feasibility for a large-scale trial (the
 STEPFORWARD study) investigating the effectiveness (patient benefit and cost implications) of
 a novel prosthesis compared to standard treatment for older patients with vascular-related
 amputations. The multi-centre RCT trial has involved a multi-disciplinary group of researchers,
 healthcare providers (consultants, prosthetists, physiotherapists) and patient public members
 nationally to deliver successfully on an underdeveloped area of healthcare (Mitchell et al. British
 Medical Journal Open [BMJ Open] 2019). From 2006-2010, Vanicek and colleagues progressed
 a framework for identifying biomechanical factors that distinguished amputee fallers from non-
 fallers. As a direct result, evidence-based recommendations for falls prevention through exercise
 were established. Vanicek and King have collaborated extensively with the Academic Vascular
 Surgery Unit, Hull Royal Infirmary (Chetter and colleagues) on functional capacity, gait and
 posture (and the effects of exercise interventions) in patients with peripheral arterial disease (8
 published outputs, 2014-20), including important insights into dynamic muscle/tendon
 characteristics and walking ability. Ongoing work on the altered biomechanics and gait in older
 postmenopausal females with osteoporosis (with Medical and Biological Engineering, UoH) is
 developing new concepts of musculoskeletal function. Vanicek also contributes to the ongoing
 work of the 1000 Norms Project Consortium (University of Sydney, Australia) providing an

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 accessible database of musculoskeletal and neurological reference values representative of the
 healthy population across the lifespan (McKay et al. Neurology 2017).

 The ongoing work of Ingle and Carroll examining the role of maximal cardiopulmonary exercise
 testing and exercise training in the secondary prevention of cardiovascular disorders and cardiac
 heart failure retains strong links with both Academic Cardiology (Lifelab database, HYMS) and the
 Academic Vascular Surgery Unit. Over the last 5-6 years, extensive high-quality research outputs
 (published in the European Heart, Preventive Cardiology, and Heart Failure journals) have
 focusing on patients with cardiovascular disorders, especially coronary heart disease (CHD) and
 chronic heart failure (CHF). Several outputs feature risk stratification and prognostication using
 cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) and have been cited within contemporary scientific
 statements, notably those of the American Heart Association and European Society of Cardiology.
 In conjunction with Academic Cardiology, Ingle and Hobkirk led a British Heart Foundation funded
 study on the experiences and laboratory modelling of air travel in patients with CHF. This work
 has since been incorporated within expert medical committee guidelines on air travel. Carroll,
 Ingle and collaborators have provided observational evidence that open-ended, supervised
 community-based, cardiac rehabilitation improves submaximal fitness measures, which are
 strongly associated with reduced long-term (up to 20 years) all-cause mortality (the “HeartWatch”
 programme’, with Leeds City Council and Witte, Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trust). Ingle and
 Carroll obtained funding from the City Healthcare Partnership, Hull for PDRA Nichols to undertake
 the CARE-CR study - delivered in co-operation with Academic Cardiology (Nichols et al. BMJ
 Open 2018). Importantly this controlled evaluation of community-based NHS cardiac rehabilitation,
 illustrated some of the challenges in improving gold-standard cardiorespiratory fitness outcomes
 and secondary risk markers in routine practice (Nichols et al. International J Cardiology 2020).
 This project has already delivered numerous research papers, including those relating to the most
 appropriate modelling/scaling of exertional physiological measures to whole body/ appendicular
 muscle mass. Outputs have received repeated readership awards (Clinical Physiology and
 Functional Imaging, Elsevier). Following on from the above cited study, Ingle and colleagues are
 now undertaking the largest prospective, multi-centre, randomised trial of high-intensity interval
 training (HIIT) within NHS cardiac rehabilitation (McGregor et al. BMJ Open 2016; HIITT or MISS
 UK study), integrating an economic analysis of HIIT compared with usual care exercise
 rehabilitation.

 Ingle and Carroll also worked closely with the Vascular Surgery Unit to develop and implement
 the INITIATE study, a novel, prospective interventional study of HITT in patients with peripheral
 vascular disease (PVD) and intermittent claudication (NIHR funded). Carroll and King continue
 to work with vascular unit and wider international partners (Harwood and Parmenter, Sydney,
 Australia) within exercise testing and training within PVD, including abdominal aortic aneurisms.
 Ingle and colleagues have produced a BASES expert statement and related Infographic (Tew et
 al. Brit J Sports Med 2020) on exercise training in PVD and a Cochrane Library systematic review
 considering lower limb pre-surgical “prehabilitation”.

 Carroll, Ingle, King, Marshall, Vanicek and Vince have continued to oversee and publish the
 findings of numerous clinical and community-based exercise training interventions, including those
 undertaken in premenopausal obese females (with Marshall & Tan, Universities of Leeds
 Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust and Borkoles, Australia), polycystic ovarian syndrome and
 postprandial lipemia in overweight/obese females (with Atkin, Aye, Sathyapalan; HYMS), PVD
 patients with intermittent claudication (Chetter, HYMS). Cross-sectional observational studies,
 including large multi-disciplinary collaborative projects in healthy adults (Carroll, Ingle with
 Swainson, Lancaster & Nuffield Health and Wellbeing PLC, Manchester) and Vince (with the
 Academic Endocrinology, and Atkin, now Weill Cornell, Qatar) have increasingly focused on
 cardio-metabolic risk (including various, inflammatory and vascular/endothelial stress responses
 to exercise training) within females with diagnosed with polycystic ovarian syndrome. Using
 sophisticated, dynamic lipid-infusion techniques and criterion measures of muscle insulin
 sensitivity this group have provided important insights some of the fundamental mechanisms
 underlying insulin resistance (Aye et al. Frontiers in Endocrinology 2018) /endothelial function and
 changes associated with exercise training in these patients. Other aspects show improvements in

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 adipose tissue functionality with PCOS treatment (Carroll, Hobkirk), or strength and functional
 outcomes in severe obesity states (Marshall, Vince).

 Vince and Marshall have collaborated with Academic surgery/Gastroenterology Research
 (MacFie, HYMS) in acute cancer diagnostic settings and reported on the feasibility and
 complexities of delivering a functional, exercise-based “prehabilitation” interventions and its effects
 on postoperative outcomes in elective colorectal surgery patients. Hobkirk’s (with Carroll)
 collaboration on lipid research within paediatric obesity on exercise interventions and lipoprotein-
 lipid biochemistry and metabolic risk (together with Gately and colleagues Leeds Beckett), has
 been extended by recent collaboration with Reuter (Santa Cruz do Sol, Brazil) investigating
 paediatric lifestyle and metabolic, vascular risk and associated genetic polymorphisms in larger
 epidemiological studies of southern Brazilian children. Hobkirk and Carroll (with Hesselink,
 Maastricht, Netherlands), are examining aspects of the fatty heart and associated metabolic
 abnormalities in patients undergoing coronary bypass grafting (with Loubani, HYMS), with
 particular emphasis on longer term risks of heart failure/mortality associated with diabetes (and
 benefits of post-CABG interventions).

 ECR, Simpson has a rapidly developing international profile in the diagnosis and treatment of
 exercise-induced asthma (EIA) and related conditions. Working with other sports science experts
 (Romer, Kippelen, Brunel, London) Simpson has produced influential work on self-reported
 symptoms on induced and inhibited broncho-restriction in athletes, the effects of exercised -
 induced dehydration/creatinine supplementation, also the effects of standard treatments on
 underlying pathogenic mechanisms of EIA. He has also formed excellent collaborations with pre-
 eminent clinicians (Fowler, Manchester), including asthma self-management within mobile health
 applications (European U-BIOPRED Adult Asthma Cohort; EC 7th Framework Programme).

 Work on physical activity monitoring using wearable technology is the focus of the Personal
 Technologies research group (led by Abt), including collaborators from Australia and Spain. The
 group have examined the fundamental measurement properties of the world’s most popular
 physical activity tracker, the Apple Watch. Investigations have focused on the accuracy of the
 heart rate sensor, its ability to quantify moderate-to-vigorous physical activity, and its use during
 cardiac rehabilitation classes.

 With implications for player monitoring, talent identification and position selection in elite youth
 soccer, ERC McClaren-Towlson has conducted large scale cross-sectional investigations
 studying relative age, maturation effects on anthropometric /physical fitness, selection and position
 allocation within elite youth. This work includes the (UEFA) Research Grant Programme for “Bio-
 banding” as a tool for identifying talented academy soccer players. Abt, and colleagues continue
 with their extensive research outputs on innovative methodologies (and commercial applications)
 for monitoring sporting training and competition loads within elite team sports (with Weaving, Till
 & Jones, Leeds Beckett), including individualisation of time-motion analysis, player-tracking and
 the monitoring internal and external-training load measures. Marshall and colleagues have
 investigated different aspects of resisted exercise and complex training on muscular post-
 activation potential in elite sportsmen and the application of resistance exercise within home-
 based clinical exercise programmes.

 Systematic reviews and meta-analyses of published studies, especially RCT’s, are widely
 regarded as comprising the highest level of scientific evidence. Building on existing UoA strengths
 with this methodological approach, 6 current (2 former) UoA24 staff have contributed to 13
 published systematic reviews/meta-analyses, including those detailed below (not included
 amongst UoA24 submitted outputs);

 • Presurgery exercise-based conditioning interventions (pre-habilitation) in adults undergoing
   lower limb surgery for peripheral arterial disease (Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2020; Ingle).
 • Structured exercise training following Traumatic Brain Injury (Brain Injury 2020; Carroll, King,
   Vanicek)


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Robot assisted gait training for people with spinal cord injuries (J Spinal Cord Med, 2018;
   Vanicek).
 • Muscle morphology and function in patients with intermittent claudication (J Vasc Surg. 2017;
   King, Vanicek).
 • Resistance training on strength and physical function in overweight/obese adults (J of
   Physiotherapy 2020; Vince).
 • High-intensity training for intermittent claudication (J Vasc Surg. 2019; Ingle)
 • Home-based exercise programmes for individuals with intermittent claudication (SAGE Open
   Med. 2018; Ingle).

 The previously outlined UoA research strategy (RAE2014) incorporated a developmental
 internationalisation agenda. Subsequently, the international standing of the group has continued
 with numerous invited oral and keynote presentations having been undertaken at international
 meetings, including UEFA Research Programme; World Congress of Science and Football;
 European College of Sport Science; The Sixth International Conference of Ministers and Senior
 Officials Responsible for Physical Culture; The Association for International Sport for All World
 Congress; Sport Science Summit, UK; USA National Coaching Conference; England Athletics
 Annual Conference; British Psychological Society, Royal Society of Medicine, UK; and for
 research groups within numerous universities (including, Sanger Institute, University of
 Cambridge, UK; State University of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Universities of New South Wales &
 Sydney, Australia). Staff are also collaborating with the following bodies on research projects,
 British Association for Cardiovascular Rehabilitation and Prevention; International Council of Sport
 Science and Physical Education (Germany); The Association for International Sport for All, KEA
 Sport (Greece); National Anti-Doping Agencies of Spain, France, Austria, Denmark.

 Staff have examined PhD candidates for the following Universities within the period; Bradford,
 Buckinghamshire, Edge Hill, Essex, Greenwich, Huddersfield, Leeds, Leeds Metropolitan,
 Liverpool JMU, Loughborough, Manchester, Salford, Wolverhampton, and internationally at Santa
 Cruz do Sol (Brazil), Sydney (Australia), Australian Catholic University (Australia), University of
 Western Australia (Australia), Otago (New Zealand), Laval (Canada) and University of the South
 Pacific.




                                                                                             Page 15
