Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Middlesex University

 Unit of Assessment: 11 - Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Computer Science and Informatics research at Middlesex enjoys a thriving and vibrant
 environment undertaking internationally leading applied and foundational research across the
 subject area. During the REF period, through cultivation of strong research leadership and
 investment, the unit appointed talented computer science researchers and sustained the fostering
 of an environment that encourages inter-disciplinary collaboration with international partners.
 Implementing the strategic plan laid out in REF2014, where the unit was the 5th largest Computer
 Science unit in the country with 53.1FTE staff submitted, makes this possible. That submission
 was part of the sustained growth building upon REF2008 when 22.3FTE staff were submitted and
 reflecting the history and tradition of computer science research at Middlesex. The unit has
 participated in every research exercise since 1992.

 Results of research at Middlesex in Computer Science and Informatics over this REF period
 include: antibiotic resistant bacteria can now be studied biologically using information theory;
 infants’ lungs are non-invasively and inexpensively measured and monitored; oesophageal cancer
 can be inexpensively detected at an early stage using automated video recognition from
 endoscopy; and visual analytics changes the approach police forces internationally adopt in the
 prosecution of crime.

 1.1 Unit Structure
 The unit is located in the Faculty of Science and Technology and comprises 69 category A staff-
 64.55 FTE. All staff in the Department of Computer Science (CS) are submitted and 14 from the
 Department of Design Engineering and Mathematics (DEM), one colleague from the Department
 of Natural Sciences (Tizzard), and one colleague (Comley the University's Director of Research)
 outside of the Faculty structure. All staff eligible for the REF in CS are included in this unit, and
 staff in DEM not included are submitted to UoAs 3 (Allied Health), 4 (Psychology), 14
 (Environmental Studies) and 24 (Sport Sciences).

 Research leadership within the unit is reflected in both organisational, management and academic
 structures. Research is managed formally through a Deputy Dean for Research and Knowledge
 Exchange and two Heads of Departments who are also professors all submitted here. Further
 operationalisation is achieved through the unit professors. At Faculty level, the Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Committee ensures research needs and outcomes are disseminated across
 the Faculty.

 Staff submitted are substantively located in one of five major areas of research but the nature of
 the research submitted means that there is a creative and welcome overlap between the areas
 that the unit exploits through inter-disciplinary work. These five areas are:

 Interaction Design: This area evolved from the internationally recognised Interaction Design
 Centre originally founded 27 years ago, to one that now conducts world leading visual analytics
 research. Staff in this area conduct research in usability, visualisation and manipulation of complex
 data as well as visual interface design for games and language interaction. Led by Prof Wong,
 the group includes Prof Walker, Assoc Profs Attfield, Duncker, Fields, Ham, Springett, Whitney



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Xu, and Drs Herd, Kolar, Passmore and Zhang. Expertise in user-interface design (Fields,
 Passmore, Springett, and Zhang) covers games, bespoke interfaces, and language interaction.
 13 Colleagues – 11.2 FTE

 Algorithms and Software Engineering: This area is primarily concerned with formal modes of
 analysis, ranging from fundamentals such as logic and graph theory through to model-based
 systems. The area includes activity that is concerned with meta-analysis such as applying theorem
 proving to security cases, verifiably correct systems, model-checking and quantum algorithms.
 The area enjoys outstanding industrial relationships such as with Facebook Research and
 Amazon Research. The group consists of Profs Barn, Bornat, Nagarajan and Raimondi, Assoc
 Profs Kammueller, Novak, and Tizzard, and Drs Androutsopoulos, Baskent, Elmer,
 Gorogiannis, and Rahanu. Baskent is an early career researcher.
 12 Colleagues – 10.4 FTE

 Intelligent Environments: Strategically strengthened after REF2014, this is aligned with Ubiquitous
 Computing and investigates how to develop Context Aware systems supported by a Smart
 Environment. User-centred system development processes are used to create these
 environments, resulting in a physically deployed network of sensing and actuation, making
 decisions supported by adaptive artificial intelligence algorithms. Challenges being addressed
 include: spatio-temporal reasoning, conflict management, user identification, dynamic user priority
 adaptation, and automated user habit learning. Other research covers mapping collaborative
 strengths in cross national groups, and supporting the development of teams, particularly in
 educational settings. The group is led by Prof Augusto and consists of Prof Dafoulas, Assoc
 Profs Evans, Jones, and Smith, and Drs Daryanani, Loveday, Moseley, and Saleeb.
 9 Colleagues - 9 FTE

 Networks and Distributed Systems: This area focuses on the technical and theoretical aspects of
 distributed systems and underlying network technologies such as scheduling for network traffic
 management. A particular emphasis is on wireless technologies, including areas such as cellular
 handover algorithms, and emergent properties and trade-offs between energy consumption, and
 performance. Also addressed are intelligent transportation systems (Mapp) and adaptive
 mechanisms to support a range of applications such as Industry 4.0 and Digital Twins. The
 networks group is led by Profs Nguyen and Zhou, and Assoc Prof Mapp. It includes Assoc Prof
 Lasebae, and Drs Aiash, Colson, Hara, Le, Luo, Rahman, Shah, Sule, Trestian and Vien.
 14 Colleagues – 13.75 FTE

 Artificial Intelligence: The AI research group concentrates on machine learning, computer vision,
 robotics, computational neuropsychology and biological algorithms. Other areas include work on
 ethics and AI, machine learning applied to social media analytics and research in machine
 consciousness. This group has had a notable presence for over 20 years with research in neural
 computing, categorisation and computer vision. The excellent facilities for robot development (see
 section 3) make this area a centre-piece of our research. It consists of Profs Comley, Gao, Huyck
 and Karamanoglu, Assoc Profs Belavkin, Currie, George, James-Reynolds, Mitchell,
 Windridge, and X. Yang, and Drs Cheng, Chinellato, Gamez, Gandhi, Geng, Kotsia,
 Menendez, Quattrone, Panagakis, and Z. Yang. Menendez and Quattrone are early career
 researchers.
  21 Colleagues - 20.2 FTE




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For REF2014, our strategic goal was to improve our “power rankings” – i.e. demonstrate
 substantive growth in high-quality computer science research at Middlesex so that our research
 could be sustained into the future and reflect the vibrancy, range and scale of the discipline. Our
 141% increase in the size of the submission was one of the largest increases (of meaningful
 numbers) in the unit.

 Increasing size allows us, through a CS research management team, to proactively and flexibly
 allocate funds and other resources, such as staff time, to accomplish our ongoing research
 strategy of conducting excellent fundamental and applied research. Most importantly, by
 developing inter-collaborative relationships that span computer science, engineering and
 mathematics, we are submitting staff from two Departments, Computer Science and Design
 Engineering and Mathematics. Inter-Department collaboration has allowed us to establish a
 pioneering presence in two critical areas (Ageing Society, and Future of Mobility) relevant to the
 UK Industrial Strategy published in 2017. The pipeline of research, its application to problems and
 then onto societal impact is evidenced.

 1.2 Research and Impact During the Assessment Period
 The aim of our strategy is to undertake both excellent fundamental research and applied research.
 We recognise that the nature of our discipline requires interplay between both types of research.
 Our decision to substantially grow computer science research allows us to open new avenues of
 research, including several inter-disciplinary areas, adding vitality to the subject area at Middlesex.

 For the REF2014 research strategy, we planned for a future where:
 • all eligible staff would be submitted;
 • our theoretical work in the Algorithms and Software Engineering area would be used to
    underpin applied impact;
 • we would develop inter-disciplinary opportunities at the intersections of mathematics and
    engineering;
 • continue to enhance our taught provision through research;
 • and significantly strengthen our core areas.
 We have made significant progress across all these objectives described below.

 Growth and the synergies between research and teaching
 Since that strategic plan, we have achieved 100% submission of all eligible staff, with no CS
 Departmental staff on the “practice-based route” used by the institution to delineate non-research
 staff. This allows us to ensure that all of our teaching is underpinned and enhanced by
 systematically exploiting our research capability. For example, our MSc Data Science draws
 significantly from our research strengths in machine learning, image processing, visual analytics
 and legal and information ethics. Similarly, MSc Cyber Security and Pen Testing, which is among
 the first in the UK to teach Penetration Testing, draws substantive benefit from the unit's research
 expertise. These research-led Masters programmes provide experienced students for future post
 graduate work, continuing a virtuous teaching research cycle. Example papers arising from these
 collaborations with students include papers on preservation of digital evidence, On-the-Fly Image
 Classification to Help Blind People, and evolutionary art.

 Application of Theoretical Algorithms
 Algorithms for fusing multi-parameter clinical measurements obtained from the data produced
 from electrical impedance tomography have been developed and are used for data acquisition for
 cardio-respiratory intensive therapy for neonates, and more recently Covid-19 patients. Our


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research in algorithms, correctness, and security of networking protocols has been applied. There
 is ongoing success in a range of machine learning applications including medical imaging, societal
 impact of Airbnb, malware detection, and optimisation.

 Strengthen Adjoining Areas
 The unit's 2014 REF environment statement set the goal of developing the adjoining areas of
 mathematics and engineering. The case for doing this was further strengthened by the publication
 of the UK Industrial Strategy in 2017. As a consequence, these areas have been extended with
 considerable research in robotics (e.g. the fast walking neuromorphic robot); mathematics; and
 computer systems engineering (e.g. network traffic management). The latter led to the formation
 of the Vehicular Adhoc Network (VANET) group specifically addressing the Industrial Strategy
 grand challenge around mobility.

 Expand Three Core Research Areas
 In 2014, the unit’s organisation was based around three core research areas (Algorithms and
 Software Engineering, Networks and Distributed Systems, and Interaction Design). These areas
 have continued to grow and expand in the breadth of research conducted. The Algorithms and
 Software Engineering area developed provable systems (Raimondi, Popescu, and Kammueller)
 (e.g., see Verified Systems in section 4). The research area is also the base for three impact case
 studies: Digital Twins (Barn and Nguyen), EIT (Tizzard), and MAYOT (Barn).

 In the 2014 REF, AI and machine learning were a part of the Algorithms and Software Engineering
 group and have particularly flourished through receipt of several research awards (see sections 3
 and 4) such that the research management team of the unit determined that AI and ML was a
 critical component for our strategy for the next five years (see Future Research and Impact
 Strategy below) and it now forms a research area of its own. Successes here include
 neuromorphic embodied agents that learn (Huyck), fast walking neuromorphically controlled
 robots (Geng), warehousing images (Gao), determining the effects of mutation rate plasticity
 (Belavkin), dream like simulations to support self-driving cars (Windridge), the firefly and bat
 machine learning algorithms (X. Yang), and applications of machine learning such as detection of
 oesophageal cancers (Gao), classifying faces for emotion (Kotsia), detection of face spoofing
 (Windridge), and analysing Airbnb use in London for societal impact (Quattrone). Many software
 applications are evident in the outputs, and beyond.

 There is continued growth in the Networks and Distributed Systems area with further development
 of mobile communications, and the development of an important area of research and impact -
 the Vehicular Adhoc Networks group. There are significant advances in quality of experience of
 video communication on wireless networks (Trestian), real time detection of denial-of-service
 attacks (Loo), and quality of service vs. power trade-offs (Nguyen and Vien).

 Our strategy for the Interaction Design area resulted in similar actions, consolidating our strategy
 of growing our research in core areas. The Interaction Design area continues to prosper. It is
 enhanced through productive industrial collaboration (e.g. Wong with Genetec and Mitre, and
 Attfield with BAE). The group is making significant advances in mHealth (Fields and Herd),
 sensemaking (Attfield), visualising time (Wong and Xu), and human-centred machine learning
 (Zhang). The area also contributes national and international impact though the VALCRI case
 study.

 A pleasing affirmation of the buoyant and focussed activity since 2014 is the successful incubation
 of the Intelligent Environments group from within Interaction Design into a mature, sustained

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 component of the unit that will be important for our strategy for the next five years (see below).
 Intelligent environments has had marked success through external funding, for example in the
 internet of things, where systems have been deployed to help citizens with specific conditions in
 meaningful daily life contexts. Examples include supporting people with asthma, cognitive decline,
 or Down’s syndrome (Augusto), aiding cardiac rehabilitation, education (Smith), and gamification
 for physical activity. Recognising the interplay between this area and our Networks and Distributed
 Systems, notable advances have been made in secure sensor networks for smart living. Work in
 haptics, robotics, networking, and vision have also contributed in this area. Further examples of
 excellence include computer supported cooperative work (Dafoulas). Reflecting the rapid
 development of this group, the area contributes the Intelligent Environments case study as a
 contribution to the grand challenges of an ‘Aging Society’ as outlined in the UK Industrial Strategy.

 Goals Developed and Achieved Since Last REF
 While the aims and goals from the 2014 REF statement were an important starting point for this
 REF cycle, strategy within the unit is evolving. The key driver of future sustainability and continued
 expansion required positive action to enhance support and leadership from senior colleagues.
 The CS research management team was developed to broaden the leadership of research within
 the unit. The team was formed in 2018, is led by the CS unit professors (including the heads of
 the CS and DEM Departments), and includes all colleagues submitted for the unit, and junior
 colleagues not eligible for submission. The team meets regularly in different configurations to
 reflect the priorities at that time. These meetings provide opportunities for meeting colleagues at
 different levels of experience and seniority encouraging a collegial environment that is coaching
 based while improving our research.

 The planned interaction between computer science and engineering research is particularly
 successful, for example the establishment of The London Digital Twins Centre. Digital Twin
 research is identified as an important breakthrough technology and we are developing applications
 across manufacturing, building design, supply chain management, sustainability and enterprise
 decision making. As such, we have positioned our centre as one that can be used to spearhead
 innovation and impact in multi-disciplinary settings that require data science, mathematics and
 engineering. The research centre is uniquely positioned in the UK landscape and currently houses
 several international projects across domains such as Manufacturing 4.0 and structural health
 monitoring. Sponsors of the centre include Ericsson and Ansys. Formation of the centre reflects
 our approach of flexible and agile deployment of resourcing to identify opportunities for innovation
 and impact. Middlesex is a leading partner with Siemens in their “Connected Curriculum” strategy
 of partnering with universities working at the forefront of Industry 4.0. Our research in Digital Twins
 has had significant international impact through the Digital Twin impact case study reported in this
 submission (Barn, Nguyen).

 Open Source and Research Integrity
 The enhanced research leadership for this unit is further underpinned by the commitment of the
 unit to Open Source and Ethical Research. The unit has a strong open access ethos and has
 contributed to and applies all policies specified in the Open Access and Open Data section of
 Middlesex’s REF5a. We have strongly supported initiatives related to Open Science including
 ORCID registration, with all submitted staff having registered. Our mechanism for green open
 access publication is our Eprints repository, many of our publications are externally published
 open source, and we are increasing the percentage of open source publications. Where
 necessary, dependent upon the open access publication requirements of the publisher, resources
 to support Gold access are made available. We deliberately take a flexible and agile approach to
 supporting Gold open access publishing. The University also provides a Figshare repository to

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support open access to data. The unit develops large data sets, such as a database of face
 images by age, and a database of hospital images that are publicly available. Artefacts and code
 for simulations are made available on a variety of platforms with some description of how to use
 the code, for example the MIRTO robot.

 All staff work within a strong ethical framework. The University’s well-established and
 comprehensive Code of Practice for Research, enshrines the highest standards of research
 conduct and integrity. Its principles and practices are based on the Research Councils’ Statement
 on Safeguarding Good Scientific Practice (2000) and the Concordat to Support Research Integrity
 (2012). An independent University Research Ethics Committee ensures that high standards of
 integrity are upheld through well-established approval processes and has oversight of our Faculty
 based research ethics committee that includes Baskent, Hara, Menendez and Whitney, and is
 chaired by George. All research projects conducted by students and staff must attain approval
 from this committee before commencement of work. The CS Department and DEM Department
 each have two Academic Integrity Tutors. This adherence to ethical research has been and will
 continue to be a grounding principle within the unit.

 Papers
 The scale and quality of our research activity and outputs across our key thematic areas is
 increasing. As a result, many of our papers are published in Core A* conferences like IJCAI, CHI,
 CVPR, WWW, and POPL; and in journals such as IEEE Pattern Analysis and Machine
 Intelligence, the Lancet, Parallel Distributed Systems, Information Fusion, and Nature
 Communications.

 Case Studies
 The impact arising from our research has increased. In this submission, the unit submits five case
 studies that are representative of our research. VALCRI develops visual analytics techniques,
 integrated with machine learning, to aid criminal intelligence analysts; portions of the intellectual
 property were purchased by Genetec and are widely used to support analysts. MAYOT, mobile
 apps for youth offending teams, is focused on marginalised young people in conflict with the law;
 it is being used by several Youth Offending Services in the UK. Intelligent Environments advances
 and develops practical implementations; these help people with Down's syndrome, provide
 ambient assisted living support for older people in their homes, and encourages citizens to be
 more physically active. Digital Twins developed new agent programming technology for simulating
 and analysing complex enterprise systems and twins for infrastructure maintenance; it is being
 used and sold by Tata Consultancy Services as TwinX™ to develop complex enterprise systems.
 Electrical Impedance Tomography (EIT) is a non-invasive imaging system that has been advanced
 by the unit; it is used in neonate lung imaging, and other applications, including Covid-19 patient
 monitoring; aspects of these developments have been patented and products are being developed
 in collaboration with industry (for example Sentec).

 1.3 Future Research and Impact Strategy
 After two REF cycles of strong growth and improvement, we are confident that our current
 environment and operating strategy to undertake both excellent fundamental research and applied
 research is appropriate and relevant for the future. Our ambition is that aspiring Early Career
 Researchers will see Computer Science at Middlesex as a beacon for establishing a base for
 excellent research and impact.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Under the leadership of our new Vice-Chancellor and British Academy of Management President,
 Nic Beech, Middlesex University is currently formulating its ambitious 2030 research strategy with
 the intention of becoming world leading in:
     • Equity and improvements in health and well-being;
     • Inclusive socio-economic development; and
     • Sustainability of communities and the environment.
 The research and impact in this unit will aim to contribute strongly to that mission.

 In the next five years, the unit will build on recent achievements and current dynamism. We will
 seek to consolidate and sustain our performance on our key objectives of further strengthening of
 our five main research areas, developing stronger international collaboration, growing doctoral
 student numbers, and strengthening our pathways to impact. A particular focus will be exploiting
 our research that resides at the boundaries of our core discipline area using research centres such
 as the London Digital Twin Centre.

 Strengthen Five Existing Core Areas
 The units' foremost goal is strengthening the existing core areas by continuing to increase the
 amount of world class research. We will do this by providing leadership and advice on further
 raising the quality of publication outputs, and ensuring that appointments are made that either
 enhance these areas or allows us to exploit or increase inter-disciplinary working between these
 areas. The London Digital Twin Research Centre is expected to spearhead such inter-disciplinary
 work. The leadership is being further enhanced through an updated research strategy for the
 University that has a focus on key global challenges. Through this renewed emphasis and
 alignment, there will be increased provision of PhD studentships, specialist equipment, and
 enhancing the pipeline of doctoral students from our flagship MSc Data Science programme.
 Engagement through increased intensity of collaboration with industry and external stakeholders
 is also planned.

 Develop Stronger Internal and External Collaboration
 The unit will extend its internal collaboration, both within the unit and across the broader University,
 and improve its external collaboration, both with industry and other academics. The unit
 collaborates internally, e.g. roboticists collaborate with AI practitioners and telecommunications
 colleagues to develop cognitive robotics. Collaboration within the University is ongoing, e.g.
 Chinellato recently received a £300K grant from the Dunhill Medical Trust with Franco
 (Psychology) as the lead investigator. Fields collaborated with Psychology on Small Talk Saves
 Lives. Colleagues collaborate with industry, e.g. Raimondi is currently on sabbatical at Amazon
 and Gorogiannis at Facebook, and Barn collaborates closely with TCS research and Windridge
 with FIAT; we will extend our collaboration with these and other companies. Colleagues will
 continue to collaborate with other national and international universities, e.g. Mapp with
 Cambridge, Wong with British Columbia, and Cheng with Hong Kong. In addition to the positive
 influence on researchers of engagement, an important aspect of our strategy is to ensure that
 collaboration, both internal and external, is promoted, supported and valued. So, colleagues
 benefit both implicitly and explicitly from engagement. We will continue with outward facing events
 such as the STEM festival and Eurobot and develop new events.

 We will improve our collaboration by actively engaging, monitoring, and supporting best practice,
 and actively seeking industrial collaboration. A new working group is extending our industrial
 collaboration; the group leverages existing industrial partners, and supports unit colleagues to
 develop industrial connections. To encourage collaboration, the CS research management team


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has a collaboration agenda item for each meeting. Middlesex also has overseas campuses in
 Dubai, Malta, and Mauritius. Colleagues submitted to this unit collaborate with staff on these
 campuses and they are integrated into our research environment, though overseas colleagues
 are ineligible for submission to this exercise. For example, interactive technologies for education
 are being developed cooperatively by colleagues in Malta and unit colleagues (Smith and
 Windridge). Expanding productive relationships with colleagues at overseas campuses extends
 the capacity and breadth of unit research.

 Continue to Build Synergy between Teaching and Research
 Taught programmes in the unit's research specialisms will continue to introduce cutting edge
 research to students. Students who are interested and talented will be encouraged to return to
 pursue post-graduate research degrees, or move to other universities or industry, thereby
 fostering and growing a network of future collaborators. Programmes in our research specialisms
 that generate synergies between research and teaching will continue to be developed. For
 example, our MSc in Computational Neuroscience, a joint program between Computer Science,
 Psychology and Neuroscience, is currently under development, and will extend our collaboration
 within Middlesex. It and the MSc in Cooperative Intelligent Transport Systems will run for the first
 time in 2021.

 Impact
 Our approach to impact is integral to and embedded in our overarching aim of producing
 excellence in fundamental and applied research. It is informed by three objectives: (i) to produce
 research relevant to policy makers and wider society; (ii) define and respond to practical grand
 challenges as well as to debates driven by academic concerns and; (iii) routinely involve
 stakeholders. We also recognise that impact is contingent on the nature and maturity of the
 research.

 Applied research, such as our case studies, other work on digital twins, and our work on verified
 systems, can be exploited through industry, patents and application to society; further funding
 opportunities will be explored, including contract research; sabbaticals will be used to support
 application; and graduates trained for rolls in these now industrially applicable technologies will
 continue to collaborate. We will work with our Research and Knowledge Transfer Office to exploit
 avenues for research that is nearing application, such as our work in evolutionary information
 theory, machine learning for optimisation, intelligent transportation systems and fast walking
 robots. Such avenues could include patents, productization or open-source availability.

 By continuing to position our research within the wider UK and international policy context, we will
 endeavour to explore appropriate pathways to impact and have embedded in our ways of working
 engagement as a primary tool. Central to the impact strategy is developing systematic use of
 Innovate UK or DASA like funding streams to exploiting our more fundamental research such as
 our work in computational neuropsychology and quantum computing. Intellectual support from
 colleagues will be used to guide that approach.

 The re-affirmed focus on research at University level following the appointment of our new vice-
 chancellor, Prof Nic Beech and our own history of research excellence provides confidence and
 assurance that our unit will continue to enjoy, attract and inspire world class academics to make
 their home in this Computer Science unit.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
 The vitality of our research environment arises from its dynamic lecturers, professors, and PhD
 students. Research groups meet for focused discussion, and our collocated people are immersed
 in an exciting ongoing research conversation.

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Staffing Strategy
 Our people and staff development strategy is in close alignment with our research strategy. That
 is, all staff hiring, promotion and mentoring focuses on well-rounded academics who are excellent
 researchers in either applied or foundational areas and are excellent teachers.

 Since 2014, we have sought to strengthen our research leadership, develop junior researchers,
 reinforce existing areas of research and identify new opportunities. Our future strategic
 development will match the University’s current formulation of its 2030 people strategy, entitled
 “Changing lives – A world class community in a world class University”.

 Adjustments to workloads and teaching are made for staff with substantial research grants.
 Similarly, teaching will be reduced for less experienced staff to focus on grant application writing,
 working with an industrial partner, or exploring a particularly thorny research problem. Newly
 appointed colleagues always have a reduced teaching load.

 Most unit colleagues are employed full-time. Some staff on sabbatical retain a fractional
 appointment. These are particularly useful where staff on sabbatical in an industrial setting are
 able to immediately transfer knowledge back into an education setting. Three colleagues are on
 reduced work-load (Colson 0.75, Kolar 0.8 and Bornat 0.2), all recently full time and transitioning
 to retirement. Ham (.2) is developing our partnerships in Korea, and Walker (.2) is helping with
 public engagement in science through his media activities as part of our STEM development
 agenda (see Thrills in section 4).

 The unit has gone through a period of consolidation. Sadly, three professors (Albrecht and
 Ghanem) and the head of the CS Department (Petridis) have died in post during this assessment
 period. Several staff have left to take positions at other excellent research institutions (for example
 Loureirio to UCL, Martin to Durham, and Popescu to Sheffield), and industry (Boender to
 Hensoldt Cyber GmbH); though formally no longer part of our research community, many of these
 former colleagues remain engaged. For example, Loureiro is currently involved in Middlesex
 PhD supervision. Five lecturers (Baskent, Chinellato, Elmer, Le, and Menendez) have been
 hired in this period, one has been promoted from associate lecturer, and the number of
 researchers submitted to the unit has increased from 56 to 69 (53.1 FTE to 64.55 FTE). Our
 retired colleagues contribute to the unit through mentoring and other “critical friend” activities
 (Loomes).

 Our current submission includes 5% lecturers, 42% senior lecturers, 34% associate professors,
 and 19% professors.

 As the University embarks on its 2030 strategy, approximately 10 lecturers and senior lecturers
 will be recruited by the unit over the next three years as a core strategic aim to ensure a
 sustainable research base. New colleagues recruited at the lecturer level and above will be in
 areas aligned with our existing research areas of Interaction Design, Algorithms and Software
 Engineering, Intelligent Environments, Networks and Distributed System, and Artificial Intelligence
 whenever possible. New colleagues will be selected based on a research profile that is both

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 evidenced and aspirational. Potential for internationally excellent future research will be required.
 On arrival, new colleagues will be proactively integrated into our research environment and
 appropriate groups. Past successes in first grant acquisition suggest that our mentoring
 mechanisms are effective.

 Staff Development
 From 2014, the University undertook an institution-wide staff mapping exercise to ensure all staff
 were correctly placed in terms of level and development pathway. Development pathways are
 either “teaching & research”, for those with a significant responsibility for research (returned in our
 REF submission), or “teaching & professional practice”. In this unit, the CS Department is
 submitting 100% of their staff. That is, no one is mapped to the “teaching & professional practice”
 route.

 The unit is committed to an inclusive approach to supporting all colleagues’ development, ensuring
 both vitality and sustainability in its research environment. Rather than seeing competition as the
 route to improving academic performance, we have a strong ethos of mutual support, collaboration
 and development. This coaching culture is now a central part of the Middlesex 2030 strategy.

 Staff development needs are formally explored annually as part of the appraisal process. Staff
 complete a Research Plan, reporting on outputs, research income, engagement with practice, and
 other research activities and how they intend to build on them. Individuals are offered development
 packages to meet needs identified in this process; for example, the unit funded Gamez gaining an
 MSc in Data Science. The support emphasises high levels of assistance rather than monitoring
 arrangements. We make the explicit assumption that all academics, even senior academics,
 benefit from development, learn from their colleagues, and function best in a collegial environment.

 New colleagues work with a named mentor. The mentor introduces the member to researchers
 and groups both within and beyond the unit.

 The unit’s collaborative environment and group structure naturally support mentoring of junior
 colleagues by senior colleagues. Grant proposals from junior colleagues in particular, receive
 extensive support and development from professors with one usually leading the support. Further
 review and feedback is provided at the Faculty level. During this REF period, the highly competitive
 EPSRC New Investigator Grant applications have been supported by senior staff and awarded to
 Chen, Giannopolis, and Martin (see section 3). The collaborative environment also benefits
 senior staff, PhD students, and the broader population.

 All staff are able to benefit from the University’s sabbatical policy, entitling them to apply for 12
 months away every seven years of service. This can be used to develop collaborations, write a
 research related book, or another form of research development. For example, Raimondi is
 currently on a 12-month sabbatical with Amazon (collaborating on verifiably correct systems) and
 Wong spent 24 months with Genetec, working on the commercial rollout of the VALCRI project
 (see section 1 Case Studies and the study itself). In practice, however, the Department and the
 Faculty is usually able to facilitate breaks less formally through careful workload management and
 the unit's collegial mode of operation.

 Enabling staff time to teach and research requires careful management of workloads. All staff
 have a balanced workload comprising teaching, research and administration. Teaching timetable
 models ensure that most staff get either at least two clear days each week for research or blocks
 of time, depending on their preferences and the courses being taught.

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Colleagues are supported for travel to one research conference each year from the Departmental
 budgets, and for developmental courses. Further ad hoc support is available from the Faculty
 research budget. It is not unusual for the Faculty to fund an individual researcher to attend several
 research conferences in one financial year. The Faculty systematically encourages grant
 application submission by providing internal funding on external proposals for PhD studentships.
 For example, Geng’s EPSRC fast walking robot grant had a unit funded PhD student for three
 years to parallel the EPSRC grant. This provides a mechanism to fund PhD studentships and
 stipends that increases the likelihood of receiving a grant, doubly rewards successful grant
 proposals, and increases the impact of the grant.

 There are four specialist seminar series: the Artificial Intelligence series, the Interaction Design
 series, the Software Engineering series, and the Intelligent Environments series. Staff and PhD
 students attending conferences are encouraged to present in these seminars with staff being
 timetabled to attend their specialist choice. There is also a Computer Science Departmental
 Colloquium that has enjoyed particular success during the COVID-19 pandemic due to its online
 nature.

 The unit hosts prestigious events, for example the Algorithms and Software Engineering area was
 able to attract and hold the premier computer science conferences and workshops –BCTCS 2015,
 TABLEAUX 2019, FroCoS 2019 and MAD (Middlesex Algorithms Day) 2014. In particular, BCTCS
 2015 included eminent international prize winning scholars Sir Tony Hoare, Sir Tim Gowers, Per
 Martin-Löf, and Joseph Sifakis as invited speakers. Ed Awh (U. Chicago), and Tim Gowers
 (Cambridge) also presented at unit events.

 The effectiveness of our focus upon staff development is reflected in the strong advancement of
 staff. One colleague (Gamez) has been promoted to lecturer from associate lecturer, five to senior
 lecturer (Chinellato, Elmer, Gamez, Trestian, and Le), Windridge was promoted to associate
 professor. Three colleagues were promoted to professor (Augusto, Dafoulas and Nguyen). All
 professorial promotions have significantly added to the research leadership in the unit.

 2.2 Support for Postgraduate Research Students
 Research students are integral to our research community. The number of students on the PhD
 programmes fluctuated over the REF period but was 41 in 2019/20. The PhD student body is
 highly diverse. 42% is female, and 74% come from Black, Asian, and Minority Ethnic (BAME)
 ethnic groupings, of which the largest is Asian (43%). In terms of age, 63% of students are aged
 30 and over, 31% between 25 and 29, and 6% between 21 and 24.

 47 students have been awarded PhDs by the unit between 2013 and 2019. Each PhD student
 has a Director of Studies (DoS), and one or more additional supervisors. Some students have a
 supervisor from an external organisation. Research and student oversight is further provided by
 two Research Degree Coordinators for the doctoral students submitted in this unit (Augusto,
 Karamanoglu); they monitor the progress of Departmental students, keep their supervisory teams
 under review (in liaison with the Deputy Dean for Research and KE) and actively promote their
 participation in Departmental seminars and workshops. Staff are required to attend a structured
 University level training programme before joining supervisory teams and at least one member of
 a supervisory team must have previously supervised to completion. The student meets with their
 DoS weekly.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All PhD students have a computer and desk space, most in our large open plan centre to facilitate
 collaboration with their supervisory team, and between PhD students. The centre seats 70 and is
 shared by unit PhD students, visiting researchers and relevant PhD students from across the
 Faculty to facilitate inter-disciplinary collaboration. Research students have full access not only to
 the well-resourced Sheppard Library on campus, including access to dedicated specialist
 databases (e.g. SpringerLink, ACM and IEEE), but also other major London libraries, such as the
 British Library.

 Research students receive comprehensive research training through a three-year course, drawing
 on a wide range of expertise from across the University. The training is designed to prepare
 students for the milestones in their progression: registration, transfer and viva. The training is
 aligned to the Vitae research framework, preparing students for both the academic and
 professional world.

 There are over 40 face to face and online PhD student training sessions available. Sessions cover
 writing (e.g. Writing a Literature Review, and Preparing for your Transfer/Viva Panel(s)),
 methodology (e.g. Quantitative Frameworks for Data Analysis, and Case Study: a mixed
 approach), applications (e.g. SPSS, and R Programming in Data Science: Setup and Start), and
 skills for career development (e.g. Developing a career in academia, and Intellectual Property).
 The University also runs an annual PhD student conference and most PhD students in the unit
 have presented posters or oral presentations here, many multiple times.

 PhD students are also members of the research groups. They attend CS Departmental colloquia,
 the four specialist research seminars series, and impromptu research meetings. They frequently
 present their work in the specialist seminar series, extending communication with academics
 beyond their supervisory team, and with student colleagues. Presentations include current state
 of their research, early viva presentations, leading paper discussions, and early versions of
 conference or workshop presentations.

 PhD students are encouraged to publish and are funded from the Faculty research budget to
 present a paper at a conference up to once a year. They are required to give a presentation at
 one of the four specialist seminars on the work they present.

 Data from the Post Graduate Research Experience Survey is at the Faculty level so includes data
 from outside of the unit. The student feedback is positive about supervision, research skills,
 professional development and environment particularly around specialist facilities and digital
 resources.

 Progress is monitored at the post graduate board of studies that takes place twice a year (since
 2020, it is once a year); research student representatives are able to present concerns for
 discussion and resolution. This is further supported by the CS research management team, where
 PhD students are a standing agenda item. If students are struggling, extra support is given from
 outside the supervisory team. A member of the Registry is assigned to support research student
 administration needs. A weekly newsletter goes out informing students of upcoming events. The
 University runs an annual monitoring and evaluation process of research students at Faculty level.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 Equality, diversity and inclusion are core Middlesex values and are reflected in the Middlesex
 REF5a submission. The University appointed a pro-vice chancellor for equality, diversity and
 inclusion. Middlesex was the first UK University to receive the Corporate Gold/Embedded Charter

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mark from UK Investor in Equality & Diversity. Middlesex has about three times as many BAME
 staff as the typical British university. The unit benefits from a range of policies operating at
 University level (such as parental leave, a University nursery, and flexible working to
 accommodate family, health or other circumstances). The two Heads of Department contributing
 staff to this unit submission are both from a BAME background.

 The colleagues submitted are ethnically and culturally diverse. While 22 of the 69 submitted
 colleagues are from Britain, the remaining colleagues come from over 16 different countries. It is
 difficult to categorise ethnicity, but using the British Census Ethnic Group categories, no ethnic
 group is in the majority. 45% of submitted colleagues are BAME.

 The unit is making progress with respect to gender. In this submission. 14 of the 69 submitted
 colleagues are female. Attracting women to computer science remains an ongoing challenge and
 unit colleagues (Gao and Karamanoglu) participated in workshops organised by CPHC to
 improve gender representation. There is an effective Women in Computing group in the unit led
 by Androutsopoulos. In 2017, Rosie Hyde, a third year student, and member of our Women in
 Computing group won the People’s Choice Award at the BCS Lovelace Colloquium for her poster
 entitled Can Stress and Anxiety be Tracked Through Wearable Technology?

 Age diversity across the submitted colleagues is relatively even across the range of 30 to 65. Two
 colleagues are over 65.

 The REF working group for the unit paid close attention to the University’s REF code of practice,
 and was trained in equality, diversity and unconscious bias. Recognising that we all have
 unconscious bias, we have taken particular care with issues of diversity and inclusion. All outputs
 are marked with the same agreed mark sheet, and by at least two markers.

 The unit supports the family and personal obligations of all members of staff, such as parents of
 young children. People with caring responsibilities can have flexible working conditions, protecting
 them from teaching and other duties that require University attendance in especially pressured
 times. Breaks in activity for any reason, such as maternity or paternity, compassionate leave, or
 illness, are managed sensitively. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the unit provides additional
 flexible working support for staff with family commitments.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 The major developments that have taken place in the period have been the result of strategic
 planning and investment, supported by strong governance and quality processes at all levels. The
 unit benefits from sustained investment but also a focused estate strategy. Income associated
 with REF 2014 (£800K annually) was returned to the unit, either directly or through PhD
 studentships managed centrally. The unit worked with the University to establish an additional,
 planned, long term strategy for investment in staffing from existing core funds, with the additional
 REF funding supporting growth in infrastructure, additional support for existing and new research
 areas and, critically, investment in high-risk ventures.

 The unit spent £6,824,178 in external research income awarded from a wide variety of funders
 during the REF period (see Table 1). This supports the ongoing development of our excellent
 infrastructure and facilities. Our strategy focuses on sources of income where we have expertise
 and a track record. Funding is concentrated on UKRI and EU sources. Other avenues have been
 identified where our research strengths allow us to make a credible and authentic bid. In particular,


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 we chose to identify Knowledge Transfer Partnerships as both an income stream and a concrete
 pathway to impact.




                    Table 1: Annual Research Spend from External Sources
  2013-2014    2014-2015 2015-2016 2016-2017 2017-2018 2018-2019                     2019-2020
  £410,431     £1,207,104 £834,554      £1,197,646 £1,270,092 £1,028,941             £875,410

 3.1 Income
 Unit research income comes from many grant awarding bodies, industry, charities and other
 sources. This amounts to an almost doubling since the REF 2014 (£3.6m). Particularly noteworthy
 grants include:

 EU Projects
 An FP7 project (#608142), Visual Analytics for Sense-making in CRiminal Intelligence analysis
 (VALCRI), for £10.04m was led by Wong, with the unit receiving £2.08m. Another FP7 funded
 project, PersOnalized Smart Environments to increase Inclusion of people with DOwn's SyNdrome
 (#610840), for £401k was led by Augusto. Both projects demonstrate our plans to increase impact
 from our research and have led to two impact case studies in this submission.

 Gao (AI group) led an FP7 (#269124) project entitled Warehousing Images in the Digital Hospital
 (WIDTH): Interpretation, Infrastructure, and Integration, funded for £463K. The project catalysed
 collaboration between Europe and China to explore medical imaging innovations and led to a large
 open source medical database.

 Huyck and Mitchell (AI group) won grants totalling £336K as part of the Human Brain Project
 (#785907); this is described in section 4 under the NEAL grant.

 Windridge (AI group) is part of an H2020 consortium awarded a grant for £3.87m entitled Dream-
 like simulation abilities for automated cars - Dreams4Cars, (#731593). The unit received £467K.
 Windridge and colleagues developed a general framework by which an agent can generate
 simulated data to learn from to benefit the agent. This has led to, for example, Windridge’s
 Adaptive Behaviour paper.

 The unit won several Erasmus awards. Dafoulas (Intelligent Environments group) was awarded
 a £93K grant for technologies to help Palestinian higher education institution (see section 4
 computer-supported cooperative work). Springett and Whitney (Interaction Design group)
 received a £384K Erasmus grant entitled Gameplay for Inspiring Digital Adoption.

 EPSRC Projects
 An EPSRC sponsored grant for £456K entitled A Neuromorphic Control System for Agile Biped
 Locomotion EP/P00542X/1 (Geng, Huyck, and Z. Yang from the AI group) is developing a fast
 walking bipedal robot.

 An EPSRC sponsored grant for £281K (£31K to the unit) for Verification of Resource-Bounded
 Multi-Agents Systems EP/K033905/1 included Raimondi (Algorithms and Software Engineering
 group) as a co-investigator. A systematic framework for modelling resource requirements for
 agents' actions that can be formally verified was developed.


                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kammueller, Jones, and Augusto (Algorithms and Software Engineering and Intelligent
 Environments groups) have led a £200K EPSRC funded grant entitled Secure Accessibility for the
 internet of things (SUCCESS) EP/P016456/1. Two pilot systems were installed in our Smart
 Spaces Lab and are used for experimentation and demonstration of the SUCCESS toolchain.

 Three colleagues from the Algorithms and Software Engineering group (Chen, Giannopolis and
 Martin) were awarded EPSRC sponsored first grants. Chen won a grant for £101K entitled
 Perturbation Analysis for Probabilistic Verification EP/P00430X/2, leading to a closed-form
 formulation of asymptotic perturbation bounds, and computational methods for two forms of those
 bounds. Giannopolis was awarded a grant for £96k entitled Fixed Parameter Tractability for
 Geometric Optimization Problems EP/N029143/1, which led to a proof that a disjoint union of
 cycles is the complement of a disk graph if and only if at most one of those cycles is of odd length.
                                                                              2
 Giannopolis also derived a subexponential algorithm running in time 𝑂( 2𝑛3 )for Maximum Clique
 detection on disk graphs. Martin won a grant for £125K entitled Infinite-domain Constraint
 Satisfaction Problems (CSPs) EP/L005654/1. This work led to a proof that every discrete temporal
 CSP is in Ptime or NP-complete, unless it can be formulated as a finite domain CSP in which case
 the computational complexity is not known in general.

 PNEUMACRIT EP/T001240/1 is a £1.8M EPSRC sponsored grant including Tizzard (Algorithms
 and Software Engineering group), the unit receiving £77K. This is developing a multi sensor
 wearable imaging system that will inform lung function diagnosis for infants and children with
 conditions that can lead to respiratory problems.

 Other Funded Projects
 CoRLEIT EP/V044036/1 is a UKRI funded project (involving Tizzard from the Algorithms and
 Software Engineering group) for £700K (£70K to the unit) to apply Electrical Impedance
 Tomography to Covid-19 patients. A key challenge for the Covid-19 pandemic is the requirement
 to monitor for deterioration and provide timely escalation interventions to an unprecedented
 number of patients at risk of respiratory failure.

 Attfield (Interaction Design group) was awarded £233K funding from BAE Systems. This work
 explores Human Machine Interaction (see section 4 Industrial Collaboration).

 Raimondi (Algorithms and Software Engineering group) was awarded a KTP for £160K to support
 Caritas Anchor House in the development of a software application implementing a Global Notice
 Board for charitable, humanitarian purposes. Petridis (AI group) was awarded a KTP for £210K
 with the London and Southeastern Railway providing insights into real-time patterns of
 passenger rail services run within the network.

 Nguyen (Networks group) received a UKIERI grant for £162K entitled Digital Twin Modelling for
 Automation, Maintenance and Monitoring in Industry 4.0 Smart Factory. A further grant for £133K
 was awarded to Nguyen by the British council to examine the use of Digital Twins for early
 detection of large infrastructure deterioration (see the case study).

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Research management infrastructure at the University level is provided through the well-
 established Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (RKTO), providing support for research and
 knowledge transfer work including doctoral teaching. Led by the University Director of Research
 (Comley), the RKTO provides a ‘one-stop shop’ that delivers a highly visible, supportive and

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 authoritative resource for research active staff in relation to research funding, delivering impact,
 managing research projects, knowledge transfer activities and doctoral student support.

 Over the REF period, the unit extended our excellent research facilities within the Faculty to
 support both this unit and research at the edges of discipline boundaries. These include the AI
 lab, the HCI lab, and robotics development and engineering facilities. Our excellent library facilities
 and other facilities are described in REF 5a. As part of the investment in new areas of research
 following REF2014, the University provides the Smart Spaces Laboratory in the Farmside building
 for the Intelligent Environments group. It won the 2019 edition of the Real AI competition
 organized by the British Computer Society.

 In 2016, Middlesex opened its new £18m Ritterman Building. This building includes extensive
 robotics, digital electronics, and networking facilities for research and teaching. It features
 adaptable space, which supports a range of research and collaborative activities.

 The unit purchased a wide variety of new equipment. For example, in 2020, servers were
 purchased for £190K to support data science research and teaching. These were targeted toward
 the MSc in Data Science, and are used more broadly by unit colleagues.

 The unit provided an initial £22K investment for VANET, a prototype Connected Vehicle Testbed
 for the larger systems later developed (see section 4 Intelligent Transportation Systems). Unit
 colleagues use several neuromorphic computing platforms; there are several SpiNNaker boards
 available for research and development. These are used, for example, for fast walking robot
 control.

 Facilities in other units are available to UoA11 colleagues. Eye tracking equipment, EEG
 equipment, and magnetic brain stimulation (TMS) equipment is shared with Psychology; for
 example, Chinellato uses TMS to study kinematics and brain activity. While other units use
 expertise and facilities from our unit, practical data can also be gathered from other units. For
 example, the sports unit provides data from fencing, football and rugby games for analysis as yet
 another example of the breadth of data science work at Middlesex.

 The networking labs are locally designed state of the art labs. They are equipped with the latest
 networking devices and tools to design, build and secure networks at access, distribution, and
 core layers. They have all intermediate devices for networking, layers 2 and 3 switches, routers
 and dedicated firewalls. In September 2020, the labs had a £50K upgrade to the latest available
 equipment on the market. The labs have 4221 routers, ASA 5506 firewalls, 3960 layer 3 switches,
 and WiFi routers.

 The unit's robotics facilities are particularly formidable. We have even designed our own MIRTO
 robot that is used for research and teaching, and the design is publicly available. The unit also has
 a Rethink Robotics Baxter robot, two Alderban Pepper robots, and other robots. There are many
 effectors and sensors including two ABB IR120 robot arms, two Universal Robots UR10 robot
 arms, a Universal Robots UR5 robot arm, two Velodyne Lidar units and a Festo Industry 4.0 factory
 system. Our 3D printers include an Object Connex 500 Polyjet printer, a Markforge Mark Two
 Carbon fibre 3D printer, two FFormlab Form3 printers, and a Dimension D printer. These core
 robotics resources support the development, evolution, and maintenance of robots for a range of
 research activities. These facilities have supported several good publications, such as Gandhi’s
 EEG-based mobile robot control through an adaptive brain–robot interface.


                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In 2020, the unit invested £35K in two ‘Digital Twin in a Box’ bespoke designs mimicking a small
 production system purchased from Festo. Each unit contains three processes, mimicking a small
 production system providing both analogue and digital data. The systems also exist digitally,
 providing a realistic research workbench for creating digital twins for analysis of scenarios such
 as preventative maintenance, process improvement and cyber security applications.

 A team of 25 experienced technicians, managed through the Faculty, supports the unit’s research
 equipment. The team has additional staffing resource through graduate assistants.

 The facilities and infrastructure lend excellent research support for the students and for unit
 colleagues. Moreover, new needs are readily supported through our flexible resource allocation
 strategy and technical team. For example, Barn’s travel to India for collaboration with TCS in 2019
 was funded from the research budget.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The unit contributes to the research base, including ground breaking research, in for example
 visual analytics and machine learning, and a wide array of other leading research. It contributes
 to the economy through contract research and industrial collaboration, and to society at large by
 developing students, interacting with the public at large, and working with governmental and non-
 governmental organisations.

 4.1 Contribution to the research base
 Colleagues submitted in the unit collaborate broadly, both internally and externally. Most
 colleagues review regularly for journals (for example Machine Learning Research (Belavkin),
 IEEE Access (Cheng) and Information Fusion (Gao and Windridge)), conferences, and funding
 proposals. Most have examined PhD students during the REF period. Many colleagues have
 roles on editorial boards (editor in chief (Augusto) Ambient Intelligence and Smart Environments,
 editor (Wong) Journal of Cognitive Engineering and Decision Making, and editor (Trestian) IEEE
 Communications Surveys and Tutorial); have been involved in organising workshops, conferences
 and other events; and have given keynote addresses and invited talks (AAAI Augusto,
 Confluence 19 Mapp, and U. Tokyo Belavkin). Colleagues are involved on several standards
 panels, e.g. Whitney (BSI Diversity and Inclusivity Advisory Panel, and security standard ISO/PC
 317). All colleagues have collaborated with other academic institutions. Middlesex hosts
 conferences on campus, e.g., the workshop on Developments in ICT and Healthcare - Legal,
 Ethical and Social Aspects, the 12th edition of the International Conference on Intelligent
 Environments, and the Algorithms and Software Engineering group hosted the 31st British
 Colloquium of Theoretical Computer Science.

 4.2 National and International Collaborations
 The unit collaborates extensively with other academic researchers, industry, government, and
 society at large. Many of these collaborations are long-standing and demonstrate a sustainable
 network of collaborators.

 The best illustration of our collaborations with industry and beyond are located in our five selected
 impact cases studies: VALCRI, Young Offenders, Digital Twins, Intelligent Environments, and EIT
 (see section 1 Case Studies, and the studies themselves). The VALCRI project with seven
 academic, five commercial, and five governmental partners is an example of scale of collaboration.
 The Digital Twins case study is an example of a research and knowledge collaboration that goes
 back to 2012. Other areas of excellence include verified systems; mutation, biological nets, and


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 robotics; collaboration with Middlesex’s Malta campus; intelligent transportation systems;
 computer-supported cooperative work and supporting universities outside the UK; and medical
 imaging.

 Verified Systems
 Colleagues in the Algorithms and Software Engineering group have constructed, verified and
 analysed software systems to achieve a high level of assurance in their correctness, in terms of
 safety, confidentiality and integrity. This includes RacerD (Gorogiannis), a data race detector,
 and several systems for verifying information flow properties. RacerD addresses data race
 concurrency bugs that are hard to reason about and reproduce; it is used in the static analyser
 suite developed at Facebook London. It detects data races statically, so there is no need to build
 and execute the program; in addition, RacerD can perform without the whole program being
 available and has been proven to have no false positive reports under certain assumptions.
 RacerD verifies that systems do not have data race errors.

 A scheme for the construction of web applications with formally verified confidentiality and integrity
 has been developed by Raimondi and Popescu in collaboration with researchers from the
 Technical University Munich, the University of Bremen and the Global Notice Board. The scheme
 has been applied to produce CoCon, a feature-rich multi-user conference management system
 with formally verified confidentiality. Other instances of this scheme are CoSMed, a prototype
 social media platform with verified confidentiality, and CoSMeDis, a multi-node distributed
 extension of CoSMed following a dispora* model. CoSMed and CoSMeDis have been developed
 in partnership with a UK charity.

 Mutation, Biological Nets, and Robotics
 Belavkin (AI group) has a particularly successful interdisciplinary collaboration involving mutation.
 The consortium, involving Manchester, Keele, and Cambridge, hypothesised that mutation rates
 are influenced by fitness. Belavkin showed, information theoretically, that this was the case, and
 included this assumption into a simulation reflecting mutation rate plasticity. Other members of
 the consortium then used this to show how bacteria evolve antibiotic resistance, supporting the
 theory with biological evidence. This work is supported by BBSRC grants for £621K (Adaptive
 landscapes of antibiotic resistance: population size and `survival-of-the-flattest') and £465K (The
 theory and practice of evolvability: Effects and mechanisms of mutation rate).

 The AI group simulates biological neural nets (Huyck, Mitchell and Chinellato). The NEAL
 project developed agents that function in virtual environments, and an agent component
 architecture for the Human Brain Project (HBP), running in both simulation and on neuromorphic
 hardware (e.g. SpiNNaker). As a member of the billion euro HBP, the unit collaborates extensively
 with leading European labs (e.g. Heidelberg and Manchester). In related work, robotic forward
 models and a neural cognitive architecture, both in spiking neurons, have been developed. The
 group also decodes biological neural behaviour data, e.g. kinematics and hand pose configuration.

 Members of the AI group (Chinellato and Karamanoglu) have done significant work including a
 pilot project on the back of an existing project (Good Start, Great Start), using robots in a
 classroom setting involving a consortium of primary schools in Birmingham. The aim was to see
 how robots could assist the classroom teacher and how they can help children with specialist
 needs, with field trials conducted in schools.

 Collaboration with Middlesex’s Malta Campus


                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Colleagues in the Intelligent Environments group and the AI group (Smith and Windridge), in
 collaboration with Middlesex's Malta campus, are working on collaborative interactive technologies
 for education. Stemming from strong learning and teaching collaborations between the two
 campuses, the group undertakes development and evaluates educational technologies and
 methodologies. They have particular focus on tangible user interfaces; augmented, virtual, and
 mixed reality; educational robotics; enhanced e-learning platforms; and AI recommender systems
 for education.

 Intelligent Transportation Systems
 Mapp, Nguyen, and Shah (Networks Group) have worked on vehicular ad hoc networks,
 developing analytical models and simulating and deploying Connected Vehicle Testbeds (CVTs).
 This program of research is helping the Department for Transportation (DfT) understand how
 intelligent transportation systems will work and has involved a large number of stakeholders
 including the DfT, Transport for London, Kings College 5G Lab, City of York Council, Lear
 Corporation, Cohda Wireless and Virgin Media. The underpinning research consists of the
 development of new analytical models, the use of simulation, and the deployment of CVTs. It first
 explored seamless connectivity in vehicular environments by looking at a vehicular simulation tool
 using the unit’s previous research on the Y-Comm framework. Probabilistic models showed that
 seamless connectivity depends on the frequency and length of the beacon from the Roadside
 Units and the velocity of the vehicle. Next, several CVTs were built including a 4.2 kilometres CVT
 in York, one of the longest public CVTs in the UK; these confirmed the models. The research
 showed, e.g., that in order to build a national cooperative intelligent transportation network, a
 secure Connected Vehicle Application Framework to build applications for vehicular networks and
 a better understanding of the geographical nature and traffic characteristics of different regions
 were needed. This work supports the unit’s development of the new MSc Cooperative Intelligent
 Transport Systems, which will create a body of skilled engineers capable of developing and
 managing intelligent transport infrastructure.

 Computer-Supported Cooperative Work and Supporting Universities Outside the UK
 Dafoulas (Intelligent Environments group) worked on many computer-supported cooperative work
 projects. One project created infrastructure, ran pilot studies, and collected and analysed
 communication and collaboration patterns in geographically dispersed teams of software
 engineering and computing students. This supported the integration of 'virtuality' activities in a
 postgraduate programme that is jointly delivered by six universities, three institutions in Egypt and
 three in Palestine. Another project investigated how 2-3 week projects challenged participating
 students and instructors, including universities from the US, Panama, Turkey and the UK; there
 were approximately 30 pilot experiments. Another project identified the factors affecting the
 performance of global software teams. Another enhanced the capacity of Palestinian higher
 education institutions in promoting cross border employability of graduates, providing them with
 the capabilities for effective cross border working.

 Colleagues in the Intelligent Environments group (Dafoulas and Saleeb) support universities
 outside the UK and beyond Middlesex. They have been critical for the training of four Georgian
 institutions as part of the MAHATMA project focusing on management practices in Higher
 Education, and are currently training staff at Akaki Tsereteli in e-learning practices. Colleagues
 have also coordinated transformation of educational systems in more than 50 institutions as part
 of ten capacity building projects training more than 1,500 academics, administrators and
 executives. Dafoulas is also leading the QA work packages for seven EU capacity building
 projects and coordinates an EU strategic partnership. The EQAC project involves 11 institutions
 in Azerbaijan, introducing a dramatic change across the sector.

                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Medical Imaging
 Gao and Windridge (AI group) are having profound impact on public healthcare. Drawing
 extensively on developments in signal processing, machine learning, and computer vision in the
 unit over the last 20 years, particularly in areas with heterogeneous, complex data sources.
 Several systems have been developed that are in active use globally in medical procedures. Four
 particular examples include providing research and practical tools to assist clinical decision-
 making and to enhance further research development; for example, imaging methods developed
 with Alder Hey Children’s Hospital were responsible for the first determination of the neural
 correlates of post-operative cerebellar mutism syndrome. Second, training junior clinicians in
 screening heart disease from electrocardiograms in use at Tsinghua First Affiliated hospital in
 Beijing. Third, improving clinical outcome and reducing waiting lists for image-guided neurosurgery
 currently in use at the Navy General Hospital in Beijing. Fourth, a real-time system to detect early
 stages of oesophageal cancers has been evaluated in the Endoscopy Unit in collaboration with
 Oxford John Radcliff Hospital.

 Further Examples of Industrial Collaboration
 During this REF period colleagues in Interaction Design (Attfield and Wong) have conducted a
 number of funded research projects involving collaboration with industrial partners. Many of these
 projects have been in the defence and security sector on a number of Ministry of Defence funded
 programmes including DHCSTC, DASA, HSSRC and SERAPIS. Companies include: Thales,
 Rina, BAE Systems, BMT, ARK, Mass Ltd and Trimetis Ltd. Colleagues have provided expertise
 in visual analytics, user-research, machine learning and user-interface design. Attfield led on a
 two-and-a-half-year BAE funded project for £236K collaborating with BMT, Trimetis Ltd, Thales,
 ARK and RINA; colleagues investigated the use of emerging human machine interface
 technologies in military scenarios with a focus on minimising cognitive demand, minimising training
 requirements and developing User Experience Design techniques for emerging technology.

 Attfield also led on a partnership with Mass Ltd. exploring human automation teaming for the early
 recognition of kill-chains thus pre-empting attacks; a one year project in developing novel
 interactive computer visualisations for defence analysts performing Patterns of Life analysis; an
 eighteen-month project in collaboration with BAE Systems, Cranfield University and MASS Ltd.
 on novel display methods to improve the assimilation of multiple source information by military
 intelligence operators; and a two year project in collaboration with Trimetis Ltd. and Birmingham
 conducting experimental research to derive and validate principles of distributed sensemaking.
 Wong led a project and partnered with US-based MITRE Corp.; the project was based on how
 tactile reasoning user interface could be used for monitoring and re-constructing incidents such
 as accidents in ports.

 Unit colleagues have collaborated with industry through KTPs (see section 3 Other Funded
 Projects).   The AI group (Huyck) collaborated with Fountech to develop Prospex, a lead
 generation system.

 The London Digital Twin Centre (Barn and Nguyen) includes several industrial collaborators such
 as Mallik Tatipamula the CTO of Ericsson Group Function Technologies & Architectures. The
 Centre is supported by Siemens, Ansys and others. Middlesex is one of four universities in the UK
 taking part in the 2-year pilot to use I4.0 technologies. Siemens and Festo provide a significant
 amount of in kind support, much of it used by the Centre. Projects within the centre include
 partnerships with universities from Vietnam and India. Automobile-based Digital-Twining using


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 perception-action hierarchies was a feature of the interaction with FIAT CRF (Windridge) in the
 context of the DREAMS4CARS project.

 Twenty-four pieces of VALCRI IP produced by the unit team were acquired by Genetec, Inc., a
 Montreal-based, global security systems company, for an undisclosed but significant sum and an
 annual royalty payment stream. Genetec created a new business unit to market the new Valcri™
 product. To enable the knowledge transfer, Wong and four key researchers from the Interaction
 Deisgn group were employed by Genetec in leading roles in the new Valcri™ Product Group. The
 VALCRI acquisition catalysed the investment by Genetec to set up a new Genetec UK head office
 in London in November 2019.

 4.3 Engagement with Stakeholders
 Collaboration with Government
 The unit collaborates with government both locally and nationally. A unit robot testifying before
 parliament is described below in Robotics Engagement. Colleagues have participated in
 parliamentary advisory debates, e.g. Huyck (AI) and Aiash (Cybercrime). The research on mobile
 applications for youth offending teams has been presented to the Youth Justice Board and also
 the UK Home Office.

 The unit shares close links with the local council, Barnet, with most unit colleagues actually based
 in the Hendon Town Hall, which Middlesex shares with the Barnet council. Colleagues in the unit
 have acted as data analysis consultants on numerous projects across the Young Barnet
 Foundation. Developed in response to the ongoing challenges facing the Children and Young
 People's sector, the Young Barnet Foundation brings together the public, private and voluntary
 sectors to effect positive change for young people. Colleagues have developed rigorous data
 collection techniques, research design, and data collection methods for the Foundation. Augusto
 received a grant for £120K, entitled Gamification for Healthier Lifestyles, in collaboration with
 Greenwich Leisure Ltd. and London Borough of Barnet.

 Engagement with the General Public
 All researchers are encouraged to see public engagement as a key part of their research activities,
 and the Faculty has systems in place to facilitate engagement with a long history of success. The
 unit engages extensively with the local community, nationally, and internationally.

 Middlesex's annual STEM festival has substantial input from the unit, and this festival is visited by
 a large number of local citizens, and particularly by secondary students. The 2020 festival featured
 a hand washing robot in the early days of the pandemic. The 2019 festival included a virtual reality
 experience, interacting with data, and brain computer interfaces.

 Kotsia presented an exhibit as part of a Live Science residency at the Science Museum that ran
 from February - March 2020. The exhibit used wearable brain-scanning devices to record the
 underlying neural activity to study the effects of music on the listener’s brain dynamics.

 Each year, colleagues participate in New Scientist Live, the world’s greatest science festival. The
 unit has presented dozens of features including a life-sized Super Mario game in 2018, robots
 taking selfies in 2017, and conversational robots in 2019.

 Thrills
 Walker, our thrill engineer, has been seen on BBC2. Walker’s thrill laboratory makes extensive
 use of virtual reality, and develops technology that entertains and enthuses people. E.g. Neurosis

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 is the first brain controlled thrill ride, featuring a six-degree-of-freedom motion simulator and virtual
 reality headset to immerse the rider in a surreal environment, controlled not by a ride operator, but
 by the rider’s own brain activity.

 Robotics Engagement
 Robots are broadly accessible to the public, and their use continues to grow rapidly. The unit
 continues to interact with the public using robots to explain, teach, and excite. E.g. the unit is
 heavily involved in the Eurobot cup hosting the UK national Eurobot cup
 (https://www.eurobot.org/eurobot/eurobot-2019/national-contests), though the 2020 version was
 cancelled due to Covid-19. Its students participate each year and have won prizes in the
 competition.

 A unit robot was the first robot to give evidence at the House of Commons. In 2018, a unit robot
 was the first non-human to give evidence to parliament, showing the potential and limitations of
 robotics and AI. The robot promoted discussion of the unit's current research using robots to help
 care for the elderly and outreach programmes at the University encouraging STEM uptake among
 would-be students.




                                                                                                  Page 22
