Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chester

 Unit of Assessment: 5 Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Context and structure
This is the first submission by the University of Chester to the Biological Sciences Unit of
Assessment. The key strategic aim from 2014 onwards has been to attract and recruit new research-
active staff, with a range of experience and expertise, to foster strong working relationships with
each other and with established staff and, ultimately, submit as a department in a single UoA to REF
2021. 17 members of staff (15.3 FTE), all currently employed at the University of Chester as part of
the Department of Biological Sciences, are included in this submission (Table 1). Three staff in the
current submission were submitted in 2014 under UoAs outside the Department: Lawrence (who
joined as new Head of Department in 2012) in UoA17 Geography, Environmental Studies and
Archaeology, and Smith (0.4 FTE) and Fletcher (0.6 FTE), both in the UoA4 Psychology 2014
submission.

Table 1. Members of staff included in the REF2021 submission
 Name                               Status
 Dr James Brown                     Lecturer in Biology
 Dr Robert Coleman                  Senior Lecturer in Biological Sciences
 Dr Nick Fleming                    Senior Lecturer in Zoology
 Dr Alison Fletcher                 Reader in Animal Behaviour
 Dr Matt Geary                      Senior Lecturer in Conservation Biology/Animal Behaviour
 Dr Kelly Gouveia                   Senior Lecturer in Bioveterinary Sciences
 Dr Sonya Hill                      Senior Lecturer in Animal Behaviour and Welfare
 Dr Lottie Hosie                    Senior Lecturer in Zoology & Animal Ecology
 Dr Jonathan Kyffin                 Lecturer in Biology
 Professor Andrew Lawrence          Head of Department of Biological Sciences
 Dr Krista McLennan                 Senior Lecturer in Animal Behaviour
 Dr Anna Muir                       Senior Lecturer in Conservation Biology
 Dr Simon Oliver                    Senior Lecturer in Conservation Biology
 Dr James Savage                    Lecturer in Animal Behaviour
 Professor Tessa Smith              Professor of Behavioural Endocrinology
 Dr Christina Stanley               Senior Lecturer in Animal Behaviour and Welfare
 Dr Achaz von Hardenberg            Senior Lecturer in Conservation Biology

Most of our submitting staff (65%) have joined the Department/UoA during this REF period: Geary
at the end of 2013; Oliver and Hill in 2014; Muir, Stanley, von Hardenberg and McLennan in
2015; Gouveia, Brown and Kyffin (all ECRs) joined in 2018-19; and Fleming and Savage (ECR)
in 2020. This has enabled a dynamic refocussing of our research to address two main themes:
Animal Behaviour and Animal Welfare, and Conservation Biology. Research groupings in these two
areas are now emerging as established platforms and have fostered synergistic research
collaborations: some staff flexibly span both groupings. Following our strategic aim, and in line with
the University Research Strategy, a greatly increased number of funding bids, large and small, have
been submitted over the last few years by individuals and pairs/groups of staff. These notably include
continued successful funding from the National Centre for the Replacement, Refinement &
Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs): a 3yr major project grant awarded in 2013/4 and a
further one from 2019/20, jointly with Kings College London. Nelson (now left department),
Lawrence, and Geary were Co-PIs and an external individual was employed as a Post-
Doctoral Research Assistant (PDRA) on a US$96,000 grant for dry forest conservation. We have
also had success with smaller grants (up to £10,000) from a great range of other sources (see section
3), reflecting staff efforts to secure a foothold or continuation of their developing research. Other
applications have been made to the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), Darwin

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Initiative +, Rutherford Fund and Leverhulme for conservation work; and to Morris Animal
Foundation, Horse Trust, PetPlan, and Dog’s Trust for animal behaviour/welfare work. As part of our
strategy, all these applications have helped to develop and hone staff grant writing skills, especially
those of our developing researchers and ECRs.

Very recent appointments (Brown, Fleming) are further helping to build a marine biology thread
within both research areas, to broaden the Department base in zoology (Kyffin), and invigorate
established links (Fleming, Kyffin) with colleagues latterly in the Department and now in the Medical
School. Incipient links have also been established with colleagues at the Thornton (Science Park)
site, to enable knowledge exchange and for us to make use of the extensive equipment housed
there; we aim to build on these networks and partnerships in the future. Organisational initiatives to
further the research strategy of the Department include the establishment of the Research
Committee (since 2014), which is led by a senior member of staff with a record of research success
(Hosie since 2018/19). This promotes and enables the research agenda of the Department;
oversees progress of this in relation to the Department’s strategic objectives regarding REF;
monitors and reports on research progress and research outputs; and encourages collaboration.
The research groupings identified above (i.e. Animal Behaviour and Welfare, and Conservation
Biology) emerged organically from 2015/16 and these now meet regularly to discuss potential
research collaborations, review draft proposals/papers, identify funding opportunities, and
encourage cross-fertilisation of ideas. These groups are open to all staff irrespective of individual
research interests, and integration of PGRs and MRes students in these has been actively
encouraged. MRes and PhD students have given progress updates, or seminars on their planned
projects, at the Research Group meetings; they report very positively on the opportunity to learn
about staff and student research, and enjoy being part of this supportive environment.

1.2 Research and Impact Strategy
Our Research and Impact Strategy consolidates and builds on the work contributing to the current
REF submission, developing our impact, and building further impact case studies through focussed
research activity. We strive to sustain and improve the quality of our research outputs, and ensure
that new and developing staff have every opportunity to be involved in the next REF submission. To
this end, we have directed QR funding towards these staff to enable them to progress their individual
research agendas within the broader scope of our impact case studies (including MRes projects with
co-supervision from more research-established colleagues). A priority for our Unit is to increase the
number of substantive grant applications, cross-disciplinary where possible, submitted to funders
including the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC), NERC, NC3Rs,
Darwin Initiative, and others, and to increase our number of successful grant applications and our
research income by a substantial margin (200+%). Finally, we aim to double our number of PGR
students, maintain our excellent completion rate, and increase our research visibility through
focussed conference attendance and presentations, as well as paper outputs.

 2. People

The ‘new staffing’ initiative has been very fruitful, encompassing formal mentoring and numerous
informal support networks, enabling exploration of both creative new collaborations and funding
proposals. Alongside the academic staff expansion over the last 6 years, there has been strategic
recruitment of dynamic new technical support staff to complement the established small team. As
for academic appointments, evidence of research activity (award of grants, publications, and
conference presentations) has also been a key criterion for technical support appointments to
strengthen the Department’s research profile. Both of our two new (appointed 2017, 2018) laboratory
managers (Turner and Beer) hold research degrees (MPhil), as do some of the technical staff. Other
staff are currently working towards these, and are strongly supported in this activity by availability of
dedicated time for research; encouragement and support to present at internal and external
conferences; support for small funding bids (often jointly with supervisors); and opportunities to
present their work to UG and PG students in a learning environment, which encourages further
communication skills beyond conference/seminar presentation.



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Newly appointed staff, particularly junior staff who may have only recently gained a PhD, complete
the University’s supervisor training programme before supervising. They are also encouraged to co-
develop and co-supervise projects with more experienced staff who, in part, undertake a mentoring
role for the newer staff in the supervisory process. The MRes programme has been a particularly
useful mechanism for establishing these projects and the mentoring process.

Equality and diversity are fundamental to our Department’s (UoA) Research Strategy, aligning with
the University’s core principles and aims. We seek to encourage and develop people’s skills and
talents, and also reflect on how to identify diversity issues and inequalities beyond existing agendas.
McLennan and Hill co-chair the Medicine, Dentistry and Life Sciences Faculty Access and
Participation Planning sub-group, and are members of the University’s Access and Participation
Planning Subcommittee, investing in activities to ensure equality of opportunity in access, success,
and progression in Higher Education for all underrepresented groups. We have a wide experience
of supporting PGR (and UG) students with diverse needs. A PGR student/member of technical staff
(Peters) and Muir initiated and led a Faculty-wide series of seminars and workshops on embracing
various elements of diversity e.g. a work/life balance workshop, hosting a ‘Diversity in STEM’ Twitter
account (Peters), and a major Gender Equality Event. This was in 2019, with Biological Sciences
PGRs and staff (Hosie and Burek) giving talks exploring women’s contribution to science, how
contributions might be promoted and supported, and representation boosted, to avoid loss of
excellence through the hierarchy of Higher Education. Peters and Muir were jointly awarded the
Positive Change Award from the University of Chester Learning and Teaching Conference for this.
Since this event, focussed effort has been put into securing seminar speakers with much greater
breadth of representation than we have previously achieved, including one particularly well-received
speaker who spoke inspiringly about her route through academia as a woman from an under-
represented background. This strategy has been welcomed by both staff and UG and PG students,
who now attend regularly. Muir is also a grant reviewer for the scholarships of the British Federation
of Women Graduates and McLennan sits on its board of Trustees. A retired colleague (Burek), not
submitted to REF2021, but remains Professor Emerita in Geoconservation in the Department of
Biological Sciences, has been appointed to the prestigious UNESCO Scientific Board of the
International Geoscience Programme, which advises on funding, particularly for women in science
and young researchers.

We have long encouraged students, from undergraduate through to PGR, to be directly involved with
our research activity, as a two-way enterprise; supporting and encouraging UG students has always
been part of the department and University of Chester ethos. The amphibian welfare research work,
twice funded by the NC3Rs, was, in part, encouraged by the enthusiasm of a handful of UG students
who undertook pilot work for their dissertations (supervised by Hosie, Coleman, Smith). This
participation continued with other UG/PGT dissertation students being authors on our papers. A
number of our papers (submitted to this REF and otherwise) have been authored jointly with UG
dissertation students (one of whom has gone on to a series of academic research posts) or with MSc
or MRes students. We also encourage our particularly talented graduates to continue with us. For
example, one PhD student (Peters) completed her UG and MSc degrees with us and now works with
us as a technician; two other current PhD students completed UG or MRes degrees with us, and two
of our current MRes students were first class UG graduates with us last year.

Whilst hosting internal and external research speakers has always been part of our activity, the
establishment of formal Departmental research seminar series (since 2015) has elevated this from
3-4 talks annually to one or more each month. These are attended by staff (academic and technical)
and PGRs but also (after active recruitment and encouragement) are now established as very
popular events with UG and MSc students. These have attracted international, national, and more
local speakers, from Fellows of the Royal Society to PGRs. These provide opportunities for
exchange of ideas, networking, and exposure of staff and students to a wide range of research. This
will form a notable part of our Citizen Student strategy. In addition, the Department has always made
a significant contribution to the annual internal Faculty Research Conference, including invited
keynote speakers. In recent years, PGR students have been recognised for winning the best oral
presentation awards (in 2017 & 2019) and best poster awards (2017 & 2019).


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
A major kickstart to the Department’s research agenda was the revamped MRes programme, which
was launched in 2016/17 with 11 students on specific pathways identified to help staff rapidly build
research activity (with some financial support) and rigorously train new researchers. Co-supervision
and mentoring of new junior staff has also served to increase outputs. Since 2017/18 at least five
MRes students have graduated successfully each year, illustrating solid recruitment, and enabling
continuation of several projects and a number of publications arising from this stream of research
activity (3 published, more under review/in preparation). Graduates have gone on to PhD positions,
and secured scientific posts in the conservation sector. The MRes programme includes two training
modules for PGR students, which deliver fundamental skills development in project design and data
analysis, and these modules are also made available to PhD students who may wish to attend them.
PhD students are also able to participate in the University’s TALENT (Teaching And Learning for
New Teachers) scheme to give them professional development in planning and designing learning
activities. Where possible, support is also provided for PhD training outside of the University, through
staff networks: for example, specialist genetics skills development.

PGRs
We currently have 11 PhD students, a major increase from around four completions to 2019. A
Departmental PGR Tutor post was created in 2018 (Geary), in addition to University and Faculty
provision, to provide a key focus, and lead on new developments and training opportunities. A novel
PGR Pastoral Tutor post was also created (2018; Millsopp) to lead on pastoral support activities for
PGRs. These initiatives have been welcomed by staff and well received by PGRs themselves (PGR
students survey comments). In just two years, our PGR strategy has fostered better integration of
PGR students and promoted this facet of our research activity in the department. This is partly
evidenced by the much improved PGR student satisfaction survey results in September 2019
(compared with 2018), which also reflects the value of this development both for the students and
the wider research teams. Significant involvement of PGRs in our Diversity and Equality strategies
(as above), conference organisation (see section 4), and Seminar Series also attest to this. The
2020 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) achieved even higher scores in most
areas, and planning for further development and improvement is now regularly considered at our
Departmental Research Committee Meetings to build on this success. A Supervisors’ Forum has
also been established to help share experience, networks, peer support, and creativity, to better
shape our supervisory capacity and enable our students to develop a broad set of research and
professional skills.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
A range of funding bids, both major and more modest, has been submitted by individuals and
pairs/groups of staff. These notably include continued successful funding from NC3Rs: a 3 year
major project grant awarded in 2013/4 and a further one in 2019 (jointly with Kings College London).
Smaller grants (up to £10,000) have been awarded from Universities Federation for Animal Welfare
(multiple), Idea Wild, WWF, Genetics Society, Primate Society of Great Britain, Forestry and Land
Scotland, Glasgow NH Society, and the British Dragonfly Society. In total, the UoA has secured
£412,465.73 (Table 2) in this REF period (2014-2020), which is a clear increase on the minimal
research funding awarded to the Department to 2014. As the research profile and reputation of the
Department and its staff build, including through its first submission as a UoA to REF, we will grow
and diversify our funding success considerably in the coming years, aiming to increasing income by
200+%. QR funding has been strategically deployed, particularly through support for the MRes
programme ‘kickstart’, to support new research synergies and to lead toward larger grant
applications, enable equipment purchases, and assist staff in attending national and international
conferences (with presentation and, ideally, publication, being an essential criterion within the
internal bid process).




                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 2. Summary of income
 Category                                                                           Income
 Non-EU other                                                                      £    33,839.00
 UK central government bodies/local authorities, health and hospital               £ 238,570.64
 authorities
 UK other sources                                                                  £    95,775.00
 UK-based charities (open competitive process)                                     £    24,979.09
 UKRI Research Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy and The                £    19,302.00
 Royal Society of Edinburgh
 Total income                                                                      £    412,465.73

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
Department business planning and resources have been targeted towards upgrading research
laboratory facilities, and two new laboratories have been established since REF 2014. A range of
small-scale equipment has been purchased to support field- and lab-based research including
camera traps, bat detectors, wildlife telemetry equipment, passive acoustic monitoring devices,
range finders etc. Further molecular biology resources have been purchased in the last year
including additional fluorescent microscopes and PCR machines.

Our new (2017 and 2018) Laboratory managers have also completely overhauled their support for
staff research (alongside their main teaching support remit), enabling much swifter access to
equipment, purchasing of supplies, management of finances, risk assessment protocols/approval
processes etc. Their strong presence on the department’s Health and Safety Committee (chair:
Coleman) has also facilitated many areas of staff and PGR research. This input on the impacts of
our research have been considerable.

Acquisition by the University of the Thornton site has also opened up access to further equipment
and facilities such as UV-Vis Spectrophotometers, UV Transilluminators, Orbital Shaker Incubators,
and Bioreactors. Chemistry resources have been made available to use in collaboration with the
Faculty of Science & Engineering. Some initial steps towards collaborative use of these
sites/resources have been made, which are planned to expand when the Biological Sciences
Department joins the Faculty of Science and Engineering in 2021. Members of the unit also have
access to the high-performance computer cluster of the University of Chester and use it for
computer-intensive modelling and big data processing. The recent funding from Cheshire &
Warrington LEP Local Growth Funding to the University of Chester (2020-2024) will further expand
the research computing capacities for data science of the Unit providing access to a new High
Performance Private Cloud (HPPC) as well as providing access to a 3D lidar and a drone for our
research projects. The development of a focussed research funding strategy and our facilities and
infrastructure are all at early stages. In line with the University’s research strategies, we aim to cohere
and flexibly utilise these further to gain considerable ground over the next REF period, our goal being
elevated funding, greater visibility, and further national and international recognition.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research collaborations
The Department of Biological Sciences has a long history of collaboration with organisations at a
regional, national, and international level. Some collaborations have expanded over many years and
continue to develop on a long-term basis in response to the interests of the academic team and in
alignment with the strategic research aims of the University as stated in the Institutional level
Environment Statement

4.1a Collaborations with other Research Institutions
Research on animal behaviour and animal welfare has been constant for longer than any other
research theme within the Department, though much of it has also been directed towards
conservation work. The long-term research collaboration (since 2010) between Hosie and Smith

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(with Coleman at the outset) has played a major part in this; their ground-breaking work on
amphibian welfare, notably for the laboratory model, Xenopus laevis, has won major funding twice.
Outcomes from the NC3Rs project (2013 to 2016) established the team within this field and led to
further funding and an expansion of collaborations during the current REF period, notably with Kings
College London (funding from 2019/20) and the European Xenopus Resource Centre at University
of Portsmouth (bid submitted but unfunded). Some impact has arisen from this work (see Impact
Case Study) and more is under development, to be facilitated by the Postdoctoral Researcher
starting with us from 2021.

Smith and Coleman continue their decade-long work on mammalian endocrine research
underpinning social dynamics along with researchers at Queen’s University Belfast, Jersey Zoo,
Universities of Stirling, Durham, and Cambridge.

Von Hardenberg has been visiting professor at the University of Turin, Italy in 2019, leading to
ongoing research collaborations, joint grant applications (Darwin Initiative in 2019) and exchange of
PGR students (on lemurs in Madagascar and butterfly species conservation in North-Western Italy).
Von Hardenberg is also involved in a long-term collaboration with the Universidad Austral de Chile
(Professor Paulo Corti) as an external collaborator on a funded grant by the Chilean Research
Council to Professor Paulo Corti (2017-2021) on the interaction between domestic sheep and wild
guanaco in southern Patagonia. This collaboration has included exchange visits by von Hardenberg
in Chile and Professor Corti in Chester and a PhD student of UoC working on the project since
January 2019. Von Hardenberg also has ongoing research collaborations, with joint scientific
outputs, with the University of Reading, the Universidad Autonoma de Mexico and with the Université
de Lyon, France (jointly with Smith).

Geary works with Nottingham Trent University (Dr C. Abrahams) on bioacoustic monitoring, and with
Manchester Metropolitan University (Professor S. Marsden) on the conservation ecology of
vulnerable birds (primarily the Hispaniolan Amazon and the Hispaniolan parakeet) endemic to the
island of Hispaniola in the Dominican Republic (with 3 postgraduate students involved: 2 MRes
students in 2018-19 and a PhD student currently enrolled at MMU, co-supervised by Geary).

McLennan continues her research on facial recognition in animals, recently expanding it to sharks
and owls, in collaboration with Oliver and Geary (and a new PhD student from 2021, external advisor
C. Jones, Durrel Wildlife Conservation Trust), and externally with the University of Newcastle
(notably M. Leach), and researchers at the Universities of Cambridge, Liverpool and Lincoln
(Agricultural Robotics Team) as well as at the Moerdun Research institute. Oliver also collaborates
with researchers at Rutgers University (T. Grotheus, K. Able) on shark tagging work, and with
colleagues at Nord University (L. Noble) on shark genetics.

Lawrence has worked with researchers at the University of Ismailia, Egypt on the identification and
biological activity of saponids in sea cucumbers. He has also continued his collaboration with
colleagues at the University of the West Indies, notably as external PhD supervisor (to a student who
graduated in 2020) for a project on the fish ecology of the Caroni mangrove system in Trinidad and
Tobago. Muir has ongoing collaborations with the University of Plymouth that have led to joint
publications and a collaboration at the University of Aberystwyth that has led to student laboratory
placements at the institution and a joint publication. Stanley is currently collaborating with
Aberystwyth University (conservation grazing using ponies), Bangor University (genetics in semi-
feral ponies), University of Liverpool (evaluation of welfare impacts of zoo concerts), Manchester
Metropolitan University (social networks in captive macaques) and Nottingham Trent University
(social networks in bitterling fish). Brown is collaborating with the Norwegian Polar Institute
(directorate under the Norwegian Ministry of the Climate and Environment), the Norwegian Institute
of Marine Research (owned by the Norwegian Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs), and Bangor
University in a project on Natural Analogues of an Arctic in Rapid Transition, funded by the FRAM-
High North Research Centre (Norway) for Climate and Flagship program.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.1b Collaborations with stakeholders
A key collaboration is the existing long-term collaboration with Chester Zoo (past joint PhD students
supervised by Smith and Hosie and notable financial support to them prior to 2014). In 2017 von
Hardenberg and Geary were invited by Chester Zoo to give a specialised workshop on Species
Distribution Models to zoo researchers. This has led to deeper collaboration, with 2 PGR students
(a PhD researching giant Pangolins in Uganda, fully funded by Chester Zoo, and an MRes project
on Aardvark distribution in Uganda, from September 2020) reinforcing a joint focus on in situ
conservation programmes (not just zoo-based). Professor Simon Dowell (appointed Research
Director at Chester Zoo) was invited be an Honorary Professor in the Department from September
2017, and as part of this he gave an extremely well attended public lecture in the Department
(January 2018) organised by Hill. He also gave a research seminar to PGR and MSc students, and
taught sessions on our MSc Wildlife Conservation programme.

Members of the Department (Smith, Stanley, Coleman, Hosie) are also involved in ongoing (since
2002) collaborations with Jersey Zoo (Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust) on various research
projects with implications for both conservation and Animal Welfare. In particular, the highly
innovative and novel work on social network analysis (SNA) in Livingstone’s fruit bats by Stanley
(since 2015) has gained wide recognition, and attracted a PhD student (since 2018), supervised by
Stanley, Smith and Hosie).

Hill is lead investigator on a new research collaboration with the European Association of Zoos and
Aquaria’s (EAZA) Ex situ Programme for black rhinoceros, involving a UoC MSc student, Chester
Zoo, and up to 24 other European zoos, to investigate individual temperament traits and coping
styles in the species, to aid population management and animal welfare. Hill is also involved in a
research collaboration with the University of Birmingham and Chester Zoo, investigating nesting
opportunities and wild-type behaviours in zoo-housed Sumatran orangutans and has recently
completed a collaboration with the Zoological Society of London, Chester Zoo, Nottingham Trent
University, and the University of Bolton, investigating timings of births in zoo animals, and
implications of this for animal management and welfare.

Research work by Stanley on conservation grazing has been initiated with Snowdonia National Park
and the North Wales Grazing Consortium, leading to MRes projects, one of which (supervised by
Stanley & McLennan) has developed into a PhD project linking behaviour and welfare in wild equids
(supervision Stanley, McLennan & Hosie). Stanley has also acted as consultant for Snowdonia
National Parks on management of their semi-feral pony population.

Newt behaviour in response to conservation grazing regimes forms a further project led by Hosie &
Stanley in North Wales, in collaboration with WildGround who own and manage a key Gene Co-
Expression Network (GCN) newt translocation site. Variously enabling MSc and MRes projects, this
project is building a long-term dataset with wide potential applications. Collaborations are also
ongoing since 2015 with Scottish Natural Heritage (now NatureScot) assessing the welfare and
efficacy of newt survey techniques and on pond colonisation (Hosie, Smith, Geary). Both these
collaborations on newts arose by invitation after a conference talk presented by Hosie and Smith
on how endocrine and behaviour amphibian work might apply to conservation (Amphibian
Conservation Research Symposium 2015). Geary and von Hardenberg have collaborated with and
obtained funding from the British Dragonfly Society for their research on White-Faced Darter
distribution in the UK.

Von Hardenberg has established ongoing collaborations with protected areas in Italy, in particular
the Gran Paradiso National Park (GPNP), with a Memorandum of Understanding with the University
of Chester signed in 2018 on joint research projects on the population ecology of Alpine ibex and
Alpine marmots in the park (PhD on Alpine ibex population dynamics jointly funded by GPNP and
UoC starting in 2021). He is also collaborating with the Alpi Marittime Natural Park on the
recolonisation of wolves in the Alps (Jointly funded PhD starting in 2021).

Muir started a collaboration with the Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) in 2017, also involving a
UoC MRes student, to assess the conservation genetics of the endangered Elds Deer in Cambodia

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Memorandum of Understanding in place between WCS and UoC since 2017). This led to a
successful bid for funding by the World-Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) in 2018. At the national level,
Muir has collaborated with the Amphibian and Reptile Conservation Trust (ARC)

on the conservation genetics of natterjack toads. She has also collaborated with the Scottish Marine
Animal Stranding Scheme and the Irish Whale and Dolphin group on the phylogeography and
conservation of long-finned pilot whales (one PhD ongoing supervised by Muir and Geary). Muir
and Geary also collaborate with the Grenada Dove Conservation Programme with one PhD student.

Geary’s research work on vulnerable bird species on Hispaniola is conducted in collaboration with
Birdlife International. His collaboration with Birdlife International has been further strengthened by
his involvement in a project on the conservation of the endangered Maleo (Macrocephalon maleo)
in collaboration with Newcastle University and the Allliance for Tompotika Conservation. Geary
collaborates with the IUCN Bustard Specialist Group on the Houbara Bustard on the Canary Islands.
Finally, he works on capercaillie with Forestry and Land Scotland (funded) and on the impact of
windfarms on eagles with Natural Research Ltd.

Fletcher maintains fruitful long-term collaborations with the Volcanoes National Park (Rwanda) and
the Dian Fossey Gorilla Fund International (DFGFI), involving behavioural and human wildlife conflict
research on mountain gorillas and golden monkeys (one self-funded PhD student submitted a thesis
in December 2020). This collaboration has been strengthened in the last years thanks to the
continued collaboration with a past PhD student (Dr Winnie Eckardt) who graduated under her
supervision at the University of Chester in 2010 and who is now Research Manager at DFGI’s
Karasoke Research Center in Rwanda. Fletcher’s long-term involvement with DFGFI, combined
with fee waivers from UoC has also enabled two Rwandan students to achieve Masters qualifications
from UoC and return to their country to take up conservation posts.

Lawrence and Geary collaborated with Nelson (previous member of staff not part of this
submission) with the Department of Forestry for Grenada on the conservation of Grenada’s Dry
Forests (funded by the Critical Ecosystems Partnership Fund 2014-15). Lawrence has continued
his collaboration links, started before joining the University of Chester, with the Red Sea Governorate
of Egypt and the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency for his collaborative work on sea
cucumbers. Fleming has recently started a collaboration (with a match funded PhD student starting
in 2021) with Jellagen Ltd (named by labiotech.eu, one of the top 20 biotechnology companies in
Europe) to investigate the extraction of collagen from UK jellyfish species in aquaculture, and testing
the biocompatibility of this product for a range of possible biomedical applications. Millsopp, a
developing researcher (though not part of this submission) has broad experience in animal welfare
research and, more recently, has initiated work on domestic species’ behaviour and welfare. Work
developing variously with McLennan and other staff focuses a future area for the UoA. Millsopp
has links with a wide network of Pet Behaviour counsellors/researchers and has undertaken notable
media work. This work will be an area for future development and impact.

4.2 Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society

4.2a Committees and Boards
Members of the Department of Biological Sciences variously contribute to the wider society, serving
on different committees and boards both locally as well as at international level.

Lawrence served on the Executive Committee of the Heads of Biological Sciences group of the
Royal Society of Biology (RSoB HUBs). Geary is a trustee on the board of the Cheshire Biological
Records Centre (RECORD). Hill and Fletcher sit on various committees of the British and Irish
Association of Zoos and Aquariums (BIAZA Research Committee and BIAZA Animal Welfare
Working Group (Hill) and Great Ape Welfare Group (Fletcher; and Hill as an Advisor). Hill is also
one of the research advisors to the European Association of Zoos and Aquaria (EAZA) Great Ape
Taxon Advisory Group, and EAZA’s Ex situ Programme for gorillas, and is a member of the Captive
Care Working Party of the Primate Society of Great Britain and an advisor of the Jane Goodall
Institute. McLennan is active in the International Society of Applied Ethology (ISAE) of which she

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
was treasurer trustee until 2017. Von Hardenberg has served as advisor for the redaction of the
Italian guidelines and protocols for wolf monitoring for the Italian ministry for Environment (2020) and
is currently a member of the national working group on wolf monitoring in Italy (Italian Institute for
Environmental Protection and Research ISPRA) as well as serving in the scientific committee of the
Life WolfAlps EU project. Savage is an active member and chair of the Research Data Alliance,
which promotes the open sharing and reuse of scientific data.

The Unit has organised conferences and networking events during the last REF assessment period.
In 2018 Geary, von Hardenberg, Muir and Stanley organised the “Future Directions for the
Management of Small Populations” meeting, sponsored by the British Ecological Society and hosted
at the University of Chester; Members of the Department (Stanley and Hosie) have also organised
two meetings (in 2017 and 2019) of the Liverpool League of Animal Behaviourist Scientists (LivLabs),
an interest group of animal behaviour researchers in Liverpool and nearby universities. Von
Hardenberg co-organised the International Meeting on the Conservation of High Altitude Lakes,
Gran Paradiso National Park, Italy (2017).

During the REF period the Department hosted international researchers Professor Paulo Corti,
Universidad Austral de Chile, Chile, Dr Alejandro Gonzalez-Voyer, UNAM, Mexico and Dr Winnie
Eckardt from DFGI for research and networking periods at the University of Chester.

All members of staff in the unit participate regularly in the peer-review process for a range of scientific
journals as well as serving on their editorial boards. For example, Muir is an Associate Editor of the
Herpetological Journal, Geary is associate editor of Bird Study, McLennan is on the editorial boards
for Applied Animal Behaviour Science, and for Animals, Oliver is on the editorial board for Aquatic
Research, Hill is on the editorial board for Frontiers in Veterinary Science and von Hardenberg for
Frontiers in Ecology and Evolution, for which Savage has served as guest editor. The Department
was part of a consortium that set up and managed the Bioscience Horizons journal (Oxford University
Press) with Geary as part of the Management Board 2014 – 2018 (indeed, this journal developed
from an intradepartmental initiative back in 2004 – our in-house UG journal ‘Origin’ - and Fletcher
was representative for the University of Chester in the initial stages of launching it at a national level
with OUP). Between 2008 and 2019, students from the University of Chester published 10 papers in
Bioscience Horizons.

4.2b Public engagement
Communicating our research outcomes with the wider public is an important aspect of our research
agenda. Examples over the last few years include regular participation as speakers to locally
organised SciBar events (Oliver, Stanley, Muir). Stanley has also given talks at the “Conservation
Cocktails” talks organised by Chester Zoo in 2020 and at the University of the Third Age. The work
on pain expression in sheep by McLennan has been featured on BBC Countryfile in 2019, while in
2016 von Hardenberg acted as consultant and was featured in a documentary on his long-term
research on Alpine marmots produced by the Japanese broadcasting company NHK and Oliver was
featured as the protagonist in an episode of Discovery Channel’s “Shark Week” in 2015. Lawrence
co-organised and co-chaired the Royal Society of Biology (RSoB) HUB’s winter conference on
Outreach and the Public Understanding of Science at the Natural History Museum, London in 2017.
Members of the Department are regularly interviewed on local and national radio and TV, for
example Hill on BBC Breakfast on the life and work of Jane Goodall DBE (2017), McLennan on
BBC Radio Merseyside (2018) and Fleming BBC Online, BBC Radio Wales Science Café, BBC
Outside Source (2019) and BBC Radio Berkshire (2020). Outreach activities in primary and
secondary schools have enabled us (e.g. Smith) to discuss research outcomes and women’s life in
academia.




                                                                                                   Page 9
