Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Liverpool John Moores University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA13


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and structure

 The Built Environment and Sustainable Technologies (BEST) Research Institute comprises of
 staff from the School of Civil Engineering and Built Environment in the Faculty of Engineering
 and Technology and was formally recognised by the University as a research institute in 2010.
 The aim of the research institute is to overcome civil engineering and built environment
 sustainability challenges by the use of novel technologies and management techniques in four
 core and one cross-cutting theme (34 FTE Category A staff) listed below. To achieve this the
 Institute’s core strategy is to focus on strong external collaboration, establishing links with
 industry and the public sector in order to conduct research on priority areas addressing industrial
 and societal challenges and to fit within the UK and international strategies (“Grand
 Challenges”). The Unit’s strategic focus on real-world challenges through collaboration is
 exemplified in the impact case studies submitted (ICS1, ICS2, ICS3). “Prolonging the Life of our
 Roads and Highways with No CO2 Emission Construction Materials” (ICS1) resulted from a
 challenge for the pavement industry (Colas Ltd) to reduce CO2 emissions, achieved by the
 development of new products helping them satisfy government CO2 targets. ICS2, “Novel, non-
 destructive testing sensor platform for characterisation of insecticides and biohazards deposited
 on building materials” stemmed from collaboration between the Unit, the Liverpool School of
 Tropical Medicine (LSTM) and the Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS) teams from the Indian
 government. The technology developed by LJMU is impacting on government strategy and
 public health by reducing the burden of disease endemic to India. ICS3, “Low Carbon Solutions”,
 emanated from the research and development of high efficiency energy from waste systems
 created for industry, dealing with different waste streams and the need to measure the carbon
 footprint of the technologies. This underpinning research led to the formation of the Low Carbon
 Innovation Hub, the Low Carbon Eco-Innovatory and the Clean Growth initiatives that have
 supported SMEs in the Liverpool City Region (LCR) to develop more sustainable solutions for
 their business and address the LCR grand challenges. The ICSs are outlined in more detail later
 in this section.

 BEST leadership and governance

 The BEST Steering Group (BSG) is responsible for the strategic oversight of research within the
 School of Civil Engineering and Built Environment, and is chaired by the head of the Institute
 (Shaw). The BSG meets on a bimonthly basis to oversee the direction and operation of BEST
 and comprises: School directors (Al Khaddar and Cotgrave), the 4 core theme leaders (Shaw,
 Al Nageim, Maliene and Cotgrave), the co-leaders of the cross-cutting theme (Kot and
 Abdullah) and the head of the research administration team (Hoare).

 The BEST Research Institute has 4 core themes, with sensor development as a cross-cutting
 theme. (Leading staff members shown in bold):

    Radio Frequency & Microwave research – Shaw, Kot, Wylie, Hashim.
    Novel & bio-based materials –Al Nageim, Bras, Sadique, Yaboah, Gkantaou, Kamaris,
     Cebasek, Jemaa, Al-Mufti.
    Building engineering & construction practice – Cotgrave, Ahmad, Abdullah, Durson, Riley,
     Brady, Shah, Martin, Borthwick, Matipa, Siriwardena, Kurannen, Ojur.
    Sustainability & energy management – Maliene, Carnacina, Al Khaddar, Abdellatif, Loffill,
     Harris, Mulliner, Heinig.
    Sensor development – Kot, Abdullah, Shaw.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Unit’s research strategy over the assessment period has comprised 6 objectives:

    External funding will be sought from the EU Horizon 2020 programs, Innovate UK, Research
     Councils, Royal Society, Charities, directly from Industry and international grant awarding
     bodies (an increase by 30%).
    Continuation of expansion of the existing research groups in BEST, by appointment of new
     high calibre academic staff in accordance with the BEST and School’s strategic plan.
    Enhancement of the research profile and activities of the ECRs and researchers at the
     medium stage of their career.
    Increase in the number of PhD recruited (increase by 35%).
    Continuation of existing and establishment of new research collaboration with leading
     international partners.
    An expansion of the collaboration with industry, both directly and indirectly through
     partnerships on externally funded research projects, with the view of maximising the impact
     of the research.

 Evidence of the research progress made and delivery of the overarching strategy during
 this assessment period includes:

    £6.2M (REF4b) of income spent during 2014-2020 in comparison with £4.8m income spent
     in REF2014. The funds have been awarded from the EU, Innovate UK, Bill and Melinda
     Gates Foundation (BMGF), DSTL, Arthritis UK, research councils and direct from industry.
     [This is a 29% increase, 1% less than the target set in objective 1]
    Total of 34 FTE staff submitted in comparison with 17.2 in REF2014, with 17 ECR staff being
     recruited within this period. [This meets objective 2 with an increase of 100%]
    3 Professorships and 2 Readerships have also been confirmed within this period. [This
     meets objective 3, with more detail in section 2]
    The number of students awarded PhDs has increased from 32 (REF2014) to 60 (87.5%
     increase). [This exceeds the target of objective 4]
    Sustained and/or established research leadership in national and international networks and
     forums. [The following demonstrates objectives 5 and 6 are being met, with more detail
     provided in sections 3 and 4]:
         o The submitted staff are influencing the international research agenda through both
             the sustained quality and volume of published output and membership of professional
             technical committees. Bras is a member of the International Union of Labs and
             Experts in Construction Materials, Systems and Structures (RILEM) technical
             committees (TC): TC 274-TCE: Testing and characterisation of earth-based building
             materials and elements and TC 275-HDB: Hygrothermal behaviour and durability of
             Bio-aggregate based building materials; SHE: Self-healing concrete-Its efficiency and
             evaluation. Sadique is an academic adviser on the Commonwealth Scholarship
             Commission (CSC), UK selection committee. Marolt Cebasek is a member of
             International Tunnelling and Underground Association and Committee for Education
             and Training (ITA-CET) representative for Slovenian Society for Underground
             Structures (SUSS). Maliene is the action vice chair of the “Public Value Capture of
             Increasing Property Values” (PuVaCa), European COST project action, which has
             representatives from 41 different countries. Riley served as chair of the Council of
             Heads of Built Environment. Al Khaddar served as President of The Chartered
             Institution of Water and Environmental Management (CIWEM) in 2015-16 and is now
             Honorary President. Shaw plays an active role in the All-Party Parliamentary Carbon
             Monoxide Group (APPCOG) and Carbon Monoxide Science and Technology Group
             (CO+SciTech), informing UK policy in relation to Carbon Monoxide safety. Shaw is
             also a trustee of the Gas Safety Trust and is on the research funding committee of
             the charity.
         o BEST has extremely strong industrial connections with employers (see section 3
             ‘Income’) and established relationships with professional bodies including: Royal
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), Chartered Institute of Building (CIOB),
            Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists (CIAT), Chartered Institution of
            Water and Environmental Management (CIWEM), Chartered Institution of Building
            Services Engineering (CIBSE), Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE), and Institution of
            Engineering and Technology (IET). The Unit has staff with 7 fellowships from
            professional bodies - Bras was awarded Fellowship of the Institution of Civil
            Engineers (ICE) in 2019, the youngest woman to receive this award in the North
            West region.
        o   64 invited keynotes/talks in 26 countries during the assessment period.
        o   External Visiting Professor posts have included Carnacina (UNALM, Lima, Peru), Al
            Nageim (Yantai University, China and University of Babylon, Iraq), Riley (University
            of Malaya, Malaysia and RICS SBE Delhi, India), Al Khaddar (Universities of
            Babylon-Iraq and Anadolu-Turkey), and Maliene (Vytautas Magnus University).
        o   14 BEST research staff are also members of various Knowledge Transfer Networks
            (KTNs), Research Councils, editorial boards and advisory panels.

 Knowledge exchange and impact generation strategy

 Significant effort has been invested in transferring the Unit’s research knowledge to industry.
 One of the Institute’s objectives was an expansion of the collaboration with industry, both
 directly, and indirectly through partnerships on externally funded research projects, with the view
 of maximising research impact. This has been achieved through the strategic oversight provided
 by the BEST Steering Group, which encourages PIs to focus on the longitudinal aspects of the
 research from the outset, and horizon-scanning with their respective partner organisations for
 funding opportunities to progress a technological solution through the Technology Readiness
 Levels. The BEST Research Institute has generated the following types of impact:

    Economic impact: Innovative industrial processes and products; increased productivity,
     turnover and employment; and reduced industry waste and costs. (ICS1, ICS3)
    Environmental impact: Carbon footprint reduction by the efficient utilisation of novel materials
     and methods. (ICS1, ICS3)
    Quality of life impact: Contribution to public policy; public safety; improved health products.
     (ICS2, ICS3)

 The research has had a direct quantifiable impact on regulatory and public policy, and the
 practices and activities of industrial organisations and services. The following exemplifies
 knowledge exchange and impact generation.

 ICS1 – “Prolonging the Life of our Roads and Highways with No CO2 Emission
 Construction Materials”: This impact case study derives from the research conducted by the
 Novel & bio-based materials research group/theme that facilitates sustainable and low-cost
 repairs, surfacing and maintenance of the existing asphalt, reducing the need for a complete
 resurfacing of roads. The application of thin layers postpones major repairs for several years and
 is suitable for all types of roads, therefore reducing the costs of major reconstruction works as
 well as reducing CO2 emissions and preventing disruption to infrastructure users. Since
 developing new products based on the research at LJMU and developed with LJMU, Colas Ltd
 has increased annual sales by over €7m in the UK and France through laying over 850,000 m2
 of roads in 2018 and 2019 using the new product, with similar projections for 2020.

 ICS2 – “Novel, non-destructive testing sensor platform for characterisation of
 insecticides and biohazards deposited on building materials”: The underpinning research
 for this impact case study derived from the Radio Frequency & Microwave research theme. The
 focus on building substantive international links saw a small-scale 3-month study funded with a
 GCRF pump-priming grant evolve into a significant project with a major award from the Bill and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Malinda Gates Foundation (BMGF) in collaboration with the Liverpool School of Tropical
 Medicine (LSTM) and the Indian government IRS programme.
 200 million people are at risk of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) globally; 65 million live in India, many
 in remote locations where medical assistance may not be readily available. VL is fatal if left
 untreated. Malaria is endemic in >30 countries and 200,000 children die from the disease
 annually. The VL and malaria parasites are transmitted through infected female insect bites,
 which require a blood meal to reproduce. An insecticide Indoor Residual Spraying (IRS)
 programme is the VL and malaria control measure recommended by the World Health
 Organisation. Quality assurance of the spraying is essential for effective disease control. The
 BEST research team has developed and operationally validated a self-contained sensor platform
 for IRS quality assurance. The prototype has been successfully field-tested in India, with orders
 in place for deployment and a patent filed in the UK and US. The sensor is also being prepared
 for the IRS market in malaria endemic countries globally. This research has led to extended
 product development, with funding from Defence and Security Accelerator (DASA) (£150k - 6
 months) and BMGF (£1,01m total value, £456k to LJMU over 3 years) to explore sensing of
 biohazards and neglected diseases.

 ICS3 – “Low Carbon Solutions”: Low carbon solutions are the foundation of research activities
 undertaken by the Unit, focusing on carbon reduction technologies through energy from waste
 and waste management, low carbon planning, sustainable asset and energy efficiency
 management, and renewable energy. The ERDF-supported Low Carbon Innovation Hub (LCIH)
 and Low Carbon Eco-Innovatory (LCEI) projects both support and connect SMEs in the
 Liverpool City Region (LCR) with BEST researchers, introducing unique solutions to reduce their
 carbon footprint and linking these to applied research grant opportunities. The outcome of LCIH
 led to the generation of 42 additional jobs, safeguarded 30 jobs, and generated an additional
 £1.76m p.a. in Gross Value Added (GVA) for the LCR economy. The outcome of LCEI led to the
 development of 51 new to the firm products and saved 10,081 tonnes CO2 in the period of 2015-
 2019. BEST researchers secured and completed an EU-Fast Track to Innovation grant that
 resulted in the plant scale installation of a microwave treatment solution for enhanced biogas
 production from pig slurry (BiowaveTM). The developed system increased the biogas yield from
 pig slurry by over 40% and a reduction of 37% of total CO2 equivalent output of the farm per
 year.

 Industrial collaboration and interdisciplinary research is at the core of BEST’s research mission
 and is exemplified by the Unit’s work with sensors during this assessment period. This cross-
 cutting theme stems from the REF2014 ICS “Impact of research into non-invasive sensors on
 industrial applications”, and has evolved from a relatively narrow research base with wide
 applications to a wider academic base with focused, impactful applications such as the public
 health impact of detecting insecticide levels on walls in remote areas of India (ICS2) to reduce
 the incidence of vector-borne diseases. Extending beyond ICS2, the sensor research and
 development has included work with clinicians in collaboration with Alder Hey Children’s Hospital
 and University of Liverpool in the development of a hip-dysplasia sensor to reduce the need for
 babies requiring surgery to correct this problem in later life (Abdullah). Also, work with Alder
 Hey Hospital and a local company (Care Innovation) in the detection of urea for an enuresis
 sensor is reducing both the number of young children needing to go to hospital and NHS waiting
 times, as well as child and parental anxiety (Shaw). Studies conducted with United Utilities (UU)
 have involved sensors to detect leaks and assets in water pipelines, and also substances of
 interest in water catchment areas. This research was funded directly from UU and supported 2
 match-funded PhDs and £100k of specialised lab equipment to develop an underwater wireless
 sensor network to detect the presence and locate the source of pollution (Shaw, Kot).

 BEST has also embraced interdisciplinary research by partnering with other Centres/Institutes in
 the Faculty with complementary expertise, e.g. the General Engineering Research Institute
 (GERI) (UoA12) and Data Science Research Centre (UoA11). The EU Horizon 2020 project
 DigiArt is illustrative of the Unit’s approach to embracing and supporting this whenever an
 opportunity arises. BEST is the Lead Partner of a consortium that involves drone manufacturers
 and drone-based mapping specialists from industry; working together with archaeologists,
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 anthropologists, museum curators and art historians; and pan-EU researchers working in AR/VR
 technologies, Machine Learning, data mining and sensors. The BEST research group involves
 two PGRs with drones expertise affiliated to GERI. The project has supported their stipends and
 fees and provided an opportunity for interdisciplinary working.

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 In line with the University’s research and knowledge exchange strategy and UK and
 international government initiatives and funding opportunities (“Grand Challenges“), the Unit
 plans to build upon the successes achieved during the REF2021 period. The Unit will
 continue to develop its infrastructure and knowledge base to provide researchers with an
 excellent environment in which to maximise research impact, sustainability and vitality. The
 prime vehicle for this is through the Low Carbon and Clean Growth ERDF-funded initiatives.
 Opportunities for further collaborative partnerships between BEST researchers and SMEs
 will develop through the dissemination events associated with these, where the BEST
 laboratory tours and presentations have proved to be highly-effective in generating new
 research associations. Continued support from the Faculty and University through pump
 priming activities (£200k invested in this period for BEST members) will allow these
 partnerships to develop and produce tangible benefits that will result in the application of
 external funding. The Unit through the BSG will support and encourage this activity to meet
 the following objectives.

 The Unit’s strategic research and impact plan has six key objectives:
  To extend the collaboration with government, industry and academic partners to identify
    and address key national and international research priorities, with the view of
    maximising the impact of the research.
  To develop paradigm shifting technological solutions for civil engineering and the built
    environment using RF and microwave methods.
  To expand novel, sustainable and bio-based materials for the pavement and building
    construction sectors, as low carbon solutions to prolong the life span of the structures.
  To improve the quality of life through providing dynamic novel solutions on air quality,
    thermal and lighting comfort, monitoring and control for building stakeholders.
  To generate and apply predictive models for community-based sustainable solutions
    with utilities management, flood defences and environmental impact, waste
    management and renewable energy management schemes.
  To enable the rapid transfer of research outcomes to business, the economy and society
    for impact generation, through the involvement of industry and societal stakeholders
    from the start of the research.

 The Unit’s research and impact strategy for the next REF cycle is to broaden its collaborative
 partnership for excellent impactful research; to extend the critical mass for enhanced research
 productivity and capability to tackle complex multi/inter-disciplinary research issues; and to foster
 research agility to embrace emerging research challenges and impact opportunities within its
 expertise areas. More specifically, the Unit will continue its research and impact approaches to
 develop fundamental solutions and integrate these into impactful applications. In particular, the
 Unit will invest more research efforts on the 4 core research themes and the sensor cross-
 cutting theme - one measure of success will be the expected increase of 33% in the number of
 impact case studies submitted. This will involve a further increase of FTE staff returned
 (increase by 45%) and a 50% increase in the number and quality of journal articles
 published. A final measure of success will be a 20% increase in the value of externally-
 funded research grants, with the income to be spent within the next REF cycle.


 Open research environment and research integrity culture
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The University supports open access (OA) publication to make research available to the widest
 possible audience. Since May 2015, the Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee
 (FRKEC) has consistently promoted the requirement that all Faculty research-active staff adhere
 to this process. The research outputs produced by the Unit over the assessment period have
 been OA-compliant and deposited through the University's institutional repository. There is a
 Faculty SharePoint for the deposition, sharing and reproducibility of the Unit’s research data,
 with internal and external users having different levels of access. The University also has a data
 repository to ensure that the Unit is compliant with the UKRI Concordat on Open Research Data.
 Moreover, projects typically create their own websites (e.g. DigiArt) to disseminate research
 findings (e.g. through project reports for open access, and sharing unrestricted data to
 encourage further research).

 A research integrity culture is fostered by the University Code of Practice for Research (last
 updated 2020/next review 2021) and promoted in new staff and PGR inductions. The Unit has a
 rigorous procedure in place for external grant applications, which have to be reviewed by two
 experienced researchers internally before submission. The University Research Ethics
 Committee (REC) implements governance arrangements to oversee the conduct of the Faculty’s
 REC which in turn provides oversight, guidance and advice on the ethical implications of
 research proposals. Electronic records of all ethics applications are lodged in the Faculty’s
 SharePoint. Zero allegations of research misconduct have been registered in the Unit during the
 assessment period.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 The Unit adheres to the Faculty strategy of supporting all staff with the aptitude and aspirations
 of a career as an independent researcher – at all levels - to progress towards their research
 career goals.

 Every ECR is assigned a senior researcher in the same Unit as a mentor, to review his/her
 performance, set objectives for the coming year and define a learning and development plan.
 Annual PDPR is monitored throughout the year and formally reviewed at the following year’s
 meeting.

 Staff recruitment and retention are at the heart of the Unit’s research strategy. This is achieved
 specifically through the recruitment of internationally excellent researchers and provision of an
 excellent working environment that supports researchers’ career development, recognises
 achievement, and rewards success. The Unit has supported 17 ECRs during the assessment
 period, and 2 Readerships (Kot, Sadique) and 3 Professorships (Cotgrave, Shaw, Maliene)
 have been conferred during this time.

 The pattern of staff recruitment over the assessment period has seen the appointment of 16 staff
 with teaching and research responsibilities (4F,12M), two of whom completed their doctorates
 with the Unit (Kot, Hashim). Three established staff members completed doctorates during this
 period – including one from the Faculty of Health. All Category A eligible staff have permanent
 contracts, save for 3 researchers assigned to support the fixed-term European Regional
 Development Fund (ERDF)-funded Low Carbon Eco-Innovatory project, a joint project with the
 Universities of Liverpool and Lancaster, which links regional SMEs with the regional research
 base (ICS3). The Unit has a policy of assembling diverse research teams (evidenced in ICS1, 2
 and 3), led by senior experienced researchers but including opportunities for ECRs and PGR
 students. This, coupled with the Unit’s track record of rapid progression from modest pump-
 priming funding to major grant awards, attracts young international research talent on the cusp
 of an independent research career (Abdullah, Bras, Kot, Mulliner, Sadique).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff development within the Unit is a key aspect of creating a vital working environment that
 allows researchers to fully realise their potential.

 Research staff joining the Unit participate in a formal induction process of preparation for their
 job role, providing them with the opportunity to learn about the University and their local working
 environment. This process is formalised by the FRKEC. All new staff are given priority in the
 allocation of internal funding through a number of schemes such as impact generation, pump
 priming, equipment support and studentships. There is a University policy governing sabbatical
 leave, that but no Unit staff have requested a discussion about this option.

 The Unit provides a wide range of mechanisms to both support and develop staff engaged in
 research throughout their careers. The Unit engages in a comprehensive range of opportunities
 for all researchers (including PGRs) to develop their personal, professional and career
 management skills through the University’s award-winning ACTivator programme. The regular
 courses offered include “Building Blocks of Impact”, “Collaboration that Counts”, and “Pitch
 Perfect” with staff from the Unit attending 49 sessions (2016-20), the most popular of which
 were “Funding applications -getting a yes” and “Ready, Steady, Publish”. Online bookable
 services are also available for all researchers. For PGRs and PDRAs, there are further
 Researcher Development training courses offered on a quarterly basis, including “Researchers:
 Introduction to Your Support Network”, and “Women Researcher Retreat”. At Faculty level,
 experience-sharing workshops were organised 3 or 4 times a year where experienced staff
 share their good practice and lessons learnt with other staff in terms of successful grant
 applications to funding bodies. The Concordat has operated a robust action plan delivered
 through a Concordat Task Group and overseen by the URKEC. The performance of the staff
 development programme was recognised by the EU HR Excellence in Research Award in 2012
 that was successfully retained following biennial reviews in 2014, 2016 and 2018.

 An applied research ethos conducted in collaboration with industry partners is central to the
 BEST research mission and provides a staff development opportunity. During the assessment
 period, the Unit has directly supported five of the Faculty’s eight ERDF projects – LCR4.0 (2016-
 19; 2019-22), Low Carbon Eco-Innovatory (3 consecutive programmes 2015-19; 2019-20; 2020-
 23), Future Energy (2017-18), Low Carbon Lancashire Innovation (2017-20) and the sensors
 element of Liverpool City Region Green Sustainable Travel Corridors (2019-21) – and the
 Sensor City University Enterprise Zone 2014-17 (BEIS); 2015-21 (ERDF). These have provided
 a mutually useful training ground for those ECRs without industry links. An example is the
 postdoc who having completed his sensor-related PhD with the Unit, had the opportunity of
 delivering the ERDF LCR 4.0 project to the regional SME business base, as an industrial
 software specialist based at Sensor City. During this period, he worked with 30 companies to
 adopt Industry 4.0 technologies and gained useful experience of identifying and providing
 solutions to industrial challenges. At the project close in September 2019, he joined the Unit as a
 lecturer and active research member (Muradov).

 Research students

 The Unit’s PGR students are co-located in open-plan offices alongside established researchers
 and support staff, to fully-integrate them within their respective research labs/hubs (industry-
 related; sensors/UAVs; or materials and the built environment). They are encouraged to attend
 the regular Faculty experience-sharing workshops, delivered by Faculty researchers who have
 received awards from the major funding programmes (BEST researchers have contributed to the
 EU, ESIFS and Innovate UK sessions). Kot attended an EU funding workshop (28/02/18): “This
 event was significant in helping me to develop my research career. At that time I was a
 Research Assistant who had just completed PhD studies and didn’t have any previous
 experience with funded research. This event encouraged me to explore various routes for
 research funding and apply skills gained during the event to prepare research proposals. Since
 than I have applied for over 20 externally funded grants and secured over £1.5million (LJMU
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Income) as the Principal Investigator (PI) and £2million (LJMU Income) as Co-investigator (Co-I)
 with the help and support from the Faculty Dean, Head of BEST Research Institute and my
 colleagues within the research group and in other departments and faculties. This has also
 resulted in my career progression to a current role as a Reader in sensor technologies.”

 Once a year, all BEST PGRs are required to deliver a short seminar on their own research at the
 monthly meetings of Research Institute staff and students. “My experience doing a PhD at LJMU
 pushed me in a number of ways. Above all, it strengthened my research and presentation
 abilities, particularly the opportunities to pitch my research to Institute research teams as part of
 the mandatory seminar series, and to my peers and industry guests at the annual Research
 Week. Such activities helped me considerably in developing my communication, organisational
 and administrative skills that have proved to be essential requirements for my current role as a
 Research Assistant with the Low Carbon Eco-Innovatory project” (Shubbar/(DoS) Sadique).

 In addition to the University and (mandatory) Faculty induction events, the Unit’s PGR students
 are encouraged to take full advantage of the University’s suite of PGR training and career
 development opportunities (Doctoral Academy; ACTivator programme; Research Cafes; 3-
 minute thesis (3MT) competition; annual Research Day). During writing up, PGR student
 (Frau/(DoS) Wylie) has been supported by the Doctoral Academy Thesis Boot Camp (30/08/19-
 3/09/19) and subsequently registered for 18 writing workshops between March-September 2020.
 “I can say the Boot Camp reset my way of writing and daily writing routine. On Monday morning,
 we (a group of 15 ECRs from across the University) arrived at the Gladstone’s Library in Wales,
 a beautiful and inspiring place, just the right ambience for producing some work. Then we spent
 two days of immersive writing, with the necessary breaks and social activities. We learned to set
 and achieve our goals, using alternative approaches to writing, eliminating temptations. We also
 learned the need and advantage of rewarding ourselves. After this successful experience, I have
 attended every writing session organised by the Doctoral Academy: every first Friday of the
 month and every Wednesday afternoon, which moved online during the COVID-19 national
 lockdown. This helped me a lot with my PhD thesis writing, especially considering the working
 from home, by ourselves, without the office or library environment and colleagues. I managed to
 submit my PhD thesis at the beginning of July 2020 and successfully defended my thesis at viva
 in September. The writing workshops have helped me in four ways – developing a writing
 routine; setting realistic goals, tracking progress and achieving; creating my own writing zone but
 also understanding the benefit of having a writing community. I apply my learning from these
 workshops on a daily basis. I am now more effective with Journal articles, job and research grant
 applications.”

 The Faculty offers two unique support programmes: 1) The PGR Reps’ Society meets monthly
 and holds regular social and career events. Its current Vice-President is a BEST PGR, and the
 Society feeds back on PGR concerns to the University Research Degrees Committee, which
 meets 5 times a year. 2) The PhD student mentoring scheme is a voluntary support programme
 of experience-sharing and signposting, administered by the Research and Enterprise
 administration team and supported by two academics from BEST. Although unpaid, the Faculty
 pays for mentors to undergo the ILM Coaching and Mentoring programme, which adds value to
 their CV. “The Faculty’s mentorship scheme was an essential part of my PhD journey at LJMU
 — both as a mentee and mentor. The most significant benefit of my engagement with the
 program was that it opened up a seemingly solitary world of my own PhD research, by
 highlighting that even though PhD candidates may be working in vastly different research areas,
 we were all following a similar path. This encouraged me to engage and discuss my own PhD
 work with my mentors, mentees and other researchers (many of whom I now call friends) and
 develop a research network throughout the Faculty. This network has allowed me to point
 researchers struggling with their own research activities to relevant academics and other
 researchers who either know their respective fields or may have potentially valuable insight into
 them. The mentorship scheme and its associated Mentoring and Coaching training played a part
 in helping me to secure my current role as a Research Assistant at the university - a job in which
 I now engage with other researchers from across the University to assist the region’s SMEs with
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 low carbon innovation opportunities through the Low Carbon Eco-Innovatory project”
 (Kelly/(DOS) Blanco Davis).

 Similarly, PGRs that express interest in teaching and/or demonstrating must undergo the
 Advance HE (formally HEA)-accredited ‘3is’ programme (a compulsory requirement), which can
 lead to Associate Fellowship status. “Taking part in communication-led activities such as 3is and
 3MT have allowed me to work on my delivery and public speaking skills and ensure my scientific
 communication is both dynamic, effective and adaptive to the audience. Whilst the ‘building
 blocks’ of these skills are built during undergraduate degrees and developed during PhD study,
 without taking part in these extra activities I do not feel I would be as skilled or developed, which
 enabled me to stand out in the recruitment campaign for my postdoc role.” (Romano/(DoS)
 Bras, PDRA in Marine Technology at LJMU on the Interreg Atlantic Area-funded EMPORIA4KT
 project (EAPA_842/2018, 2019-22).

 All Faculty PGRs pitch their research to peers, academics and invited industry guests at the
 annual Faculty Research Week in May. Since its inauguration in May 2015, the Unit’s PGRs
 have secured 29% of the total prizes awarded (there are seven research units in the Faculty),
 claiming a third of the possible awards for ‘Best technical paper’ (Wijekoon/(DoS) Ross 2016;
 Frau/(DoS) Wylie, and Al-Attabi/(DoS) Harris 2017; Randles/(DoS) Cotgrave 2018;
 Amin/(DoS) Abdullah 2019) and ‘Best potential impact’ (Hashim/(DoS) Shaw and
 Dulaimi/(DoS) Al Nageim 2016; Sindhu/(DoS) Maliene, and Cashman/(DoS) Wylie 2017;
 Romano/(DoS) Bras 2018).

 During this assessment period, 6 PGRs have been awarded prizes at international conferences
 (ICST-2015, Auckland; BUiD-2016 (Unterhitzenberger) and -2017 (Dulaimi), Dubai; DESE-2018
 (Ryecroft), Cambridge; WWEM-2018 (Frau), Telford; ICST-2018 (Frau), Limerick). A PGR from
 BEST (Dulaimi) was awarded the Iraqi Cultural Attaché Prize 2017 for best PhD achievement
 (17 publications) at an awards ceremony attended by the Iraqi Minister of Higher Education and
 Scientific Research) and the Ambassador. In 2017, 20% of the 21 top Iraqi PhD students in the
 UK selected to attend the event were affiliated to the Unit.

 Equality and diversity

 The University is committed to cultivating an inclusive and accessible academic environment. In
 line with the institutional Inclusive Practice Strategy (2016-2020), the Unit encourages staff and
 research student declaration of protected characteristics. The Unit adheres to the LJMU Code of
 Practice for REF2021, which defines the process for SRIR, staff declaration of circumstances
 that have prevented research productivity and how R-only staff can be considered as
 independent researchers. The Faculty’s designated EDI Champion (Johnson) ensures Unit-level
 equality and diversity policies and practices are aligned with those of the University as a whole.

 Each member of the staff is required to complete an online training course on the issues of
 equality and diversity annually. Among the 34 Category A staff returned to this UoA, 41% are
 from BAME backgrounds; 11 (32%) are women and 6 of whom have been appointed as
 lecturers since 2014. The outputs have been submitted with an average of 2.5 per female staff
 and 2.4 per male staff. Examining the outputs with reference to ECRs shows on average 2.6
 outputs per ECR and 2.3 per staff for non-ECRs. All academic and research staff are eligible to
 access a range of family-friendly options (e.g. maternity, paternity and adoption leave; parental,
 compassionate, domestic and personal leave). They are also entitled to take sabbatical research
 leave (Al Nageim 2014-2015) that is locally supported. All training and support programmes are
 consistent with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and respect
 equality and diversity. The Unit can cite three practical manifestations of this commitment during
 the assessment period. 1) The Unit has provided designated accommodation for quiet
 reflection/prayer and the research schedule accommodates Friday prayers for Muslim research
 staff; 2) the Unit is currently supporting a PGR through gender reassignment. The PGR feels at
 ease amongst peers and the research community in the University environs, progresses their
 research studies, but is exempted from presenting to the industry partners. Their supervision
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 team deliver this element. 3) Faculty Research Week has fallen during Ramadan three times
 since 2015. As such, the delivery of the refreshment and lunch breaks was conducted with
 consideration for those present who were fasting.

 All buildings associated with BEST’s research are Disability Discrimination Act (DDA) compliant
 and all research staff and students are supported by the University’s dedicated and
 comprehensive resources to support any form of registered impairment.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 BEST research income spent in the period 2014 to 2020 was £6.2m (REF4b) which is a 29%
 increase from REF2014 (£4.8m). This reflects the increase in the critical mass (34 FTE in this
 period from 17.2 REF2014), the novelty and uniqueness of the research and the shift in culture
 due to the support put in place for staff to engage more with these activities. The following are
 examples of some of the awarded grants.

 Research income: External collaboration and interdisciplinary research have been at the core
 of the BEST research mission from the outset. This can be exemplified by BEST’s work with
 sensors during this assessment period with focused, impactful applications in a societal and
 public health context. One source of funding suited to that aspiration are the research support
 opportunities offered by charities, and in this period the Unit has been granted £1.5m of funding
 from sources such as Arthritis UK, Gas Safety Trust and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
 (BMGF). The latest funds from BMGF with LSTM as collaborators was for £586k to LJMU for the
 research and development of a microwave sensor to detect 6 different insecticides on differing
 building materials in Africa.

 With a more industrial collaboration focus, the Unit secured £600k of funding from Innovate UK
 and a further £430k direct industrial support from United Utilities, Boston Garages, Balfour
 Beatty and Road Mender Ltd, Stopford Ltd, and the Home Office.

 BEST was the Lead Partner of the H2020-funded DigiArt consortium, which has included
 researchers from the UK, Belgium, France, Greece, Switzerland and has harnessed the
 knowledge of disciplines including computer science, archaeology, palaeontology, art history
 and engineering (DigiArt, 2015-2018, €3m project, €2.4m EU funding, €800k to the Unit).

 Impact generation income: Within this period (2014-2020) the Unit’s research income for
 impact generation was £3.1M and included 4 KTPs totalling a grant income of £557,915 with
 Beverley Clifton Morris Ltd, Beverston Engineering Ltd, United Automation Ltd and Colas Ltd,
 the latter leading to an impact case study (ICS1).

 The Unit has supported 2 Fast Track to Innovation EU Horizon 2020 projects. BioDie2020,
 2016-2019, €2.8m project, €2.1m EU funding, €579k to the Unit as a partner, was led by Argent
 Energy (UK, INDUS) and included BDI (Austria, SME), Stagecoach (UK, INDUS) and Quantis
 (France, SME). BiowaveTM, 2016-2018, €1.9m project, €1.36m EU funding, €175k to the Unit as
 a subcontracted consultant, involved Ashleigh Farms Limited (Ireland, SME) as the lead partner,
 Methan O'Gen (UK, SME), Gilmore & Clarke (Electrical) Limited (Ireland, SME) and Sairem
 (France, SME). The latter led to ICS3.

 BEST research has directly underpinned 2 regional projects supported by ERDF funds; Low
 Carbon Innovation Hub, 2013-2015 of £1.1m of which the EU funded £550k, and the Low
 Carbon Eco-Innovatory, 2015-2019 of £2.58m of which the EU funded £1.29m.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Full-scale experimental research houses: During the assessment period, there has been
 significant investment in the infrastructure supporting BEST research and impact. In partnership
 with the Building Research Establishment (BRE), four full-scale houses have been built on the
 Unit’s campus between 2015 and 2019, to the building codes of the 1920s, 1970s, present-day
 and a modular build, as part of the BRE Innovation Parks Network. This represents a £468k
 investment in research and test facilities. These facilities have been used for testing the risk for
 CO migration from a source in one terraced house to the adjoining properties. This was
 conducted with the Merseyside Fire and Rescue Service (FRS) to also ascertain whether the
 advice to switch off the source, open a window and leave the property was correct. The facilities
 have also been used by several SMEs examining new building products from solar blinds to new
 heating systems, to validate their products in a real-world controlled environment as part of the
 Low Carbon Innovation Hub and the Low Carbon Eco-Innovatory projects. The modular home
 has led to the delivery of a series of collaborative programmes of research into the new
 prefabricated home’s performance. This has included testing to understand the full
 environmental qualities of the properties, along with the creation of a new model and framework
 to assist in creating truly cost- effective zero carbon housing developments. This work was
 undertaken with Urban Splash as part of the Low Carbon Eco-Innovatory (LCEI) project (£70k).
 The research houses have also led to cross UoA collaboration such as a joint PhD entitled “Risk
 detection for the prevention of falls on stairs in older people”, which involved the sensor
 knowledge from BEST being coupled with the biomechanics team in the Research Institute for
 Sport and Exercise Sciences (UoA24) to determine what causes the highest risk for elderly
 people falling on staircases. The outcome of this are recommendations for stairs adaptations for
 assisted living and smart homes.

 Sensor City University Enterprise Zone: BEST was involved in the co-design of the four
 Sensor City UEZ labs for industry-research collaboration (£15m BEIS-Liverpool City Region
 investment, opened 2017), and have access to these as one of the founding members. These
 facilities have allowed the fabrication and demonstration of several sensor prototypes that
 resulted in the start of the collaboration with LSTM and led to the BMGF projects (ICS2). The
 facilities have hosted several industrial networking events including SAMSA as well as
 ministerial visits (Business Secretary Greg Clark, Nov 2017; Margot James (DCMS) and Philip
 Hammond (Treasury), Feb 2019) again showcasing the sensor work from BEST. The Unit also
 showcased the results from DigiArt as part of the LightNight Liverpool event where over 100
 general public visitors experienced a demonstration created by BEST staff of the 3D
 reconstruction and gamification of cultural heritage sites such as the Scladyna cave and the
 virtual anthropology museum.

 High Performance Computing (HPC): In 2016, the faculty invested £250k to have two
 relatively small, 112-core and 244-core HPC computer clusters. Various commercial and in-
 house software including CHAPSim CFD, OpenFOAM, Flexsim, DNV-GL Sesam, Ansys-Fluent
 and Abaqus are currently run on the cluster by the researchers undertaking simulations in the
 areas of CFD, offshore renewables, materials, laser technologies, naval architecture, fire and
 smoke modelling, system dynamics, and astrophysics. In 2018, the Unit invested £250k to
 enhance the HPC facility with1000 Intel Xeon Gold (Gen10) cores @ 2.5 GHz, a RAM of 13 TB,
 high speed (100G) infiniband interconnect (for parallel jobs with high communication loads) and
 1 PB of storage of connected storage. In 2019/2020, the Unit has further invested £450k to
 enhance the HPC through adding a “Tier-3” facility to facilitate diverse research computing
 applications and to act as a development bridge from desktop computing to the national (Tier-1)
 and international (Tier-0) HPC research facilities available to UK academics via Archer, DiRAC
 and PRACE. The facility can be used both as a “work farm”, capable of running many
 independent computing tasks simultaneously (e.g. image processing), and as a massively-
 parallel computer capable of running individual jobs (e.g. fluid dynamics calculations). It
 comprises 1,280 AMD Rome processing cores in 20 high-density HPE Apollo compute nodes,
 networked with the high-bandwidth, low-latency HDR Infiniband fabric. The facility has a total
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 memory footprint of 10TB and a long-term storage capacity of 1.5PB provided by a parallel
 BeeGFS filesystem. This facility is utilised by all of the groups for intensive modelling of different
 systems such as electromagnetic mode propagation in waveguide structures or plasma torch
 characteristics and also complex water flow characteristics.

 The Sensors and UAV Laboratory is a newly formed lab with £100k internal investment to
 expand and upgrade the infrastructure to accommodate the growth in sensor-related research
 projects and is a shared resource with the GERI (UoA12). This laboratory supported the
 completion of the EU-funded DigiArt project and both the Beverston Engineering Ltd (£147k) and
 United Automation Ltd (£171k) KTPs, along with several healthcare-related projects. The
 laboratory has state of the art facilities including a microwave 4-port network analyser (£120k),
 Digital Microscope (£50k), electronics prototyping test and evaluation equipment (£60k) and a
 certified EMC chamber for sensor development (£100k), and is primarily used by the Building
 Engineering researchers.

 The Industrial Laboratory is dedicated to income generation projects, which also fund the
 required improvements to the laboratory. This laboratory is used by the RF & Microwave
 researchers and houses £1.2M of specialist equipment primarily for energy from waste and
 industrial sensing and process enhancement. Within this period the laboratories have been used
 to create a pilot plant for the EU-funded BioDie2020 project (€2.1m), a test facility for the waste
 substrates in the EU-funded BiowaveTM project (€1.36m), and the sensor platform development
 for United Utilities (£160k). The equipment in the laboratory includes Microwave sources
 (£150k), Gas detectors (£20k), Automation and control (£40k), High Performance Liquid
 Chromatography (HPLC) unit (£30k), CEM microwave unit (£35k), Fermenter/ bug lab (£50k),
 Sensor Printed Circuit Board (PCB) multilayer machines (£25k), Microwave signal generators
 and Vector network analysers (£400k).

 The Concrete and Materials Testing Laboratory for pavement and road engineering, asphalt
 and aggregates facilitates mixing equipment and cement making (£70k). This laboratory is used
 by the Novel & Bio-Based materials researchers to develop sustainable concrete mixes and cold
 asphalt binders for industry including Colas Ltd, United Utilities and Tarmac, and is where ICS1
 was completed. The Bio-Based Materials Testing Laboratory is the base for the development
 and testing of differing bacteria in concrete mixes for the research and development of self-
 healing concrete. The facilities include an environmental test chamber (£60k) for testing and
 evaluating building materials including freeze thaw cycles at controlled temperatures between -
 20 to 50 degrees C. The facility also has a clean room with appropriate fume extraction and PPE
 for the culture and growth of different bacteria. This laboratory is used by the Novel & Bio-Based
 materials researchers to develop their novel bio-based products in a controlled environment.

 A Geotechnics Laboratory is available for the testing and identification of the properties and
 strength parameters of material such as soils, and to test elastic and plastic deformation of
 structures. This laboratory is use by the Novel & Bio-Based materials researchers to
 characterise and test the new structures.

 The Hydraulics Laboratory for water and wastewater treatments provides industrial prototype
 systems and flow channels or testing and evaluation. This laboratory is primarily used by the
 Sustainability & energy management research team to model coastal erosion, flood defences
 and bund wall failure experiments. Recently the novel sensor work being developed in the RF &
 Microwave research team are using these facilities to test the sensors in identifying different
 pollutants propagating in the water flow.

 Future opportunities for the Unit’s facilities and impact generation lies with a recent £18.6m grant
 from UKRI Strength in Places Funding, which is an LSTM-led consortium with the Unit leading a
 work stream in the research and development of non-invasive diagnostic platforms and receiving
 £387k of funding to equip a new laboratory in the new Liverpool Life Science Accelerator
 building. The new laboratory facility will allow the continued expansion and strengthening of
 BEST’s cross-cutting sensors theme, with particular focus on public health-related applications.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Supporting impact-generating activities

 While the members included in this submission have actively expanded their existing impact
 generation, much effort has been made in developing new industrial impact in both traditional
 and emerging research areas. One way in which this has been achieved is through the Low
 Carbon Innovation Hub and Low Carbon Eco-Innovatory grants. Academic staff are introduced
 to industry, discussing their challenges and potential solutions and encouraged to participate in
 KTPs or Innovate UK calls to take this further. The 2 KTPs with Beverston Engineering Ltd and
 United Automation Ltd both developed through this route. Another support mechanism has
 involved utilising the industrial tours of the laboratories listed above that occur on a regular basis
 through the ERDF programmes. Examples of the outcome of this are the EU-FTI BioDie2020
 project (€2.1m) with Argent Energy and the collaboration with the Liverpool School of Tropical
 Medicine, which led to (ICS2) and a £1.5m project with the Bill Gates and Melinda Foundation
 (BGMF).

 The Faculty has a scheme dedicated to giving a commensurate reduction in
 teaching/administration duties to each academic member for industrial impact-generating
 activities. The Faculty has also provided funds to support academic members for industry visits
 for possible impact generation and to attend national and international sector conferences.
 Furthermore, the Unit has organised impact-generating workshops with invited industry
 specialists.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration & Partnerships

 Collaborative research is strongly promoted and supported at all levels in the Unit and Faculty
 and is underpinned by the University’s Research & Innovation Services, which coordinates
 initiatives to stimulate internal collaborative working and facilitates external engagement by
 providing a supportive service in all matters pertaining to intellectual property, patents,
 commercialisation and legality of contracts. The Unit has also benefited from the match-funding
 of collaborative activities with industrial partners from the University and Faculty. Examples
 include 4 PhD projects (United Utilities (2), Matrix Polymers and Walton Hospital partners)
 match-funded by the Faculty over the assessment period.

 The University also supports international collaboration by offering Global Challenge Research
 internal Funding grants. Examples follow of the use and impact of these grants by Unit staff.
 Sadique collaborated with a public university (CUET) in Bangladesh with the resulting research
 showing the potential of developing clay-free unfired bricks using locally-available industrial
 waste streams. The findings of the study was awarded best paper in an international conference
 in Bangladesh (ICCESD 2020) sponsored by ICE, UK. The creation of a network with Pokhara
 University in Nepal (Shah) resulted in several research funding opportunities. Marolt Cebasek
 networked with North Macedonia creating the initial collaboration for further grant opportunities.
 Karamaris used it to expand their network and strengthen their collaboration with the Central
 South University in China. The outcome of the GCRF-supported “Feasibility study to explore the
 use of electromagnetic spectroscopy techniques to detect lymphatic filariasis microfilariae in
 blood” (Kot) led to securing external research funding conducted in collaboration with the LSTM
 and India, funded by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (total grant value $1,300,000;
 LJMU- $600,000).

 The Unit makes strategic use of available pump-priming funds (offered by the Faculty), to
 generate early-stage impact that can inform and strengthen applications to external funding
 bodies in a competitive bidding environment. ICS2 is an example of this. At the other end of the
 spectrum, ECR (Bras) has built on an Innovation Voucher award (£10k, 1Q 2018) and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 subsequent LJMU/GCRF Small Grants funding (£13k, 1H 2019) to secure two grants from the
 Royal Society (£20k, 2019-2020) and ICE R&D Enabling Fund (£25k, 2019-2020).

 Building on previous research for the Gas Safety Trust highlighting that carbon monoxide levels
 in social housing had been historically under-reported, (Shaw) led a collaborative research
 project with FRSs in Merseyside, the West Midlands, Cornwall, Bedfordshire and Oxfordshire
 and the Council for Gas Detection and Environmental Monitoring (Gas Safety Trust, 2014-2018,
 £89k). The study was set up to provide a more detailed picture of the potential long-term health
 effects of chronic low-level exposure to carbon monoxide in domestic dwellings, and the results
 were presented to the All-Party Parliamentary Carbon Monoxide Group (APPCOG), Chief Fire
 Officers Association (CFOA), IGEM and ICON conference as a keynote speaker. As ‘trusted
 messengers’, FRS personnel collected the data from households. The research team at LJMU
 included academic researchers from Public Health, Nursing, Psychology, Computing and
 Mathematical Science, co-ordinated by BEST. Supervised by Shaw, a Faculty of Health staff
 member completed her PhD (‘Coping with Carbon Monoxide (CO) exposure; An interpretative
 phenomenological analysis’) in 2018. Shaw was invited to join the Carbon Monoxide Science
 and Technology’ Group (CO+SciTech) affiliated to the APPCOG. The group draws together a
 range of professionals and organisations concerned with either research or the development of
 technology in the field of carbon monoxide and other harmful by-products of burning fossil and
 other fuels. Chaired by Cranfield University, the group enables researchers to share knowledge
 with one another, and showcase their work to industry, parliamentarians and the media. In 2017,
 Shaw was invited to be a trustee of the Gas Safety Trust to support their research grants
 committee in the continued funding of Carbon Monoxide research.

 DigiArt’s principal aim was to make the large-scale 3D capture of cultural assets and their
 subsequent presentation in an augmented or virtual reality setting a practical reality. The project
 has made a significant advance in the efficient 3D capture of cultural heritage artefacts of widely
 varying scale, ranging from desktop to macro-graphic sites. The project provided a rare
 opportunity to access accessible and less accessible sites for 3D visualisation, and contributed
 to the effective manipulation of such 3D data, including in particular the registration and
 combination of 3D data originating at different times, and from different modalities. The
 conducted work has contributed to improved efficiencies in the curation of digital collections, via
 the development of semi-automated tools for the semantic classification of 3D digitised objects.
 Finally, DigiArt contributed to the development and demonstration of tools for the creation of
 narratives that will unfold in AR or VR, allowing the interlinking of captured artefacts, perhaps
 physically separated, in informative, educational and illustrative scenarios. The 7 project
 partners were from a multi-disciplinary background such as anthropologists, museum curators,
 computer scientists and engineers from UK, Belgium. France and Greece. Since this concerned
 cultural heritage the dissemination events included the public, politicians and scientists.

 Contribution to the research base

 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base have
 included:
      27 journal editorships. Examples: Sustainability (Gkantou, Mulliner, Maliene); Built
         Environment Project and Asset Management (Siriwardena); Journal of Construction
         Research (Shah); Water and Environment Journal (Al Khaddar); Construction
         Innovation (Al Khaddar); Electronic Letters (Shaw).
      64 invited keynotes/talks in the following countries: UK, China, Ireland, Brussels, USA,
         Malaysia, Brazil, Hong Kong, Japan, Morocco, Pakistan, Nepal, Germany, Poland,
         Turkey, Cyprus, Greece, Spain, Peru, Netherlands, France, Ukraine, Russia, Lithuania,
         India, Iraq and Sri Lanka.
      7 Fellowships of professional bodies; Institution of Civil Engineers (Bras); British Institute
         of Non-Destructive Testing, Chartered Institution of Highways and Transportation (Al
         Nageim); Royal Institution of Surveyors Malaysia, Association of Building Engineers,
         Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (Riley); Chartered Institution of Water and
         Environmental Management (Al Khaddar).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       15 Visiting Professorships in China, Iraq, India, Malaysia, Lithuania and Peru, e.g. Yantai
        University, China (Al Nageim); University of Babylon, Iraq (Al Khaddar), RICS, SBE
        Delhi, India (Riley); UNALM, Lima, Peru (Carnacina).
       2 Visiting Researchers; Environmental Research and Studies Center, University of
        Babylon, Iraq. (Hashim); Warsaw University of Technology, Faculty of Geodesy and
        Cartography, Poland (Kot).
       (Al Khaddar) 29th President of the Chartered Institution of Water and Environmental
        Management (2015-16).
       Academic adviser on the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (CSC), UK selection
        committee (Sadique).
       Member of the CIOB Accreditation Panel that develops the Educational Framework for
        professional accreditation at undergraduate and postgraduate levels and assesses
        programmes and Institutes in gaining Accreditation status for Programmes and
        Universities globally (Borthwick).
       Member of the Merseyside and North Wales CIBSE group coordinating professional
        practice activities in the region. Member of CIBSE Industrial Liaison group and
        symposium scientific committee (Brady).
       International Tunnelling and Underground Association – Committee for Education and
        Training (ITA-CET) representative for the Slovenian Society for Underground Structures
        (SUSS), (Marolt Cebasek).
       Secretary of the Slovenian Society for Underground Structures (Marolt Cebasek).
       Scientific Committee member of the CESARE 2022 conference in Jordan, STEPS 2020
        in Iraq (Gkantou).
       Advisor to National Express Group PLC on Property Management, Dilapidations and
        Carbon Management for the Transport Sector (Riley)
       Member of RICS UK Education Standards Board (Riley).
       Academic Assessor of RICS Assessment of Professional Competence (UK, Malaysia and
        Hong Kong) (Riley).
       Chair of Council of Heads of Built Environment (Riley).
       Member of the Environment Advisory Panel, Canal and River Trust (Al Khaddar).
       Member of EWRI International Participation Committee (IPC) (Al Khaddar).
       Committee Member of Liverpool City Council School Safety and Air Quality Scrutiny
        Panel (Abdullah).
       Committee Member of the Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE),
        Merseyside and North Wales (Abdullah).
       Qatar National Research Foundation (Al Nageim).
       Chair and founder of the annual international conference on sustainable construction
        materials, pavement engineering and infrastructure; since 2001 organised in association
        with Colas Ltd, Nynas Bitumen, ASI Solutions and RSTA Ltd. (Al Nageim).
       Member of the Education and Professional Development Committee, British Institution of
        Non - Destructive Testing, UK. (Al Nageim).
       Executive Board member of the European Academy of Land Use and Development
        (EALD) (Maliene).
       Member of the Board of the European Working Group of the Association of European
        Operational Research societies (Maliene).
       Networking Project - Public Value Capture of Increasing Property Values (PuVaCa),
        European COST project action CA17125, 2018-2022, Value -480,000 Euros (co-
        proposer; vice chair of action, MC for the UK, Co-I) (Maliene).
       Building Information Modelling based tools & technologies toward fast and efficient
        RENovation of residential buildings (BIM4REN), H2020 Grant ID: 820773; 2018- 2022,
        Value -6,997,515 Euros, contribution in kind -60,000 Euros (adviser). (Maliene)
       Member of the International Union of Labs and Experts in Construction Materials,
        Systems and Structures (RILEM) technical committees (TC): TC 274-TCE: Testing and
        characterisation of earth-based building materials and elements and TC 275-HDB:
        Hygrothermal behaviour and durability of Bio-aggregate based building materials; SHE:
        Self-healing concrete–Its efficiency and evaluation (Bras).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Member of CA COST 15202 SARCOS-Self-healing As prevention Repair of Concrete
        Structures (Bras).
       Participation in strategic international committees including RILEM, Indian Concrete
        Institute (ICI), fib (Fédération internationale du béton), COST 15202 and ICE NW Fellows
        Network, enables contribution to drafting guidance documents that will inform
        practitioners and increase impact on the performance of structures and buildings (Bras).

 Contribution to the economy

 The Unit has contributed to the economy in five areas: Through innovative industrial
 processes and products (the novel surfacing materials developed with Colas Ltd (ICS1) have
 resulted in increased annual sales of €7m; 51 new-to-firm products developed through the LCEI
 (ICS3); IRS QA sensor solution, with UK and US patents pending (ICS2); four KTP projects;
 SMEs including Urban Splash have used the experimental research houses to validate new low
 carbon products in a real-world controlled environment. Increased productivity has been
 achieved through the LCIH (ICS3), which has generated an additional £1.76m a year in GVA for
 the Liverpool City Region economy, and also realised increased turnover and employment
 through the creation of 42 new jobs with 30 jobs safeguarded. The work with BiowaveTM (ICS3)
 has resulted in a new product and reduced industry waste and cost through enhancing the
 biogas yield from pig slurry by >40%. The LCEI project has resulted in carbon footprint
 reduction in the business base, with 10,081 tonnes of CO2 saved between 2015 - 2019.

 Contribution to society

 The Unit has shared its research with a diverse range of different publics during the period of
 assessment, from international audiences to local primary schools based in areas of deprivation.
 For instance, (Shaw, Kot) demonstrated the novel digital technologies developed as part of the
 DigiArt project at a ‘Digital Single Market – Achievement and Challenges’ event at the European
 Parliament, Brussels, to an audience of 70-100 journalists from the 28 Member States. At the
 other end of the engagement scale, for the last two years the Unit has hosted half-day visits from
 a Bootle primary school to explore sensor and drone technologies. “The children got a lot out of
 the sessions and it has opened their eyes to what a university does and the opportunities that are
 out there on their own doorstep” (Deputy Head).
 As a further example of contribution to society, the entire LJMU Year 2 Primary Education student-
 teacher cohort spent 2 days at the school in January 2019, planning and teaching Science, Design
 and Technology to 120 children. It was hugely successful, for both pupil enjoyment and learning,
 and gave the LJMU student teachers an opportunity to teach creatively in teams – rarely
 experienced on a teaching placement (Primary Programme Lead feedback). Other examples of
 public engagement have included an Art of Technology installation at Sensor City as part of the
 city’s annual one-night arts festival (LightNight Liverpool) in 2017 and 2018.
