Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: York St John University

 Unit of Assessment: Modern Languages and Linguistics (UoA 26)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The diverse research represented in this UoA is part of a long tradition at York St John
 University (YSJU) of serving the social and educational needs of a range of individuals and
 groups in local communities and beyond. Research in the UoA is mainly carried out in the
 Languages and Linguistics subject area which operates as an organisational unit of the School
 of Education, Language and Psychology.

 A key success in the current assessment period has been the development and establishment of
 a new research centre affiliated with the disciplinary area of modern languages and linguistics.
 The Centre for Language and Social Justice Research (established in 2019) replaces the
 previous research unit (Language and Identities in Interaction [LIdIA], 2009–19) and is a result of
 the unit’s increased research and impact activity and international profile. Details of the accrued
 impact and benefits, in terms of both research vitality and sustainability, are explained
 throughout this document.

 All 11.6 full-time equivalent (FTE) staff submitted to REF2021 UoA26 are located in the
 Languages and Linguistics subject area. Within the broader structure of the school within which
 the UoA is located, the connections between linguistics and education are particularly strong
 (e.g., Cunningham’s research on children with languages beyond English in primary schools;
 Sauntson’s research on language and sexuality in schools and language in higher education;
 Danjo’s research on multilingualism in schools). Connections are also made in staff research
 between linguistics and psychology (Hall, Han and Clarke), sociology, deaf studies, film studies
 and archive history (O’Brien). The continuing facilitation of collaborative and interdisciplinary
 research is one way in which the unit will sustain its vitality in the future and broaden the reach
 and significance of its research impact.

 During the current REF period, the unit has produced a total of 72 published outputs (32 journal
 articles, 29 book chapters, three textbooks, four edited books, four monographs). This has
 increased from a total of 40 outputs produced in the 2008–14 period. This reflects staff
 expansion in the current REF period as well as the sustained research productivity and vitality of
 UoA colleagues employed by YSJU during both the current and previous REF periods. Outputs
 in REF2014 for UoA29 were graded at: 4* = 13.8%; 3* = 27.6%; 2* = 48.3%; 1* = 10.3%. UoA29
 had 50% impact case studies awarded 3* grade. The current submission contains two impact
 case studies, which further demonstrates growth since 2014.

 The UoA has successfully achieved the institutional strategic aims for research and impact
 covering the 2014–20 period. These are:
 a) Promote research as a key form of learning.
 b) Ensure that high-quality research and scholarly activity contribute to exceptional learning and
 teaching in all subject areas.
 c) Create a critical mass of sustainable research and increase the percentage of staff with
 doctorates.
 d) Achieve research degree awarding powers (RDAP), with increasing numbers of research
 students and high completion rates.
 e) Engage with and influence users of research, locally, nationally and internationally.
 f) Increase research productivity.

 Eleven specific strategic objectives for the LIdIA research unit were set out to show how the
 institutional aims were to be achieved. Alignment with the institutional aims listed above is
 indicated with the corresponding letters in parentheses.



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1. Establish core research areas to focus activity and target growth
 Staff in the subject area have identified and sustained core areas of research activity and have
 worked to develop these areas to focus research activity. The areas initially identified were:
 language learning and teaching; language variation and change; language, identity and power;
 and language, cognition and meaning. During the REF period, a portfolio of publications was
 built up in each of these areas, with associated impact. The research areas have subsequently
 been subsumed under the broader theme of “language and social justice”, which ultimately
 resulted in the development of the new research centre. (A–F.)

 2. Organise events for/with students, colleagues, external partners and users
 The UoA worked in a sustained way with the student-led Linguistics Society to organise a
 Languages and Linguistics Colloquium Lecture Series. Staff from the unit also supported the
 Linguistics Society in their organisation of the national conference of the Undergraduate
 Linguistics Association of Britain (ULAB) in 2015. Alongside this, a fortnightly research seminar
 series has taken place since 2010, as well as various events detailed in Section 4. (A,B,C.)

 3. Support staff and students to become active in research and/or scholarship
 UoA staff have worked with non-research-active staff and early career researchers (ECRs) to
 identify development opportunities in research, scholarship, and impact. Successful measures of
 this include the increased proportion of staff now holding a doctorate degree in the subject area
 (75% – increased from 55% in 2014). New researchers and students are continually assisted in
 developing their research skills and experience through mentoring and “research chats” with the
 professors, training, and financial contributions for conference attendance. UoA staff have
 facilitated the development of research skills in undergraduate and postgraduate students by
 collaborating with them on university-wide Students as Researchers scheme. In the UoA, a total
 of 14 projects successfully bid for paid student researchers to work alongside staff, bringing a
 total of £14,182.55 into the UoA. (A,C,F.)

 4. Develop a policy forum
 A policy forum was set up and two policy recommendations were produced during the REF
 period: “Managing the Multilingual University” and “Making Higher Education More Deaf
 Friendly”. It is intended that the new Centre for Language and Social Justice Research will
 continue the work of the policy forum. More generally, the UoA has worked with equality staff
 across the university to make YSJU an attractive destination for level one British Sign Language
 (BSL) users to study and work (e.g., by promoting YSJU subscription to the BSL Charter and
 raising awareness of deaf culture). These developments, along with the “Making Higher
 Education More Deaf-Friendly” policy statement, have contributed to O’Brien’s impact case
 study in this area. (B,E.)

 5. Pursue proposals to develop a critical mass of sustainable research and research
 students
 Since the introduction of RDAP our student numbers have been growing (currently there are
 three PhD, one professional doctorate, and two MA by Research students enrolled). For 2026
 we intend to continue working towards: a) the introduction of an internally funded sabbatical
 system; b) the establishment of a scholarship offering a fee-waiver for selected research
 students in exchange for research/teaching assistantship duties, replicating initiatives already
 approved in other areas of the university. The development of a critical mass of sustainable
 research, however, has been very successful. Capacity has also been grown for supervising
 doctoral degrees since 2014. There are now 12 qualified research degree supervisors
 (increased from four in 2014), including five with senior supervisor status (increased from three
 in 2014). This means that we have been highly successful in developing capacity for research
 degree supervision during the REF period. Recruitment to research degree programmes is a key
 challenge we take forward into our 2026 objectives. (C,D.)

 6. Formalise the unit’s organisation and role to optimise its contribution
 After LIdIA evolved into the Centre for Language and Social Justice Research in 2019, specific
 roles were developed, including a director and co-director. Six visiting professors and one

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 visiting research fellow were also appointed to work with the centre. An annual visiting
 professors’ meeting is held to discuss research matters pertaining to the centre – staff and
 postgraduate researchers (PGRs) are invited to attend and participate in these meetings to
 support their development as researchers.

 7. Achieve critical mass in research student numbers
 We have been successful in working towards these objectives by developing research degree
 supervision capacity across staff in the team (currently there are three PhD two MA by Research
 students enrolled). Another milestone achieved during this period has been the successful
 validation of the Professional Doctorate in Applied Linguistics programme (currently we have
 one student enrolled). This programme now features as part of a suite of professional doctorate
 programmes in the Social Sciences at YSJU. (A,D,F.)

 8. Host one or more major events
 Details of conferences, events and professional meetings hosted can be found in Section 4.
 Regular hosting of research events contributes to the vitality of the UoA (A,C,E.)

 9. Identify opportunities to attract external research funding
 Opportunities were identified, and there have been successful bids for external research funding
 (detailed in Section 3). (C,F.)

 10. Achieve the capacity to make an independent submission in REF2020
 This has been achieved to the point where we now have a viable submission to the Modern
 Languages and Linguistics UoA instead of making a joint submission with English Literature, as
 in previous REF/RAE rounds. (C,E,F.)

 11. Consider attaining research centre status
 This has been successful. In 2019, LIdIA applied for and was granted research centre status and
 has now evolved into the Centre for Language and Social Justice Research.

 The centre now provides a forum where scholars from linguistics and other disciplines come
 together to engage in language-based research aiming to promote social justice. The centre has
 developed from a recognition of a growing need for applied linguistics to play a key role in
 increasing understanding of social inequalities and injustices with a view to challenging them.
 The centre has quickly become known for its ground-breaking academic work and future plans
 focus around developing its public engagement with wider society. Language and social justice
 align with YSJU’s inclusive and socially transformative ethos and mission. It is consistent with
 the broader Cathedrals Group mission of “serving the public good” and also reflects the history
 of the city of York, with its community-focused philanthropic traditions. The centre works for and
 with the communities who are intended to be the key beneficiaries of its activities. To that end,
 current work involves working with asylum seekers and refugees in the local area (Wicaksono,
 Sauntson), local deaf communities (O’Brien), local schools (Clarke, Cunningham, Sauntson),
 migrant families (Danjo, Meddegama) and globally with non-native English-speaking teachers
 and learners (Hall, Wicaksono; see Impact Case Study).

 A further achievement within the research centre has been the successful validation of its own
 MA programme – the MA Language and Social Justice. Like the centre, the associated MA
 programme has the potential to contribute positively to the wellbeing of local communities in
 York and beyond as well as engaging in collaborative activities with these communities – this is
 a key aim looking forward to 2026. Another new programme emerging from the research centre
 – the MA Language and Social Justice with British Sign Language – shares most modules with
 MA Language and Social Justice and also offers the opportunity to study BSL from beginner
 level. In this way, the programme has close links with the BSL and Deaf Studies research area
 of the centre. Both programmes aim to enable graduates to apply linguistic knowledge to
 challenging social injustice, including understanding the role of language in situations such as
 education, sexuality, deaf communities and mental health. Students on the MA programmes
 engage in the broader language and social justice research work of the centre and play an

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 important role in contributing to its research vitality and sustainability. The MA programmes also
 contribute to the institutional aim of attracting research students and establishing a pathway for
 PGR recruitment.

 The aims and focus of the centre form the central themes for the UoA’s REF submission. The
 overriding theme of the submission is “language and social justice”. Within this main area, the
 sub-themes are:
    • Social justice issues in language learning and teaching (Hall, Wicaksono, Cunningham,
         Meddegama, Danjo, Han, Muradas-Taylor, O’Brien)
    • Language, identities, in/equalities and power (Whisker-Taylor, Cunningham, Sauntson,
         Danjo, Meddegama, O’Brien)
    • Language, meaning, cognition and social identity (Sztencel, Hall, Clarke)

 These themes fit with the wider institution’s REF themes of social and environmental justice
 research and are exemplified by the UoA’s two impact case studies, which focus on language
 and deaf communities/histories (O’Brien) and plurilithic approaches to English in TESOL (Hall,
 Wicaksono). In fact, the centre has been instrumental in shaping the UoA’s approach to impact,
 which predominantly focuses on how analysis and understanding of language practices can be
 used for socially transformative purposes.

 Building on the successes outlined above, the new centre (as the “home” for colleagues in this
 UoA) is now working towards the following 2026 strategic aims, informed by the university’s
 wider research strategy which has three priorities: inspiring learning; impactful research;
 enabling our students to be clear about their careers. Attainment of these aims will ensure the
 future vitality and sustainability of the research centre, as well as increasing global impact:

 1. Contribute to the growth of YSJU’s research culture by facilitating exchanges of ideas and
 collaboration within the Languages and Linguistics subject area, and across disciplinary, faculty
 and institutional boundaries.
 2. Disseminate and encourage research among YSJU’s undergraduate and taught postgraduate
 students; develop opportunities for students to act as research partners and develop,
 disseminate and enact ideas and best practice for research-informed teaching.
 3. Provide a forum for discussion, development and dissemination of research-related social
 justice policy within and beyond the university.
 4. Organise events for both internal and external audiences and to conduct other research and
 scholarly events with professional bodies and other external partners.
 5. Develop ideas and opportunities for enhancing public engagement with the centre’s research,
 especially in the domains of social justice.
 6. Generate income in order to make the centre’s research activities more sustainable.

 These strategic aims will be achieved through implementing the following 2020–26 operational
 plan (in some cases, progress has already been made towards implementing the plan and this is
 detailed in Section 4):

 1. Support and develop the research engagement, impact and productivity of members, through
 feedback and discussion of work at regular research meetings and meetings with mentors, with
 a focus on facilitating quality outputs that are nationally and internationally significant and
 impactful.
 2. Host visiting researchers and collaborate in inter-institutional research projects in the area of
 language and social justice.
 3. Promote increased research student recruitment to the Languages and Linguistics portfolio of
 research degrees (PhD, Professional Doctorate in Applied Linguistics, MA by Research).
 4. Promote the development of internationally used introductory texts and course books (relating
 to the language and social justice theme), and online resources for students and language
 professionals and (to the extent possible) monitor their impact within and beyond academia.
 5. Focus on increasing staff involvement with external professional organisations related to the
 discipline of applied linguistics and to social justice.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 6. Organise events for/with students, colleagues and external partners/users.
 7. Increase external funding via grants and contracts (e.g. book contracts).

 Research submitted in this UoA is compliant with the Concordat on Open Research Data. More
 broadly, the UoA supports a culture of research integrity through the provision of regular
 research ethics training for all research-active staff and students. All research projects are
 required to apply for ethical approval from the school or university ethics committee (depending
 on the level of approval required) prior to commencing any research. Staff conduct their
 research in line with guidance from professional organisations in the discipline, such as the
 British Association for Applied Linguistics (BAAL), British Educational Research Association
 (BERA) and American Association for Applied Linguistics (AAAL) ethical guidelines. There is a
 key point of contact within each school for staff to ask questions pertaining to research ethics
 and integrity. The university Research Office (RO) also has an advisory function in this respect.
 All of these strategies ensure that research in the submitting unit is conducted to an appropriate
 ethical, legal and professional standard.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Twelve members of staff (out of a total of 17 = 71%) are submitted to REF based on the
 institution’s approved code of practice. This is a significant increase from five staff (out of 13 =
 31%) who were submitted to REF2014. In addition to the appointment of eight new members of
 staff during the assessment period (Muradas-Taylor, Han, Danjo, Meddegama, Sztencel,
 O’Brien, Clarke, Whisker-Taylor), two existing members of staff have obtained doctorates and
 become established researchers to the point where they can contribute to the UoA’s submission
 (Cunningham, Wicaksono). New appointments have strategically focused on developing the
 research capacity and range of research produced by the unit (particularly in new areas such as
 BSL, Japanese language learning, multilingualism and English as an additional language [EAL]).
 Within the languages and linguistics disciplinary area, staff research informs the teaching of
 programmes offered in the school such as English Language and Linguistics, TESOL,
 Japanese, BSL and Korean. The staffing strategy has been to recruit ECRs and to help those
 appointed develop their research profiles with a view to applying for internal promotion.

 Several staff have been promoted during the assessment period, based partly on their research
 contributions and successes (e.g., Sauntson and Hall to professor; Wicaksono to associate
 professor; O’Brien, Cunningham, Clarke, Danjo, Meddegama, Whisker-Taylor and Muradas-
 Taylor to senior lecturer). All staff are employed on permanent contracts which cover both
 teaching and research – the university does not make use of teaching-only contracts and this
 forms part of its fair and inclusive approach to REF. These successful developments have been
 achieved through the sustained support offered to staff and through effective implementation of
 the institution’s staffing strategy. The growth in staff numbers and the movement of some
 members of staff to more senior positions will help to maintain the long-term vitality of the unit.

 Staff have an annual personal development review (PDR), with research as an integral part.
 Topics discussed include reviewing progress, setting objectives for published outputs, research
 engagement (grant applications, PGR supervision, scholarship, knowledge exchange) and
 research development (external visibility, conference attendance, networking). YSJU is a
 signatory on the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, which
 directly informs our staff development approach. Our centralised research CPD programme
 (over 40 sessions) is aligned to the four core Vitae competencies and recognises staff individual
 development needs while also acknowledging that a common set of requisite personal and
 professional skills are needed for success. CPD delivery is mainly delivered by our professoriate
 and by external speakers (e.g. Professor Mark Reed delivered our impact workshop). Our new
 open data repository service (RaYDaR) and research repository (RaY) will further increase the
 impact and transparency of research at YSJU and support researcher development.
 The submitting unit organises and runs its own regular “research retreats”, which provide
 protected time and dedicated space to enable staff to work on research. Weekly retreats are run

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 during term-time and take place in a room off-campus. There are also weekly half-day retreats
 run on campus and these are also open to both graduate and undergraduate students (for
 working on dissertations and other assignments) as well as staff. Funded overnight research
 retreats are offered once or twice a year where staff can spend two or three full days (depending
 on the level of funding available each time) working on research. These retreats are highly
 valued by staff who attend them and are perceived to be a key way in which the research vitality
 of the UoA is sustained. A record of achievements is kept and this provides evidence that the
 availability of research retreats has a positive effect on the number of research outputs produced
 by staff (and the perceived amount and quality of work produced by research students attending
 the retreats).

 Research students
 During the REF assessment period, there have been seven successful PhD completions
 supervised by staff in the UoA with a further successful PhD completion co-supervised with
 Education staff (an increase from three PhD completions in the previous REF period). Six of
 these successful candidates held competitively awarded YSJU studentships. In addition to the
 doctoral awards, four MA by Research degrees have been awarded within the UoA during the
 assessment period. All students who have enrolled onto research degree programmes have
 successfully completed (100% success rate). The current period also saw the development and
 implementation of a Professional Doctorate in Applied Linguistics (comprising a combination of
 taught doctoral modules and a research thesis) and the new offer of an MA by Research
 programme for linguistics. At the time of writing, there are four doctoral degrees being
 supervised by staff in the UoA, one professional doctorate and two MA by Research degrees
 (distributed across four supervisors in the UoA).

 Research students are supervised by teams of at least two supervisors, one of whom is required
 to have “senior supervisor status”. This ensures that all PGRs are supervised by at least one
 experienced member of staff and that there are still opportunities for other staff to contribute to
 supervision and develop their experience. There are currently five colleagues (Clarke, Hall,
 O’Brien, Sauntson and Wicaksono) with senior supervisor status in the UoA.

 YSJU has well-established processes for induction, training, and monitoring of PGR students.
 Formal reviews of PGR student progress are conducted every six months by academics external
 to the supervisory team. Progress is monitored centrally four times a year (by Research Degree
 Committee). All supervisory meetings are logged. Supervisory teams are made up of multiple
 academic staff from the PGR student supervisory register. To be added to the register, staff are
 required to meet stringent criteria for PGR supervision eligibility pertaining to engagement in
 research, continual professional development and formal YJSU training. Endorsement from
 Heads of School or School Research Leads is also required. Applications are assessed by a
 central committee of senior research staff (again, by Research Degree Committee). It is
 mandatory that all supervisory teams have at least one member of staff with experienced
 supervisory status (have previously supervised a PhD student to successful completion). In
 addition, all PGR students have a PGR tutor who is available to provide support outside of the
 supervisory team.

 All students undertake needs analysis periodically and an individually tailored training
 programme is created. The needs analysis is based on competencies in the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Support is provided by supervisory teams and via a centralised PGR
 training programme that includes core and supplementary workshops at each year of study. Like
 our staff training programme, our PGT training programme aligns with the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Core parts of the programme include Research Ethics and Integrity,
 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for Research, Data Management, and Copyright
 and Intellectual Property rights. These sessions are compulsory for all PGR students.
 A range of other central and local support is available to PGR students that include (1) access to
 centralised services (e.g. Student Services, Chaplaincy, Library and Learning Services,
 Careers); (2) access to a stipend of up to £900 (£450 part-time) to support travel and
 consumables associated with their research and professional development; (3) access to the

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 YSJU Graduate Centre providing study space and remote access to a range of specialist
 software (e.g., AMOS, MPlus, Comprehensive Meta-Analysis); (4) opportunity to complete a
 postgraduate certificate in academic practice to achieve associate fellowship of the Higher
 Education Academy (HEA); (5) administrative support provided by the School and Research
 Office and (6) various PGR events held throughout the year (e.g., Three Minute Thesis (3MT),
 Bake Your Thesis, and the annual PGR conference).

 Like all students within the programme area, research degree students have access to the
 specialist spaces and the resources that they contain (Linguistics and Languages Laboratories –
 see Section 3).

 Students who have completed doctorates in the current REF period have gone on to achieve
 high levels of success, with four out of the seven having attained lectureship positions in
 universities (Aston, Leeds Trinity, York St John, Tom Mboya University College). A further two
 have post-doctoral research fellow positions, while the others have gone on to work in industry
 (Department of Health and Social Care; BSL interpreting). Four of those having completed
 doctoral degrees have published peer-reviewed journal articles and book chapters (Wambura –
 3; Page – 2; Walz – 3; Meddegama – 2), and all students have presented work at academic
 conferences.

 Equality and diversity
 The UoA places a high value on equality, diversity, and inclusion in all of its activities. The
 Centre for Language and Social Justice Research serves as a repository for expert advice in this
 area and frequently advises the university more broadly on issues of equality, diversity, and
 inclusion. Much of the research conducted by the centre focuses on language-related issues
 pertaining to equality, diversity and inclusion (e.g., O’Brien’s research on language and deaf
 communities; Sauntson’s research on equality issues pertaining to language, gender and
 sexuality and to language and higher education; Cunningham’s research on languages beyond
 English and the impact on schools; Danjo’s and Meddegama’s research on multilingualism;
 Whisker-Taylor’s, Hall’s and Wicaksono’s research on inclusion as it relates to different varieties
 of “English” and how “Englishes” are perceived and understood; Han’s research on the links
 between language learning, motivation and inclusion). Within the university, staff from the centre
 have been consulted on the inclusiveness of language used in the institution’s own written
 documentation. Outside the university, centre staff are currently advising advocacy organisations
 on the role of language in the clarity of asylum-seeking process for LGBT refugees. Therefore,
 the content of the research being produced by staff in the UoA is itself a key way in which
 equality and diversity is continually promoted. Furthermore, this shows that staff in the UoA are
 leading the way in terms of understanding the relationship between language, equality, diversity
 and inclusion. Indeed, the Centre for Language and Social Justice Research is the first of its
 kind in the world. Some of the UoA staff are active members of the university’s staff networks,
 including the LGBT+, BAME and disability staff networks. And all staff in the UoA regularly
 participate in unconscious bias and equality and diversity training. Some UoA staff run these
 sessions for staff across the institution (e.g., O’Brien contributes to deaf awareness training for
 staff and students; Sauntson runs general equality and diversity and unconscious bias training
 for staff and students). In 2019, Wicaksono and Sauntson were featured in the university’s
 women role models programme as a way of raising awareness about gender equality and
 diversity issues at an institutional level.

 Staff in the unit make regular contributions to York’s LGBT+ history month programme
 (Sauntson), the annual York Festival of Ideas programme (e.g., Meddegama, Sauntson,
 Cunningham), as well as hosting other public-facing events with a focus on equality, diversity
 and social justice.

 Within the submitting staff, there is diversity in terms of sexual orientation, ethnicity and
 disability. The diverse nature of the submitting staff body facilitates a particularly open and
 transparent culture and context for confronting and addressing issues of equality, diversity and
 inclusion. Staff report feeling confident and comfortable in discussing any equality and diversity

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 issues that they believe are affecting them or others with the head of school and with the
 professors (who act as research mentors). There is a high level of awareness of the highly
 diverse staff in the unit and this creates a culture of openness and collegiality which is conducive
 to enhancing research productivity. The open and accepting culture of the unit facilitates an
 environment that is positive in terms of being attentive to the wellbeing of staff. On an
 institutional level, the university is a Stonewall Top 100 employer, a Top 20 Trans employer, a
 Disability Confident employer and holds the Athena SWAN Charter for Gender Equality. YSJU is
 a signatory to the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, which
 ensures that institutional policies and practices relevant to research are equitable, transparent
 and well-communicated. Open Access policies at YSJU encourage an open research
 environment.

 UoA26 complied fully with the YSJU institutional code of practice in selecting research outputs.
 The UoA lead also undertook Advance HE training on equality and mitigating bias as part of the
 role. Due to the small size of our submission, it is not possible to report a profile at UoA level
 here while also complying with HESA guidelines on anonymous reporting when presenting
 Equality and Diversity data (e.g., all our percentages would be based on less than 22.5 FTE).
 However, equality and diversity data for the UoA was reviewed internally following the
 completion of output selections and reported to both the SALT and Athena SWAN development
 groups as part of promoting greater diversity and inclusion at UoA, school, and institutional
 levels. Our data was also included as part of an equality and diversity impact assessment at
 institutional level.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Current infrastructure to support research and development activities is maintained and
 enhanced through a university-wide annual operating planning process. School management
 teams, led by their respective heads of school, and the University Research Committee (URC),
 led by the pro-vice-chancellor for research and knowledge transfer and comprising school
 research leads and representatives from the professoriate, oversee the requirements to support
 academic staff to engage in high-quality research and teaching-based activities.

 The Centre for Language and Social Justice Research receives funding from the School of
 Education, Language and Psychology to develop and promote research and impact activities
 conducted by UoA staff and PGRs. This includes:

    •   Research seminars to: exchange ideas; provide feedback on data and on draft outputs;
        share research methods and resources; develop ways of generating impact; provide
        training; engage in research from invited speakers (both academic and non-academic).
    •   Fortnightly colloquium series on English Language and Linguistics which, between 2007
        and 2020, has featured over 120 research presentations for staff, students and the
        general public. Speakers have come from 26 different universities from the region (e.g.,
        Sheffield, Leeds) and nationally (e.g., Edinburgh, UCL) and eight have come from
        international locations (e.g., Spain, USA, Japan).
    •   Organisation of individual events for external audiences to disseminate research,
        promote knowledge exchange, foster research impact and deliver training. See Section 4
        for details of events.

 Since 2015, the library has invested £105,000 in developing the book collection for languages
 and linguistics, both to maintain the content as relevant and up-to-date and to reflect the
 changing teaching and research interests of staff. This includes using the budget to develop
 access to scholarship in forensic linguistics, clinical linguistics, language and education,
 language, gender and sexuality, Korean, Japanese, BSL and deaf studies. The library has also
 expanded its e-book and journal provision with access to well over 3 million more journal articles
 and over 60,000 more e-books through investment in access to Cambridge Core, Oxford
 Scholarship Online and JSTOR e-book and journal programmes to vastly expand access to
 scholarship in languages and linguistics. The library has continued to invest in access to

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 newspaper databases, which at present totals 17 databases providing access to thousands of
 international, national and regional newspaper titles for discourse analysis research, amongst
 others. The library has invested in access to Brigham Young University Corpora to support
 corpus linguistics research. It provides access to the Modern Language Association (MLA)
 International Bibliography and has expanded its languages research environment with new
 access to the Bibliography of Asian Studies, as well as now providing easy access to
 Institutional Repositories Database (IRDB) and Research Information Service System (RISS) for
 research in Japanese and Korean. Each subject area has a dedicated academic liaison librarian
 who assists staff with research as well as supporting students.

 The Languages and Linguistics subject area has three specialist spaces – the Language and
 Linguistics Recording Studio, the Linguistics Laboratory and the Languages Laboratory. The
 recording studio is fully equipped for video- and audio-recording of materials used in research
 and impact projects as well as learning/teaching. It has been designed chiefly with deaf studies
 and BSL research in mind, but it also provides a resource for work in phonetics and
 sociolinguistics, for sound recording as well as interviews. It provides a comfortable and private
 space for recording and editing video footage and audio recordings suitable for a range of
 research approaches, from qualitative interviews to different linguistic elicitation techniques.
 Aside from materials/stimuli production and data collection, the studio supports the production of
 content for online resources used in public engagement and impact projects. The Linguistics
 Laboratory functions principally as a teaching space but is also equipped with 30 PCs that are
 loaded with regularly updated specialist software for conducting language-based research (e.g.,
 Wordsmith, Phon, Praat). The Languages Laboratory similarly functions as both a teaching and
 a research space, with PCs loaded with relevant software.

 In order to help the UoA fulfil its aims, YSJU’s RO supports the UoA by disseminating
 information about opportunities for applying for external research funding and supporting staff
 with any subsequent applications. The RO co-ordinates a staff research CPD programme, which
 is available to all staff. YSJU’s new Business Development and Knowledge Exchange Office
 (BDKEO) increases support for impact and knowledge exchange work.

 The unit has seen increased success in winning external research funding during the REF
 period. O’Brien (as principal investigator [PI]) was granted £46,962 from the Arts and Humanities
 Research Council to conduct a research project on deaf histories in 2015–16. This research
 project generated impact that was particularly beneficial to deaf communities. O’Brien was also
 awarded a Newer Researchers Prize of £3,000 from the Society for Research into Higher
 Education (SRHE) in 2017–19. Han (as PI) was awarded 5,000 Canadian dollars from Mitacs
 Globalink, Mitacs Canada, in 2016 to conduct a collaborative research project with Vietnam
 National University, Hanoi (not recorded as Higher Education Statistics Agency [HESA] research
 income). More recently (2020), Han (as Co-Investigator [Co-I]) was awarded 20,000 USD from
 the Academy of Korean Studies, South Korea, which involved collaboration with Georgia State
 University, USA (all funding was deposited to the PI’s institution). Hall and Wicaksono led on a
 successful bid to host the British Association for Applied Linguistics (BAAL) annual conference in
 2018 (£86,944). In addition to HESA reported income, Hall and Wicaksono (as PIs) were also
 successful in winning external funding from Cambridge University Press (CUP) to host a
 BAAL/CUP seminar at York St John University in 2015. Hall (as PI) received £980 from BAAL’s
 Applying Linguistics Fund for a project with partners in Germany and China.

 Overall, the HESA research income generated during this REF period is £128,244. We have
 increased our income since 2008-14 and our application numbers (15 applications this cycle).
 We have applied to a wider range of funders to diversify our income stream, including British
 Academy, The Leverhulme Trust and UKRI, and the UoA has a success rate of circa 50%.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Colleagues regularly present work at national and international conferences. In 2014–20, 71
 international conference papers were delivered (Han – five; Sauntson – nine; Danjo – 12;

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 O’Brien – 22; Cunningham – ten; Hall – four; Muradas-Taylor – nine). The unit’s research
 reputation and vitality is also evidenced through a number of staff examining doctoral degrees.
 During the current period, UoA staff have examined a total of five doctoral degrees as internal
 examiner and 17 as external examiner (e.g., University of Birmingham; University of Nottingham;
 City University of Hong Kong; Public University of Navarra [Spain]). Staff in the UoA have also
 hosted three international visiting scholars (from Spain and China) since 2014.

 Staff are routinely engaged in a range of reviewing activities for over 25 academic journals,
 reviewing abstracts for international conferences in applied linguistics (BAAL, BERA,
 International Gender and Language Association) and publishers (Bloomsbury, CUP, Palgrave,
 Routledge, Emerald, BUAP University Press, Peter Lang, SAGE), and reviewing for research
 councils and other funding bodies (British Academy, Economic and Social Research Council,
 AHRC, US National Science Foundation). Collectively, the 12 staff in the UoA have completed
 60 reviews of journal articles, six reviews of book proposals (excluding those in Sauntson’s own
 book series), one book series proposal and three grant proposals.

 Senior editorial positions held with journals and publishers
 Sauntson is series editor of Palgrave Studies in Language, Gender and Sexuality and
 Cambridge Elements in Language, Gender and Sexuality, playing a key international role in
 overseeing and driving forward the future direction of the field of language, gender and sexuality
 within applied linguistics more broadly. Sauntson is also a member of the editorial boards for the
 two leading journals in the field of language, gender and sexuality – Gender and Language and
 the Journal of Language and Sexuality.

 Contributions to professional associations
 A number of colleagues hold senior positions of influence within the field of applied linguistics
 and related areas. Hall, Sauntson and Wicaksono are all either currently serving, or have
 served, on the executive committee of BAAL. Hall served as a co-opted member of the
 executive committee from 2017 to 2019 as well as being co-chair (with Wicaksono) of the Local
 Organising Committee for the BAAL 2018 annual meeting. Hall has held the post of reviews
 editor for BAAL News since 2013. Wicaksono is an ordinary member of the BAAL executive
 committee and Sauntson is the current special interest group co-ordinator. Wicaksono’s
 involvement with BAAL has included successfully proposing to York Civic Trust a blue plaque for
 the first chair of BAAL (Pit Corder), at their birthplace in York. This was the result of a
 collaborative project between BAAL, staff and students on the MA Applied Linguistics
 programme.

 Within BAAL, Sauntson is a founding member, and present ordinary member, of the Language,
 Gender and Sexuality special interest group. Cunningham is an active member of the
 International Association of Applied Linguistics (AILA) and was sole convenor of the Social and
 Affective Factors in Home Language Maintenance & Development AILA Research Network
 annual symposium held at YSJU in 2019. Sauntson served as co-convenor of the Genders and
 Sexualities special interest group within BERA between 2016 and 2020.

 O’Brien was a member of the research and development steering group of the SRHE for the
 duration of his Newer Researchers Award (2017–19).

 Conference organisation
 Staff have further contributed in a sustained way to collaborative activities and the wider
 research base in applied linguistics through organising and running a number of local and
 international conferences and events in 2014–20. The team submitted a successful bid for YSJU
 to host the BAAL annual conference in 2018. Hall and Wicaksono wrote the bid and
 subsequently became co-chairs of the local organising committee. Clarke, Cunningham, Danjo,
 Meddegama, O’Brien, Sauntson and Whisker-Taylor also sat on the local organising committee.
 The conference was attended by 318 delegates from over 38 countries and research income
 from the conference was £86,944. Following the success of the conference, UoA staff set up a
 “legacy project” website containing e-publication of extended abstracts (Danjo et al, 2019) and

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 an overview of the conference. The conference also resulted in an edited book output
 (Cunningham and Hall, 2020, Multilingual Matters).

 In 2019, O’Brien organised and ran the public-facing Deaf Spaces in the Workplace conference
 at YSJU. O’Brien is also a founder of the Bridging the Gap series of conferences, of which there
 have been six so far. The 2014 conference was hosted by YSJU and organised by O’Brien. In
 2016, O’Brien helped to organise and host the Visual Language Professionals annual
 conference at YSJU. These were all academic conferences which were intended to be public-
 facing and engaging. They played a key role in enabling O’Brien to engage the public with his
 own research and that of others working in the same area. Subsequently, these events led to
 some of O’Brien’s research impact as detailed in his impact case study.

 Hall and Wicaksono won £750 from CUP to host a BAAL/CUP seminar at YSJU in 2015. The
 seminar led to the publication of the Ontologies of English (2020) book, edited by Hall and
 Wicaksono. Clarke co-organised Down Syndrome Education International’s annual conference
 at YSJU in 2016. This event provided opportunities for networking and collaboration between
 academic researchers and professionals working in the field of Down syndrome. Sauntson
 organised a conference (Gender-related Violence and Young People: Critical Responses in
 Research and Practice) at YSJU in 2017 for the Genders and Sexualities special interest group
 of BERA (reported in the BERA blog).

 Public engagement
 In addition to the organisation and hosting of academic research conferences, colleagues have
 run a number of public engagement events. Cunningham, delivered a public lecture (“Does
 York’s linguistic landscape reflect the languages spoken in the city?”) as part of a
 YorNight@European Researchers’ Night in 2014. Contributions to the public York Festival of
 Ideas during the REF period include Cunningham and Sauntson’s workshop Dare to Dream of
 Truly Inclusive Language (2018) and Meddegama’s Exploring Englishes in the World (2019)
 public event (in which Hall also delivered the opening talk). Sauntson delivered public lectures
 as part of York’s LGBT History Month programme in 2016, 2017 and 2018. These public
 engagement activities provide evidence of the continued vitality of research in the UoA.

 Research collaboration and impact
 Staff have been successful in obtaining external funding for collaborative research projects
 (some of which are international) that have a direct positive impact on key beneficiaries in
 society. O’Brien’s ARHC-funded collaborative project benefits the deaf community and details
 can be found in O’Brien’s impact case study. O’Brien is continuing his collaborative work by
 running a small project with colleagues from UCL, Heriot Watt University and the University of
 Sussex. Other collaborative projects that have been awarded funding have been outlined in
 Section 3.

 Other collaborative projects with national and international partners that have been successful
 in developing research outputs and impact in relation to language and social justice, include
 Cunningham’s collaborative international project on Attitudes, Beliefs and Knowledge about
 Multilingualism. This entails collaborative working across the AILA Research Network group,
 with eight countries represented. Cunningham is additionally engaged in collaborative research
 with colleagues from Sheffield University in a project focusing on primary school teachers’
 experiences of languages beyond English.

 Sauntson has collaborated on a number of publications both nationally and internationally.
 Academic Irregularities (Routledge, 2020) was co-authored with Liz Morrish (formerly of
 Nottingham Trent University) and appears as a contribution to the Routledge Critical Studies in
 Discourse book series. Global Perspectives and Key Debates in Sex and Relationships
 Education (Palgrave, 2016) is an interdisciplinary volume co-edited with Vanita Sundaram
 (University of York). The book contains contributions from scholars in Australia, New Zealand
 and South Africa as well as the UK. Sauntson’s edited volume Schools as Queer Transformative
 Spaces (Routledge, 2020) was co-edited with Jón Ingvar Kjaran (University of Iceland) and

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contains international and interdisciplinary contributions from nine countries (drawing on the
 disciplines of education, theatre/drama, linguistics and media studies). This volume appears as a
 contribution to the Routledge Research in Educational Equality and Diversity book series.

 Staff have targeted their research towards key beneficiaries and research users by publishing
 their research findings in non-academic outlets which have a more general audience. Danjo,
 Meddegama and Cunningham, for example, have published articles in The Conversation. Clarke
 published an article in 2016 with Louise Cummings (a visiting professor at YSJU) in Bulletin –
 the professional magazine of the Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists. Sauntson
 has engaged the public in her own research, and in that of the Centre for Language and Social
 Justice Research more broadly, through a number of public-facing media activities. These
 include being interviewed for magazines (Gay Times, Dazed, THE), the BBC and appearing on
 television (That’s York TV). Sauntson liaised with Stonewall and the PSHE association during
 the UK government’s review of sex and relationships education (SRE) provision for schools in
 England – drawing on her research, Sauntson advised that the language of the SRE guidance
 was modified, specifically to remove use of the verb “promote” when referring to sexual
 orientation. Sauntson organised and participated in a conference which specifically responded to
 the parental protests that took place outside some Birmingham schools in response to the new
 inclusion of LGBT+ identities and relationships in the SRE guidance for schools in England. This
 conference was attended by school teachers, head teachers, the police, youth workers and
 social workers, as well as academic researchers. All participants were beneficiaries of the
 research presented and discussed during the conference.

 Research-informed online learning materials
 Contributions to the research base and society are further evidenced through the production of
 research-informed online learning materials by staff in the UoA. Most notably, Hall and
 Wicaksono have created Changing Englishes, a free online course for English teachers that has
 a Creative Commons license for re-use. The course has its origins in Hall’s research and has
 involved joint publications with several colleagues at Suzhou University of Science and
 Technology, China, as well as drawing on Hall and Wicaksono’s underpinning research. The
 course has been of great benefit to teachers who have used it, as evidenced in further detail in
 Hall’s impact case study.

 Staff and students contribute to the development and delivery of local community programmes
 relating to language learning. This enables staff to engage the local community with their
 research and also enables students to become involved in research, impact and engagement as
 part of their studies. Firstly, the York: English as an Additional Language (YEAL) programme is a
 student-led voluntary outreach programme, underpinned by staff research (Cunningham, Hall,
 Wicaksono). Any second- or third-year Languages and Linguistics students can sign up at the
 start of the academic year, and the committee places them in a school. They volunteer with the
 EAL pupils throughout the year, working alongside the school to benefit the pupils. Secondly, the
 York: English Speakers of Other Languages (YESOL) programme involves students holding free
 evening classes for the local community to help them to improve their English language skills.
 These classes are described as invaluable by students as it allows them to practise teaching
 from the start of their studies.

 The research profile and vitality of the UoA is further evidenced through colleagues being invited
 to give international keynote lectures and other invited research talks. Wicaksono has delivered
 two keynote lectures during the REF period (University of Bahrain, March 2018, and Kobe City
 University of Foreign Studies, Japan). Sauntson gave a keynote lecture at the international
 24th Annual Conference on Lavender Languages and Linguistics, University of Nottingham,
 2017. Hall has presented five keynote lectures or invited plenaries during the REF period. Staff
 across the unit are regularly invited to give research lectures and seminars in other institutions
 and organisations. In the 2014–20 period, Sauntson delivered five invited talks, O’Brien
 delivered ten, Cunningham gave four and Hall gave 13. Details of invited talks and other events
 are logged on individual staff web pages and, where possible, on the RaY institutional
 repository.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 13
