Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chester

 Unit of Assessment: English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Research in this unit is built on English Literature; English Language; and Creative Writing. This
work encompasses interests in literary criticism from the Renaissance to the present; literary and
cultural theory; the production of original creative work (including flash fiction; poetry; prose-poems;
creative non-fiction; and novels); gender studies; disability studies; popular cultures; world literatures
in English; translation; history of the English language; stylistics; discourse analysis; corpus
linguistics; sociophonetics; sociolinguistics; and typology. The present submission comprises 20
researchers across two campuses in Chester and Shrewsbury (19.6 FTE); among these are 3
Professors (2 female); 3 Associate Professors (2 female); and 6 early-career researchers (3 female),
with an overall 10:10 gender balance in the unit.

During the review period the unit developed its existing strengths in nineteenth-century studies and
creative writing, and augmented the linguistics research team. It also invested in new areas related
to the University’s Research Strategy, particularly the commitment ‘to advance local and global
agendas in relation to inclusion, equality, diversity and human rights’ (REF5a). This new research
includes interventions in gender studies (encompassing queer theory, political discourse, (dis)ability,
and women’s writing); and popular culture (including children’s and LGBQTIA+ YA fiction; comics;
and linguistic studies of popular music). The unit’s research specialisms are to varying degrees
interdisciplinary, with distinct groups of researchers working in informal teams. Our reputation is built
on these areas of specialism, attracting PGRs to the Department and forming the basis of the unit’s
public engagement activities. Nevertheless, we value diversity in research: individuals pursue
interests in other fields, including the literature of South Africa and Ireland and early modern,
modernist and contemporary literature.

 a. Research Strategy: review of developments since 2014
The 2014 research strategy prioritised four objectives, to: 1) improve staff retention by enhancing
the research environment; 2) support early-career and mid-career researchers who did not submit
to REF 2014; 3) increase routes to postgraduate research; 4) expand interdisciplinary research and
collaborations. The University’s strategy encourages ‘adventure and risk-taking’ in research, and
when researchers face setbacks they should view these as ‘learning opportunities’, rather than
failures (REF5a). This culture has played a major role in supporting the unit’s objectives during the
review period. Since 2014:

   1) The unit retained the majority of its researchers and expanded its research base with 6 new
      appointments. Despite a challenging financial climate, the research-leave rota continued to
      be implemented, whereby two colleagues are allocated 0.5FTE teaching and administration
      remission for a year. QR funds are directed to maintaining the scheme and lessening the
      teaching/administration loads of all researchers. At Faculty level increased sources of internal
      funding have enabled colleagues to apply for small grants to reduce teaching/administration
      loads to work on impact and publishing projects and funding bids.
   2) The unit has increased its number of early-career researchers. A mentoring and peer review
      system supported ECRs in converting their PhD theses into monographs; all are now
      developing new research projects. The Faculty’s ECR Network with its Writers’ Gym offers
      additional support. Increasing time for research enabled new ECRs (Andrew, Leahy,
      Piesse, Pollard and Tankard) to publish their first books. Mid-career colleagues not
      submitted to REF 2014 were allocated time to reinvigorate research and publication plans,
      and are included in the current submission. The Head of Department (Heaton) encourages
      all colleagues to discuss with her their research plans and development needs, which has
      built confidence and, for ECRs, fostered research independence.
   3) Enhancing the unit’s research culture and confidence has increased our PGR population
      from 7 in 2014 to 19 in 2020, the result of the development of new MRes programmes in

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Gender Studies, English, and Storytelling. These offer advanced training in research skills
      which has led successful students to enrol on our doctoral programmes.
   4) New interdisciplinary collaborations have arisen from impact-related research, e.g. the
      Institute of Gender Studies (IGS, funded and staffed by the English Department) involves UK
      and overseas academics and community organisations in research projects (including two
      Talking Bodies edited collections: Palgrave 2017, 2020).

 b. Impact Strategy: review of developments since 2014
The 2014 Impact Strategy crystallised the unit’s commitment to enhance its established public
engagement activities, leading to investment in new research with impact potential. To facilitate this,
impact-related research has been supported by >20% of the unit’s QR funds each year. The ethos
of involving people and organisations outside the academy in research is central to the unit’s plans.
The following changes have been implemented since 2014:
     1) Departmental meetings now include discussions of research planning leading to the
        development of impact projects.
     2) Existing impact projects, e.g. Textile Stories (submitted to REF2014 & 2021) and the Flash
        Fiction Project (submitted to REF2021), continued to be supported with periods of teaching
        relief, administration support, and internal and external funding to deliver a range of public-
        facing events, including creative writing competitions for schools, liaisons with the heritage
        sector, and study days.
     3) New research projects with impact potential have been initiated to consolidate our ethos of
        inclusivity and opportunity for all and these are a priority for future QR funds, including:
             • Preserving Guernésiais, an Endangered Language. Parkin (Co-I) and Dáibhidh
                 Grannd (PI, Glasgow) manage a project (awarded seed-funding of £16,000 for 2021
                 from the States of Guernsey) to record local speakers as a way of preserving this
                 endangered language. Plans are underway to liaise with Guernésiais speakers to
                 expand the project collaboratively.
             • Talking Bodies: the biennial conferences (organised by Rees) so far attracting over
                 6,000 participants, range far beyond academia, being attended by professionals
                 (including mental health and health professionals, performance artists, sportspeople)
                 and members of the wider community (including sex workers and disabled activists)
                 from around the world (including the US, Australasia and Africa). Related to Rees’s
                 research on gender and the body, the annual IGS seminar series features at least
                 six external speakers from the UK and abroad each year, academics and non-
                 academics, all of whom address issues relating to gender, equality, discrimination
                 and embodiment in contemporary society.
             • Chester Retold: Pollard’s research on the practical benefits of experiential learning
                 in community settings has resulted in the Chester Retold initiative, offering English
                 students the opportunity to learn about storytelling alongside participants from the
                 Chester community. Members of marginalised, disadvantaged groups work with
                 undergraduates to find ways of telling stories about individual experiences and
                 communities. Pollard’s project, begun in 2018, was nominated for the 2020 Educate
                 North Community Engagement Award and a THE Outstanding Contribution to the
                 Local Community Award. It was the subject of a TEDx talk published on the TED
                 website.

Our new impact projects will be prioritised for QR funding in the next REF cycle, with researchers
supported with mentoring and periods of teaching relief.

 c. Research Planning
Following REF2014 the unit took a strategic approach to research planning, creating a more
specialised research culture, focused on our strengths, to enable us to make a greater contribution
to the discipline and society. A Departmental Research Coordinator (Wynne) was appointed in 2014
to coordinate research activities, encourage collaborations and networks, allocate and advise
research mentors, and organise grant capture workshops, away days, and training events. The
DRC’s role involves responsiveness to the needs and interests of the unit’s researchers; she draws
up the research strategy in consultation with all colleagues. A professor since 2010, Wynne
                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
represents the Faculty at the University’s Research Committee, and was trained in mentoring and
research leadership at AHRC Fellowship-holder events in 2014 and 2015.

The DRC and HoD work together to promote confidence and support the unit’s researchers. The
HoD, through the PDP process and less formal confidential meetings, advises individual researchers
on planning and balancing teaching and research workloads. She is responsible for implementing
the research leave rota, and ensuring that each colleague has a full ‘research day’ each week,
expecting this time to be devoted to research projects.

 d. Initiatives in support for research
The most significant improvement in the review period is the increase in the number of research-
active staff in the unit. While 11 out of 20 FTE colleagues were submitted to REF2014, some
colleagues producing no outputs, the current review period has 19.6 out of 21.6 FTE being
productive in research (with two colleagues choosing to pursue teaching leadership roles). The
increase in research productivity was achieved through the organisation of more frequent research-
focused workshops and seminars (many of which involved external speakers and invitations to
people outside the Department); research being included as a standing item on the agenda of
Departmental meetings; and an annual away day devoted to discussion of research matters.
Additionally, Faculty ‘Research Enhancement’ events inspire and motivate colleagues.

The appointment of six ECRs (Andrew; Flanagan; Leahy; Parkin; Pollard; Tankard: replacing
Alsop, Herrmann, Piesse, Siddle, and Walsh) afforded opportunities to invest in new research fields
and develop sustainable and vibrant research groups. The ECRs are mentored by the unit’s
Professors and Associate Professors, plus other senior researchers in related fields. The unit values
risk-taking and experimentation, and colleagues are supported in finding new directions to invigorate
the discipline. This ethos has inspired newly-appointed colleagues to develop interdisciplinary
research groups, notably Reimagining Popular Culture (overseen by Tankard, involving Andrew;
Flanagan; Leahy). These new ventures adopt interdisciplinary approaches and work with
academics across the University and beyond. For example, Faculty restructuring has enabled
Tankard to develop peer support relationships with colleagues in Media and Archaeology, reviewing
each other’s manuscripts in progress and delivering informal seminars on active research projects
to students across the University. The unit’s new impact projects, Talking Bodies, Chester Retold,
and Preserving Guernésias (along with those submitted in REF3a), offer models for initiating and
sustaining open research environments which the Reimagining Popular Culture group are already
engaging with.

Indeed, investment of time and resources in new public engagement activities has been an important
focus since 2014. The organisation of regular summer schools for members of the public at Chester
and Shrewsbury campuses since 2016, and schools liaison and widening participation work, are
driving us to make our research of value to the wider society, as well as within our disciplines. To
imbed impact at the heart of future research, we include VLs and PGRs in impact activities as part
of their research training, offering them opportunities to adapt their research projects for public
engagement at our summer schools and public events.

 e. Research groups
Most colleagues work in literary studies, with three creative writers and five linguists, although some
colleagues specialise in two or more of these disciplines (e.g. Blair, Chantler and Stephenson
publish both literary criticism and creative writing, while Neary works within literature, language and
cognitive psychology). Details of the team’s research groups are detailed below:

Nineteenth-century studies: In this group, which supports research-led teaching on the MA
Nineteenth-Century Literature and Culture, with its linked PGR seminar series, are 5 researchers:
Fegan (the Great Famine in literature); Leahy (technology and literature, resulting in a
monograph, Literary Illumination, 2018); Tankard (interdisciplinary research on disabled identity,
queer history, and eugenics in literature and culture, with a monograph, Invalid Lives published in
2018); WestS (Romanticism) and Wynne (Victorian literature and material culture).


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Gender studies: Rees’s interdisciplinary research on issues of gender and embodiment underpins
her work directing the IGS. She leads a research group espousing intersectional, inclusive feminism,
which includes Atkin (American literature and representations of the body), Heaton (fashion cultures
and the body) and Wynne (women’s writing). Postgraduate students working in the IGS engage fully
with its biennial international conferences and seminar series involving a broad spectrum of external
speakers.

Popular Culture: This new research group emerged with the appointment of three new ECRs,
including Andrew (specialises in children’s crime fiction, resulting in a monograph, The Boy
Detective in Early British Children's Literature, 2017; now researching LGBTQIA+ YA fiction and
popular culture); Flanagan (also in the Linguistics team, researches identity and popular culture);
Tankard (writing a new monograph on representing the history of asexuality in literature and
television); and WestS (physical and psychological spaces of crime fiction, particularly in Patricia
Highsmith’s work). This group has developed a lunchtime seminar series for academics and students
from across the University.

Twentieth-/Twenty-First Century Literature: This group involves Blair (South African literature in
English, recently published on post-apartheid flash fiction); Chantler (modernism and the writing of
Ford Madox Ford); Neary (Indian literature in English, focusing on lifewriting); Pollard (contemporary
fiction; her monograph, Origin and Ellipsis in the Writing of Hilary Mantel, the first to be published on
the author) and Stephenson (modern and contemporary poetry and fiction, focusing on
posthumanism).

Creative Writing: Blair and Chantler direct the International Flash Fiction Association, are founding
co-editors of Flash: The International Short-Short Story Magazine and run Flash: The International
Short-Short Story Press. Seed publishes poetry, prose poetry, short fiction, and
translations. Stephenson publishes poetry, as well as researching modern and contemporary
literature, thanks to the close communication between the two teams; Wall is a novelist and poet,
also publishing creative prose essays on modernism. This group organises readings of original
creative work involving students and visiting speakers. The group benefits from the input of novelist,
Francesca Haig (author of the Fire Sermon trilogy, HarperVoyager, 2015-17), formerly a lecturer in
Creative Writing at Chester and a Visiting Writing Fellow since 2013. She visits the Department
regularly to present talks and workshops for graduate students.

Linguistics: Davies researches the discursive construction of individuals, groups and events.
His monograph, Oppositions and Ideology in News Discourse, applies corpus linguistic
techniques to news reports and editorials. Flanagan researches language typology, as well as
language and identity, having researched the Bantu language of Northern Sotho. Neary’s
interdisciplinary research covers the areas of stylistics; cognitive stylistics; postcolonial literature in
English, particularly Indian lifewriting; she also applies cognitive science to popular music. Parkin’s
research focuses on the history of the English language, analysing linguistic variation and change
using historical surname and place-name data. WestH researches sociolinguistics and language
variation and change. The group holds regular research seminars with external academics
contributing talks.

 f. Research Strategy, 2020s
To enhance and sustain our research culture through the 2020s we have formulated the following
objectives to:
    1) increase grant applications/capture: to be achieved through mentoring, workshops and the
    provision of shorter-term teaching cover for colleagues to write grant proposals;
    2) encourage experimentation and risk-taking in research: to be achieved by using the example
    of the IGS to stimulate new, and develop existing, interdisciplinary research groups and projects;
    3) enable current ECRs to transition successfully to mid-career status, encouraging applications
    for promotion to Associate Professor and Professorial roles: to be achieved through mentoring
    and the PDP process.



                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 g. Impact Strategy, 2020s
The development of impact projects has stimulated new, topical research in the unit and we plan to
maintain the momentum and foster ambition in this area, aided by the University’s strategy to
encourage engagements with non-academic audiences. In order to enhance our dedication to open
research environments and sharing research with wider communities, we have formulated the
following objectives to:
     1) explore and exploit the impact potential of the unit’s research: to be achieved by experienced
        colleagues advising on new initiatives and acting as mentors to those new to public
        engagement and interactions with third sector organisations;
     2) direct sufficient QR funds to support promising impact projects;
     3) organise workshops and training events focusing on developing impact projects.

 h. Research integrity
The unit’s research is overseen by the Faculty and the University’s ethics committees and policies
for the avoidance of academic malpractice are in place and taken very seriously. Additionally,
Epigeum online training in research integrity is available, with plans to make this mandatory for staff,
while the University’s Chester Open Research Alliance (CORA) group advocates Open Research
principles and practices, thus raising the unit’s awareness of the value of open, ethically-based
research environments.

 2. People

2a Staffing strategy and staff development

    i) New appointments
Since 2014, the unit has made 7 new appointments, all of whom are ECRs. Increased staffing has
enhanced research provision in areas targeted for investment, namely research linked to the IGS
and in popular culture. Most of our ECRs were appointed to strengthen the relationship between
English and gender studies and they are currently developing new work in the fields of
representations of gender, sexuality, disability and queer studies, popular culture, minority cultures,
and women’s writing. One ECR, Piesse (0.6FTE appointed in 2015), moved to another HEI in 2017
(replaced by Andrew 1.0FTE). Our ECRs work alongside, and are mentored by, more established
researchers in these fields; they have reduced teaching loads in the first year to develop their next
research projects or convert their PhD theses into monographs (Andrew, Leahy, Piesse, Pollard
and Tankard successfully published books for inclusion in this REF). Newly appointed staff undergo
a probationary period during their first year, supported by the HoD and DRC, along with a research
mentor from a related field.

    ii) Staff Development: mentoring
The unit’s mentoring strategy involves informal pairings of mentors and mentees. ECRs are allocated
a mentor on arrival, while mid-career colleagues can request support to reinvigorate research
projects which may have stalled. ECRs have benefited from freedom to change their research focus
since publishing their first monographs, guided by mentors in planning, publication strategies,
making funding applications, and exploiting impact opportunities. Mentoring has enhanced their
research independence and confidence, evidenced by increasing numbers of post-PhD publications
and the development of a new ECR-led research group in popular culture. VLs and PhD graduates
also benefit from mentoring support to help them move to secure positions, closing gaps in CVs,
building publication profiles, and organising conferences and public engagement events.

    iii) Increasing REF participation
11 researchers out of 20 FTE members of staff were submitted to REF2014, with some colleagues
focusing mainly on teaching or administration roles; however, our success in the 2014 exercise
energised the unit’s research ambitions. Mid-career colleagues not submitted in 2014 are entering
this REF for the first time. Invigorating research ambition in mid-career colleagues, and building
confidence in less experienced researchers, has been achieved in two ways:


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Accessibility and inclusion: All research training events, workshops, seminars, research
       focus groups and departmental research seminars are scheduled well within the working day
       (10am to 4pm) in order to ensure maximum attendance. Following an anonymous survey,
       80% of colleagues identified as belonging to a protected category (e.g. caring responsibilities,
       gender-related changes, including pregnancy and menopause, part-time staff, disabled and
       having family issues). Awareness of colleagues’ diverse needs has led to increased
       participation in the unit’s research culture, thus strengthening our research base and
       increasing the number of research outputs we produce.
   •   Training and mentorship: The DRC responds to requests from colleagues to organise
       mentoring, as well as research training events (e.g. on grant-capture and publishing
       strategies for ECRs, and developing impact). This has been supplemented by Faculty-wide
       events, including two specifically designed to address the gender imbalance of researchers
       Chester submitted to REF2014.

   iv) Promotions
Gaining the Athena Swan Bronze award has helped frame the University’s policies for promotion,
and in 2017 a new, transparent route to professorial title was introduced. Within the unit colleagues
seeking promotion are supported by the HoD and DRC, who advise on strategies for progression in
research and on presenting research achievements in applications. Since 2014, Rees was promoted
from SL to Professor; Heaton from SL to Associate Professor.

2b Research Students
    i)     PGR Management
All English PhD students progressing to submission have graduated with the award (with 5.2
completions in the review period). The following robust support mechanisms are in place for PGRs:

   •   Supervision: PGRs are allocated a supervisory team, consisting of a principal and at least
       one other supervisor. Supervisors are trained by the University on a periodic basis; in
       addition, the Faculty runs ‘Good Supervisor Workshops’. An online mandatory module
       ensures that all supervisors are aware of University regulations and equality and diversity
       issues.
   •   Progress reviews: New PGRs undergo a departmental and university induction and their
       probationary period of 9 months is followed by a review with subsequent annual progress
       reviews. They are required to deliver an oral presentation each year, preferably at an external
       conference, as part of their academic development. The APR structure is rigorously applied,
       keeping PGRs focused on their research goals.
   •   Wellbeing and support: Should there be obstacles to progression, the supervisory team
       work closely with PGRs to find solutions (e.g. full-time students transferring to part-time or
       provided with targeted skills training). Clear advice is available to those facing problems, and
       options include interruption of studies and referral to in-house counselling services.
   •   Training: In addition to the Department’s PGR events and training workshops, and those
       offered by the Faculty and University, there are online training opportunities provided via
       Moodle, careers advice sessions, and opportunities for mock vivas.
   •   PGR Forum: This is a University-wide forum for postgraduates to raise issues with the
       Research Office and Senior Management. The forum enables PGR representatives to sit on
       the University’s Research Committee, thus affording opportunities to understand the wider
       context in which they conduct research.

The MPhil/PhD registrations in the unit have increased from 7 students in 2014 to 19 students,
resulting in more research-active staff in supervision roles. To support the latter the unit offers
training and personalised mentoring to supplement the mandatory University training programmes.
While the unit welcomes growth in its PGR community, it plans to stabilise the number of registrations
over the next review period to ensure that the quality of supervision, pastoral support and collegiate
research environment are maintained. The University offers a small number of bursaries for PGR
students (a 50% reduction in the annual fee, available on a competitive basis and applied for
annually) with most current English PGRs in receipt of bursaries.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    ii)     PGR recruitment and progression
Increasing routes to PGR study enabled the unit to enhance the vitality of its research culture. In the
review period 3 new MRes programmes in Gender Studies, English, and Storytelling were
established to train students to be independent researchers and offer pathways to our MPhil/PhD
programmes. The significant increase in PGRs since REF2014 is directly related to the Department’s
reputation in research, as graduates seek supervisors whose research they admire. The
establishment of the IGS has led to 7 new PhD students working in interdisciplinary gender studies
overseen by the English Department. In 2014, only one PGR had gained a PhD in creative writing;
currently 5 students are registered for PhDs in this area. Many of our graduate students undertake
PhD study as life-enhancement after retirement. For example, one recent PhD graduate (Rewhorn),
a former Maths teacher, gained her PhD in English (2018) in her eighties. PGRs studying within the
IGS often have a range of different career goals, using postgraduate study to address issues of
inclusion and diversity, before returning to the workplace with new solutions. Some PhD graduates
have successfully pursued academic careers; for example, Leahy gained his PhD at Chester in the
review period and is now employed on a full-time contract in the unit; his thesis was published as a
monograph (REF2). Others have found employment as research librarians and in the heritage
industries, while one PhD graduate in the IGS (Hutchinson, thesis: ‘Experts by Experience:
“Madness” Narratives, Language, and Politics’) now has a professional career in the mental health
sector. One of the unit’s Creative Writing PhD students, Sian Hughes, currently in her second year,
has already published a poetry collection, Sunshine & Nothing Else (Cinnamon Press, 2020),
reviewed by Kate Clancy as ‘frank, pithy, and terrifyingly precise’.

Postgraduate Research Environment:
The high level of satisfaction signalled in PRES results has been achieved by the support
mechanisms in place to ensure that supervisory teams offer the best possible advice and
encouragement. From 2015 the English PGR seminars have been organised by students
themselves; they meet regularly (approximately six times annually) to present and discuss research
projects in an informal, sociable, supportive atmosphere. Staff are regularly invited to offer talks.
Masters students also attend the seminars, some being inspired to continue their education to PhD
level. The majority of the PGRs at Chester study on a part-time basis; many have caring
responsibilities and full-time or part-time non-academic jobs, while others are retired. They meet as
a close-knit supportive community of researchers.

PGR seminars in the unit incorporate in-house skills training and career guidance to supplement that
offered by the Faculty and the University. The unit’s PGR Tutor (Fegan) works closely with the
students to assess their needs and recruit members of staff to deliver talks and training workshops
on topics such as ‘Preparing for an Academic Career’, ‘Careers Outside Academia’, ‘Understanding
Research and Impact’; ‘Understanding the REF’; and ‘The Early Career Research Journey’. In
addition, the University runs a 2-day Postgraduate Research Symposium, while PGR events at
Faculty-level ensure that there are multiple opportunities to present research within the university.
The biennial Talking Bodies conference run by the IGS encourages PGRs not only to present but
also to volunteer to help with the organisation, gaining valuable experience. PGRs also gain
experience in organising public engagement activities; some have worked with Wynne on the Textile
Stories annual study days as co-organisers and presenters. Some students have organised
conferences with the advice and support of staff; for example, one-day symposiums were delivered
on Patricia Highsmith (2018) and on women writers, 1850-1950 (2019). Many PGRs teach sessions
based on their research interests at the short English and Creative Writing summer courses for
members of the public, including A level students and retired people, enabling them to understand
the challenges and benefits of exploring the impact potential of their research.

The University offers a free annual Writing Retreat to PGR students designed to focus attention on
the practice of writing frequently and efficiently. There is a dedicated Postgraduate Centre on
campus, intended as a quiet working space, with bookable meeting room. The University invites
PGR students to apply for financial support for presenting at relevant conferences: most PGRs have
been financially supported with conference attendance and travel costs to visit archives. Many PGRs
use the nearby Gladstone’s Library, a unique residential library with a substantial collection of

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
materials and important archives. Some have been successful in gaining Gladstone’s Study
Bursaries, enabling them to spend time in residence at the Library devoted to research.

2c. Equality and Diversity
All staff within the department are on full-time contracts, apart from one permanent colleague who
requested a 0.6 FTE contract at interview and was granted this. As a unit there is a 50:50 ratio of
female to male staff. The Athena Swan action plan devised at university level provides a framework
for departments to promote gender equality, with the result that 70% of the unit’s staff in professorial
and assistant professorial roles are now women. This is a significant increase from REF2014, when
the unit had only 1 female professor and 1 female reader (compared with 3 male professors and 1
male reader). The improvement in terms of more women participating in REF has been brought
about by the confidence-building strategies the unit has put in place, as well as the strategies to
increase participation in departmental research events and training workshops. Additionally, the use
of MS Teams ensures inclusion for colleagues unable to attend meetings in person. Flexible working
and remote working were implemented even before COVID-19, and colleagues who have had
extended periods of leave (for health issues; maternity leave; or compassionate leave) have reduced
teaching loads on their return to ensure that they can resume research projects. In fact, 80% of
current colleagues identify as belonging to a protected category: the considerable increase in REF
participation demonstrates that the unit has worked effectively to enable everyone to engage in
research.

An important focus for new research and impact activities relating to issues of equality and diversity
has been the establishment in 2015 of the Institute of Gender Studies, the core ethos of which is that
academic research in gender studies should drive (and be driven by) activism. Public engagement
is thus integral to the Institute’s activities: for example, not only are regular seminars featuring invited
speakers open to the public, but the biennial Talking Bodies conferences welcome speakers and
delegates from outside academia (including artists and practitioners in many fields).

The unit has also benefitted from the University’s drive to improve equality and achieve a more
inclusive research culture (REF5a). Two Faculty Research Coordinators organise events specifically
designed to incentivise and inspire female researchers to pursue their ambitions and seek promotion.
In REF 2014 only 57 female researchers at the University of Chester participated, compared to 94
male researchers. Redressing this imbalance has been a priority for all, and the unit benefits from
various opportunities to raise awareness of the work of female researchers. For example, Wynne
organised an event celebrating women’s research in the Faculty for International Women’s Day in
2018 as a way of inspiring colleagues to engage more with the research culture, helping to focus
attention on the importance of equality and diversity in research. The popularity of this event led to
the follow-on ‘Professorial Pathways Roundtable’ (2019), whereby female professors and associate
professors from across the Faculty were interviewed by two ECRs. Attracting people from across
the University, ECRs were inspired by the female role models to consider how the various ‘pathways’
to research excellence discussed could inform their own career plans. Such events are
supplemented by the Faculty’s ‘Research Enhancement’ days (established in 2015), where issues
of diversity and inclusion are among the subjects discussed.

Additionally, the University organises annual Diversity and Research Festivals (REF5a), to which
members of the unit contribute talks and workshops. The Festival includes ‘Making Professor’
workshops, which female staff and those belonging to protected categories are encouraged to
attend. It demonstrates to researchers how engaging with issues of equality and diversity can
enhance the reach of their research, even providing answers to problems of inequality. The
University also runs Equality Forum and the Director of IGS takes an active role in its work.

As a department our research strategy reflects our commitment to promote and encourage research
relating to equality and diversity issues. These include: gender studies; disability studies; LTBGQIA+
YA fiction; women’s writing; queer studies; and postcolonial studies. These research pathways
inspire colleagues and students and generally raise awareness of the realities and iniquities of
discrimination, prejudice and ignorance. For example, the IGS research seminars and events raise
awareness of FGM and violence against women and minorities. A new research project linked to the

                                                                                                    Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
undergraduate module Chester Retold devised by Pollard works with the local Storyhouse arts
centre to find ways of including disadvantaged members of the community in storytelling, the arts
and academic study. Pollard established the new MRes in Storytelling, associated with this project,
to attract a diverse group of students from different educational backgrounds, many of them mature
and some without an undergraduate degree. It has informal relationships with other cultural
institutions, such as charities for addiction recovery. Tankard was appointed to enhance the unit’s
research related to inclusion and equality; her 2018 monograph on disability representation is
submitted to REF2. Tankard’s new research project on queer and disability representation in
literature and popular culture has significant potential for public engagement (and impact) with
opportunities for research-led teaching, schools liaison and public events. The unit is also
represented at Chester Pride, staffing the University’s stall alongside the IGS’s PGR students to
welcome the local community, particularly local LGBTQIA+ youth and allies, and new undergraduate
students. This participation aids our focus on inclusion and diversity in research.

Open, inclusive, transparent policy for REF selection
The unit prides itself on its collegiate and inclusive culture which respects the contribution of all
researchers, whatever their circumstances or stage of development. The new REF regulations have
benefitted our ethos to be fair and inclusive. Selection of the unit’s outputs for the REF was a
collective decision. The DRC, who had experience of preparing the submission for REF2014 and
had received University training in equality and diversity issues, including awareness of unconscious
bias, was chosen by the HoD and Dean to act as UoA Coordinator. She was assisted by an ECR
(Tankard) and they recruited colleagues at all stages of career development to act as peer reviewers
of potential outputs, before a general selection meeting at departmental level, which was followed
by a Faculty review. The unit ensured that inclusivity was prioritised, and this informed the selection
process at every stage, resulting in a greater number of colleagues being included, which has
improved the unit’s morale and confidence for the future.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The unit sits within the Faculty of Arts and Humanities, consisting of 6 departments, overseen by a
Dean and 2 Directors of Schools. The unit is part of the Faculty’s Research Advisory Group (RAG),
which meets regularly to share best practice, plan research strategies, and foster collaboration and
interdisciplinary research. RAG enables the unit to view its research in the context of broader
developments in the arts and humanities. The Faculty Research Coordinators (one of whom belongs
to the unit) create opportunities for Faculty-wide discussion, organising regular ‘Research
Enhancement’ events to which researchers contribute. These involve discussions of research
strategy, new developments in our disciplines, and creating and sustaining high-quality impact
projects. The unit’s identity as a research-active collective is thus shaped in part through its
interactions with colleagues within the Faculty.

External research income
Since 2014 the unit has enhanced its infrastructure to meet our research goals, one of which is to
increase grant capture. This has involved directing resources, both human and financial, to assist
colleagues with teaching relief to make grant applications. This has been supplemented by grant-
capture workshops. In this reporting period 7 applications for external funding have been made, 4 of
which (including 2 by ECRs) have been successful.

In 2013-14 Wynne gained an AHRC Fellowship of £58,858 as PI on the project, Literary Fabrics:
Textile Languages of Novels and Costume Dramas [AH/K00803X/1]. She later gained £20,000 as
Co-I on a major interdisciplinary project, Marie Duval Presents Ally Sloper: The Female Cartoonist
and Popular Theatre in London, 1869-85. 2014-2016. [AH/M000257/1]. The total grant was £250,000
awarded to the PI, Simon Grennan in Art and Design, University of Chester. Wynne acted as
research mentor to Grennan (an ECR at the time).




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Successful bids not recorded in REF4:
ECRs have benefitted from grant capture workshops and short-term teaching relief to make
successful applications which will be recorded in the next REF cycle. Pollard, author of the first
monograph on Hilary Mantel, with co-applicant, Lucy Arnold (University of Worcester), gained funds
of $30,000 (£23,000) for conference organisation at The Huntington Library, Los Angeles for a
conference on Rereading Hilary Mantel in October, 2021. The funding covers travel costs and
accommodation for all speakers. Parkin is currently Co-I on a collaborative project, Preserving
Guernésiais, an Endangered Language, awarded seed funding of £16,000 from the States of
Guernsey for 2021 (see 1.b.3).

Internal funding
Staff can apply competitively for Faculty research grants of up to £1,000 and since 2014 researchers
in the unit have received a total of £11,922. This has been spent on conference attendance, visiting
archives in the UK and abroad, and organising symposia and public engagement events. Three
researchers (Davies, Neary, Wynne) have used Faculty funding to employ research assistants to
help with data collection on research projects.

Facilities
Spaces in which to conduct research are provided for all staff, with fully-equipped offices in a
dedicated building. VLs have access to shared office space and PGRs have a dedicated working
space with facilities for group discussions in a building adjacent to the main campus library.

Library resource provision at Chester includes an excellent range of physical and virtual library
resources. Eight University libraries housed across its campuses hold over 750,000 e-books,
approximately 300,000 physical books and 65,000 full text online journals. With a further extensive
investment in electronic resources since March 2020, the size of our e-book collection now
outnumbers print books 3 to 1. For the Faculty of Arts & Humanities, LIS provides a team of five
specialist subject librarians with whom we collaborate to ensure the currency of the collection and to
design both UG and PG research and resource training, including information literacy. The
University’s Libraries subscribe to 14 major electronic collections of online primary sources. The
Flash Fiction Special Collection is housed in the Seaborne Library, a unique resource for researchers
and creative writers (REF3), which has led to creative writing PGRs choosing to study at Chester.
The University holds membership of the SCONUL network, augmenting access to research materials
for staff and postgraduates. Additionally, the LIS supports researchers, advising on accessing online
resources and offering training in relevant research skills to PGRs.

Gladstone’s Library, in nearby Hawarden, is an affiliate of the University and staff and postgraduates
regularly use its facilities. Wynne recently co-authored a book, Victorian Manufactured Objects
(forthcoming, Routledge), with Dr Louisa Yates, Director of Research and Collections at Gladstone’s
Library (formerly a PhD student at Chester) using the Library’s archives.

Open Access
The University of Chester promotes its Open Access policy, and is committed to supporting
researchers in making their work freely and publicly available. This is ensured by the depositing of
all research outputs, where possible, in the University’s online repository, ChesterRep. In order to
increase the visibility and dissemination of research, the University operates a mandatory policy
requiring that bibliographic metadata and the full text of all items accepted for publication after
01/09/2014 should be deposited in ChesterRep. The unit is fully committed to exploring ways of
developing open access further. For example, Rees, Series Editor for Palgrave’s interdisciplinary
(Re)Presenting Gender, has successfully negotiated with the publisher for the series’ first book to
appear on an OA basis. She is involved in ongoing negotiations with Palgrave for the cost of all
books in the series to be made affordable to non-academics.

Income strategy
The research leave rota will continue to be prioritised in terms of the deployment of QR funds,
ensuring that entitlement to 0.5FTE research leave for one academic year is allocated on an

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
equitable basis. Internal funding sources will continue for administration support for impact projects
and teaching relief for those applying for grants, initiating impact-related research and the completion
of publishing projects.

External research income generated by the unit increased from £17,547 in REF2014 to £78,858 in
this review period (REF4). Currently 2 members of the unit are working on grant applications, while
other projects have been identified as having funding potential. The unit will provide more practical
support (in terms of allocated time) and encouragement (through mentoring and peer review) to
increase successful funding bids in the next REF cycle.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The University of Chester is committed to engaging with a range of stakeholders and it encourages
the ambition in researchers to ‘influence the development and improvement of society’ (REF5a).
Members of the unit have thus focused their expertise on activities addressing the following areas:
enriching regional cultures and heritage; engaging local communities in research and creativity; and
initiating discussions around diversity and inclusion. The appointment of ECRs whose research is
dedicated to these priorities ensure that our engagements with academics and the wider community
are sustained in our interactions with the media, national and international organisations, research
networks and learned societies, schools, and local community groups.

The founding of the interdisciplinary IGS, along with regular Faculty ‘Research Enhancement’
events, have enabled us to find ways to improve our contribution to the research base and take our
research out into the community. This raising awareness of the value of collaboration and
interdisciplinarity has informed the unit’s thinking about challenging disciplinary boundaries. What
follows is (necessarily) a selection of examples of some of the ways we have contributed to the
research base and wider communities since REF2014.

Media engagements have increased considerably as our research specialisms became better
known, whereby colleagues have been approached by media professionals on the strength of their
reputation in research. Rees’s expertise on representations of gender led to her appearance as a
specialist guest on BBC One’s The Big Questions (04/02/18) and twice on the BBC’s World Service
as a member of the expert panel discussing the #metoo movement (18/03/18) and gender and ‘kiss
cam’ at sporting venues (14/02/19). She has also written regular ‘Opinion’ pieces for Times Higher
Education (2014-18). Wynne’s research on Victorian textile recycling led to her appearance on BBC
One’s The Great British Sewing Bee (27/05/20). Seed was interviewed about his book, New York
Hotel on BBC Radio Merseyside 17/01/19) and read his prose-poems on BBC Radio 3’s The Verb
(18/03/2016).

It is significant that ECRs have been active and visible in the media, suggesting that the unit’s
contribution to TV and radio will be sustained over the coming years. Tankard was interviewed by
Mark Gattis for a BBC Four documentary on Aubrey Beardsley (27/03/20) based on her research on
Victorian tuberculosis. Parkin’s involvement in the Family Names in the UK research project led to
interviews in 2016 for BBC Radio 5 Live, BBC Radio 1, and BBC Radio Bristol. Andrew’s research
on crime fiction led to TV appearances on Murder Maps (3DD productions), ‘Jack the Ripper 1’ and
‘Jack the Ripper 2’, Season 5 Episodes 1 and 2, Yesterday, (12/01 and 19/01/20), while her research
on children’s literature led to an interview for French TV, the Mary Poppins episode of Invitation au
Voyage, ARTE (20/07/18). Since June 2019 Andrew has a regular ‘seminar’ slot on BBC Radio
Shropshire’s Seven O’Clock Show where she talks about children’s literature and crime fiction, along
with other literary topics. The increasing visibility of the unit’s research has largely resulted from its
public engagement activities, as well as publications, offering a strong indication that our impact
strategy is effective.

The unit has significantly increased its engagements internationally with more collaborations
occurring with overseas scholars. Leading this development is the IGS; its biennial conferences and
research seminars include speakers from: Australia; Bangladesh; Canada; China; India; Iceland;
New Zealand; North America; Pakistan; South Africa; South Korea; Turkey; as well as many

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
European countries and the UK. Academic speakers working in English, Media, Sociology and
Criminology, Theology, Disability Studies, and Anthropology have offered talks, while non-academic
speakers include an FGM survivor/campaigner, Oxfam’s Director of Gender Justice, and the Director
of the UK Intersex. Our response to COVID19 has created a more democratic platform for the 2021
IGS conference (now online) attracting increased registrations from around the globe.

Chantler and Blair edit Flash: The International Short-Short Story Magazine. Contributors include
Ama Ata Aidoo and Margaret Atwood, while 350 authors from over 40 countries across 6 continents
have been published since 2013 (REF3). Wynne collaborated with scholars from the Universities of
Alberta and Victoria (Canada) in 2020 on a new online project, Crafting Communities: A Series of
Victorian Object Lessons & Scholarly Exchanges in COVID Times. She presented (and will present)
online talks on Victorian textile recycling to a global audience of academics and members of the
public (REF3).

Colleagues who have conducted research with overseas scholars leading to publications include:
Stephenson, who collaborated with colleagues from Shanghai Jaio Tong University (China) to
arrange a seminar which led to an article translated into Chinese for publication (REF2); and Parkin,
who is co-editing The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Family Names in Britain with Richard Coates
(UWE) and Adam Rambousek (Masaryk University, Czech Republic).

This review period has seen an increased number of research collaborations with external
academics in the UK. These include Flanagan, currently co-authoring a book with Anthony Grant
(Edge Hill) on linguistic typology and its applications (forthcoming, Palgrave); Neary has co-written
a chapter with Helen Ringrow (Portsmouth) for The Routledge Handbook of English Language
Studies (2018) and is collaborating with Sonja Lawrenson (MMU) on a cognitive stylistic analysis of
The Siege of Krishnapur. Wynne co-edits with Amber Regis (Sheffield) books on the Brontës (MUP,
2017, and EUP forthcoming).

The strategic use of QR funds and research leave has enabled the Unit to engage more effectively
in co-creating research projects with third-sector organisations, using our research expertise to
lead new initiatives. These engagements are closely related to the unit’s and the University’s impact
strategies. The University’s partnership with Storyhouse, Chester’s arts centre (REF5a), has
provided incentives to initiate innovative collaborations. Pollard has worked with Storyhouse and
Fallen Angels Dance Theatre (a charity helping people recovering from addiction) to bring together
students and disadvantaged members of the community in Storyhouse’s creative learning
environment. Pollard has published pedagogical research based on this project in the Journal of
Perspectives in Applied Academic Practice (2018). Leahy and Parkin also collaborate with
Storyhouse, contributing to its ‘Lockdown Lectures’ series and its community engagement project
based on Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.

The IGS is actively involved in community work, with Rees acting as Chair of the Board of Trustees
of CSASS (Chester’s Sexual Abuse Support Service, 2013-17), and liaising with local schools. Rees
has worked with the OED on redefining the word ‘clitoris’ to register female experience (rather than
patriarchal biomedicine) across the English-speaking world. Tankard’s research on disability led to
an invitation to speak on Victorian consumptives at the Royal Hospital for Neurodisability (04/10/19).
Research related to representations of the body will underpin the unit’s commitment to explore new
avenues in interdisciplinary research.

Research into literature and textiles cultures led Wynne to collaborate with fashion and costume
designers; textile artists; sheep farmers; textile restoration experts; teachers of needlecrafts;
spinners and weavers; and workers in the heritage industry (including the National Trust),
collaborations which underpin her Textile Stories public engagement project (see REF3).

The development of our research environment has led to increasing numbers of researchers in the
unit receiving external recognition in a variety of ways. Many colleagues act regularly as expert
reviewers for publishers (including Palgrave; Bloomsbury; Peter Lang; CUP; MUP; SUNY; Ohio
State UP), and journals (including Victorian Studies; Life Writing; Tulsa Studies in Women’s

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Literature; Studies in the Novel). Similarly, we have acted as external examiners for 12 PhD theses
in the review period (at universities in the UK and overseas). Some colleagues act as reviewers for
grant and promotion applications; for example, Blair was a member of the expert panel on ‘Culture
and cultural production’, at the National Science Centre (NCN), Poland’s major research funding
body, and an external reviewer of an NCN funding application. Fegan acted as peer reviewer for a
funding application for the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada. Wynne
acted as external reviewer for two professorial applications and a funding bid for the Leverhulme
Trust. Neary reviewed an ESRC End of Award Report in 2015. Most colleagues in the unit have
been invited to deliver plenary lectures at academic conferences in the UK and abroad.

Other indicators of external regard for our research include Seed’s New York Hotel being chosen
as a 2018 TLS book of the year (commended as ‘beautifully-crafted prose poems’). His work has
also been translated into Italian and Urdu. Stephenson acted as the head judge of the Cheshire
Prize for Literature in 2018. He was chosen as Selected Poet for the prestigious journal Magma 55
(2014), while his poem, 'Long Stay One', was Winner of the Nantwich Words and Music Festival
Poetry Competition (2014). Rees was appointed as the first Gladstone’s Library’s Political Writer in
Residence in 2016, in recognition of her research on gender and politics.

The unit is committed to realising the potential of its research to enrich the discipline and the wider
society. To this end, we are building on our experiences with the media and public engagement
activities, along with collaborations with external academics and third-sector organisations, to ensure
that our research continues to have relevance within and beyond academia.




                                                                                              Page 13
