Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham

 Unit of Assessment: Uo8, Chemistry

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Context
 UoA8 (School of Chemistry) has a bold vision to maximise academic and end-user impacts of its
 research. Part of the College of Engineering and Physical Sciences at the University of
 Birmingham (UoB), UoA8 has seen significant investment, renewal and growth since REF2014
 (Figure 1.1), affording a vibrant and outstanding research environment. Ahead of moving to the
 new Molecular Sciences Building (MSB) in 2023 (Figure 1.2), strategic recruitment has led to new
 opportunities and increased emphasis on challenge-led research, closely aligned with UoB’s
 Strategic Framework (REF5a-2.4).



                                         Albrecht, Gupta       Dove        Barendt, Makepeace       Clark, Pike                       Champness
                                 Neely        Allan           O’Reilly        Yeung, Herten         Arno, Jupp




         4 FTE from other UoAs

      4 FTEs
       Other




                                                                                                                            REF2021
      Schools                                                                                                                                  32 FTEs
                                                                                                                                              School of
        +                                                                                                                                     Chemistry
                    REF2014




      24 FTEs
     School of                                                                                                                                    = UoA8
     Chemistry

      = UoA8



                     Greaves (ret)                    Worth (res)   Baranoff (res) Simpkins (ret)        Johnston (dec) Read (role)

                              2015        2016              2017               2018                 2019             2020

     Figure 1.1-Evolution of UoA8. [ret-retired; res-resigned; dec-deceased; role-non-research role]



 Since REF2014, investment in people and infrastructure has transformed UoA8’s ambition and
 culture, evidenced by:

      14 new appointments, with sustained investment beyond REF2021 (Champness, Haworth
       Chair, 01/2021),
      grant capture doubling,
      significant diversification in research income, spanning Horizon2020, UKRI, Faraday
       Institution, charities and industry,
      4 new UoB spin-outs, demonstrating increased translational activity,
      11 granted patents (further 14 filed) from 8 academics and 9 licensing agreements with a
       growing list of commercial partners,
      £11M investment in research equipment and infrastructure,
      sustained growth in PDRA (215% increase) and postgraduate (74% increase) numbers,

                                                                                                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    a strong pipeline of outstanding early-career
     researchers, including 2 Future Leaders Fellows
     (FLFs) and 1 Royal Society University Research
     Fellow (URF) since 2019,
    £80M committed by UoB to the new MSB
     (groundworks commenced, REF5a-4.2.1).




                                                            Figure 1.2-MSB, UoA8’s new
 1.1.1. Structure                                        research building. Completion 2023.
 Research activity is structured to break traditional
 inorganic/organic/physical chemistry boundaries.
 Our tiered approach enables us to lead on
                                                                             Materials
                                                                               12 staff
 important fundamental and applied research, and
                                                                                                    Sensing
 respond to emerging opportunities and challenges       AI/Data
                                                                            Energy
 (Figure 1.3).                                                           Sustainability
 Three subject-specific Research Sections,                                   000
                                                                            Health
 Materials, Molecular Synthesis and Biological                    MSBC                    I2S
 Chemistry (MSBC), and Interactions, Interfaces                   11 staff                9 staff
 and Sensors (I2S), focus on training and
 development, and provide our organisational
 framework. Research Sections contain the skills
 and expertise to generate new knowledge for                                   Plastics
 application and impact generation through three
                                                        Figure 1.3-UoA8’s Structure: Sections
 challenge-led Research Themes (Sections
                                                         intersect to create Themes; Interest
 1.3&1.4).
                                                           Groups span all research areas.

 Themes align with national priorities, enabling significant grant capture, e.g.:
  Energy: Faraday-funded CATMAT (Slater, £2.7M), developing next-generation cathode
    materials for increasing Li-ion battery performance; UKRI-FLF (Makepeace, £1.2M)
    developing non-hydrocarbon fuels.
  Health: EPSRC-CDT Sci-Phy-4-Health (Hannon, £3.5M), training 49 PhDs (25F/24M),
    tackling healthcare challenges in ageing, trauma and cardiovascular disease; EU-funded EID-
    ITN, iDESIGN (Cox, £0.6M), partnering postgraduates with EU-based industry to develop
    compound libraries for drug discovery.
  Sustainability: EU-funded ERC, RISE and ITN programmes (O’Reilly, Dove, Britton,
    Tucker, £2.4M) focusing on sustainable chemistry and plastics recycling; Faraday-funded
    ReLiB (Anderson, £10.1M, with £4.8M renewal, 2021) focusing on Li-ion battery materials
    recycling.
 To expand our research ecosystem, we launched Interest Groups in 2019 to provide flexible,
 inclusive and unrestricted testbeds for exploring emerging research areas and informing new
 research directions/innovations. To date, we have founded three Groups: Plastics, which rapidly
 evolved into the campus-wide Birmingham Plastics Network; Data and Machine Intelligence,
 which aligns with the Turing and UoB’s Data Science Institutes; and Sensing, which provides a
 platform for collaboration with Physics (Quantum Sensing) and Medicine.

 1.2. Research Strategy
 Research that matters drives our research- and impact-generating strategy (Section 1.3), unites
 our research objectives and ensures our strategic goals align with UoB’s Strategic Framework
 (REF5a-2.1&2.4). Strategy is set by tensioning a bottom-up approach, empowering individuals to
 pursue research excellence, with top-down strategic steering by our Research Committee. Our

                                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Director of Research (Albrecht), supported by Section Heads, monitors our grant pipeline and
 works closely with the Impact Lead (Preece) to ensure timely and tailored support for translational
 activities.
 UoA8’s REF2014 strategy and objectives sought to develop research under the banner of
 ‘Chemistry for Health and Sustainability’ through 3 outward-facing Research Themes: Chemical
 Biology and Drug Discovery, Imaging in Chemistry and Biomedicine, and Materials Chemistry and
 Energy. Significant progress against our REF2014 objectives was made by:
 1. strengthening our research base in Health and Sustainability,
 2. increasing cross-disciplinary interaction by establishing and growing a new Energy Research
    Theme and cross-College appointments,
 3. sustained institutional investment in academic leadership and strategic appointments, which
    has increased Category-A FTE by 33%, added £3.2M infrastructure investment, and driven a
    cultural shift towards more challenge-led, collaborative research.
 Driven by horizon-scanning, funder priorities and industry/stakeholder engagement, this strategy
 has developed throughout this REF period and been informed by five principles (Table 1.1).

       Principles                Outcome                 Exemplar Action & Resulting Impact

                                                     4 appointments in solid-state materials
      Consolidate                                    delivering:
   strengthen existing                                  strengthened research leadership
  research excellence                                   significant Faraday funding
    aligned with UoB                                    strengthened links with Metallurgy &
     priority/strategic                                  Materials, Physics
   areas and national      research groupings           close alignment with UoB’s Strategic
    research themes       with the infrastructure,       Framework: Birmingham Energy Institute,
                          leadership, skills set,        Tyseley Energy Park
                          breadth and depth to
                            lead and direct the
                             research agenda         3 appointments in soft materials/polymers
                                                     delivering:
          Build
                                                        strengthened academic leadership
    invest in areas of                                  spin-out: 4D-Medicine
  strategic importance                                  new strand to Sustainability research
                                                        new links to Healthcare Technologies
                                                         Institute, Medicine

                           enhanced inter- and       3 joint appointments with Medicine
        Connect              multidisciplinary       delivering:
        establish           activity delivering
                                  impact                significant cross-disciplinary translational
     mechanisms to
                                                         activity
    connect research
                                                        breadth and depth in therapeutics &
  strands within UoA8,
                                                         diagnostics
   cross-campus and
       externally                                       preparedness for Birmingham Health
                                                         Innovation Campus

         Enable              collaborative and       Deeply embedded EDI principles delivering:
                          collegiate environment,       new policies for carers, returnees to work
   establish inclusive
                           sustaining the highest       flexible working
     organisational        quality research from
       structures                                       enhanced mentoring
                               all researchers
                                                        an inclusive environment in the new MSB


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       Distinguish             destination of choice   Interest Groups delivering Birmingham
                                 for researchers       Plastics Network
    give Birmingham             working across our
       Chemistry a             areas of excellence     New collaborative/interdisciplinary working
    distinctive identity                               principles embedded in the MSB

                           Table 1.1 Principles informing our Research Strategy.

 Our aim is to sustain a thriving environment that empowers all individuals to deliver impactful,
 world-leading research. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I) is therefore deeply embedded,
 informs how we support individuals to realise their potential and ensures all UoA8 members have
 contributed meaningfully to REF2021.

 1.2.1. ENERGY: BATTERY TECHNOLOGIES & CLEANER FUELS
 Solid-state materials research was a key strength in REF2014, with leading expertise in fuel cells,
 nuclear-waste storage and hydrogen storage materials. Key objectives were to build our advanced
 materials characterisation and diversify the material class expertise.
 We addressed these objectives by strategic appointments in magnetic materials (Clark from
 Liverpool, 2020) and short-range order characterisation (Allan from Cambridge, 2017; Yeung from
 Oxford, 2019), supporting growing activity in new energy technologies. The Diamond-UoB
 collaboration was strengthened by Hriljac’s appointment at Diamond Light Source (retaining
 0.2FTE, UoB), introducing staff to more diverse synchrotron techniques and strengthening
 networks, especially for our early-career appointees. The Theme has further advanced through
 equipment investment (£3M), new and deepening campus-wide and regional collaborations (e.g.,
 with Birmingham Energy Institute, Tyseley Energy Park, REF5a-2.1.7), staff/student exchange
 and access to state-of-the-art instrumentation/expertise (collaboration agreement with BAM,
 Federal Institute for Materials Research and Testing, Germany).
 Our strategy has positioned us to respond to significant funding and research opportunities
 (Faraday Institution), establishing leadership in battery technology, and enabled emerging
 strengths in cleaner fuels. Building on established expertise in hydrogen storage and fuel-cell
 materials (Anderson PI, UK Sustainable Hydrogen Energy Consortium; Slater/Anderson Co-Is,
 CDT in Hydrogen, Fuel Cells and Their Applications), research capacity has grown with the
 appointment of Makepeace (from Oxford, 2019, subsequent FLF) through his work on ammonia
 as an alternative hydrogen fuel source. We are driving the clean-energy agenda through
 involvement in the International Energy Agency Hydrogen Technology Collaboration Programme
 on hydrogen storage.
 Research breadth in cleaner fuels is demonstrated by electrocatalysis research and more
 sustainable methods of ammonia production (Rodriguez), and leadership in nuclear technologies
 through EPSRC-funded consortia (Hriljac, Read; TRANSCEND and DISTINCTIVE, 2020 RSC
 Industry-Academia Collaboration Award). Capitalising on University-wide investments in energy,
 establishing the Chemistry-led Birmingham Centre for Strategic Elements and Critical Materials
 (co-director Anderson) has advanced collaborations and secured projects worth >£35M.
 Our technology and impact reach extends into organic materials. Spin-out company Irresistible
 Materials (2010) is based on carbon materials developed by Preece (REF2021 Impact Case) and
 wider impact is achieved through industry collaboration, e.g., 2018 RSC Industry-Academia
 Collaboration award for O’Reilly/BP for polymers for enhanced oil recovery.
 2021-2026 Objectives: With solid-state materials reaching critical mass, we will focus on further
 developing the cleaner fuels and battery themes. With 4 new early-career researchers and
 purpose-built research space in the MSB, we are well-positioned to build upon this strong
 foundation in fundamental solid-state chemistry and become a leader within the Energy
 landscape. Our leadership and involvement in nationally leading UoB centres will facilitate the
 translation of fundamental science into applied technologies.




                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.2. HEALTH: EARLIER DIAGNOSIS & BETTER TREATMENTS
 A key strength in REF2014 was our EPSRC-DTC, Physical Sciences of Imaging for Biomedical
 Sciences (2008-2018), which established new cross-disciplinary networks across Medicine and
 the Life Sciences, with Chemistry at their cores. Our objective was to capitalise on these networks
 to drive a challenge-led research agenda with specific focus on better treatments and earlier
 diagnoses.
 These objectives were addressed by a new EPSRC-CDT in Physical Sciences for Health (Sci-
 Phy-4-Health, 2014-2022), 4 strategic appointments in sensing: Barendt from Oxford, 2019; Pike
 from Bradford, 2020, UKRI-FLF; Neely from Leiden, 2014, EPSRC Healthcare Technology Fellow;
 Albrecht from Imperial, 2017, and 3 joint appointments with Institutes in the College of Medical
 and Dental Sciences that strengthen and expand expertise towards cellular-based treatments:
 Arno (from UoB, 2020; polymer-based therapies), Gupta (from Hull, 2017; EPSRC Healthcare
 Technology Fellow, point-of-care diagnostics) and Herten (from Heidelberg, 2019; fluorescence
 live-cell microscopy).
 We have actively engaged in campus-wide drug-discovery projects to deliver a de-risked pipeline
 for external investment. Fossey developed a lead candidate, currently under development as a
 potential TB (GIBH, China) and multi-drug-resistant-TB (PHE) therapeutic. Cox’s sustained
 collaboration with Biosciences delivered a new cancer immunotherapy, resulting in spin-out iOx
 Therapeutics. We have reported new drug-delivery vehicles for the eye (Peacock,
 US20160339079A1), multimodal nanocarriers for metallodrug delivery to cancer cells
 (Pikramenou/Hannon), and polymeric systems for siRNA delivery (Fernandez-Trillo).
 UoA8’s strengthened expertise in imaging and sensing has expanded, with particular focus on
 diagnostics. Tucker’s fluorescent and electrochemical DNA sensors for point variant cancer
 biomarkers and Neely’s new technology for sequence-specific functionalisation of DNA, which
 opened up a new approach for rapid screening of epigenetic biomarkers, have led to patented
 technologies (through BaseSenseTM) and UoB spin-out Tagomics, respectively.
 Spin-outs evidence our successful impact strategy (Section 1.3). With outline studies benefiting
 from EPSRC-IAA support, subsequent translational activity led to NitroPep (2017, Peacock,
 REF2021 Impact Case) commercialising a novel antimicrobial surface-coating technology. 2020
 saw Dove spin out 4D-Medicine to develop 3D-printable biomaterial scaffolds.
 2021-2026 Objectives: We will strengthen our activities in developing therapeutic solutions,
 translate our work in sensing to develop point-of-care diagnostics and capitalise on recent
 strategic joint appointments and opportunities the new Molecular Sciences Building enables. We
 will embed emerging diagnostics technologies in the forthcoming Birmingham Health Innovation
 Campus (Ref5a-4.2.2) and establish the Birmingham Interdisciplinary Centre for Nucleic
 Acids to capitalise on growing strengths in these areas and nascent interactions and
 collaborations with strategic partners including the Rosalind Franklin Institute.

 1.2.3. SUSTAINABILITY: REPLACE & RECYCLE
 As part of growing research capacity, Sustainability was identified as a key priority after REF2014.
 Our objectives were to lead research in replacing current technologies with sustainable
 alternatives and to design and implement superior recycling methods.
 Activities were re-focused to establish core strengths in battery recycling, plastics technologies
 and catalysis. We made strategic appointments and infrastructure/equipment investment to
 develop future technologies, provide replacement processes and materials, and develop recycling
 activities to improve process sustainability. New appointments in polymer recycling (Dove from
 Warwick, 2018), catalyst recycling (O’Reilly from Warwick, 2018), battery technologies (Allan) and
 photocatalysis (Jupp from Amsterdam, 2020, RS-URF) supplement existing strengths in the
 Sustainability Theme.
 UoA8 hosts the flagship Faraday-funded Recycling Li-ion Batteries (ReLiB) project (PI Anderson,
 supporting 23 PDRAs, 20 PhDs). ReLiB is the UK’s largest battery recycling project and when
 funded, was the biggest public investment in electric-vehicle LiB recycling research globally. The
 project champions new recycling and processing techniques to recover and re-use critical
 materials from end-of-life products (Anderson-GB20001183.9). ReLiB has facilitated key

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations (including National Renewable Energy Laboratory, BAM, CSIRO, Fraunhofer
 Institute). Leadership in the field was recognised by the invitation to write a seminal review of the
 area (Anderson, Nature, 2019).
 Substantial investment in equipment (£2M) and personnel was made to rapidly grow polymer
 research, with focus on polymers/plastics recycling. This research complements investigations of
 Na-ion batteries as more sustainable alternatives to Li-ion batteries (Britton, Allan and Slater €8M
 EU-SIMBA project), of CO2 as a sustainable feedstock in materials synthesis and electrochemical
 catalysis technologies (Rodriguez), and of polymers for sustainable plastics and biomedical
 applications (Dove).
 Our impact strategy (Section 1.3) has facilitated our delivery of impacts in Production, Commerce
 and the Economy as well as developing policy in the sustainable use of plastics and driving the
 strategic elements and critical materials agenda (Section 4.3.3). A long-standing collaboration
 with P&G resulted in integration of a UoB-developed technology into several of P&G’s major
 household product lines, pivoting to alternative, more sustainable materials (REF2021 Impact
 Case).
 2021-2026 Objectives: Sustainability has become a thriving focus since REF2014, accounting for
 ~25% of our REF2021 outputs. We will capitalise on these achievements via further appointments,
 new collaborations (facilitated by the Birmingham Plastics Network) and through co-location with
 environmental scientists in the MSB. Key to translating the technologies developed is engagement
 with our industrial partners (e.g., Unilever, P&G), who are well placed to integrate solutions into
 their products. A key objective is further engagement with policymakers and researchers across
 human-, social- and life sciences to facilitate technology implementation.

 1.3. Enabling and Facilitating Impact
 We use enabling and supportive mechanisms to grow and sustain research programmes
 and generate impact. Researchers are supported throughout the translational pathway by the
 Research Impact Committee, the hub for UoA8’s impact-generating activity, through:
  Impact awareness raising, coordinating activities/workshops to ensure researchers
    recognise potential impact in its many forms.
  Supporting researchers to develop project-specific impact pathway plans to maximise
    reach and significance.
  Monitoring our research pipeline to identify potential impacts. Our Impact Lead meets with
    researchers to facilitate impact delivery, e.g., UoB’s technology transfer office, UoB
    Enterprise (REF5a-4.1), supported patent filing to ensure NitroPep (REF2021 Impact Case)
    could commercialise its technology.
  Harnessing appropriate expertise and timely stakeholder engagement, working with
    College Business Engagement and Strategic Research Development Teams (REF5a-4.1)
    to identify market, policy and other impact opportunities, e.g., supporting the strategic
    partnership with P&G (REF2021 Impact Case).

 Our flexible workload allocation model provisions for impact-generating activities. Since 2019,
 founders of three spin-outs (potential future Impact Cases) have benefited from impact leave,
 ensuring their agile response to emerging impact opportunities.

 1.3.1. Delivering Impact in the Next Five Years
 UoA8’s REF2021 impacts focus primarily on Commerce and the Economy. We will develop our
 strong impact pipeline to capitalise on significant nascent translational activity, targeting our
 recent UoA8 spin-outs, by:
  increasing translational grant capture (e.g., InnovateUK, MRC Confidence-in-Concept) and
     working with UoB Enterprise to showcase translational activities to prospective investors and
     exploit our expanding IP portfolio (11 granted patents REF2021, cf. 3 in REF2014; 107
     records-of-invention REF2021, cf. 26 in REF2014),


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    our Impact Lead leading a Chemistry Spin-Out Group to expand commercialisation support,
    expanding our Mentoring Scheme to include impact mentoring from industry/third sector.

 We will create new impact-generating activities that diversify our impacts and maximise their
 reach on:
  Understanding, Learning and Participation to disadvantaged and under-represented
    groups through ChemBAM (Section 4.3.2).
  Influence and Policy, capitalising on cross-sectoral programmes in Energy and Sustainability
    (Section 4.3.3).
  Health, promoting licensing of therapeutic agents.

 1.4. Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
 Our vibrant and dynamic research environment is enabled by our tiered structure (Figure
 1.3), which has supported interdisciplinary research through:
  Strategic appointments, proliferating interdisciplinary working through the Birmingham
     Centre for Strategic Elements and Critical Materials and Birmingham Energy Institute,
     which have been instrumental in attracting major Faraday Institution funding.
  Cross-College joint appointments and alignment of our Health Theme with institutional
     initiatives in Medicine in Inflammation and Ageing (Gupta), Cancer Sciences (Arno), and
     Cardiovascular Sciences and COMPARE (Herten) (REF5a-2.1.5).
  Our Interdisciplinary Research Champion, responsible for promoting and growing
     interdisciplinary research, and supporting the Director of Research in shaping cross-College
     activities.
  Establishment of Interest Groups and challenge-led Research Themes.
  UoB structures (REF5a-2.3), e.g., UoA8 is involved in three of the Institute of Global
     Innovation’s Emerging Focus Themes: Confronting Antimicrobial Resistance (Fernandez-
     Trillo, Albrecht), Environmental Pollution Solutions (Dove) and Zero Carbon Fuels
     (Makepeace).
  Increased engagement in campus-wide and regional interdisciplinary DTCs (Section 3.1)
     and continued leadership in cross-campus CDTs (e.g., Sci-Phy-4-Health).

 The number of publications co-authored by researchers from other disciplines/sectors (Section
 4.1) and postgraduates with co-supervisors from other UoAs (Sections 2.6.1&3.1) evidences our
 vibrant interdisciplinary research culture. Furthermore:
  the new MSB will co-locate Environmental Sciences and Chemistry researchers to capitalise
     on the Birmingham Plastics Network, launched by both Schools in 2020. MSB is the first
     phase of a long-term development to co-locate health-based research at UoB, with Chemistry
     at its centre.
  strategic recruitment will unlock opportunities enabled by the new Birmingham Health
     Innovation Campus (£15M) and partner UKRI institutes, through secondments or relocation
     of spin-outs.

 1.5. Open Research
 We are committed to Open Research and FAIR data management. Researchers provide
 leadership in developing open-access journals (Section 4.4.5). UoA-level activities are guided by
 the University’s Open Research Group (REF5a-2.2) to implement DORA and Plan-S to apply fair
 and responsible metrics in staff assessment (e.g., probation and promotion) and actively promote
 open publication.




                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our UoA8 Data Management Working Group, chaired by our Open Research Champion
 (Tucker), ensures UoB’s Open Research policies are embedded through training activities for all
 members.
                                            2020                   2014            2020
 Staff publish work as pre-prints
 (ChemRxiv/BioRxiv) and publicise
 outputs through social media, public                                                   41% Gold
 engagement      and    conferences.
 Increasing numbers of accepted                                                  59% Green

 manuscripts are deposited in UoB’s
 online repository, UBIRA (Figure       95% of papers on        46% of papers   70% of papers
 1.4).                                   UBIRA in 2020           open access     open access

                                                  Figure 1.4-Open-access papers.
 We support the Concordat on Open Research Data through our Research Data Management
 Policy, releasing open data through the University’s e-repository, whilst protecting confidential
 data/IP.

 1.6. Research Integrity
 We are committed to the UK National Concordat to Support Research Integrity, as enshrined
 in UoB’s Code of Ethics and Statement on Research Integrity (REF5a-2.2). All new staff undertake
 online research integrity, GDPR and ethical self-assessment training during induction (repeated
 biennially thereafter). Our Plagiarism and Research Integrity Officer (Chakrabarti) coordinates
 bespoke postgraduate training on ethics, responsible research methods, responsible innovation,
 ED&I and plagiarism.


 2. People

 2.1. Staff Development Strategy
 We provide an inclusive, flexible training and development environment in which ED&I is
 embedded. This environment, shaped by the Researcher Development Concordat, enables
 individuals to realise their career ambitions and contribute collectively to UoA8’s wider research
 and impact objectives.

 2.1.1. Leadership Development
 A specific staff-development objective was to strengthen academic leadership to help navigate
 a period of expansion and change. We have achieved this through:
  training: since 2014, 19 academics have completed Leadership Programmes, including
     bespoke programmes for female and BAME staff (REF5a-3.4.4),
  encouragement and support for staff to accept senior leadership roles, particularly female
     colleagues (Head of School, College Director of Global Engagement),
  introducing deputy positions, providing leadership development for early-/mid-career staff,
     improving resilience and aiding succession planning,
  strategic recruitment to expand senior leadership,
  mentoring/coaching to support staff in particular roles.




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.2. Training and Development
 Performance and Development Review (PDR) is the
 primary tool for bespoke career development and support.                          PDR1
 Academics have three PDR meetings annually (Figure 2.1).                     Objectives Setting,
                                                                               Promotion and
 Mentoring is a major focus. New recruits and, increasingly,                    Development
 established staff, have mentors from HEI and/or industry.
 Senior leaders take advantage of reverse mentoring, and
 PDRAs pair-up with academics with experience relevant to
 their career goals. Staff are encouraged to undertake impact     PDR2                              PDR3
 and grant-writing training and participate in pitch-to-peer     Workload,                          Esteem,
                                                                Teaching and                     Influence and
 events.                                                         Collegiality                        Impact
 Coaching is offered to support development, provided by
 UoB’s People & Organisation Development                 and Figure 2.1-UoA8’s PDR structure.
 supplemented by specialist external providers, e.g., since
 2018, VOX-Coaching coached 5 staff (2F/3M, including 3 early-career) for major grant and
 fellowship panel interviews.
 New staff undertake an institutional induction, including compulsory ED&I training (REF5a-
 3.4.2&3.4.4), supplemented by a bespoke School-level induction.

 2.2. Staffing/Recruitment Policy
 Our staffing and recruitment policy is driven by our desire to grow sustainably while
 maintaining a diverse, vibrant and collegiate environment. Beyond supporting the
 development of existing staff, we have ambitiously expanded (Figure 1.1) to achieve critical mass
 in key areas:
 Four professors (1F/3M) (Albrecht, Herten, O’Reilly, Dove) have enhanced global visibility,
 brought international collaboration, industrial-stakeholder engagement experience, and expertise
 in leading large, multi-partner, interdisciplinary research programmes. Two of these senior
 appointments in polymers/soft materials have positioned UoA8 to respond to emerging global
 challenges (plastics recycling).
 Two senior lecturers (2F) have strengthened links with the Quantum Technology Hub (Clark)
 (REF5a-2.1.2) and UKRI’s Healthcare Technologies priority area (Gupta).
 Eight lecturers/fellows (3F/5M) include one URF (Jupp), two FLFs (Makepeace, Pike), an
 EPSRC Healthcare Technology Fellow (Neely), two Birmingham Fellows (Arno, Allan) (REF5a-
 3.4.1) and two lecturers (Barendt, Yeung). These appointments have introduced new,
 complementary strands to our Research Themes (e.g., in clean energy, cell engineering and
 photocatalysis), improved connectivity with Life/Medical Sciences and created critical mass in
 solid-state materials, enabling major grant capture (Section 3.1). All Fellows hold proleptic
 positions; all other Category-A staff are on open contracts.

 Diversity is a focus (Figure 2.2); we now have:
  a more balanced distribution of senior, mid- and early-career staff, facilitating succession
    planning,
  increased proportions of female staff,
  increased BAME staff [2/24 (8%), 2014; 4/32 (13%), 2020].




                                                                                                       Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                       REF2014            REF2021

  Lecturer/Early -
                             40%
   Career Fellow                               38%
                     60%
                                      62%

                                                                                    F
                     3F/5M + 1F/1M         3F/5M                                        School of
                                                                                        Chemistry
                                                                                   M

                            20%                                                     F
                                                                                        Other
  Senior Lecturer                              43%                                      Schools
                                     57%                                           M
     /Reader         80%

                     2F/7M + 0F/1M         6F/8M


                                              20%
      Professor
                      100%            80%               6    22       11 21
                     0F/7M + 0F/1M         2F/8M        F    M        F    M
                                %M / %F
                                                      REF2014 REF2021
                                      Figure 2.2-Gender data.

 Our 2021-2026 objectives are to:
 1. grow further to realise our REF2021 objectives (Section 1.2), through strategic joint
     appointments, which capitalise on institutional investment in Sustainability and Health and
     align to future development of the MSB,
 2. support the development and promotion of existing female and BAME staff at all levels to meet,
     or exceed, institutional targets (REF5a-3.4.5) and sector averages [Diversity Landscape of the
     Chemical Sciences (2018, RSC)], and to deliver greater role-model diversity,
 3. build on recent successes in supporting external candidates for prestigious fellowships and
     encourage/support existing staff to secure large grants, including fellowships.
 We monitor diversity statistics throughout recruitment, taking positive action, if necessary, to
 mitigate unconscious bias. Guided by recommendations from Learned Societies [Diversity
 Landscape of the Chemical Sciences (2018, RSC), Exploring the Workplace for LGBT+ Physical
 Scientists (2019, RSC/IOP/RAS)], our ED&I Committee reviews our external profile and internal
 processes to ensure we recruit from a maximally diverse talent pool.

 2.3. Supporting Early-Career Academics/PDRAs
 Lecturers/Fellows receive a relocation package, support for visa applications, two PhD
 studentships and essential research equipment as part of their start-up packages (REF2021
 investment ~£2.2M). They prepare a Probationary Personal Development Plan with their mentor,
 using the Vitae Researcher Development framework to target relevant training and development
 offerings from UoB’s People Organisation & Development and the Research Development Team.
 Probationary targets, agreed with the Head of School in consultation with their mentor, focus on
 developing research activities. Teaching/administration responsibilities increase slowly, over three
 years for lecturers and more gradually for Fellows. Since 2014, all probationers passed probation
 and are now employed on open contracts.
 PDRA PDRs emphasise career ambitions and development. PDRAs have access to all-staff
 training opportunities, including UoB’s PERCAT scheme (REF5a-3.3) and the Research Leaders
 programme. Mentors provide independent career advice. CV and interview training are provided

                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for those on fixed-term contracts, to support employment externally or redeployment. The
 Research Development Team encourages and supports fellowship applications (for internal and
 external PDRAs) with significant success: Marie Curie Fellows have increased from 3 (2014-2017,
 0F/3M) to 12 (2017-2020, 3F/9M). PDRAs contribute to decision-making and help shape UoA8
 policies, support and training provision through their membership of School, ED&I, Health and
 Safety, Research and Athena Swan committees.

 2.4. Study/Impact Leave and Staff Exchange
 Study Leave: Staff may apply for one term of Study Leave every three years. Since REF2014,
 one staff member has taken a one-year sabbatical; however, many staff, at all levels, have taken
 shorter periods of leave, focusing on major grant writing or visiting international laboratories for
 knowledge-exchange/training purposes (e.g., Chakrabarti, Harvard; Rodriguez, Stanford). Staff
 returning from, e.g., ill health, caring responsibilities, benefit from informal study leave and
 financial assistance (e.g., for travel/conference attendance, Section 2.7.2). We support fellowship
 holders (Royal Society, Faraday Institute) through recruiting Teaching Fellows (5 in REF2021) to
 cover teaching/administration duties.
 Impact Leave: Preece’s impact leave (0.4FTE for 2 years) to secure InnovateUK funding and
 engage industrial partners to grow ChromaTwist (Nature Research/Merck Spin-Off Prize ‘One-to-
 Watch’ 2020) evidences our flexible support for accelerating impact generation, which is integral
 to our impact strategy. With bespoke support from our Impact Lead, staff are encouraged to
 explore market and commercialisation opportunities. Since 2018, five ICURe awards have
 enabled an Entrepreneurial Lead (usually a PDRA/PhD) to take impact leave to validate the
 commercial potential of their innovation. These activities led to three spin-outs (Tagomics, 4D-
 Medicine and ChromaTwist).
 Staff Exchange: The Research Impact Committee facilitates cross-sectoral exchanges, including
 supporting incoming industry researchers (e.g., a 2-year secondment of a Toray Industries
 researcher to work with Dove), through institutional exchange programmes (REF5a-2.1.8), and
 applications to internal and external funding schemes (e.g., RSC Mobility Awards, HPC Europa3).
 Honorary research positions stimulate staff exchange, particularly with strategic industry partners
 including BAE Systems, GSK, Sharp, Syngenta. For example, a 3-year Visiting Fellowship
 enabled a DSTL researcher to work (30%) with Pikramenou, using our facilities to develop
 ultrasensitive assays for strategically valuable molecules.

 2.5. Recognition/Reward
 We proactively support and encourage promotion applications and nominate staff for
 awards and prizes (Section 4.4.2).
 All staff are considered annually for promotion by the Promotions Committee [membership 3F(1
 part-time):3M]. Promotion criteria are discussed at PDRs; measures are put in place to address
 perceived weaknesses. The Senior Leadership Team provides guidance on applications, interview
 practice and support to unsuccessful applicants. Promotion applications and successes have
 increased in recent years (Figure 2.3).
 Staff     have    received    research
 training/supervision awards, including:
                                                                               1
 UoB College Excellence in Doctoral
 Supervision Award (Slater, 2019);                    3
 University Teaching Academy Award                                50%
                                                                female
                                                                                          100%
                                                                                         female
 for Research-Informed Teaching to             4                success
                                                                             9
                                                                                         success


 Sci-Phy-4-Health       (Hannon/Neely,                    57% success              90% success
 2015), and Impact Awards for
 Preece’s (ChromaTwist) and Dove’s            2014-2017                  2018-2020
 (4D-Medicine) spin-outs in RSC
 Emerging Technologies competitions.                    Figure 2.3-Promotion data.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.6. Research Students
 2.6.1. Recruitment Strategy
 Our objective is to sustain a diverse postgraduate cohort that contributes significantly to
 delivering our research goals and sustaining a vibrant research environment.
 We achieved our REF2014 objective to expand the Research School through funding
 diversification (Figure 3.2). A 72% increase in UoA8 postgraduate registrations in REF2021, with
 39% co-supervised with other UoAs, stems from our strategy to move towards more challenge-
 led, interdisciplinary research, capitalising on EPSRC-CDTs: Topological Design, Sci-Phy-4-
 Health and Hydrogen Fuel Cells and Their Applications, and the regional BBSRC-funded MIBTP-
 DTP. Further support has come from STFC/EPSRC DTPs, Faraday studentships, Diamond and
 UoB scholarships [e.g., 2020 intake (30): 15% DTP, 30% UoB], including from institutional
 initiatives, e.g., COMPARE (Nottingham), SUSTech (China) and BAM (Germany) (REF5a-2.1.5).
 Our ED&I Committee monitors data, actively influences recruitment and works with our
 postgraduate-led Research School Liaison Committee to develop activities (e.g., IET Look at Me
 Now initiative, Gupta) to promote postgraduate study to under-represented groups and those with
 protected characteristics. Female applicants have increased in the last 3 years (now ~45%), with
 the 2019/20 female offer-to-acceptance rate at 92%.
 Our 2021-2026 postgraduate recruitment objectives are to increase diversity, maintaining
 numbers through targeting institutional strategic partnerships (REF5a-2.1.5&2.1.8) and increasing
 overseas recruitment. In the medium term, we will expand postgraduate numbers by capitalising
 on impact-generating activity and industrial co-funding.

 2.6.2. Supporting Skills/Career Development
 Our PhD students graduate with the research, transferable and organisational skills to
 realise their career ambitions, evidenced by high completion rates (since 2016 >92% within 4-
 year registration period) and those taking up academic positions (e.g., NIMS, Melbourne, SIOC,
 Cambridge) and entering industry (e.g., Sygnature, AWE, EDF, Syngenta).
 Courses and development opportunities are identified using an ongoing skills-gap analysis and
 annual Development Needs Analysis, informed by the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework. Careers guidance is supported by UoA8’s Careers Officer and UoB’s Graduate
 School (REF5a-3.2). In addition:
  Project-specific research-skills training (e.g., UNIX training, PDF analysis) is overseen by
     supervisors and coordinated by Sections.
  UoA8 provides health and safety, ethics, research integrity, open research, ED&I and
     unconscious bias training.
  UoB’s Graduate School and Library Services offer diverse training, ranging from project
     management/teamworking to entrepreneurship.
  Presentations at conferences, ‘meet the speaker’ events after seminars and our annual
     Postgraduate Symposium develop communication and networking skills. UoB’s membership
     of Universitas21 and ERASMUS programmes enables research visits and international
     network development. Funds are prioritised for those needing additional support, for example,
     owing to disability or caring responsibilities.
  Our postgraduates are passionate about public engagement and develop their communication
     and engagement skills through diverse activities, many through ChemBAM (Section 4.3.2),
     e.g., a postgraduate won the 2020 Parkin Prize Lecture for her outreach work using Jenga to
     describe batteries. We train and mentor postgraduates wishing to apply for HEA fellowships
     (4 Fellow/Associate Fellow awards since 2018).

 2.6.3. Monitoring/Support Mechanisms
 A combination of group, supervisor, UoA8-level and institutional processes provides a
 comprehensive package of monitoring and support. Progress is monitored through monthly
 meetings with supervisors while half-yearly reviews allow for longer-term reflections on progress,

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training, development and objectives setting. Annual reviews with a second academic align with
 key progression milestones. Monitoring is overseen by UoA8’s Graduate School Director and
 managed through the central Graduate School. UoA8-level support goes beyond science; our
 Postgraduate Welfare Tutor provides pastoral advice and acts as mediator when required.
 Our Research School Liaison Committee offers support and development activities for
 postgraduates, mentoring new starters and organising events to share science, develop careers,
 and support diversity. Members have representation at all decision-making School committees
 (School, Research, Education, ED&I, Health and Safety) and meet Senior Leadership biannually.

 2.7. ED&I
 Diversity in UoA8 is valued and supported through equitable action, inclusive policies and
 behaviour. ED&I pervades UoA8’s strategy and is a standing item on all decision-making
 Committees.

 2.7.1. Supporting Flexible and/or Remote Working
 Flexible working opportunities support UoA8’s diverse workforce. The Head of School
 reviews requests for part-time and/or flexible working in consultation with relevant stakeholders
 (e.g., Head of Education). Our collegiate culture ensures that short-notice requests for cover (e.g.,
 bereavement) are readily accommodated. For longer-term changes (Section 2.4) contract-time
 reduction feeds into our staff-planning model, which is used to leverage funding for replacement
 staff.
 Prior to 2020, 4 academics worked flexibly or part-time for health/caring reasons. To retain their
 active participation in School life, activities/meetings are scheduled, wherever possible, between
 09.30-15.00.
 Part-time staff have equivalent career pathways to full-time staff: outputs and promotion criteria
 are considered pro-rata to working hours. All part-time staff have been promoted since 2014.

 2.7.2. Supporting Return from Periods of Leave/Ill-Health
 Staff managing long-term illness and/or with caring responsibilities are offered additional
 support. Bespoke return-to-work packages extend beyond institutional policies (REF5a-3.4.5).
 These include:
  direct research support through a one-year School-funded PDRA, which can be used flexibly.
     Since REF2014, three academics used this support to maintain research momentum, one
     during maternity leave, the others upon returning to work,
  prioritised support from the institutionally administered EPSRC Developing Leaders
     programme,
  zero teaching and administration for returnees’ first terms back and no new
     courses/administration roles for the remainder of that academic year,
  support applying for institutional funds, e.g., to finance collaborator visits to minimise
     returnees’ travel or IT purchases to enable home-working,
  research-only Keeping-in-Touch days,
  reasonable adjustments to work schedules, objectives and workspaces.
 UoA8 supports postgraduates to apply for institutional funds that provide up to 3 months paid
 sick leave and extended registration. Returnees meet the Graduate School Director and
 supervisor to ensure appropriate restructuring of schedules and research goals, if necessary.

 2.7.3. Supporting Those with Protected Characteristics
 We amend working patterns to ensure those with protected characteristics can work
 effectively, guided recently by the Equality and Human Rights Commission’s guidance on
 COVID-19-related reasonable adjustments for employees.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoB’s Disability Service helps managers/supervisors understand disabled employees’ needs,
 providing practical support and guidance, particularly with workplace adjustments and
 infrastructural changes (Section 3.2.4).
 ED&I Committee supplements mandatory University-wide training (REF5a-3.4.2), with extensive
 education and awareness raising of innate and acquired prejudices, encouraging individuals to
 develop corrective behaviours to minimise unconscious bias and microaggressions.
 UoA8 holds a Bronze Athena Swan award and will apply for Silver in 2022. We sponsored the
 2020 LGBT+STEMinar Conference (at UoB) and ED&I Committee are currently reviewing UoA8’s
 operations against the Race Equality Charter’s five principles. In 2020, 500 people attended an
 online seminar series highlighting issues impacting minority groups in STEM. The programme was
 developed by a UoA8 postgraduate and supported by the RSC’s Inclusion and Diversity Fund.

 2.7.4. Supporting Staff/Student Wellbeing
 Staff can seek wellbeing guidance in various ways, from confidential discussions with their
 mentor/Head of School to using our confidential online suggestion box, or through UoB-wide
 support mechanisms (REF5a-3.4.5).
 A well-developed support structure for postgraduates includes our Wellbeing Officer, the conduit
 to extensive institutional support, including Student Support and Counselling.
 Our ED&I Committee uses an annual online survey and follow-up focus groups to assess
 wellbeing support, with the outputs informing future provision.

 2.7.5. How ED&I Informed REF2021              Outputs by gender          Outputs by ethnicity
 UoA8’s REF Outputs Panel comprised
 four senior staff (1F/3M, two members
 of ED&I Committee). Members
 undertook compulsory ED&I training.                        Male
                                                Male
 The Panel regularly compared the               69%         66%
                                                                            Other      Other
 overall pool of available outputs with                                     87.0%      87.5%
 those selected for submission by
 gender, ethnicity, career stage, and
 PT/FT status to check for evidence of
 bias. Figure 2.4 evidences M/F and             Female     Female
                                                 31%        34%
 BAME          staff’s      proportionate                                  BAME        BAME
                                                                           13.0%       12.5%
 contributions to our outputs (during
 REF2021, 4 staff undertook 7 periods         Submitted    Eligible       Submitted    Eligible

 of maternity leave totalling ~5 years).
                                             Figure 2.4-Submitted outputs compared to REF-
                                                             eligible staff.
 2.8. COVID-19 RESPONSE
 Planned expansion has continued despite the pandemic. The need for home working highlighted
 the need to accommodate significantly increased flexible working. We have supported staff in
 developing skills in managing teams remotely, which will positively influence future flexible
 working.
 Focusing on wellbeing support, we introduced ‘buddy systems’ and weekly meetings for all staff
 and postgraduates. Active staff engagement continued through fortnightly virtual coffee mornings
 and monthly School meetings. Our ED&I Committee hosted a programme of activities around
 mental health and wellbeing. A Return-to-Research group (representation from all Themes and
 career stages) developed buildings, laboratory, health and safety, and wellbeing programmes,
 which have supported the effective continuation of research during the pandemic.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research Funding and Income-Generating Strategies
 Our income-generating strategy links directly with our research and staffing strategies. Objectives


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for REF2021 were to:
 1. diversify income streams to increase resilience, achieved by focusing more on challenge-
     led, multidisciplinary research alongside horizon scanning to capitalise on emerging funding
     priorities/opportunities (e.g., Faraday),
 2. make strategic appointments to access new funding streams (polymers/plastics) and/or
     provide critical mass (solid-state materials) to enable major grant capture,
 3. reinforce our Research Grant Support Framework to support staff in grant capture, from
     preparation to submission and post-award,
 4. provide staff with the time to prepare competitive applications, using a supportive PDR
     process and an effective workload model.

 3.1.2. Outcomes and Future Objectives
 Figure 3.1 evidences the success of our income-generating strategy.


                      Whole UoA                                          Per FTE
               Annual             Grant                     Annual                  Grant
              Research           Capture                   Research                Capture
               Income                                       Income

                                      £7.9M



                             243%                                                      £256k
    Value




                                                  Value




                    £3.4M                                                    167%
            62%
                                                          28%
            £2.1M             £2.3M                              £110k
                                                          £86k                £96k




  Figure 3.1-UoA8’s annual research income and grant capture. Note: 2019/20 research income
     was lower than 2018/2019 (£4.2M, £167k per FTE, up 100% and 94%, respectively, from
                2013/14) owing to reduced research activity during the pandemic.

 We have diversified our income sources:
  Capitalising on new streams, notably the Faraday Institution, has enabled major cross-
   HEI/cross-sectoral research funding [ReLiB, Nextrode, CATMAT, Imaging Dynamic
   Electrochemical Interfaces].
  InnovateUK and industry funding (£22k in 2013/14; £574k in 2019/20) have increased impact-
   generating activity, supporting spin-outs Irresistible Materials (REF2021-Impact Case),
   Tagomics, 4D-Medicine and ChromaTwist.
  Strategic appointments in soft materials/polymers (O’Reilly, Dove, Arno) unlocked previously
   untapped priority funding areas. Significant grant capture in these areas, including 2 ERC
   Consolidator Awards (O’Reilly, Dove, ~£4M), has contributed 10 outputs to our REF2021
   submission and nascent impact through spinning out 4D-Medicine.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have supported early-career staff through grant-writing workshops, internal peer review and
 mentoring to win high-profile awards, including 1 URF (Jupp, £0.8M), 1 FLF (Makepeace, £1.2M),
 2 EPSRC Healthcare Technology Challenge Awards (Neely, Gupta, £2.2M), 1 EPSRC strategic
 equipment award (Clark, £0.8M) and 5 Birmingham Fellowships.
 Since 2016, a 180% increase in submitted grant applications by value, 52% increase in the
 average size of application and 25% increase in grant success rates by value evidences the
 success of our development and support mechanisms.
 ED&I plays an important part in our income-generating strategy. UoA8 has undergone a
 change in research culture, supported by a dedicated change programme. In 2014, income from
 female staff was ~1% of the total annual income. By 2016, this had risen to 18% (just below the
 %female in UoA8, 22%) and by 2019, increased to 27%.
                                                                                      Overseas PG Scholarships (Funding
 We have seen a 36% increase in the                                                   from 7 countries’ government etc.)
 number of PhD awards (42% female,                           European Union
                                                             (e.g. ITNs, EJDs)
 27% BAME) in this REF period and
                                                                                           5
 72%      increase   in   postgraduate      International UoB Partners
                                                                                      8
 registrations,    enabled     through      (e.g. BAM, Melbourne, SUSTech)       11
 increased emphasis on inter- and                                                                 52
 multidisciplinary research providing            National Facilities (e.g.       11
 new funding sources (Figure 3.2.):              Diamond Light Source,
                                                 National Nuclear Labs)               12

                                               Cross HEI DTPs and initiatives                  UoB-Centred CDTs (e.g. Sci-Phy-4-
                                               (e.g. BBSRC-DTP MIBTP, COMPARE)                 Health; hydrogen fuel cells etc.)



                                              Figure 3.2-Number of inter- and multi-disciplinary
                                                            PhD studentships.
 Objectives for 2021-2026 are to:
 1. expand our Faraday-funding successes to develop industry partnerships to translate our
    work in energy technologies and critical-materials recycling,
 2. build on our strength in sustainable plastics and the new Birmingham Plastics Network to
    target cross-council, ISCF (Clean Growth Challenge Area) and industry funding opportunities,
 3. capitalise on UoB’s partnerships with the Rosalind Franklin and Turing Institutes
    (REF5a-2.1.5) and knowledge-exchange investments, particularly Tyseley Energy Park,
    Birmingham Health Innovation Campus (REF5a-4.2.2),
 4. continue to support all staff to improve grant capture and sustain success in winning high-
    profile fellowships and grants,
 5. nurture and accelerate the careers of the next generation of researchers.

 3.2. Nature, Quality, Provision and Organisation of Specialist Research
 Infrastructure/Facilities
 3.2.1. Infrastructure
 Significant investment in infrastructure has created a vibrant environment, conducive to
 undertaking the highest-quality research.
    Costing £40M (further £2M for equipment), the Collaborative Teaching Laboratory (CTL)
     extended our research ecosystem to undergraduates, supporting research projects,
     dissemination and collaboration.
    £2.5M refurbished two floors of the Chemistry Building (laboratories, instrument rooms, offices)
     to accommodate ~50 researchers associated with new appointments.
    £0.5M created a teaching, technical and operations hub, repurposed under-utilised spaces
     into new instrument laboratories, refreshed breakout areas and provided new signage,
     showcasing key developments in UoA8’s history, offering a more welcoming and inclusive
     environment.

                                                                                                                                   Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The £80M Molecular Sciences Building, a new facility accommodating all Chemistry
 research (~6000 m2), reflects our ambition and will attract talent from the broadest pool.
 Opening in 2023 (one-year delay because of COVID-19), it will co-locate Chemistry with cross-
 campus STEMM activity, strengthen core capabilities and provide a platform for translating
 fundamental research into impact-generating activity, specifically in the targeted growth area of
 sustainability and the environment.

 3.2.2. Facilities/Instrumentation
 Sustained investment since 2014 has significantly expanded the range of techniques
 available to UoA8 researchers:
  A new state-of-the-art materials characterisation facility (£2M) underpins a centre of
     excellence in soft matter/polymers/plastics recycling. Its potential is demonstrated in a
     study illustrating how nanoparticle shape can enhance hydrogel adhesive and mechanical
     properties (Arno, Nat.Commun. 2020).
  Growing depth in electrochemistry, supported by investment (£0.5M) in unique facilities for
     nanometre-resolution electrochemical surface characterisation, produced the first report
     of constructive quantum interference-boosted thermoelectricity (Albrecht, J.Am.Chem.Soc.
     2020).
  An upgrade (£0.3M) to Britton’s MRI laboratory has enabled in operando electrochemical
     MRI, shedding new insight into battery chemistry (Britton, Nat.Commun. 2020) and
     attracting Faraday-funding.
  Our Facility for Chemical and Materials Analysis offers MS, elemental analysis,
     chromatography, ITC, fluorescence, UV-vis, (N)IR, Raman, NMR and XRF spectroscopy, and
     single crystal and power diffraction. UoB investment (~£2M in NMR, MS) has maintained
     state-of-the-art provision, and long-term sustainability is ensured by Clark’s £0.8M EPSRC
     award for a magnetometer.

 Campus-wide specialist facilities/instrumentation are widely used:
  The Henry Wellcome NMR facility provides high-field instrumentation and expertise (REF5a-
   4.4).
  Access to the e-Beam facility (Physics) and AFM and microencapsulation facilities
   (Chemical Engineering) underpinned two of our Impact Cases.
  COMPARE (REF5a-2.1.5) was instrumental in recruiting Herten from Heidelberg. Many
   researchers use COMPARE’s extensive microscopy and imaging facilities, including Neely,
   whose novel fluorescent probes for expansion microscopy (ACSNano 2020) have been
   commercialised through Chrometra.
  Facilities (FACS, sequencing, cell culture) in the Medical School, accessed through UoB’s
   Enabling Technologies Platforms (REF5a-4.4), underpin numerous collaborations (Section
   4.1) and translational activity, including spin-out Tagomics.
  High-throughput screening platforms (Biosciences) were instrumental in instigating a TB
   drug-discovery programme (Fossey) and central to EU-EID-ITN, iDESIGN.
  CaStLeS (Compute and Storage for the Life Sciences) comprises a collection of computational
   and storage resources supporting UoA8’s research (Hannon, J.Am.Chem.Soc. 2020) (REF5a-
   4.5).
  Tyseley Energy Park and equipment for the Birmingham Centre for Energy Storage (co-
   director Slater) are integral to Anderson’s ReLiB programme.

 3.2.3. Operational and Scholarly Infrastructure
 Fourteen technical and professional services staff, including 6 new posts since 2014 (2
 experimental officers, 2 research technicians and 2 pre- and post-grant award support roles),
 provide dedicated support for our expanding research activity. This internal Research and Impact
 Framework connects UoA8 to campus-wide teams supporting research and impact-generating

                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 activity, and interfaces with campus-wide scholarly infrastructure, e.g., the Institute of Advanced
 Studies (Section 4.2).
 The Research Support Office assists with all aspects of grant preparation, including proactively
 identifying research opportunities. Bespoke assistance is given for complex projects and bids to
 corporate business, including costings, ethics, integrity and governance. Diverse
 (gender/seniority) internal selection panels provide support for all. Bespoke assistance is provided
 for applicants whose first language is not English. The grant set-up team facilitates timely project
 starts and a Research Support Administrator provides post-award support. We draw on the
 expertise of UoB Enterprise (REF5a-4.1) to develop spin-outs, 4 of which were formed in
 REF2021.
 Our technical officers run services, train users and undertake method development. They are
 actively involved in, and contribute, through networking, training and sharing of good practice, to
 the £3M Research England TALENT-project. Access to UoA8’s facilities is free at the point-of-
 access for UoA8 researchers although significant cost recovery is obtained through grant capture
 and external user charges.
 Campus-wide facilities operate under a culture of reciprocal support. For example, UoA8’s
 Mass Spectrometry suite (12 instruments) is one of five nodes comprising UoB’s Mass
 Spectrometry Enabling Technology Platform (REF5a-4.4). Each node serves a particular
 community, but the Platform offers wider technical expertise and instrumentation for UoA8
 researchers. Researchers also use UoB’s mechanical/electrical workshops and the BEAR
 computing infrastructure (£4M Tier-2 ESPRC investment) for data sharing, data archiving and
 high-performance computing (REF5a-4.5).

 3.2.4. ED&I Considerations
 Since 2014, we have improved accessibility and inclusion.
  The Chemistry building is now fully wheelchair accessible and offers gender-neutral toilet
     facilities and designated breastfeeding, baby-changing and private prayer space.
  Our ED&I Committee informed the design of the CTL, which is fully accessible and fitted with
     height-adjustable benching and fume cupboards, and the MSB, to maximise accessibility and
     inclusion.

 3.3. Using Infrastructure, Facilities and Expertise for Impact
 An increase in challenge-led research and translational activity has seen our infrastructure,
 facilities and expertise increasingly used for impact generation.
  The 4 spin-outs launched by Chemistry staff used our laboratories and analytical facilities for
     pre-launch development.
  Faraday funding has established a unique, state-of-the-art capability for battery
     research. Users can access a 202-channel battery-test facility, scale-up capability, battery
     manufacturing facility and EUCAR7-rated battery testing and safety chamber.
  Anderson’s ReLiB project is capitalising on expertise in robotic segregation, and physical and
     chemical separation of metals, to develop economically feasible solutions to recycling and/or
     re-using automotive batteries. Drawing on campus expertise in economics and law, ReLiB is
     maximising impact through shaping policy (Section 4.3.3) and enhancing links in the value
     chain.
  Exploiting a unique partnership between UoB’s Birmingham Energy Institute and Tyseley
     Energy Park (REF5a-2.1.7), ReLiB is developing a demonstration facility for high-tech battery-
     recycling technologies at Tyseley.
  UoA8 researchers’ expertise is regularly requested for public engagement in science (Section
     4.3.1) and consultancy work: between 2014-2020, 7 staff undertook consultancy work, e.g.,
     Norwegian company Glucoset exploited Fossey’s expertise in saccharide sensing, and
     ThermoFisher, Albrecht’s background in nanoscale electrochemistry for optimised gene
     synthesis.


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.4. External Infrastructure/Facilities
 Central Facilities: UoA8 researchers make extensive use of national and international research
 facilities; total in-kind income in the reporting period for UK facilities’ use is £5.1M from 290 days
 of experimental time (Figure 3.3). Notably, the Harwell Campus has seen researchers taking
 advantage of dedicated beamtime available through the Diamond-UoB collaboration (REF5a-4.4).
 Hriljac’s position at Diamond has generated further linkages.
                        Time Awarded
                           (days)                                                           In-Kind Cost

                                     Central Laser                                                        Central Laser
                          ILL                                                             ILL
                                     Facility, RAL                                                        Facility, RAL
                          15                                                             £345k
                                           6                                                                 £41k
  Other International
      Facilities*
          33
                                                     ISIS Neutron &
                                                      Muon Facility
                                                                                                                          ISIS Neutron &
                                                           153
                                                                                                                           Muon Facility
                                                                        Diamond                                               £2,858k
                                                                        £2,180k

            Diamond
               132

                                *Argonne, Brookhaven, DESY, ESRF, NIST etc. In kind costs not available

                                               Figure 3.3-Central facilities’ use.

 Launched in 2019 (Lead: Albrecht), the UoB-BAM Virtual Centre for Collaboration in Materials
 Science and Chemistry provides access to BAM’s expertise and unique facilities, including
 transmission Scanning Electron Microscopy, nanometre-resolution Auger spectroscopy/imaging,
 and state-of-the-art scattering facilities for soft materials characterisation. In 2020, we welcomed
 our first cohort of 3 jointly supervised postgraduates.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Collaborations
 UoA8 researchers collaborate widely, evidenced by the co-authorship in our REF outputs
 submission (Figure 4.1):

                                                                                                                    Increase since
                                                        REF2021                                                        REF2014

                                                                                                                              23%

                                                                                                                             17%

                                                                                                                             314%

                                                                                                                             48%

                                                                                                                             56%

                                              Figure 4.1-Outputs’ co-authorship.


                                                                                                                                     Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3 Faraday-funded projects focusing on Energy (Oxford-led Nextrode, Bath-led CATMAT, and
 Liverpool-led Imaging Dynamic Electrochemical Interfaces), involve extensive collaboration with
 multiple institutions (10 UK HEIs) and organisations (including UK Battery Industrialisation Centre,
 Royce Institute, 20 companies).
 Within Health, 16 academics collaborate with colleagues from Medicine and Life Sciences, other
 institutions and industry. Many collaborations stem from UoB’s Drug Discovery Club, which
 facilitates the assembly of multidisciplinary teams to advance drug-discovery projects. Significant
 translational activity and impact generation evidences the success of these collaborations, e.g., a
 commercialised antimicrobial surface-coating technology (REF2021 Impact Case).
 Within Sustainability, Faraday-funded ReLiB unites 10 groups from 5 Schools (including Law
 and Economics) at UoB, 11 groups from 6 other UK HEIs, Diamond, 3 international academic and
 13 industrial collaborators. Major EU networks include NATURE (EID-ITN), in which 2 universities
 and 1 European industrial partner are developing biodegradable substitutes for commodity
 plastics.
 Collaborations involving non-academic stakeholders continue long-established relationships, e.g.,
 with P&G in personal care products (REF2021 Impact Case), and DSTL exploiting UoA8’s
 strength in sensing. Other collaborations have arisen from new appointments, e.g., Dove’s work
 in sustainable plastics (Unilever, Infineum, Polymateria).

 4.2. Enabling and Supporting Collaboration
 UoA8 encourages and enables collaboration via focused support, facilitation, judicious use
 of its estate, and active engagement with central institutes (Ref5a-2.3).
 Collaboration opportunities are encouraged through:
  A School travel/subsistence fund for researchers (early-career prioritised) to establish new
     collaborations, supplementing College/University schemes.
  Matched funding for collaborative PhD projects with industry (Infineum, Unilever, DSTL), CSC
     and other overseas HEIs [BAM (Germany), SUSTech (China)].
  Encouraging researchers to take leadership/coordinator roles on major collaborative
     projects through a flexible workload-allocation model (balanced by deployment of teaching-
     focused staff whose number increased from 6 to 8 since 2014).
  Promoting and publicising collaborative exchange programmes. We have welcomed
     international researchers through Royal Society Exchange and Newton Mobility grants from 6
     countries, leading to numerous joint papers and a high-profile Advanced Newton Grant award
     to a female Professor from Fudan University.
  Using our Sci-Phy-4-Health CDT as a driver for interdisciplinary interactions.
  Purposely co-locating research groups (shared laboratories/offices) from disparate fields.

 Our Interdisciplinary Research Champion stimulates collaboration through hosting ‘pitch-to-
 peer’ sessions, seminars from new appointees, and away days involving other UoAs to
 encourage active engagement in cross-campus (REF5a-4.2.2&4.2.3) and cross-HEI initiatives
 (COMPARE, BAM, Diamond-UoB). Colleagues are further supported in their applications for
 internal grants to fund:

    pump-priming projects, e.g., the Wellcome Trust ISSF-funded Enabling Chemistry
     Scheme for Medicine-related projects has led to an MRC-funded collaboration between Cox,
     Bottegoni (Pharmacy) and McCabe (Medicine) developing new drugs for thyroid cancer,
    workshops to explore potential collaborations, e.g., through UoB’s Institute of Advanced
     Studies. A recent example led to the Birmingham Plastics Network.

 Our Impact Lead connects researchers with external stakeholders to facilitate impact-generation
 and translational activities.



                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hannon’s directorship of UoB’s Institute of Advanced Studies (IAS, 2015-2019) promoted UoA8
 engagement in interdisciplinary activities and contributed to the UK/global research base.
  IAS-funded symposium, 'New Frontiers in Colloid Science' (2017), stimulated collaborations
    between Chakrabarti and Manoharan (IAS Distinguished Visiting Fellow, Harvard), a joint
    studentship (IAS Research Investment Scheme), and an Implementation Grant with Chen
    (Illinois at Urbana, Champaign), supported by the BRIDGE Programme (REF5a-2.1.8).
  IAS-funded exchange visit established a collaboration between Klumperman (Stellenbosch)
    and Dove/O'Reilly.
  The IAS Intercontinental Academia brought Nobel Laureates Lehn and Yonath to UoB
    (2019).
  IAS-funded academia-industry workshop, ‘Technology Touching Life’ (2016), led to a
    multi-postdoc EPSRC grant with Dentistry and 5 collaborative publications.

 4.3. Wider Contributions
 4.3.1. Impacts on Understanding, Learning and Participation

 We have a strong ethos of public engagement, offering activities on campus, e.g., Lapworth
 Lates, at Birmingham’s Science Museum: ThinkTank (Meet the Expert, I’m a scientist get me
 out of here), in partnership with Pint of Science. Chemistry@Work events at the Black Country
 Living Museum, RAF Cosford, and the National Space Centre (400 attendees per event)
 showcased our research in Sustainability and Energy, including nuclear waste disposal (Hriljac),
 clean fuels (Anderson) and next-generation batteries (Slater).

 COVID-19 highlighted the importance of online platforms for public engagement. We produced
 videos for UoB’s social media channels in which academics and early-career researchers
 discussed their research and its impact on society. Judicious selection of presenters
 (gender/BAME) provided diverse role models to engage under-represented groups.

 Staff regularly contribute to The Birmingham Brief (e.g., “The Fate and Sustainable Future of
 Plastic”, Dove, 2020) and The Conversation (e.g., “Nerve Agents: what are they and how do they
 work?” Cotton, 2018). With ~5.3M reads, Cotton is the most-read UoB author (next highest: 1.3M
 reads).

 4.3.2. Engaging Schools and Schoolchildren

 Schnepp launched the award-winning ChemBAM in 2017 in response to the RSC report Public
 Attitudes to Chemistry. ChemBAM showcases ‘real-world’ chemistry, aligned with UoA8’s
 research, through activities directly linked to the national curriculum. A Creative Commons
 licence ensures teachers and pupils can freely access the resources. ChemBAM has secured
 ~£60k (RSC, industry, alumni) to support its activities, Figure 4.2:




          ChemBOX: equipment         ChemBOX-Alumni: UoA8’s      ChemBAM-VI: classroom
              and training to        undergraduates return to      activities for visually-
          disadvantaged schools.       their former schools.        impaired students

                              Figure 4.2-Three ChemBAM initiatives.


                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ChemBAM’s website has attracted >100,000 hits since launching (~50% non-UK). The team has
 directly trained 227 teachers and 26 technicians and reached 3,100 pupils, with many more
 impacted indirectly via shared resources. In 2020, ChemBAM launched a home-learning resource
 to support pupils during lockdown (32,000 hits, Dec 2020).
 We host West Midlands Chemistry Teachers Centre: monthly lectures (many given by UoA8
 staff), attended by 300+ students from the West Midlands, moved online in 2020 and reached an
 international audience.     2,500 Sixth-form students (102 schools) have participated in
 Spectroscopy in a Suitcase workshops since 2016.

 4.3.3. Impacts on Policy and the Environment
 Examples include:
  Energy: Makepeace co-authored Ammonia: zero-carbon fertiliser, fuel and energy store,
    Royal Society (2020), which has been used to brief government (DfT, BEIS, DEFRA) and
    members of the International Energy Agency Hydrogen Technology Collaboration Programme
    Tasks 32 and 40 focusing on hydrogen storage.
  Health: Albrecht and Neely contributed to a response to a Parliamentary Enquiry into the
    Government's Strategy on Antimicrobial Resistance, submitted through the Institute of Global
    Innovation (2019).
  Sustainability: Anderson and Walton (Metallurgy & Materials) authored Securing Strategic
    Elements & Critical Materials for the United Kingdom, Birmingham Policy Commission (2020).
    Dove co-authored SYNERGY: A Circular Economy for Polymers in Liquid Formulations, RSC
    (2019) and the White Paper, Science to Enable Sustainable Plastics, Chemical Sciences and
    Societies Summit (2020).

 4.4 Indicators of Wider Influence
 4.4.1. Conferences/Research Events
 Since 2014, staff have given >300 invited talks at conferences, workshops and meetings.
 Highlights include plenaries at the Bunsen Society for Physical Chemistry (Herten, 2015), 13th
 European Conference on Bioinorganic Chemistry, (Hannon, 2016), TheoBio17 (Peacock, 2017),
 4th German SupraChem Conference (Hannon, 2017), Mediterranean Conference on Materials and
 Renewable Energies (Allan, 2018), International Symposium on the Photophysics and
 Photochemistry of Coordination Compounds (Pikramenou, 2018), Pacific Polymer Conference
 (O’Reilly, 2019), High Polymers Research Group (Dove, 2019), European Symposium on Fluorine
 Chemistry (Slater, 2019), Australian/New Zealand Magnetic Resonance Conference-25 (Britton,
 2019) and invited lectures at the Gordon Research Conference in Polymers (Dove, 2017),
 Molecular Motors and Switches (O’Reilly, 2019).
 O’Reilly delivered the Dow (University of Victoria, 2020), DSM (ACS, 2020), Aldrich (Columbia
 University, 2019), CBE (Cornell University, 2019) and Covestro (Texas A&M, 2018)
 Distinguished Lectures.

 4.4.2. Prizes/Awards
 Since 2014, 11 members of UoA8 (5F/6M, 1 BAME), spanning senior, mid-career and early-career
 staff, have received 26 national/international prizes and awards:
  Allan: Bryan Kelly Award, British Carbon Group (2019).
  Clark: Lonsdale Lecture Prize (2020), Physical Crystallography Prize (2020); Alan Beeston
    Early-Career Researcher of the Year (2019), RSC/IOP BTM Willis Prize (2019).
  Cotton: British Empire Medal for services to Chemistry and Education (2014).
  Dove: MacroGroup UK Award (2020), RSC Emerging Technologies Award (2018), RSC
    Norman Heatley Award (2018), Macromolecules/Biomacromolecules Young Investigator
    Award (2016), RSC Gibson-Fawcett Award (2014).
  Fossey: Czarnik Emerging Investigator Award (2016).


                                                                                        Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Hriljac: DISTINCTIVE Consortium, 2020 RSC Industry-Academia Collaboration Award.
  O’Reilly: RSC Corday-Morgan Prize (2020), Polymer Chemistry Lectureship (2020), RSC
   Industry-Academia Collaboration Award (with BP) (2018), Journal of Polymer Science
   Innovation Award (2018), Macromolecules/Biomacromolecules Young Investigator Award
   (2017), RSC Gibson-Fawcett Award (2016), SCI/RSC McBain Medal (2014), 2019 Finalist, UK
   Blavatnik Awards in Chemistry.
  Peacock: RSC Inorganic Biochemistry Discussion Group, Young Investigator Award (2016).
  Preece: RSC Emerging Technologies Finalist (2019), Nature Research/Merck Spin-Off Prize
   ‘One-to-Watch’ (2020).
  Schnepp: (with Patchett/Rogers): RSC Inspiration and Industry Award (2020) for inspiring the
   next generation of chemists.
  Yeung: British Crystallographic Association Parkin Prize Lecture (2019).

 4.4.3. Prestigious Fellowships
 Dove and O’Reilly hold ERC Consolidator Grants, Davies and Pikramenou were Royal
 Society/Leverhulme Trust Senior Research Fellows and Fossey and Simpkins, Industry Fellows.
 New appointees, Pike and Makepeace, are FLFs; Jupp is a URF and a VENI Fellow. Herten was
 awarded an Academy of Medical Sciences Professorship. O’Reilly is a Fellow of the European
 Academy of Sciences.

 4.4.4. Service on Panels/Committees
 UoA8 researchers at all career stages exert influence and shape the development of the
 field through leadership as chairs and members of committees, panels and bodies spanning the
 discipline.

 Contributing to UKRI Strategy: Hannon was a member of the EPSRC Strategic Advisory Team
 in Physical Sciences (2014-2017), Johnston, the EPSRC e-infrastructure Strategic Advisory Team
 (2014-2017) and O’Reilly, the EPSRC Strategic Advisory Network (2012-2017) and ED&I
 Committee (2013-2014).

 Service on panels: including STFC and UKRI-EPSRC Schemes/Fellowships, ICSF, ERC grants,
 EU schemes, ACS-PRF, NWO, SNSF, ANR, Novodisk, FWO, The Royal Commission for the
 Exhibition of 1851, Royal Society Newton International Fellowships. 11 staff are EPSRC College
 Members and 4 Associate Members.

 Supporting Central Facilities: Slater is a member of the STFC-ISIS crystallography user group
 and Diamond Light Source diffraction panel. Early-career staff provide service through Allan’s
 and Clark’s membership of the Diamond peer-review panel, and Clark’s membership of the ISIS
 Facilities Access Panel (RAL), the Science Review Committees for the NIST Center for Neutron
 Research and ORNL Neutron Scattering Sciences Division (US).

 International Universities: Promotions and appointment panels: SUStech, KTH Sweden,
 Universities of Hong Kong, Athens; Visiting Professorships: Fudan and Tongji Universities,
 University of Mons; Advisory boards: TU Munich, University of Konstanz, KAUST, Vietnamese
 Academy of Science and Technology.


 4.4.5. Journal Editorship/Contributions
 Since 2014, 22 staff have held associate editorships or been members of editorial advisory boards
 across 34 peer-reviewed journals. Of note:
  O’Reilly is a Reviewing Editor for Science, on the Editorial Advisory Board for the Journal of
     the American Chemical Society (appointed Associate Editor in 2021) and the first UK
     Associate Editor for Macromolecules.


                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    8 staff have provided leadership in developing open-access journals, including Tucker and
     Fossey as Associate Editors, and Pikramenou, Chief Editor of Frontiers in Chemistry
     (Supramolecular Science and Nanoscience), Slater, Associate Editor of Applied Science,
     Albrecht and Britton, Editorial Board members of Scientific Reports, Gupta, Associate Editor
     of RSC Advances, and Fossey and Rodriguez, Editorial Board members of Molecules.
    Hannon led the international search committee for the new Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of
     Biological Inorganic Chemistry and O’Reilly was part of the international search committee for
     the current Editor-in-Chief of Macromolecules.
    Early-career researchers, Pike, Barendt and Makepeace, are Review Editors, and Arno and
     Yeung, Editorial Board members for Frontiers in Science, Chemistry.
    Arno and Yeung are Community Board members for Materials Horizons.

 4.5. Supporting Chemistry
 Collegiality within UoA8 is reflected by strong citizenship across the discipline. All staff
 contribute to maintaining the highest standards of scientific rigour through reviewing manuscripts
 and grant applications for national and international funding agencies.
 Many staff play leading roles in Learned Societies, sustaining the vibrancy of the discipline,
 influencing future directions, advancing training and development, and advising on policy.
 Within the RSC, we have/had representatives on:
  Organic (Davies), Faraday (Horswell), Analytical (Gupta), Materials (Preece, -2015) and
    Dalton and Chemistry Interface (Peacock) Division Councils and Division Review Advisory
    Group (Peacock).
  7 Interest Group Committees including Officer roles: Theoretical Chemistry [Johnston, Chair
    (2016-2018)], Electrochemistry [Horswell, Secretary (2020-2022), Albrecht, Chair (2014-
    2017)].
  Awards Committees: Travel and Scientific Meeting Grants [Davies (2018-2020)], Research
    Fund Working Group [Peacock (2017-2020)] and Organic Awards Committee [O’Reilly (2014-
    2016)], Materials Awards Committee [O’Reilly (2017-2019)].
  Early-career researchers are committee members of the British Crystallographic Association
    Chemical Crystallography Group (Yeung), and Macrocyclic and Supramolecular Chemistry
    Group (Barendt).


 Beyond the RSC:
  Society of Chemical Industry: Cox, Fine Chemicals Group, Chair (2017-2019); Davies,
    Young Chemists’ Panel, Chair (2014-2016).
  British Liquid Crystal Society: Chakrabarti (Steering Committee).
  High Polymer Research Group: O’Reilly (Council).


 International Learned Societies:
  American Chemical Society: Dove, O’Reilly, POLY Awards Committee.
  China Scholarship Scheme: Fossey, International Academic Advisor.
  European Ampere Society: Britton, first female Chair (2017-2021) International Division of
     Spatially Resolved Magnetic Resonance.
  International Society for Electrochemistry: Albrecht, Secretary (2018-2020).
  Society for Biohydrogels: Dove, founding committee member (2016).
  Society of Biological Inorganic Chemistry: Hannon, President (2016-2018).




                                                                                           Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The activities delivered through these diverse roles provide opportunities to advance
 UoA8’s commitment to ED&I. For example, at the 14th European Conference on Biological
 Inorganic Chemistry (2018, Birmingham, 400 participants), organised by Hannon/Pikramenou,
 plenary lectures were 50% female and Keynotes/Session lectures similarly diverse (both 41% F).
 O’Reilly co-chaired the RSC 14th International Conference on Materials Chemistry in
 Birmingham (2019, 600 participants) with 50% female invited speakers (across
 plenary/keynote/award). Chakrabarti/Preece won an EPSRC grant (2019) to organise a series of
 British Liquid Crystal Society Annual Training Workshops at UoB. These workshops provide
 education/training for early-career researchers in the highly interdisciplinary field of liquid-crystal
 research. The first two workshops attracted over 100 attendees with contributions from 12 experts
 (4F, 3 BAME).


 Concluding Remarks
 Our vibrant research environment promotes collegiality and equality to support and develop world-
 class researchers to lead and influence the discipline. The School of Chemistry at UoB has grown
 in size, ambition and success during REF2021 and is well placed to achieve the economic and
 societal impacts needed to address the challenges of the 21st century.




                                                                                                Page 25
