Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research Structure
 Unit of Assessment 32 is comprised of 35 members of staff (29.2 FTE) from the School of Art,
 Design and Architecture. The School houses three departments in the fields of Art and
 Communication, Fashion and Textiles and Architecture and 3D Design. It is located in the Barbara
 Hepworth Building (since September 2020); an open-plan studio environment for the research and
 development of creative histories, theories and practices of art, design and architecture. It is also
 a space that facilitated and supports transdisciplinary exchange. There are four research centres
 within the School, three of which are focused on this Unit: Centre for Cultural Ecologies in Art,
 Design and Architecture, Technical Textiles Research Centre and Innovative Design Lab. The
 research centres have generated opportunities for cross-disciplinary working and encouraged
 thinking practices in the formations and receptions of art, design and visual culture (sculpture,
 photography, speculative design, textile art, photography, aesthetic philosophy, visual culture,
 cultural theory).

 Centre for Cultural Ecologies in Art, Design and Architecture (CEADA)
 This research centre (led by Bailey) offers opportunities for transdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary
 working across art and design history, practice and theory, as well as architecture. It is the largest
 research centre in the School with 25 doctoral holding members and a postgraduate research
 community of approximately 81 research students (MA by Research and PhD, which includes
 staff undertaking doctorates, of which there are currently 24). The membership is representative
 of the centre’s engagement with the idea of cultural ecology as a nodal network of exchanges
 and interactions, out of which new ideas, forms and practices emerge.

 Examples of projects underlying the ethos and themes of the centre include: Clear’s Synthetic
 Spaces; a project using 3D laser scanning to create evocative composite digital images and
 computer animations of three sites in Huddersfield town (Castle Hill, Queensgate Indoor Market
 and the Railway Station). Scanning technologies were used to create complex narrative ‘portraits’
 of their spatial, tectonic and experiential qualities for curatorial display. Transdisciplinary thinking
 through the use of 3D scanning and modelling technologies is also evident in Clear’s The
 Chthonopolis which focused on the literary conventions of science fiction through artistic-
 architectural speculative design. Townsley’s The Forever-Do Game, developed in collaboration
 with Joint Research Centre (JRC) researcher Carlo Ferigato and the MC3 research group at the
 Milano-Bicocca University, Italy, explored the idea of ‘fishing’ into datasets generated by
 coordinated behaviours. The collaboration between a sculptor and a computer scientist led to a
 systems-based sculpture using data from human interactions. Brass Art’s (Pettican) Gestured is
 an installation involving the creation of twenty new sculptural works made in response to
 Chetham’s Library, the oldest public library in Britain (founded 1653). Commissioned by Arts &
 Heritage, the artworks included gestural forms in William Cowper’s anatomical reference books,
 the prints of William Hogarth, the books of Renaissance polymath Athanasius Kircher and the
 notations of John Dee. The photobook Mother River (Preston) presents a four-year research
 project which tells her attempts to photograph the entire 6,2111km Yangtze River at precise 100m
 intervals with a large-format film camera. These examples demonstrate the significance and value
 accorded to research-through-creative practice from within this research centre.

 Technical Textiles Research Centre (TTRC)
 The centre’s researchers (led by Goswami, including Rana and Hebden) are cross-School, with
 associate members from the Schools of Applied Sciences and Computing and Engineering
 (approximately 16). The primary focus of textiles research in this centre covers industrial and
 manufacturing textile innovations with other disciplines such as materials science and engineering
 and with commercial partners. The centre fosters transdisciplinary research by bringing together
 expertise in the fields of digital technology, textile processing cellulose science, medical textiles,

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fibre and polymer chemistry and surface functionalisation. The centre’s ambition to re-establish
 the Kirklees region as a world leader in textiles has led to research funding successes and
 outcomes including Goswami’s involvement as a co-investigator for the Future Fashion Factory
 project which forms part of the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) £80 million Creative
 Industries Cluster Programme. Its investigations have led to public engagement activities with
 WOVEN in Kirklees (the biennale festival of textiles) and in 2018, Goswami collaborated with the
 artist Holly Hendry for an installation at Yorkshire Sculpture Park. Henry’s sculpture The Dump
 is Full of Images provides a commentary on the use and re-use of materials, drawing on
 Goswami’s research into synthetic skin membranes. TTRC is playing a key role in research linked
 to building the creative economy of the fashion, textiles and technology sector.

 Innovative Design Lab (IDL) research centre
 IDL’s 15 members (led by Tzortzopoulos) conduct theory based and applied research into design
 and the built environment, pushing the impact of design thinking and practice to new areas. It cuts
 across the areas of architectural design, construction management, digital technologies, new
 product development, engineering, social sciences and healthcare. Primarily focused on design
 challenges and real-world problems, the lab’s UoA32 related research has focused on design for
 healthcare and wellbeing initially through the Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) project
 Paxman Scalp Cooling Cap (Unver). The research has focused on the design and development
 of a novel manufacturing approach to cooling caps for the prevention of Chemotherapy-induced-
 Alopecia, which led to the establishment of the £1M Paxman research centre, 50% funded by
 industry (Paxman). Other international research collaborations include the Erasmus funded
 project (£25,820) to improve technical drawing using VR and AR tools (Unver and Huerta
 Cardoso). The centre has delivered 29 conferences, workshops and symposia during the census
 period, many of which were international. The centre supports 3 members of staff from UoA32 in
 developing their PhD studies.

 Strategic Research Goals (REF 2014)
 The key institutional research aims for 2013-18 were to a) strengthen and enhance our research
 capability; b) contribute to economic, social and cultural development and c) enrich
 teaching through research and innovation. The School submitted its first REF in 2014 and the
 strategic goals set for the following census period have addressed the need to build research
 across all stages of academic career, from pre-doctoral to early career, mid-career to professorial
 standing. In line with the university’s institutional aims, the Unit established three strategic goals
 that are reported on below. These helped to generate a culture for art and design history, practice
 and theory which includes a range of initiatives to support research development, research-
 informed teaching and innovation and social and cultural impact.

 Strategic Goal 1 focused on: a) the development of original, independent critical thinking in
 practice, b) fostering knowledge advances within art and design and c) understanding
 relevant research methodologies and their applications within theory and practice.

 To achieve this, we identified thematic clusters of research enquiry within an expanding field of art
 and design practices in the creative and cultural industries (commercial, artistic, digital,
 community, place-based). These include:

   1) artistic engagements with heritage and archival contexts
   2) design publication practices, platforms and curation
   3) art-science-technology relations
   4) environments/ecologies and fieldwork practices
   5) transdisciplinary working in technical textiles
   6) design for healthcare and wellbeing.

 These clusters have led to the generation of a range outcomes and methodological approaches,
 through discursive writing practices in art, design and architecture (Arya, Bailey, Coles, Dyer,
 Massey, Roberts) or in the use of new technologies and material processes in artistic research


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 such as light-based scanning (X-box Kinect), 4D scanning, moving image installation, photography
 and data capture of interior environments (Clear, Hudson, Pettican, Preston, Townsley).

 Strategic Goal 2 sought to increase: a) participation in national and international contexts,
 b) appreciation of the standards of good research practice and c) research funding.

 Academics presented their work nationally and internationally through conferences, exhibitions
 and workshops. The School has actively encouraged participation in larger scale international
 conference platforms with a range of staff at different stages of career speaking at, for example,
 College Art Association (CAA), International Symposium of Electronic Art (ISEA), Transimage and
 COST Action IS71307. Participation also extends to engagement with research at national levels.
 For example, a range of conferences and symposia have been generated within the Unit enabling
 staff to both participate and run these events. Conferences include: International Conference for
 Creative Pattern Cutting (2015), Transitions: Rethinking Textiles and Surfaces (1) and Transitions:
 Material Revolution (2) (2014 and 2018 respectively), Putting Space into Action (supported by
 Henry Moore Institute, 2016), Sculpture as Fieldwork (with the Henry Moore Institute, 2019) and
 SAT in the Circular Economy (2020). These examples show how the standards of research
 practice have evolved and strengthened during this census period with active staff participation in
 external research events and in the realisation of conferences and symposia from within the
 research centres. This raised the visibility and awareness of the unit’s specific research culture
 and practices. The Unit has increased its research funding substantially within this census period
 (see Section 3: Income for further details). For REF2014, the total number of grant-holding income
 was £130,389. In the academic year 2019/2020, the total research grant income was £717,200.

 Strategic Goal 3 aimed to: a) commit to continued professional development b) enable
 research skills in support of cross-disciplinary practice and c) support a range of career
 opportunities within and outside academia.

 The Unit ensured that continued professional development is an opportunity for all staff members.
 Staff have been encouraged to develop research plans to guide their strategic thinking and to help
 build their research career portfolios. The research centres play an active role in working with
 members at all stages of career development and this extends to workshops and activities linked
 to the School’s Research Programme. Sessions have included: portfolio development, funding bid
 proposal writing, research degree supervisory training and writing for publication workshops.

 Career opportunities for creative practices both inside and outside academia have been supported
 particularly in relation to the fractional status of many staff who, as practising artists and designers,
 bring a range of new insights and ways of doing research in commercial and cultural contexts back
 into the School as educators. Our links to the creative and cultural industries and to the research
 opportunities this sector provides is supported and encouraged through investment and mentoring
 support for academics who are directly linked to cultural organisations, art galleries, design studios
 and non HEI funding bodies. This is evidenced by the 25 multi-component submissions produced,
 which showcase outcomes including artefacts, exhibitions, journal articles, book chapters,
 commercial patents and public events.

 Prizes and Awards
 External recognition includes a range of prizes and awards, such as: Andrew’s AHRC award for
 an online image gallery (£4000) (2014) and Excellence Award of the 9th Lausanne to Beijing
 International Fiber Art Biennial, Shenzhen, China (2016). Clear’s ‘Post-singularity City’ was part
 of the ‘What is Radical Today? 40 Positions on Architecture’ exhibition at the Royal Academy in
 London in 2019. Halbert was appointed to fashion business and cultural studies in 2017 and in
 2018 received an AHRC/BBC Radio 3 New Generation Thinker Award for her research into the
 post-war ‘rag trade’, whilst Preston received a Sony Award Prize, Landscape category in 2019,
 for her work on the Yangtze river in China. In 2017, Barber was commissioned to produce a work
 for Hull train station for Hull City of Culture. In 2018, Temporary Contemporary secured Innovation
 of the Year in the National Association of British Market Authorities awards. In 2019, Townsley
 was the recipient of an EU funded Artist-in-Residency for SciArt and the Joint Research Centre

                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for the EU in Ispra and Clear was awarded the Excellent Project Award in the 4th CSCEC Cup
 Western 5+2 Biennial Exhibition of Environmental Art and Design for the project Synthetic Spaces.

 Strategic Research Goals (future REF cycle)
 The University Research Strategy (2020-2025) encourages interdisciplinary societal and
 economic grand challenges. Its Areas of Strategic Research Importance (ASRIs) are focused on
 end user/audience need. This Unit has selected materials, health and wellbeing, sustainable
 environment and creativity as contexts to focus on and work within. The future strategic research
 goals outlined below will continue to build our portfolio of creative and cultural research practices,
 foster transdisciplinary research, build on art and design innovation and industry partnerships,
 knowledge transfer, research collaborations and generate research income specific to the creative
 and cultural industries. This is particularly prescient in the context of COVID-19 and the necessary
 roadmaps to creative and cultural recovery for this sector.

 Strategic vision: to generate innovative research-through-practice with the development of
 thematic clusters responsive to: a) the University’s ASRIS; b) to the UK funding landscape; c)
 to the end user/audience; d) to global grand challenges (e.g. climate change, environmental
 issues, systemic inequalities, digital technologies, economic growth for the creative and cultural
 industries (commercial, heritage and third-sector), emergent values of cultural production,
 happiness, health and wellbeing).

 Strategic Goal 1: Develop thematic clusters linked to ASRIs (materials, health and wellbeing,
 sustainable environment and creativity) and build on international, national and local
 collaborations with external partners (academic and industry). These clusters will be housed in the
 three research centres and generate opportunities for collaborative and impactful projects.

 Rationale: The research base for this Unit has grown considerably since REF2014. There is now
 a critical mass of expertise at different levels which will benefit from strategic alignment to the new
 University Research Strategy. Thematic groupings will allow the research ecology of the School
 to grow. In particular, early and mid-career researchers with aspirations to develop a specific area
 will be encouraged and supported. This extends to the development of research active portfolios
 that are focused on supporting research income generation, postgraduate research culture,
 external partnerships and collaborations. These clusters will respond to the School’s research
 targets which in turn will meet University wide strategic aims for the next REF census period.

 Strategic Goal 2: Continue to shape the culture of transdisciplinary research practices. The
 Barbara Hepworth Building is a networked environment where a range of creative practices (art,
 design and architecture) coexist and support research exchanges. This extends to the
 transdisciplinary potential for our Unit to collaborate across disciplines within the University
 (science, business, human and healthcare, music, performance and history) and through projects
 with other HEIs and external organisations and partners. The role of transdisciplinary working in
 the contexts of global grand challenges, in relation to the changing landscape of funding in the UK
 and to the creative and cultural industries, is particularly significant for the Unit. In developing
 research exchanges across subject areas and working with a range of themes, a mixed ecology
 of researchers is given opportunity to flourish. This extends to postgraduate research students,
 early career to mid-career researchers and senior academics working together and across
 disciplinary fields.

 Rationale: to embrace the reach and potential of transdisciplinary working on projects that are
 larger in scale and include multiple partners/stakeholder interests/users and audiences. This is
 particularly specific to the areas of climate change, systemic inequalities and future economic
 growth for the creative and cultural industries. The futures of creative practice and extended
 collaborations provide new opportunities for research growth in the Unit.

 Strategic Goal 3: Continue to innovate with methodologies, approaches, technologies in art and
 design, drawing upon the range of resources provided by the Barbara Hepworth Building. With
 new ways of collaborative working across areas of strategic research importance, it is necessary

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to keep building the Unit’s resource of open source non-dominant research methodologies. This
 is targeted towards approaches in creative practice, artistic research, design thinking, participatory
 research (co-production and co-creation), critical and cultural modes of analysis, digital art and
 design and action research.

 Rationale: the visibility and awareness of the significance of art and design research across a
 range of contexts and disciplines is necessary for building a value culture of and for exchange.
 This is also particularly significant in relation to the innovative processes generated with and by
 the use of technologies, equipment and specialist facilities. For example, the Phidias Lab in the
 Barbara Hepworth Building is a digital lab providing the latest technologies in augmented reality,
 virtual reality, motion capture and high-performance visualisation. Research development and
 design innovations in this area will generate new methodologies and approaches to working with
 technologies in research practice.

 Strategic Goal 4: Design, develop and implement public/user/audience engagement and/or co-
 creative/co-productive strategies into research and pathways to impact. One of the key questions
 underpinning collaborative research with academic and non-academic partners is: how to
 effectively embed stakeholder/user group and audience engagement into research? Revisiting the
 ethics of participatory research and embedded user engagement, visibility and agency within
 research processes will help to generate new approaches to co-creation/co-production/co-design
 as well as socially engaged practices. This will also ensure the impact of the research produced
 by the Unit is clear and wide reaching. The School’s research mentoring system provides staff
 with opportunities to develop research action plans with embedded impact activities. These will be
 reviewed by Research Centre Directors and aligned to strategic research goals within the Unit and
 the University more widely. This will also inform the investment of the School’s Research Funds
 to support the generation of outputs, sabbaticals and other research related activities.

 Rationale: There is a need for researchers to continuously focus on research beneficiaries. This
 links directly to being able to understand, build into projects, and track research impact (whether
 economic, social, cultural and/or wellbeing) in a variety of ways. In this respect, public engagement
 strategies will be useful to some of the research practices represented within this Unit in supporting
 and broadening the reach of our research impact.

 Impactful Research and Case Studies
 Our impact strategy is guided by the University’s focus on delivering ‘user-inspired and applied
 research with impact’. From 2015, we set out to be a research-engaged Unit that embeds an
 impact culture into our activities. This was achieved through differing approaches to engagement,
 direct links with industry and civic societies.

 The Unit has facilitated opportunities for impact to become embedded into research development
 and for future impacts to be identified and encouraged. For example, researchers were supported
 to engage with stakeholders and research users through the University’s EU for Researchers
 Night and University Public Impact and Engagement (PIE) network. In the area of art and design,
 both social and cultural impact has, to some extent, been measured by public and user
 engagement, whether through curatorial strategies, access to arts and culture or user testing as
 part of healthcare design. In 2018, 1.5 FTE research assistants were appointed to work closely
 with staff in the development of research impact. In addition, 200 hours of additional researcher’s
 time per year was allocated and targeted funding provided to staff leading on impact. The impact
 case studies identified for this census period include:

       Coles’ project Extended Play (EP), a collaboratively-formed book series (Sternberg
        Press), offers a new approach to publishing and a platform for creative practices that fall
        between traditional understandings of art, design and architecture. For example, the edited
        series Vol.2 Design Fiction generated new ways of presenting a transdisciplinary approach
        to design writing, influenced curatorial strategies of exhibitions at the Vitra Design
        Museum, Space Electronic (Venice Architecture Biennale) and informed the general
        editorial direction of Sternberg Press and its publishing portfolio.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       Unver’s Paxman Scalp Cooling Cap has focused on the design and development of a
        novel manufacturing approach to cooling caps for the prevention of Chemotherapy-
        induced-Alopecia. As a partnership with the global company Paxman Coolers Ltd, the
        economic and commercial impact of the patented product is evidenced. Moreover,
        wellbeing impacts have been generated with users of the product, which benefit from
        reduced hair loss when undertaking chemotherapy.

       Bailey, Clear, Fitzpatrick, Powell, Swindells focused on strengthening and sustaining a
        vibrant creative and cultural offer in Huddersfield town in partnership with Kirklees Council.
        ROTOR and Temporary Contemporary are two initiatives which generated cultural
        impact with a range of beneficiaries, including the council itself, particularly in relation to
        the use of retail units as meanwhile spaces for creative activity on the high street.

 Embedding impact strategies into research planning continues to be resourced through specialist
 support and training. The Unit developed its impact strategy by fostering, supporting and valuing
 art and design research as a driver of and for positive change. This includes societal and cultural
 impacts as well as commercial innovation in knowledge transfer particularly in the area of product
 design and commercial patenting.

 The impact case studies selected for UoA32 reflect the breadth of impacts, including economic,
 cultural, societal and wellbeing. For example, much of the research undertaken by staff
 practitioners has public and audience engagement embedded into outcomes, whether through
 dissemination in exhibitions and post-production events, or in the methodologies used to monitor
 cultural and societal impacts. This includes audience, user and beneficiary engagements with a
 range of projects.

 Supporting an Open Research Environment and a Culture of Research Integrity
 Researchers have been actively encouraged to publish in high quality, open access journals and
 books and have received £19,443 of financial support to facilitate this. Training sessions were held
 by library services, as well as publishing houses and exhibition platforms, to raise awareness of
 the relevant University policies, opportunities and benefits of open access. Outputs from the REF
 period have been uploaded for open access to the University’s repository (eprints.hud.ac.uk), and
 since 2018, to its PURE research information management system. All submitted staff have
 profiles on at least one major academic social networking site, such as ORCID or ResearchGate,
 and these are used by staff to make outputs broadly available for access in accordance with each
 Publisher’s policy. As part of the Unit’s commitment to open research, the presentation of
 exhibitions, digital archives and creative folios online as open source resources have
 provided opportunity for research to be shared. For example, School research talks and
 exhibition events are regularly documented on our webpages (through research centre
 platforms or Temporary Contemporary) and feature on the School’s social media platforms. In
 addition to this, an online research blog (ADA Research) provides news stories of research
 activities undertaken by the Unit. Collectively, these provide an open resource for academic and
 non-academic audiences to freely access.

 All research within the Unit is conducted to the highest possible ethical standards, compliant with
 the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. Research integrity is an integral part of
 discussions at the School Research and Enterprise Committee, which meets every two months.
 The School also has a Research Ethics and Integrity Committee which is committed to promote
 and ensure all ethics. It has a membership that reflects the expertise and breadth of experience
 that is required. The Unit complies with the University's Code of Practice for Research, Ethics and
 Integrity Policy and the University's Procedure for Research Misconduct. The School applies a
 rigorous internal peer review process to all applications for research funding. The purpose of this
 process is to provide support to staff during the grant application process and ensure that all
 applications are of the highest possible standard and this includes issues related to Research
 Integrity and Ethics.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Unit of Assessment 32 is comprised of 35 members of staff (29.2 FTE) from the School of Art,
 Design and Architecture. The submitting pool of staff include: 6 Professors, 2 Readers, 1 Subject
 Lead in Art and Communication, 1 Subject Lead in Product Design, 1 Director of Graduate
 Education, 1 Director of Teaching and Learning, 1 Director of Internationalisation, 10 Senior
 Lecturers, 10 Lecturers and 1 newly qualified early career researcher. This pool has been
 identified in accordance with the University’s REF Code of Practice. Each submitting member of
 staff holds a doctoral degree, is undertaking high quality research of an internationally recognised
 standard and is a member of one of the three research centres in this Unit. All staff are qualified
 Fellows of the Higher Education Academy.

 The Unit completed its first REF return in 2014 and 13.5 FTE members of staff were submitted to
 the output pool. The considerable increase in the FTE of staff submitted from 2014 to 2021 reflects
 the investment and support provided for research in the period, and evidences the much improved
 and broader research culture across the Unit. Part of the strategy for research growth for this
 census period has been in the investment and development of a supportive infrastructure for newly
 qualified early career researchers and for staff undertaking doctoral research. Currently, there are
 25 members of staff enrolled onto a PhD within UoA32. Within the REF census period 16
 members of staff completed their doctorates.

 All new members of staff meet with the Associate Dean for Research as part of the School
 induction process. The purpose is to inform them about the University’s and School’s policies on
 Research, Research Integrity and Ethics, as well as of internal training and financial support
 available. Compliance to research ethics and integrity is also discussed during staff appraisals.
 The training offered by the School is sufficiently flexible to provide subject or discipline specific
 guidance. School ethics training is available twice a year.

 Since REF2014, the School has appointed a number of Professors. For example, Fitzpatrick
 (appointed 2017-2020) is a practising visual artist, philosopher and writer with experience of
 exhibiting internationally especially in Australia and South East Asia. Arya was appointed as
 Professor of Visual Culture and Theory in 2018 and Professor Goswami is the Director of the
 Technical Textiles Research Centre. Massey was appointed as Professor of Design and provides
 design history and theory research support to both staff and postgraduate students.
 In addition, the School has supported promotions including Unver to a Readership as Principle
 Enterprise Fellow in 2014. Pettican became Subject Area Lead for Art and Communication in
 2018and Devlin became Director of Internationalisation in 2018. In 2019, Hunter joined the School
 as Director of Teaching and Learning. Bailey was promoted to Director of Graduate Education in
 2016 and a large part of her portfolio is to concentrate on postgraduate research training and
 culture. Coles, Rowley and Cassidy are part of the School’s Professors and Readers Group and
 work with the Associate Dean for Research and Enterprise in building and sustaining the research
 culture within the Unit. Clear is currently Dean of the School of Art, Design and Architecture (2020).
 Approach to Equality and Diversity
 An output equality impact assessment was carried out in accordance with the institutional REF
 Code of Practice, which illustrated that 48.6% of the unit’s outputs submitted are by male staff
 and 43.9% by female staff. The complexity of the submission with regard to the multi-component
 submission means that this is a balance close to the original EIA. The University’s EDI policies
 extend to a range of mandatory training for staff. The School follows the University’s Code of
 Practice with respect to Equality and Diversity. Staff within a significant responsibility for research
 are required to undertake the University’s on-line ‘unconscious bias’ and ‘diversity in the
 workplace’ modules. In addition, raising awareness of LGBTQI, BAME, Disability Confidence and
 Women in Academia is part of the School’s ongoing commitment to establishing research
 opportunities for postgraduate students in particular, but also in generating relevant and timely
 research in relation to aspects of social justice and systemic inequalities. These are embedded
 within the University and School’s Research Strategy and feed into the School’s approach to Areas

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Strategic Research Importance. The School has an Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Group,
 mirroring the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Enhancement Committee, and is
 working towards a bronze award submission to the Athena Swan Charter. Our focus on equality
 and diversity with regard to staff strategies recognises the importance of representation, visibility
 and opportunity.

 Fostering a Supportive Research Environment
 The School provides research mentorship to help staff develop research plans, identify training
 needs and to generate opportunities for research collaborations, outcomes and funding. This
 mentoring system offers staff opportunities to strategically discuss how they may undertake and
 implement research as well as develop five-year plans to realise specific goals and ambitions,
 including promotion. Line Managers and Heads of Department play a role in taking an adaptive
 approach to staff research and teaching responsibilities and ensure that periods of teaching relief,
 remote and flexible working are accommodated to help support specific research activities.

 Staff are encouraged to consolidate their research activities into outputs. This can take the
 form of exhibitions (for example, Market Gallery exhibitions at Temporary Contemporary), co-
 authored publications, contributions to symposia and conference presentations. The research
 centres host sessions on a range of different research themes, many of which feature guest
 speakers, seminars, discussion panels between centre members and research presentations.
 These sessions have considered, for example, ‘cultural ecology and cultural critique’, ‘dialogical
 design’, ‘photographic research practices’, ‘climate action and environmental justice’, ‘women in
 design’ and ‘doing research in COVID-19’. Staff presentations in the form of Research-through-
 Practice talks are also a key feature of the Unit’s research community and broadcast live online to
 both academic and non-academic audiences. Recently, a guest-speaker series to better embed
 research-and-industry informed teaching into the Department of Fashion and Textiles was
 implemented. Speakers include Adam Mansell (CEO of the UK Fashion and Textiles Association),
 Mark Jarvis (Managing Director at the World Textile Information Network) and Stephanie Dick
 (Chief Executive of the Textile Institute).

 The aim of these events is to encourage research engagement and collaboration, which in turn,
 informs the future aims and research interests of the Unit. This extends to the ways in which
 research-informed teaching is embedded into the curriculum and contributes to the research
 culture of the School. In this respect, staff, at all stages of research career, contribute to a range
 of research activities within the centres and play an active role in addressing the key performance
 indicators of the School and University research strategies.

 Staff at all stages of research career are encouraged to contribute to research centre culture
 through membership activities. This can involve the development of collaborative projects, calls
 for research networking and participation, recruitment of doctoral research students and project
 leadership over public seminars, symposia, conferences and exhibitions.

 To support these activities, the School’s internal research application funding scheme allows
 staff to apply for research sabbaticals as well as providing funds to help generate publications,
 research outputs in the form of exhibitions, networking and bidding activities. The scheme has
 supported 4 sabbaticals to realise practical projects abroad. 3 staff were granted sabbaticals to
 complete their doctoral studies, amounting to £22,980. In the majority of cases flexible working
 patterns for the completion of doctoral studies were accommodated. Funds have been allocated
 from the scheme to support research development and activities. Of this investment, £19,672 has
 been awarded to conferences and travel, £19,443 towards publications, £64,744 towards
 software/computer lab/materials costs and exhibition outcomes. The remaining investment has
 included research assistant costs and administrative support towards impact case studies and
 research infrastructure and open access publications (including postgraduate research). The total
 amount of investment amounts to £227,652.

 Workload allocation, research centre membership and research mentoring provide a School-
 based infrastructure of support alongside the resources and support provided centrally by the

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University. For example, staff receive £2000 on award of their doctorate to seed fund research
 activity. All staff have access to the University Research Fund calls, and have benefitted from
 investment. Also, the University’s Research and Enterprise services regularly communicate
 access to a range of opportunities. Internal funding schemes, such as the Collaborative Ventures
 Fund (CVF), offers matched funding for work with external partners. This funding has supported
 staff in the development of projects such as Textile Curatorial Masterclasses (CVF, Barber, 2016)
 and seed-corn funding for the development of projects with Leeds Museums and Galleries and
 the University (CVF, Baraklianou, Bailey, Carr, 2019). Other University Research Funding
 awarded to this Unit includes £10,000 for Transitions 2: Material Revolution International
 Conference, £9930 for SAT in the Circular Economy International Conference (Cassidy), £11,000
 for COVID-19 seed funding projects in creative practice (Bailey, Hunter, Pettican, Preston). These
 funding opportunities have helped to generate a range of outcomes and outputs, including further
 project development for UKRI funding schemes.

 Postgraduate Research Students
 Since REF2014 our doctoral student numbers have grown considerably. The total cohort of
 research degree students in the School in 2021 is approximately 144, with 91 PGRs aligned to
 UoA32. Growth has been aided with University/School scholarships and Vice Chancellor Fee
 Waivers for undergraduate and master’s degree students who have excelled in their studies. The
 current doctoral completions for this Unit over this REF period are 23.

 Huddersfield is committed to VITAE’s Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers and the Unit has extended support to researchers across the span of their careers.
 This includes progression of our student body; from undergraduate to postgraduate, with both a
 Taught MA suite of courses (11 pathways) and research degrees (MA/MSc by Research and PhD
 in Art and Design and Fashion and Textiles). These are supported by the research centres and
 provide an infrastructure for research development through a weekly School Research
 Programme featuring training sessions specific to art and design research and methodologies,
 guest speakers, webinars and symposia.
 Doctoral students participate in induction sessions at both University Graduate School level and
 within the School. All new postgraduate research students are required to attend presentations on
 research integrity and ethics as part of research degree induction processes. PGR supervision is
 workload allocated and the Director of Graduate Education serves as a personal tutor for all
 students. The progress of students is recorded online via Skills Forge. PhD students have 3 review
 points throughout the duration of their studies, reviewed by academic assessors. These provide
 students with written feedback and help to monitor completion rates.

 To qualify as a PhD supervisor, staff need to: (a) have a doctorate (b) have undergone mandatory
 University training on research supervision, renewable every 3 years, and (c) have to evidence a
 research active profile through outputs.

 The VITAE Researcher Development Framework underpins our research skills, training and
 resources. The University Researcher Environment team, provides access to a range of research
 knowledge and skills development, including training in knowledge and intellectual abilities,
 personal effectiveness, research governance and organisation, engagement and impact. For
 example, training is provided through the Teaching Assistant Preparation Programme, where
 PGRs receive training in seminar tuition, workshop provision and co-teaching of small groups.
 PGRs who undertake the training are supported by the School to engage in teaching activities
 during their studies, helping them gain teaching experience, helpful for their future career
 development and job prospects.

 The University and School provides specialist support for academic writing with English Language
 Support for International Students. The PGR community are encouraged to come together once
 a year for the Annual PGR Conference, providing an opportunity for research degree students
 across all subject areas to present their work.



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University’s EPSRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) has invested in multidisciplinary
 materials related research and one PGR was successfully awarded a scholarship in the field of
 technical textiles. The School has also benefited from two University Research Funded MA to
 PhD transfer scholarships in product design and photography, amounting to £40,000. The
 application process for this scheme involves a rigorous progression assessment to determine the
 suitability of transfer to doctoral level study. Both projects are due to complete in 2021.

 The Unit also financially supported collaborative doctoral scholarships with cultural
 organisations, including Hepworth Wakefield, Henry Moore Institute, Yorkshire Sculpture
 Park and East Street Arts, Leeds. These partnerships helped to build a platform for collaborative
 doctoral working with commercial and non-commercial sectors of the creative and cultural
 industries. In 2020, the first cohort of collaborative doctoral award holding students successfully
 completed their doctorates. The School intends to generate more collaborative doctoral
 opportunities. For example, in 2020, a new School scholarship scheme was introduced which
 allowed research centres to design projects specific to future strategic research aims. New
 collaborative doctoral studies include projects with Kirklees Council as part of the WOVEN in
 Kirklees textiles festival. School funded PhD bursaries also led to three PhD students becoming
 members of staff, one of which sits in UoA32 (Dyer)

 The School supports postgraduate students’ professional skills and experience beneficial to an
 academic career. This includes support with a Conference Development Fund of up to £1000
 for the duration of a PhD student journey. Students are encouraged to present at conferences
 both nationally and internationally. The School’s Research Programme also provides bid proposal
 writing sessions with doctoral students interested in applying for the University’s Postgraduate
 Researcher Environment Development Fund. Each proposal can be awarded up to £2000 and
 is led by doctoral candidates. Successful applications within this Unit include: a seminar series on
 collaborative doctoral research practices (2016), a climate change transdisciplinary symposium
 (2017), Situating Practices: an exhibition and CRIT forum for postgraduate students (2018),
 Photography and Lived Experience: a postgraduate symposium and exhibition (2019), a
 postgraduate forum/dinner discussion with artists as part of Artist House 45 project with East
 Street Arts (2019) and an online exhibition and academic catalogue on the topic of Climate Action
 and Visual Culture (2020/21). These research events and activities have proved to be a valuable
 way for postgraduate students to take ownership of the research interests of the community at
 large and to network with other postgraduate students in the UK and abroad.

 The Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) results of 2019, for Art and Design,
 excelled in the majority of areas and is currently listed in the top global quartile for supervision
 (86%), resources (80%) and research skills (90%). The overall satisfaction rate for this area was
 81%, with the Global average at 71%.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding
 Over the REF cycle, the Unit has secured £717,200 in research funding income, a significant
 increase from £130,389 in REF2014. For example, Goswami’s involvement as a co-investigator
 for the AHRC funded project ‘Future Fashion Factory - Digitally Enabled Design &
 Manufacture of Designer Products for Circular Economies’ (£178,000) has fostered a
 productive research collaboration between the University of Leeds, Royal College of Art and the
 University of Huddersfield. The AHRC contribution costs to this project amount to approximately
 £600,000. Additional income includes Doctoral Training Partnerships funded by the EPSRC
 amounting to £18,254, the Royal Society for funds totalling £15,864 and Gama Healthcare for
 approximately £19,330. Rana has successfully generated research income through the AHRC for
 £22,262.

 Unver secured and completed a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (Innovate UK) with Paxman
 Cooling Ltd, amounting to £181,486 (2015-2019). The commercial partner Paxman was also
 awarded a TSB Grant for Research and Development of £229,000 with £55,000 allocated to

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the University of Huddersfield for prototype development. The total research and innovation
 income generated with the Paxman Cooler Ltd collaboration amounts to £230,904. In addition,
 Unver and Huerta Cardoso established an international research collaboration, funded by EU
 Erasmus + Vocational Education Strategic Partnership Projects, to improve technical drawing
 using VR and AR tools amounting to £25,820.

 Within the Centre for Cultural Ecologies in Art, Design and Architecture Coles received £13,168
 from the Jan Van Eyck Academy towards the development of the publication project Extended
 Play (EP). Bailey received £3000 from the Henry Moore Foundation for a project collaboration
 with artist-film-maker Huw Wahl entitled ‘Action Space Film’ which culminated in a symposium
 held at Heritage Quay, University of Huddersfield. Pettican has received £9227 from the AHRC
 as a partner on the Hepworth Research Networking Grant with Hepworth Wakefield and the
 University of York. In addition, staff have secured funding from a range of non-HESA-recognised
 sources. The research practices in art and design present a rich and diverse portfolio of funding
 streams, including for example: Swindell and Powell, Arts Council England grant for ROTOR III
 & IV (Partnership exhibitions programme with University of Huddersfield/Huddersfield Art Gallery)
 (£84,000), Barber’s Arts Council National Lottery Project Grant for Blue Plaques of Intangible
 Experiences (£7168), Carr’s Arts Council Funded Project ‘Showgirl Manifesto’ (£13,500),
 Pettican’s Arts & Heritage Commission funded project ‘Gestured’ (Chetham Library) (£11,500).
 The total amount of external funding through these non-HESA-recognised income streams
 approximately totals £164,000 as evidenced in the multi-component practice submissions.

 Research Strategy for Income Generation
 Moving forward the School will prioritise research and enterprise income by embedding funding
 application opportunities into staff research planning. The School’s Research Mentoring scheme
 creates opportunity for researchers to develop funding application experience as part of their
 career pathway planning. The School will extend current investment in creating sabbatical
 opportunities for staff to develop research bids, using research mentor support to help early career
 researchers apply for post-doctoral funding and consider how transdisciplinary research groupings
 may play a key role in future funding opportunities. For example, there is an increasing need to
 bring together expertise from across disciplines in order to address themes that are pertinent in a
 global, post-pandemic age. An international working group to develop collaborations (research,
 innovation and enterprise) will be established to help develop and cultivate new working
 relationships with external partners. This extends to the ongoing development of networks,
 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and generation of enterprise income through partnership
 building with the creative and cultural industries. In particular, establishing links between research
 and the growth of the sector in a post-COVID-19 and post-Brexit context will help to establish new
 modes of collaborative working across disciplines and with external partners. The School offers
 training on bid writing (3 times a year) and has a dedicated Research Development Manager
 providing support in the identification of bidding opportunities and in bid writing and peer review.

 Infrastructure and Research Facilities
 The £30 million Barbara Hepworth Building within which the School is housed is a live open
 plan environment allowing researchers to engage with a range of facilities, including photography
 and printing studios, weaving and laser cutting workshops, a digital lab providing the latest
 technologies in augmented reality, virtual reality, motion capture and high-performance
 visualisation including a 3-sided immersive cave. The Barbara Hepworth Building was
 envisioned and designed to support innovation through transdisciplinary collaboration and support
 experimentation of ideas in both the digital and physical realms. In addition, the technical textiles
 research centre includes conditioned lab facilities to test physical and chemical properties of
 fibrous assembly. As a shared environment, there is now more opportunity to facilitate
 transdisciplinary research across the Unit. In this respect, the evolving cultural ecologies form part
 of the cross-fertilisation and exchange between research practices and our commitment to
 research-informed teaching. Over the REF census period, the School has invested approximately
 £1 million in specialist facilities and infrastructure.

 Infrastructure and Support for Impactful Research

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Barbara Hepworth Building hosts a range of specialist facilities and presents opportunities for
 embedding stakeholder/user group and audience engagement processes into research. The open
 environment of the building can operate as a testing ground for new ideas and ways of working.
 In addition, the School’s development of Temporary Contemporary, in collaboration with Kirklees
 Council, continues to present opportunities for embedding pathways to research impact with a
 range of different audiences and beneficiaries. This will be addressed in staff and postgraduate
 student research planning with the aim of developing more rigorous ways to capture impact in and
 through the research process.

 Furthermore, pathway to impact statements were subject to six monthly reviews by peers which
 has helped to ensure a culture of learning across research areas. Researchers use the University’s
 PURE information system to record research impact that is taking place, including the systematic
 collection of relevant information. The identification of impactful research for the next REF cycle
 has started, and will follow similar procedures. Training workshops were held for the Unit’s staff
 and postgraduate researchers so that a shared understanding of the different types and value of
 research impact could be disseminated across research centres and disciplines, and further
 training workshops around the importance and need for research projects to focus on impact will
 be delivered.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 External Research Collaborations
 The collaborations developed include projects initiated through creative practice and the solution
 of design related problems. For example, the work of Brass Art brings together the University of
 Huddersfield, Manchester Metropolitan University and University of Edinburgh to realise a range
 of technological innovations in artistic research, whilst Goswami’s involvement as a co-investigator
 for the Future Fashion Factory project has generated a productive research collaboration between
 the University of Leeds and the Royal College of Art. Unver’s collaboration with universities in
 Turkey (Erasmus project) and the National University of Singapore (as part of research around
 cooling caps) are also examples of international links to other academic institutions.

 External Partnerships with Industry for Commercial Purposes
 The Technical Textiles Research Centre (TTRC) and Innovative Design Lab (IDL) have been
 leading the development of collaborative research across a range of theoretical and problem-
 solving approaches in the context of real-world problems. IDL in particular has an important role
 in establishing relations with public and private sector organisations to support design challenges
 and project-based problems. This is evidenced in the work of Unver and Huerta Cardoso and their
 long-standing industrial collaborations (e.g. Paxman Coolers, see below). Similarly, the TTRC
 have bridged links between disciplines and in working directly with industry partners, with current
 links with over 200 companies. Both centres meet the needs of society and businesses and are
 generating a focus for and with the end user. Moving forward, stakeholder engagement will
 continue to play a key role in the evolution of these research specialisms.

 One of the most substantial and long-term industry partnerships within UoA32 is with Paxman
 Coolers, a Huddersfield-based company that manufactures scalp coolers for the purposes of
 preventing chemotherapy-induced alopecia and distributes them worldwide to over 42 countries.
 The Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) (led by Unver), enabled the conception, design and
 development of a novel single use cooling cap system supported by 3D printed tooling
 technologies to facilitate mass manufacture and global market entry. Paxman and the University
 of Huddersfield have signed a five-year research and collaborative agreement to establish a
 Paxman Scalp Cooling Research Centre based at the University of Huddersfield (£1 million
 investment). It focuses on biological hair follicle research as well as developing innovative scalp
 cooling-related treatments and individual 3D-printed cooling caps.

 Third Sector/Council and Public Engagement for Social and Cultural Purposes
 The Centre for Cultural Ecologies in Art, Design and Architecture has been proactive in
 developing new and emergent thematic strands across social, aesthetic and technological

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 convergences in creative and cultural production. External collaborations with partners, different
 user groups and audiences can be seen tangibly in the work undertaken between the School and
 Kirklees Council. This ongoing partnership, which first began in 2012 with the ROTOR initiative,
 continues to evolve and is now playing a role in the town’s ten-year cultural regeneration plans
 through the initiative Temporary Contemporary. Temporary Contemporary provides a platform
 for inspirational exhibitions, performances and research, and is supporting the repurposing and
 use of Queensgate Market in Huddersfield and the Piazza Shopping area, which has been
 suffering from a low number of visitors and shop closures. Contributors to the programme include
 university lecturers, artists, local artisan producers, musicians, students and young people. The
 initiative is helping to embed creative and cultural activities in the town to support the regeneration
 of Huddersfield as a creative town. It is an example of partnership working that has cultivated
 collaborative approaches to arts and cultural development with different stakeholders, users and
 audiences.

 Furthermore, Bailey is a member of the Heritage Action Zone (Kirklees) consortium for the High
 Street Cultural Programme and a steering group member of the WOVEN in Kirklees festival.
 These partnerships have helped to develop collaborations across a network of stakeholders with
 the aim of generating a range of social and cultural impacts including new ways of undertaking
 action research in live environments and for multiple beneficiaries.

 The Unit also maintains its existing memoranda of understandings with the Yorkshire Sculpture
 Park, Hepworth Wakefield and the Henry Moore Institute. For example, Bailey is on the steering
 group for The National Arts Education Archive (NAEA) at Yorkshire Sculpture Park and Pettican
 is a key University partner with Hepworth Wakefield and the University of York for the Hepworth
 Research Network (HRN). This network will bring together curators, art historians, practising
 artists and materials scientists to research the physical processes used by Hepworth to produce
 her works.

 Service to the Subject Area
 The research centres have played a key role in facilitating opportunity for researchers to participate
 in national and international contexts and build on the standards of good research practice as
 evidenced by their contribution and service to the subject area.

 International Conferences
 Approximately 31 doctoral holding staff have delivered academic papers at international
 conferences during the census period, including: Transimage (Roberts, Bailey, Fitzpatrick),
 Society for Artistic Research (Roberts), Textile World Institute Conference (Goswami), The
 Association for Historical and Fine Art Photography (Devlin), Derrida Today (Roberts), Deleuze
 and Artistic Research (Roberts). Staff regularly lead panels at national and international
 conferences and symposia such as the Association for Art History (AAH) (‘Archival Interventions
 in Sculpture’, ‘The Power of Plasticity’, Bailey), College Art Association (CAA) (Carr), Freud
 Museum (Pettican). Staff (Bailey, Pettican) have also co-organised a range of talks, symposia and
 conferences with the Henry Moore Institute, Hepworth Wakefield and Yorkshire Sculpture Park.
 These events have attracted external guest speakers from CERN, Geneva, Stanford University,
 University of Cambridge, Texas A&M, SUNY New Paltz and University of St Andrews.

 External Exhibitions
 Staff are committed to providing academic service to the subject area in the form of external
 exhibitions (both solo and group). Barber, Carr, Clear, Fitzpatrick, Holmes, Hunter, Pettican,
 Preston and Woolham have exhibited nationally and internationally, have presented artefact
 showcases at conferences and festivals (Andrew, Pettican, Roberts) and have been involved in
 artistic research residencies with Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity, Canada (Baraklianou) and
 the Sci-Art EU Commission (Townsley). Internationally, Clear curated ‘Sensorium 2’ at the
 ‘Shanghai Urban Art Season’ in 2019. The multi-component folio submissions from this Unit
 exemplify the value and relevance of exhibiting practice research in a range of contexts. Not only
 does the exhibition platform serve as an important mechanism for research it is also an
 indispensable feature of creative practice outcomes and in this respect, the culture of this Unit is

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 focused on and committed to the public display and communication of art and design research
 practices.

 Keynote Talks
 Staff are regularly invited to deliver keynotes or talks at conferences or research events. For
 example, Barber was keynote speaker at the 3rd International Congress on Visual Culture hosted
 by Universitat Abat Oliba, Barcelona, Spain, 22 –23 May 2017, Rowley was invited speaker for a
 public talk at the Henry Moore Institute in conjunction with the exhibition Paul Neagu: Palpable
 Sculpture (October 2015) and key speaker for a gallery talk for the In My Shoes Arts Council
 Collection at Longside Gallery, Yorkshire Sculpture Park, in 2018. Halbert was invited as a New
 Generation Thinker to speak at the Being Human Festival, Sage Gateshead, which was broadcast
 on BBC Radio 3 in 2019. Pettican was a speaker at Arts in Heritage North: National Trust and Arts
 Council England Network Event, Cheshire (2015) and Townsley an invited speaker at Milan
 Bicocca, Department of Informatics and Computer Systems in 2019. These selected examples
 show a range of engagements in specialist subject areas, with a particular emphasis on expertise
 in creative practice.

 Journal Editorship, Peer Reviewing and PhD Examining
 Research staff have been actively involved in journal editorship, peer review and PhD examining.
 For example, Bailey has guest edited issues for Journal of Writing in Creative Practice and Craft
 Research, and staff have peer reviewed for Journal of Visual Art Practice (Rowley), Journal of
 Aesthetics and Art Criticism (Bailey), MDPI – Art Series (Carr). Staff sit on Editorial Boards for The
 Design Journal (Unver), Dyes and Pigments (Goswami), International Journal of Science and
 Technology (Goswami) and Journal of Textile Science and Technology (Goswami). Staff regularly
 examine PhDs at other institutions including the University of Brighton, University of Chester and
 the Royal College of Art.

 External Committees and Steering Groups
 Several staff are elected members of external committees and steering groups including member
 of the board of trustees for Textile Society and Conference (2014-2017) (Andrew), Committee
 Member of the Centre for Printing History and Culture, University of Birmingham/Birmingham City
 University (Arya), Board of Directors, International Fiber Collaborative, USA (Barber), steering
 group member, National Arts Education Archive, Yorkshire Sculpture Park, steering group
 member (WOVEN in Kirklees festival), (Bailey), member of Heritage Action Zone Consortia,
 Huddersfield (Bailey), Scientific Committee Computation, Communication, Aesthetics & X (xCoAx)
 (Pettican), Member of Society of Dyers and Colourists (Goswami). These examples evidence a
 range of engagements with local, national and international committees where the subject
 specialist expertise of staff play an active role in advancing research and impact.

 Council for Higher Education in Art and Design (CHEAD)
 Hunter is a CHEAD trustee and Bailey was recently appointed as a member of the CHEAD
 Research Alliance Strategy Group (2020). The purpose of the Strategy Group is to contribute to
 shaping CHEAD’s future plans for engaging in the UK’s creative and cultural economy, with a
 particular focus on devising ways that art and design research creates impact by shaping practice,
 activating innovation and informing policy.




                                                                                               Page 14
