Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: The University of Manchester
 Unit of assessment: 33a (Drama) – Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and
 Screen Studies

 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Context and structure

 Drama is one of nine UoAs in the School of Arts, Languages and Cultures (SALC), in turn
 part of the Faculty of Humanities (FoH), one of the largest concentrations of humanities
 researchers in the UK. Drama at Manchester is distinguished in the UK by its longevity - 2021
 is our 60th anniversary year - and by its longstanding commitment to produce research with
 social and practical, as well as intellectual, application across theatre, film and performance.
 Our research is united by a shared understanding of ‘drama’ as an encompassing term that
 links the range of objects and activities we study, and also points us towards an emphasis on
 process, engagement, collaboration and dialogue.

 The Department of Drama has enhanced and diversified its staff base and research profile
 since REF2014. Three staff previously submitted have re-located or retired and of our 15 FTE
 (13 in REF2014), 6 are new to the UoA submission. We have invested in four new
 appointments across senior and early career staff, with an emphasis on historiography
 (Calder, Dorney), practitioner-researchers (Smith .5 and Everest .5 [FT from January 2021])
 and film. Two transfers in film were made from within SALC, (Waldron and Gelbin [UoA26]),
 one existing member of film staff now has FT status (Lowe) and another is newly submitted
 to REF (Sjoberg). Recruitment has embraced the potential benefits of staff with track records
 of professional work in archives, museums, film and theatre production, enhancing the unit’s
 outward facing disposition, and its engagement with research practices from beyond the
 traditional academy. Research for REF2021 has been undertaken by 16 permanent
 academics (FTE15) (Bottoms, Butler, Calder, Chan, Clements, Dorney, Everest, Gale,
 Hughes, Jeffers, Lowe, Parry, Smith, Sjöberg, Thompson, Waldron).

 Highlights during the current REF cycle include research collaborations with practitioners,
 arts and civic organisations and communities - from young cultural entrepreneurs in war-
 zones, to people living in flood-affected areas of Yorkshire. Researchers have produced
 seven monographs, five special editions of journals, and over nine edited books as well as
 articles in world-leading journals and practice-based research for major UK venues. Staff
 have worked as editors on 4 high-profile or new journals (Studies in Theatre and
 Performance (STP), Contemporary Theatre Review (CTR), RIDE: the Journal of Applied
 Theatre and Performance (RiDE) and Studies in Costume and Performance (SCP) and three
 book series, as well as gaining 2 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships and running 2
 large-scale AHRC projects. Our overall grant capture over the period has increased by more
 than 100% from circa £459K in REF2014 to over £1.222 million (see Section 3), and our PhD
 completion rate has risen by 30% to 27.59 completions.

 Research Strategy

 Our research foci are summarised by the three research groups identified in REF2014:
 applied theatre, theatre historiography and screen studies. During the current REF cycle
 these groups have evolved as we have actively encouraged cross-fertilisation between - for
 example - historical research and applied practice (Hughes, Jeffers, Thompson), applied
 theatre and non-mainstream performance (Bottoms, Hughes, Parry), screen research and
 archive development (Butler, Everest), theatre, performance and screen cultures (Dorney,
 Gale, Lowe, Waldron). We have sought to develop a sustainable, connected research
 environment, rather than simply maintaining somewhat siloed sub-disciplines.



                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research submitted for REF2021 also engages directly with the challenges of making,
 documenting and/or witnessing drama in contexts, both contemporary and historical,
 rendered precarious by economic, environmental, political and technological change. We
 have extended and deepened our engagement with external partners, creating and
 sustaining research synergies between varied sites of knowledge production. This involves
 working inter-professionally and with local communities of place, interest and practice.
 Research by Calder, Chan, Parry and Waldron for example, focuses on specific sites of
 cultural practice to re-vision the relationship between performance cultures and knowledge
 production. Outputs from Bottoms, Hughes, Jeffers and Thompson reflect longstanding
 engagements with communities affected by environmental change, socio-economic
 deprivation, and armed conflict.

 Historical and archival work remains central to our research as a unit of assessment, and
 dovetails with a developing complementary emphasis on practice-based research, applied in
 diverse contexts. In terms of our historiographically focussed research, our reconsideration of
 established narratives and marginalised voices generates new perspectives on historical
 material: Calder interrogates the evolution of popular street theatre in the post-industrial era
 and Gale and Lowe offer new readings of 20th century performance cultures across stage
 and screen. Butler, Dorney, Gale, Lowe and Waldron re-appraise figures of significance,
 working from extended engagements with archival material, bringing new readings into view.
 Butler’s work on the Delia Derbyshire Archive facilitated the founding of the education charity
 ‘Delia Derbyshire Day’ and catalysed new creative practice - from school children to
 commissioned artists - as an ongoing, public celebration of her work.

 In the cross-over between historiography and applied performance, whilst Parry engages
 with the synergies between science and performance, Hughes offers original perspectives on
 the historical trajectories of applied and social theatre; Jeffers (with Moriarty) offers a new
 history of the community arts movement and ideas of cultural democracy, and Thompson’s
 work challenges the assumptions underpinning the historical, discursive and performative
 limits of the humanitarian project. Our research in screen studies also makes new departures
 in the histories of national cinemas (Chan), stardom, gender, sexuality on screen (Waldron),
 and approaches to documentary filmmaking (Everest, Sjöberg).

 We have been able to strategically prioritise larger-scale research activity through external
 funding success (Section 3), while also supporting the work of early career colleagues. This
 ‘mixed ecology’ approach will continue as part of our strategy for research management. We
 have developed sustainable networks for the pursuit of relevant, responsive research through
 a combination of discussion ‘in-house’ (Section 2), and through exchanging ideas and
 methods externally with scholars, practitioners, policy makers and publics. Staff are
 encouraged to develop new research relationships, to organise and host conferences and
 symposia, and to make research outputs accessible to diverse audiences, through open-
 access scholarly publications, public performances, screenings and exhibitions, project
 websites, and reports for public bodies.

 Our strategic commitment to the development of substantial, ongoing research projects is
 evidenced in a number of ways in the current submission. Extended, practice-based projects
 are presented here in the form of multi-component outputs (Bottoms, Everest, Hughes and
 Smith). There are several monographs and edited books reflecting sustained curatorial
 projects and special editions of journals. The multi-component outputs, two of which are
 substantial (double weighting requested: Bottoms, Hughes), reflect both the unit’s increased
 engagement with practice-based methods and its established strengths in historical and
 applied research.

 Collectively our aim is to develop and sustain resilient networks and wider ecologies for
 developing and sharing our research. This is evidenced, for example, in Everest’s work with
 Manchester Museum on the ‘Manchester Together’ archive project in response to the 2017

                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Manchester bombing. Our research also embraces interdisciplinarity, and works inter-
 professionally, to explore shared concerns. The UoA’s strategic aim has been to develop
 research that deliberately seeks to work across the intra-disciplinary classifications of drama:
 for example, Chan’s inclusion of multi-media, gallery-based performance in her book on
 cosmopolitan cinema, and Sjöberg’s use of improvisational play as a methodology for
 documentary film-making.

 Research Strategy: Impact

 Drama at Manchester’s historic focus on prioritising engagement with communities beyond
 the academy underpins our impact strategy. This strategy focuses on agenda-setting and the
 generation of impacts with established and new partners with whom we build and develop
 sustained working collaborations (see Section 4). Our research with cultural partners and the
 ‘impact’ arising from this influences the research culture of the department and wider
 university, through for example the Institute of Cultural Practices (ICP), the Humanitarian
 Conflict Response Institute (HCRI) and the Creative Manchester initiative (CM) a major
 University investment led by SALC. The commitment to research with impact accords with
 the current broader objectives of the University of Manchester, with ‘Social Responsibility’
 one of three key goals driving planning and investment across the institution. UoA staff have
 led the University wide development of this strategy: from 2017-19, Thompson was UoM
 Vice-President for Social Responsibility and Parry has been Associate Director for Social
 Responsibility for SALC since 2019.

 Impact potential is embedded in the planning and design of research. Our two impact case
 studies selected for REF2021 reflect this strategic emphasis both locally and globally. The ‘In
 Place of War’ (IPoW) case study (Thompson), building further on a case study submitted to
 REF2014, demonstrates how models developed from research initiated back in the early
 2000s have continued to expand their impact potential in sites of conflict around the world.
 The ‘Multi-Story Water’ case study (Bottoms) documents research impacts closer to home,
 through the development of performative engagement strategies around flood resilience and
 community awareness of the water environment, locally in the Aire Valley, and nationally
 across the UK through the project’s research partners and engagement with the Environment
 Agency.

 Other examples of impact-oriented research activity include Jeffers, as CI on an AHRC
 Connected Communities research initiative (2015-16), ‘The Hospitality Project’ (with the
 Universities of Bristol and Leeds, and a community of researchers in Bristol [including Bristol
 Hospitality Network, a third sector organisation housing asylum seekers]). This made use of
 arts-based research to explore the power dynamics of hospitality (https://connected-
 communities.org/index.php/project/the-hospitality-project/ ). Similarly, Hughes’ AHRC Early
 Career Leadership Fellowship for ‘Poor Theatres’ (2014-2016), involved collaborations with
 city-region and international projects working on economic justice issues, and with a range of
 artists, arts organisations and social housing/social welfare professionals and clients
 (http://www.manchester.ac.uk/poortheatres). Hughes’ research included the creation of a
 digital database of more than 200 artefacts. Parry’s work on science and performance builds
 on engagements with science and health professionals as well as arts practitioners and
 theatre makers (see Section 4), and has informed the development of interdisciplinary
 collaborations between Contact Theatre (where Parry was a Board member) and partners
 including the Wellcome Trust, Nowgen (a centre for genetics in healthcare) and Manchester
 Science Festival. These partnerships played a significant role in fund-raising for Contact’s
 £6.5m capital redevelopment (2017-20), to which the Wellcome Trust contributed £600,000.
 Other examples of our ongoing engagement with external partners include work by our
 ECRs. Calder’s research on international street theatres engaged with French artists,
 Everest’s with curators (Manchester Museum, National Museums Liverpool and the
 Barbican, London), and Clements’ research underpinned a long-term relationship with the

                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Royal Exchange Theatre, Manchester, with whom she worked to conceptualise their major
 You, The Audience initiative (2016-18). Smith has worked as a theatre-maker with Fuel and
 other touring producers, and as co-director of Tim Crouch’s work since 2005. Researchers
 have sought to add value to the projects of cultural partners, whether in the capacity of
 researcher or consultant, dramaturg, performer, co-author of grant applications, or advisory
 board member, etc (see Section 4).

 Our impact strategy since REF2014 has centralised a more systematic approach to securing
 external research income resulting in an over 100% increase in HESA funding (see Section
 3), and investment in third sector collaborations and partnerships. Work with partners helps to
 bring research, state and third sector funding together to maximise the impact of our research
 beyond publication, and to enhance the income-generation potential of our collaborations.
 We have also sought and received non-HESA funding for research, for example, Butler’s
 work on the Delia Derbyshire Archive, underpinned the founding of an independent
 educational charity (Delia Derbyshire Day: https://deliaderbyshireday.com/ ), and was
 supported by over £62,000 raised from Arts Council England (ACE) and the Heritage Lottery
 Fund (HLF).

 Our impact practices involve us in engaged forms of knowledge-making, questioning the
 limits of an ‘applied’ model of research by working with creative, disciplinary and professional
 collaborators to maximise and diversify the impact of new knowledge and understanding.
 Public engagement events in connection to our impactful research include Hughes’s ‘Making
 Theatre in the Midst of Austerity’ symposium (2015), events launching special editions of
 Contemporary Theatre Review - ‘Theatre and Activism’ (edited by Hughes & Parry) and
 ‘Electoral Theatre’ (edited by Bottoms), and Jeffers’ ‘Cultural Democracy: Yesterday, Today
 and Tomorrow’ (2018) as well as Bottoms, ‘Kidnap@20: The Art of Incarceration’ (2018) and
 Gale/Hughes and Dorney, ‘Mapping the Past into the Future’, in 2019.

 We have made targeted use of UoM-funded opportunities for open access publication (see
 submitted outputs by Chan, Dorney, Gale, Hughes, Jeffers, Parry and Waldron) and
 digital platforms, as well as programmed events. Jeffers and Moriarty’s research, for
 example, led to a series of events, 2 films available online, and an open-access book.

 Future Research and Impact Strategy

 Our strategy is to further enhance our established areas of expertise as well as maximising
 the relevance and impact potential of our research. Alongside extending the commitment to
 interdisciplinary and inter-professional collaboration, we are committed to supporting ECR
 and mid-career researchers to build their grant capture capacity. Here we will capitalise on
 emerging research with collaborative partners (for example Butler, Calder, Chan, Dorney,
 Everest, Hughes and Parry).

 Our commitment to open access (OA) publication will continue, supported by the University’s
 OA infrastructure which includes a publication OA repository (PURE) and funding of the
 conversion of research to OA formats. The UoA submission has benefitted from this funding
 stream (3 articles: Hughes and Parry, Gale, Parry; 2 edited books: Gale and Dorney and
 Jeffers, and 4 monographs: Calder, Chan, Parry and Waldron). All staff adhere to the
 university’s frameworks for research ethics and we are committed to enhancing our ethical
 approach to research enquiry, research integrity – for which we have all undertaken bespoke
 training – and equality and diversity frameworks as identified in the University’s Code of
 Practice. Hughes is the returning Chair of the SALC Ethics Committee from 2019-2021.

 We intend to further develop effective mentoring and support for colleagues at all stages of
 their research careers. Of our ECR staff Calder, Clements and Smith are being supported to
 complete monographs or major works during the next REF period and Bottoms, Dorney,

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Hughes, Sjöberg, Thompson and Waldron are also working on new monographs. We have
 substantial research projects in progress that provide the basis for future grant capture,
 collaborations and impact – such as interdisciplinary work on performance and incarceration
 (Bottoms); histories of civic culture (Hughes, Gale); the social history of cosmopolitan film
 (Chan, Waldon); new readings of the materiality of performance (Calder, Butler, Dorney,
 Everest, Jeffers, Smith), and performance, public health and care (Parry, Thompson).

 As well as providing a supportive and generative context for research, we will build on our
 interdisciplinary and inter-professional approach to impact, seeking opportunities to add value
 to and co-develop initiatives and embracing hybrid research identities. Examples of this are
 Thompson and Parry’s research on care, science, public health and performance, and
 outcomes from our co-hosting of a Collaborative Doctoral Award with Community Arts
 Northwest (2020-2023, Jeffers, Musiyiwa), focusing on refugee artists. We will also build on
 the investment provided through the Creative Manchester (CM) initiative which links
 researchers with partners across SALC and more substantially, from across the creative
 industries. CM is now a major theme within the University’s research strategy, 2020-2025.
 Our researchers have been central to developing CM, and investment to date has extended
 both our research potential in film practice and our collaborations with SALC’s Centre for New
 Writing and the ICP, through staff enhancement and through seed-corn funding for research.


 Section 2: People
 Staffing strategy and development

 The UoA has invested in four new appointments (Dorney, Calder [originally a fixed-term post
 funded by a Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship/Gale], Everest and Smith) and
 the enhancement of two posts in film (Lowe, Waldron). Expansion has been supported by
 the relative stability of the existing staff group. We have also enhanced our mentoring
 structures, in particular for early and mid-career researchers, to aid the development of
 distinctive research profiles (Calder, Chan, Lowe, Sjöberg), including the production of first
 monographs (Calder, Chan, Lowe and Parry). Waldron strengthens our profile in non-
 Anglophone film, and our successes in AHRC grant income have provided opportunities to
 develop new practice-based research (Bottoms and Hughes).

 Our UoA staff profile (half are Senior Lecturers and Professors) means we are well placed to
 continue our contributions to research leadership. Staff have served as officers for UK
 research associations, as reviewers for grant bodies and also work in leadership positions
 within SALC (see Section 4). Where appropriate, bids for staffing prioritise opportunities to
 appoint ECR academics (in the current cycle, we secured two fully-funded, three-year
 lectureships via awards from the Leverhulme Trust (Calder and Berger).

 CM has provided investment in a new MA Playwriting programme, which adds to the existing
 staff in playwriting in the Centre for New Writing (CNW). It has also facilitated the
 appointment of an engaged group of Honorary Professors including John McGrath (Artistic
 Director of Manchester International Festival) and Vicky Featherstone (Artistic Director and
 CEO of the Royal Court Theatre). Honorary Research Fellows, Teresa Bean, Gerri Moriarty
 and Carran Waterfield, have played key roles in Thompson, Jeffers and Hughes’ research
 activity.

 All new staff are assigned an experienced colleague as a mentor with whom they discuss the
 strategic planning of their research/academic career during probation, and beyond if they
 wish. All staff have access to researcher development, funding and training events, at
 departmental, school and faculty level. The FoH New Academics Programme (HNAP) is
 accredited by the Higher Education Academy. ECR lecturers benefit from a reduction in
 teaching load (25% in year 1; 20% year 2; 15% year 3) which supports the development of

                                                                                         Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 their research profiles. This support infrastructure has led to several notable achievements for
 ECRs: for example, Calder’s John Rylands Research Institute Fellowship in 2017 and his
 receipt of the David Bradby, Standing Conference of University Drama Departments
 (SCUDD) Award in 2018. Our three post-doctoral researchers working on AHRC funded
 projects (Dudley, Murray, Paxton) all made extensive use of UoA mentoring and career
 development resources. A BBC/AHRC New Generation Thinker while completing her PhD
 (UoM), Paxton’s monograph Stage Rights, developed from her PhD, was published in Gale
 and Dorney’s series with Manchester University Press. She also won the TaPRA Early
 Career Researcher prize in 2019, and worked as the RA on Hughes’ AHRC ‘Poor Theatres’
 Project.

 Staff benefit from a formal and informal research support and development structure,
 designed to maximise potential and productivity. All staff engage in extensive internal peer
 review, provide advice on placing outputs for publication, and consult on funding proposals.
 Our regular programme of staff/PGR seminars, ‘Cultivating Research’, provides opportunities
 to discuss early-stage research by colleagues, as well as bringing in guest speakers to
 extend outward dialogue. Our research strategy is also facilitated by regular research ‘away
 days’, which include a range of opportunities for sharing work. All staff participate in an
 annual Personal Research Expectations Plan (PREP) exercise, where research plans are
 developed in discussion and agreed, and colleagues are helped to identify research and
 impact goals, and additional sources of support. During this REF cycle we have particularly
 focussed support on colleagues writing their first monographs or their first funding proposals.

 With processes overseen by a SALC Director of Research (currently Gale) and SALC
 Research Committee, a dedicated research support team manage grant applications, awards
 and internal funding. SALC supports grant applications through assigning our in-house grant
 writers from the Faculty team to assist in the development of applications, and through the
 use of experienced peer reviewers, many of whom review for external funding bodies. Impact
 is supported through SALC funds and a staff team which includes an Associate Director for
 Research: Impact [academic] and an Impact Manager [professional services]. Tailored
 support is offered to ECRs through training workshops in research project development,
 impact and grant capture. Departmental research co-ordinators process applications to the
 University’s Open Access (OA) fund.

 All staff can apply for institutional research leave (IRL) of one semester in every seven. There
 is flexibility with scheduling across a unit: IRL can be moved back or forward by a semester,
 and periodically SALC supports supplementary leave (SRL) of one additional semester
 (Lowe and Parry were in receipt of this during the current cycle). All research staff have a
 personal research allowance of £1,000 per annum (up from £600 in REF2014), with
 additional financial support for research development from SALC and UoA funds, of up to
 £6,000 per annum, available through competitive tender. Researchers in receipt of external
 funding are given an adjustment to their teaching and administrative duties to enable them to
 deliver funded research outcomes. All staff nominate a weekly ‘research day’: this takes into
 account the SALC workload model (WAM), and the scheduling of teaching and tutorial
 availability during teaching semesters.

 Colleagues are encouraged to apply for promotion and are offered strategic advice on
 research development, and the administration and leadership opportunities that institutional
 promotion criteria demand. SALC also runs annual workshops for those applying for
 promotions. In this REF period, career progression is evidenced by promotion of Calder to a
 permanent contract, and other ECRs to senior lecturer status (Chan, Jeffers and Parry), as
 well as Hughes to Professor.




                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Taking into account the need to represent the research of all staff and ensure this process is
 framed by equality and diversity markers, we have determined our strategy for submission to
 REF2021 on the basis of balancing both investment and assessing where the UoA emphases
 are at this moment in the research cycle. Colleagues who have had extended periods of
 research time relating to grant success or supplementary leave (Bottoms, Calder, Chan,
 Gale, Hughes, Parry, and Thompson) or who were completing existing projects (Dorney)
 are contributing more outputs to the submission as a whole than the REF2021 average of 2.5
 items. While in general ECR colleagues (Clements, Everest and Smith), or those in the
 process of developing larger-scale projects, are returning less (Butler; Jeffers; Lowe;
 Sjoberg; Waldron).

 Research Students

 The UoA supports three distinct PhD programmes: Drama (which includes a PhD by Practice
 route); a Professional Doctorate in Applied Theatre and an Anthropology, Media and
 Performance PhD, offered in partnership with the University’s Visual Anthropology
 department. Since REF2014, PhD completion rates have risen overall by a third to over 30.
 Many of our PhD and PDR researchers are actively involved in sustaining the vitality of our
 research culture, as well as enhancing and developing practice and policy within their own
 professional settings. Examples here include Allen’s (2019) work on ‘tractivism’, an activist
 form of peripatetic performance and Caudle’s (2017) work on leadership in learning disability
 theatre. Parkinson (2017) developed a new approach to creative education in the prison
 classroom and Sawka’s (2020) research, which re-visions process drama education for the
 21st century classroom, has attracted funding from the Paul Hamlyn Foundation, as well as
 being mapped out in schools across the North of England.

 All PGR activity is structured by a programme of support, training and academic advising
 input at Departmental, School and University level. Students are assigned two supervisors
 and an advisor. PhD activity is overseen by the departmental Postgraduate Research Officer,
 who coordinates admissions and offers pastoral support to students in the role of Academic
 Advisor. Students have fortnightly supervisory meetings and formal progression assessment
 panels twice a year, which include an independent reviewer, thus ensuring that decisions
 regarding progression are taken in a robust fashion.

 SALC oversees a programme of PGR training, taking into account the specific requirements
 that are set by the AHRC and ESRC, and for students funded by the NWDCTP / NWDTP.
 Artsmethods@manchester and SALC’s Graduate School offer training and funding to support
 the organisation of interdisciplinary, student-led, initiatives and conferences.
 Artsmethods@manchester training is theoretical and technical, while SALC Graduate School
 training is centred on early professionalisation, for example on accessing academic careers,
 publication strategy, and generating impact. An important aspect of a doctoral student's
 training is the interaction with their local and wider research community. Mao HuiDeng for
 example (2020), served as postgraduate research officer for the British Association of Film,
 Television and Screen Studies (2015-19). Bobby Smith (2019) was a key organiser of
 ‘Development Meets’ an interdisciplinary network jointly run by SALC and the Global
 Development Institute (GDI) and was instrumental in setting up Artschain, an informal city-
 wide network of participatory arts, community arts and socially engaged practitioners: many
 of its members are researchers as well as artists. Our PGR students participate in SALC and
 department seminar programmes, inputting and organising their own panel of contributors on
 an annual basis. Staff offer career development sessions assisting with job applications,
 advising on research placement and offering detailed peer review prior to publication, as well
 as support for public engagement, knowledge exchange and impact. SALC’s Graduate
 School Team provide administrative support for PGRs: this includes training related to
 strategic leadership, research training in the arts, and research events that help to foster the
 PhD community, with regular meetings with PhD representatives.

                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 PGR students have access to other School resources that enhance AHRC/DTP funding.
 SALC strongly encourages participation in academic conferences and has a dedicated
 budget to support this (£400 per student, per year), and fieldwork expenses (up to £3K per
 student). Our PGR students have also benefitted from support for practice-based research
 and language training in this REF cycle. Every student has free printing and access to priority
 ordering of library items for research.

 Our PhD graduates are employed in a range of academic and arts/culture-related
 destinations. During the current cycle, these include 11 lectureships (fixed-term/permanent)
 at universities including Damascus (Syria); Manchester Metropolitan University, Lincoln,
 Northumbria, RCSSD, Salford, Victoria (Canada), Warwick and Wolverhampton; and
 employment in arts and cultural organisations (such as HOME in Manchester, CHOL Theatre,
 Huddersfield and Oldham Coliseum) and/or as self-employed artists. Graduates have
 published four monographs; six chapters in edited books; six journal articles; and created
 multiple exhibitions and performances. Artist-researchers have graduated with research
 outputs exhibited across national and international platforms. D’Onofrio’s (2017) PhD film, It
 was Tomorrow, has been screened across Europe since 2018, winning a special
 commendation from the Royal Anthropological Institute in 2019. In 2020 Cabezas won the
 British Association of Film, TV and Screen Studies (BAFTSS) Moving Image Award for the
 documentary film This is My Face, made as part of her PhD in Anthropology, Media and
 Performance.

 Our PhD in Applied Theatre (running since 2010) includes structured research training via
 residentials and workshops with guest speakers from academic and professional contexts.
 This mode of PhD programme delivery is now available to all PhD researchers engaging in
 creative industries-facing research in SALC, as part of the CM initiative. Restructuring of FoH
 MA programmes since REF2014 has given us the opportunity to focus on our new MA
 Playwriting programme (Clements, Hughes), in collaboration with UoM’s Centre for New
 Writing (first cohort 2020): we anticipate that this will attract PhD by practice applications in
 writing for performance.

 Equality and diversity

 The UoA’s commitment to equality and diversity is evidenced by our near 50:50 distribution of
 male to female staff, in the range of our age profile and class (six out of sixteen staff are first
 in their family to have attended university), by our declared range of sexual orientation and
 our cultural, and national origins. The UoAs female to male gender balance of submitted staff
 at senior level (Senior Lecturer and Professor) is 5:5 and at lecturer, 3:3. Our staff, PhD
 recruitment and promotions strategy works in line with an urgent priority to achieve better
 representation of Black and Global Majority staff and researchers: currently this has had a
 more immediate impact on PGR profiles. We are pro-actively working as part of SALC
 admissions task groups to address imbalances and in 2018/19, carried out a review of
 equality and diversity issues which led to radical re-writing of a number of our UG and PGT
 courses.

 We support and promote Equality and Diversity via fair and equitable recruitment processes
 where staff involved take mandatory face-to-face and online training in unconscious bias.
 Access and inclusion issues are also addressed as part of two university staff development
 networks for Black and Global Majority and LGBTQ colleagues. Our shared research agenda
 includes work with communities who do not normally access academic research: refugees
 (Jeffers); people affected by economic injustice (Hughes); flood-affected communities
 (Bottoms); people affected by war (Thompson). We participated in the prestigious Artist
 Protection Scheme in 2017-18 (with Silvanos Mudzvova, see Section 4), and we also
 question both the frames of the ‘diversity’ debate and the ethics of constructing the ‘other’ via

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 our research (Chan, Gale, Hughes, Waldron). We have prioritised work with Black and
 Global Majority freelance artists as part of teaching and research projects that enhance
 equality and diversity (in 2018, 2019 and 2020 employing playwright Zodwa Nyoni, and
 contemporary theatre-makers Toni Dee and Keisha Thompson, for example), which, we
 hope, provides some evidence for the next generation of scholars and researchers that there
 is a place for everyone in a university community.

 Staff and PhD researchers can request funding towards caring costs incurred through
 research related activities. Ill health and care responsibilities are taken into account in
 research review and work practices and schedules. There is a PhD Carers Network in SALC,
 and a wider University Parents Group and Parents Representative. PhD researchers with a
 long-term illness are supported by both SALC’s and UoM’s Disability Advisory and Support
 Service (DASS). SALC has a dedicated office for students with space and equipment; a PGR
 DASS coordinator, a PGR lead for wellbeing and a dedicated wellbeing programme. PGR
 students returning from a period of interruption are contacted to check they are ready to
 return and are aware of the on-going support we provide. All staff and students have free
 access to the university’s counselling services.

 Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research Income

 Our strategic plan to undertake research that is outward facing and integrally connected to a
 diverse ecology of external contexts and partners has been supported by the successful
 capture of external funding. Uplift in income during the current cycle has been achieved
 through more systematic planning of, and support for, funding applications, and collaboration
 with non HEI partners to access charitable and third sector funding to support research
 impact.

 The UoA has attracted external funding of more than £1,230,863 (as of July 2020, compared
 to £459K in REF2014), with two thirds of researchers in the UoA having been successful in
 their grant applications. This includes two Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships (Bottoms
 and Gale), six AHRC awards (Bottoms (2), Hughes, Jeffers, Thompson and Waldron &
 Perriam), two Arts Council England grants (Butler £20,000, Smith £58,266), one Heritage
 Lottery Fund grant (Butler, £42,600), and more than £500,000 generated by In Place of War
 (IPOW) from charitable trusts, foundations and through state support (ICS: Thompson). The
 Leverhulme awards created employment opportunities for Calder and Berger (2017-2020)
 emerging scholars of note, both of whom were mentored to produce quality research and
 secured a monograph contract while with us.
 Our external research awards represent three key areas of activity:

   1) Fellowship Awards: to support research to establish/enhance disciplinary leaders, by
      drawing attention to neglected or new areas of work and/or new ways of looking at
      significant questions connected to the discipline (Bottoms, Gale, Hughes).
   2) UKRI Collaborative Grant Awards. These have enabled team-based projects, with
      collaborative research outputs and public engagement activities, practice-based
      performances and films, artist commissions, and other engaged research including
      impact-related follow-on initiatives (Bottoms, Jeffers, Thompson, Waldron).
   3) Other Charitable and Government Income: supporting the diversification of
      emerging and/or long-term research projects (Butler/Heritage Lottery Fund and Arts
      Council England; Smith/Arts Council England; Thompson/Foreign and
      Commonwealth Office; Mastercard Foundation; PRS Foundation, Ronnie Scott’s
      Charitable Foundation; Anna Lindh Foundation; Stanley Thomas Johnson Foundation
      and Mark Leonard Trust).



                                                                                        Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Drama has secured internal seed-corn funding from School and University schemes, as well
 as external funding. For example, in addition to receiving funding from ACE, Smith’s
 SUMMIT, was supported by an internal Social Responsibility grant. Jeffers’ projects have
 also received SALC funding as have research projects from Bottoms, Butler, Chan, Lowe
 and Parry.

 Staff have been supported to work on impact, social responsibility and research development
 (Dorney, Gale, Hughes, Jeffers, Lowe, Smith): this also includes support for Parry’s work
 on performance and public health research, Bottoms’s work developing pilot performances
 for the Aire Rivers Trust, and Chan’s work on social histories of transnational cinema. Other
 staff have used seed-corn funding to support the development of major applications for the
 period beyond REF2021 (Butler, Calder, Chan, Parry, Thompson), as part of the UoA’s
 strategic planning for future grant capture.

 Scholarly Infrastructure

 Our research strategy and infrastructure enables us to be outward-facing to all aspects of the
 theatre, screen and performance industry.

 The UoA is based in the Martin Harris Centre for Music and Drama (MHC), which includes a
 black box theatre (The John Thaw Studio), a screening space (John Casken), and two
 practice studios. The MHC also houses the Lenagan Library, UoM’s dedicated subject library
 for Drama and Music, which has an extensive audio-visual collection and viewing equipment
 as well as specialist research materials.

 We use the MHC to host events that link directly to our research and impact activities and to
 support our work with a range of artist and community partners. Recent examples include:
 the ‘Art, Freedom and Protection’ event (2018) to showcase the world premiere of Psychosis
 (2018), a new play by our Artist Protection Fund Fellow, Silvanos Mudzvova; the co-
 production with SALC’s Sexuality Summer School, of performances of Split Britches’
 Retro(per)spective (2019); the premiere of Smith’s SUMMIT and a performance of Smith’s
 Commonism (2018); Tim Crouch’s performance of I, Malvolio (2015); Jeffers’ support and
 hosting of the work of the Raqqa Collective and Journeys International Festival; and the
 screening of alumna Daisy May Hudson’s documentary film on housing, Half Way (2017).

 The UoA’s research culture is supported by a programme of events where staff, students,
 external academics and industry representatives come together for discussion and reflection.
 ‘Cultivating Research’, the departmental public seminar programme, brings researchers
 together to discuss projects and emerging methodologies. The format ranges from formal
 talks by visiting speakers to more informal events for staff and PhD/PDRs. In this cycle
 visiting speakers include: Christopher Balme on international theatre networks; Jane Collins
 and Ethel Brooks on Performing Romani Identities; Maria Delgado and Bryce Lease on
 Staging Difficult Pasts; Victoria Duckett on Sarah Bernhardt and early cinema; Carl Lavery
 and Cara Berger on feminism and ecology in postdramatic theatre and Valentina Vitali on
 women in Indian cinema. We have hosted a number of academic seminars connected to
 specific research activity (see Sections 1 and 4), and public lectures including those by
 theatre historian Tracy C. Davis whilst Simon Visiting Professor at the John Rylands
 Research Institute (JRRI/2017), and curator-dramaturg Florian Malzacher (discussing his
 work with Quarantine (2018). Colleagues working in film and screen programme ‘Visual
 Dialogues’ (organised in collaboration with UoM’s Granada Centre for Visual Anthropology), a
 quarterly series of screenings and talks by visiting film makers and researchers. Highlights
 from this REF cycle include On the Bride’s Side about Palestinian refugees directed by
 Gabriele Del Grande and co-produced by PhD graduate D’Onofrio and Acoustic Signatures
 by Louise K. Wilson. ‘At First Sight’ offers a complementary programme of first screenings of
 films produced as part of research initiatives across Drama and Visual Anthropology.


                                                                                        Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research is also supported through the John Rylands Library, one of only five UK national
 research libraries and the largest non-legal deposit library in the UK. It has the largest
 collection of electronic resources in any university library in Europe. Researchers work
 closely with the John Rylands Research Institute (JRRI), initiating for example the recent
 enhancement of the Delia Derbyshire archive and running a one-day symposium in 2016 on
 Victorian Theatre and Early Film with speakers from the US and UK. UoM’s Centre for
 Interdisciplinary Research in Arts and Languages (CIDRAL) and the Sexuality Summer
 School organise a full programme of visiting speakers. In this cycle these have included:
 Lauren Berlant, Sander L. Gilman, Joseph Roach and Freddie Rokem, Elizabeth Freeman,
 Brian Lobel, Holly Hughes and in collaboration with our UoA, Split Britches.

 Organisational and operational infrastructure

 Researchers have access to specialised funding, equipment and facilities, including practice
 and performance spaces and studio facilities with cutting-edge sound and video-editing suites
 in the Martin Harris Centre, and IT and screening facilities with access to UoM’s new
 £550,000 Media Centre and Film Lab.

 Alongside facilities offered within the UoA, SALC’s Graduate School offers fully equipped
 workspaces with a training room, a state-of-the art multiway conferencing system and a
 SMART Board, as well as three seminar rooms for workshops, postgraduate conferences
 and events and, alongside those in the MHC, spaces for informal social gatherings and event
 receptions.

 Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The desire to engage meaningfully with external partners and with people and places
 external to the university underpins much of our research. This is both in terms of the
 generation and flow of knowledge and understanding, and in its application to the wider
 economy and society. We have relationships with over twenty-five arts and/or community
 organisations; we have worked as editors of international scholarly journals and three major
 book series. During the current cycle staff have delivered sixteen keynotes and more than
 ninety papers at national and international conferences, and our research has been
 translated into several languages (including Dutch, French, German, Romanian, Arabic and
 Spanish). Postgraduate research has made significant contributions to both the academic
 and cultural sectors in international film curation (Ahmed 2019), film-programming (Elliott
 2019), documentary film-making (Cabezas 2018, Dietrich, D’Onofrio 2017, and Knowles
 2016), learning disability theatre (Caudle), art and restorative justice (Ruding), drama
 education (Henderson 2020, Sawka 2020), creative education in prisons (Parkinson 2017)
 and histories of suffragette theatre (Paxton 2014).

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 SALC and the FoH provide support for collaborative research and all staff can apply for
 financial support for this from across the university (see Section 3). The UoA encourages
 staff to sustain our good track record of service and leadership roles that support the
 development, vitality and sustainability of our disciplines beyond Manchester. Bottoms,
 Butler, Chan, Clements, Dorney, Everest, Gale, Hughes, Jeffers, Parry, Smith and
 Thompson, have developed research projects/networks with national and international
 partners and local organisations such as the BBC, BFI, Royal Exchange Theatre and New
 Charter Housing, Octagon Theatre, Bolton at Home, Community Arts North West, Mint
 Theater, NY, Magdalena Project; and have created placements and publications with PhD
 students (Hughes with Dunn), and a framework for future projects on the civic value of
 theatre (Hughes). At HOME, Manchester’s independent centre for contemporary arts, theatre
 and film, Chan’s work on Chinese cinema has been embedded in the annual international


                                                                                       Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 festival programming, and the ‘Not Just Bollywood’ annual season has been curated there by
 PhD graduate Omar Ahmed, since 2018.

 The UoA has a strong record of research which forges and develops collaborations, that has
 led to a number of publications, and to the development of research applications which
 mature these relationships (Chan, Hughes). Externally these include Bottoms and Hollweg
 (Leeds), Chan and Willis (Salford), Jeffers and Moriarty, Hughes and Nicholson (RHUL),
 Hughes and Waterfield, Fisher (CSSD) and Thompson, Smith and Crouch, Waldron and
 Rees-Roberts (Sorbonne Nouvelle). Internally, collaborations between Gale and Dorney
 have produced two edited volumes, Perriam and Waldron have produced one, and Hughes
 and Parry jointly edited a special edition of a major UK journal.

 Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences

 With a broad base of research users, beneficiaries and audiences our research strengthens
 the HEI research base (see below), and engages with diverse communities and publics, from
 young children to refugees, from workless communities in the North West, to more traditional
 middle-class theatre goers in Manchester and London, to communities for whom public arts
 provision is largely inaccessible. Research projects with artists/arts organisations have had
 mutual benefit and generated public value (including socio-economic value). Our
 collaborations with the cultural sector have a multi-directional impact: they both help translate
 research for external contexts and enhance the development of our own research culture.

 Such research speaks to an agenda around the active relationship between performance and
 publics, often in non-theatre/arts spaces and in a manner in which the impetus to embrace
 diversity is heightened. For example, Butler’s work on Delia Derbyshire engages multi-
 generational audiences interested in the processes of electronic music making and women’s
 historic involvement in it; Gale’s research on ‘forgotten’ women performance practitioners
 underpinned her editorial and advisory work with the Oxford Dictionary of National
 Biography’s Women in Theatre, Film, and Performance project (2018), and her consultancy
 roles on contemporary productions of ‘forgotten’ works for new generations of audiences
 (Orange Tree Theatre, London, and the Mint Theatre in New York (2019-2020). Bottoms’
 and Hughes have sustained engagement with local artistic communities in Leeds and
 Bradford. Our postgraduate students, Dunn, Paxton (RCSSD) and Smith (University of
 Warwick), have used research generated at UoM to develop projects involving communities,
 users, research and knowledge transfer.

 Staff contribute both to the framing of funding programmes and application processes as part
 of Boards of Trustees of arts organisations (Hughes/Common Wealth; Gale and
 Thompson/The Edge Theatre and Arts Centre; Thompson/IPOW; Parry and
 Dorney/Contact Theatre; Gale and Jeffers/TiPP (Theatre in Prisons and Probation). Butler,
 Gale, Hughes, Parry and Thompson have all been involved in developing external funding
 bids, some of which have resulted in the award of ACE NPO funding, or in the award of
 funding toward significant capital bids (for e.g. Parry/Wellcome Trust funding for the Contact
 Theatre, see Section 1).

 Staff have collaborated with artists in the making of performance work (Butler, Bottoms,
 Hughes, Jeffers, Parry, Smith, Thompson), and have also worked in an evaluative and
 consultative capacity (Chan, Dorney, Gale, Hughes, Parry, Waldron). Research projects
 have enhanced artistic commissioning and programming: for example, Parry commissioned
 prize-winning work from writer Louise Wallwein (Hidden, in 2015 which won a Manchester
 Cultural Award for Best Performance in 2019). The department has also hosted a diverse
 range of artist/users including the Zimbabwean radical theatre maker and activist, Silvanos
 Mudzvova (2016-2017) funded by the Artists Protection Scheme (US), who following his


                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 residency with us, was awarded UK Leave to Remain and is now a working artist in
 Manchester.

 External organisations supported by researchers in advisory or consultative roles include Arts
 Council England (ACE/Dorney), ArtsChain (Jeffers), Contact/Wellcome (Parry), British
 Council, USA (Thompson), FAWE Liberia (Thompson), Children In Crisis, UK (Thompson)
 and the V&A (Dorney). Our PhD researchers have also contributed to the unit’s engagement
 with external organisations (see section 2). Locally, we have provided leadership in the areas
 of research and social responsibility for the wider University (Thompson, Parry, see Section
 1).

 Much of our research places audiences and users at its centre. For example, Smith’s
 SUMMIT (2018-19) was created specifically to speak directly to audiences in an accessible
 way, embedding a deaf performer in its compositional structure and requiring all actors to
 perform in British Sign Language as well as in their ‘mother tongues’, English and Malay.
 Jeffers’ research on arts and cultural democracy foregrounded the historical practice of
 practitioners whose primary objective has been to engage diverse audiences with practices of
 artmaking, embracing a plurality of users and beneficiaries in the process of generating art.
 Similarly, Chan’s collaborations on the Chinese Film Forum UK (CFFUK), have expanded
 the coverage and dissemination of Chinese films for new UK audiences, following an initial
 AHRC Research Networking grant (2012-2014). CFFUK is an inclusive collaboration and a
 ‘collective’ organisation run between members of UoM, the University of Salford, MMU, the
 Confucius Institute (UoM), the Centre for Chinese Contemporary Art, and HOME, with
 funding from the British Film Institute, and the UK National Lottery Fund. Staff are also
 involved in the organisation of other arts festivals such as the Insight Film Festival (Butler,
 Sjöberg), the Journeys International Festival (Jeffers) and initiatives such as Y Touring
 Theatre of Debate (Parry).

 Service to the discipline

 Service in terms of leadership and consultancy includes a substantial and long-term presence
 in research bodies integral to the discipline. This includes work as founding/executive
 members and working group convenors of TaPRA, following the inaugural conference in
 2005 at UoM of what was then, a new UK research association for theatre and performance
 (Clements, Dorney, Gale, Hughes, Jeffers, Parry and Thompson), and membership of
 IFTR, ASTR and PSI. Staff are also members of the British Association of Film, Television
 and Screen Studies (Butler, Chan, Lowe). UoA researchers contribute as lead and
 associate editors of international journals – CTR (Gale, Hughes), STP (Dorney 2009-2020),
 SCP (Dorney 2013-17) and RiDE (Hughes, Thompson), as well as book review editors for
 journals including New Theatre Quarterly (Jeffers, Clements). Staff are members of a range
 of editorial boards, and work as book series editors (Routledge Modern and Contemporary
 Dramatists (Gale); Women, Theatre and Performance (Dorney, Gale) and Theatre: Theory-
 Practice-Performance (Gale with Delgado/RCSSD and Lichtenfels/UC Davis, US). Staff have
 also acted as editors and consultants on digital platforms such as The Routledge Theatre and
 Performance Archive and Digital Theatre + (Gale), as well as regularly reviewing proposals
 and manuscripts for major academic publishers (including Bloomsbury Methuen, Cambridge
 University Press, I.B. Tauris, Leuven University Press, Nick Hern Books, Oxford University
 Press, Palgrave Macmillan, Peter Lang, Routledge, Seagull Books, University of Michigan
 Press). Staff regularly serve as peer reviewers for UK and international funders such as the
 Leverhulme Trust, the Wellcome Trust, the AHRC, the ESRC, FWF Austrian Science Fund,
 Prince Claus Fund, the Irish Research Council and the ERC.

 Researchers have been nominated for and won awards: Dorney was awarded the TaPRA
 David Bradby Prize in 2014, Calder the SCUDD David Bradby Award in 2018 and in 2019


                                                                                        Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Dorney and Gale were nominated for the TaPRA editing prize for Vivien Leigh: Actress and
 Icon (MUP). Gale was elected a Fellow of Academia Europaea in 2016.

 Staff are also active in collaborations with ongoing academic networks: Brandeis
 (Thompson), Notre Dame/Lederach (Thompson), ‘Crisis, Affect and Community’ in
 contemporary British theatre - Universitat de Barcelona (Clements), Cultural Democracy
 Network (Jeffers), Migrant Dramaturgies (Jeffers), Future Anthropologies (Sjöberg) and
 ASTR (Calder), Staff provide advice and consultancy to a range of professional
 organisations: (see above) and are members of the editorial committee of Manchester
 University Press (Butler, Gale), while also providing research development consultancy for
 several universities, including, Kent; Lancaster; LJMU; MMU; Northumberland; QMUL;
 Reading; RCSSD; Salford, and Winchester. UoA staff regularly act as external members of
 appointment and promotion panels across the UK, and have examined more than 30 PhDs
 during this REF cycle, in Australia, South Africa, Sweden and in the UK, including for the
 universities of Aberystwyth, Brighton, Bristol, Hull, Warwick and London (several colleges).

 Alongside our annual series of research seminars, we have organised a number of
 conferences, performances and public symposia during this REF cycle as described in
 Section 2. These include: performances of SUMMIT (Smith, 2018, UK premiere);
 Commonism (Smith, 2019, UK premiere), Salts Waters, This Island’s Mine (Bottoms) 2017-
 18; ‘Mapping the Past into the Future: Towards a Festschrift – A Celebration of the Work of
 Professor Jacky Bratton’ (Gale, Hughes and Dorney) an international symposium to
 celebrate the work of a key UK theatre historian (2019); and a symposium celebrating the
 publication of two special editions of Contemporary Theatre Review (2015) edited by UoA
 staff (Bottoms, Hughes and Parry/ see Section 2), with invited guest artists from Common
 Wealth and Liberate Tate. Staff have also contributed to national and international
 conferences as speakers, respondents and panel chairs as well as giving keynote addresses
 in the UK and elsewhere. This includes Dorney as keynote at TaPRA in 2015, Thompson at
 Brandeis University, USA in 2015, and at the International Community Arts Festival,
 (Holland), in 2017 - on ‘Performance in place of War’ and ‘An Aesthetic of Care’, and Jeffers
 on cultural democracy in London in 2015 and on refugees and performance in Sweden
 (2019).

 In many cases the impact of our research has been supported by our distinct approach to
 interdisciplinarity and our responsiveness to national and international priorities/issues, from
 collaborative projects and commissions with artists to our contributions as a team to
 publishing and research dissemination in the field more generally. Our research has, then,
 made significant interventions into wider theatre and screen cultural ecologies locally,
 nationally and internationally.




                                                                                           Page 14
