Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol

 Unit of Assessment: 19: Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview
Politics and International Relations (P&IR) sits within the interdisciplinary School of Sociology,
Politics and International Studies (SPAIS). As we detail below, we benefit from an excellent
research infrastructure and environment and an inclusive and highly collegial research culture. This
was reflected in our submission of 99% of academic staff in REF2014, when we ranked eleventh
on research intensity. We have sustained that inclusive ethos over the current cycle whilst taking
advantage of substantial investments in P&IR by the University. New appointments have seen a
significant expansion in P&IR at Bristol to 33 FTE in REF2021 from 26 in REF2014. A strategic
decision to appoint across the career range has strengthened research leadership whilst nurturing
mid and early career scholars in our core research areas. This has helped to revitalise P&IR
research at Bristol, something reflected in, amongst other things, a substantial growth in our
research income (section 3) and PGR numbers (section 2).

Long known for scholarship on critical security studies and gender, the unit is characterised by its
focus on global and domestic political processes and transformations, and their gendered and
multiply contested nature. Our work takes a critical but constructive approach to complex, multi-
dimensional contemporary challenges, through innovative conceptual and policy-focused research,
participatory and co-produced methods, and pursuit of cross-disciplinary connections central to the
University of Bristol’s research strategy.

Our two Research Centres and three School Research Groups play key roles in advancing our
research. The Global Insecurities Centre (GIC) and Gender Research Centre (GRC) are central to
sustaining a vibrant research culture, incubating new ideas and projects, enhancing our profile,
networks, international and cross-disciplinary links, public engagement and impact, and supporting
early career researchers (ECRs) including Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs). The Research
Centres have dedicated budgets to attract visiting and international scholars, run events, away-
days, writing-retreats and training. The School Research Groups (SRGs) foster links between
researchers at all levels, including PGRs. Most are cross-disciplinary, based on collaboration within
SPAIS or colleagues across the University. They have access to School funding for seminars,
public lectures, workshops, reading groups and host visiting speakers and researchers. The three
SRGs focus on: Social, Cultural and Political Theory, European Politics and Society and Party
Politics. Membership of the Research Centres and Groups is not exclusive – staff may be involved
in more than one, depending on their research interests and expertise, enhancing cross-fertilisation
and collaboration.

1.2 Strategic research and impact aims for the current period
In REF2014 our key strategic aims were: to advance cross-disciplinary interests, strengthen our
Research Centres, and increase recruitment of internationally excellent PGR students. We have
had considerable success in delivering on all of these. Our PGR student recruitment, for example,
has almost doubled from 35 to 64, with 46 ESRC and international PhD scholarships (Section 2).
Since 2014, we have revised and developed our strategic aims. We currently have five main
strategic objectives:



                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   Further strengthen the role and capacities of the GIC and GRC to attract excellent
       researchers, lead ambitious research initiatives, secure research income and promote a
       vibrant research culture;
   •   Sustain a broad range of theoretical and empirical research across the discipline of Politics
       and IR by investing in and supporting research in political theory, parties and institutions;
   •   Strengthen the international profile of the unit’s research;
   •   Promote cross-disciplinary connections that stimulate our research and enable ambitious,
       collaborative initiatives; and
   •   Strengthen and embed capacities for impact and engagement.
These aims align closely with University priorities (see the Institutional Environment Statement,
REF5a), and have enabled us to target investment and support, enhancing the volume, quality and
impact of research across the unit.

• Strengthening the role and capacities of the Research Centres
Global Insecurities Centre (GIC)
The GIC (Director Edmunds; Deputy Director Juncos) advances our research in security and
insecurity, critical development studies and IR. The GIC (encompassing the former Centre for
East Asian Studies) maintains a vigorous and active research culture in these areas and has
benefited from significant investment in new staff in recent years. Over the current REF cycle the
Centre has grown and strengthened its activities in three main areas: 1) research capacity; 2) grant
capture and research innovation; 3) disciplinary leadership and policy impact.

Research capacity:
We have strengthened and revitalised the GIC research base with eleven new appointments,
following retirements, departures and new investments. These include one professor (Joseph –
formerly Professor of IR at Sheffield), two Senior Lecturers (Brett, Medie), six Lecturers (Cesnulyte,
Dietzel, Diongi, Pratt, Rossdale and Yates) and ESRC New Investigator Kearns. These
appointments increased GIC P&IR membership to 22 staff (from 17 in REF2014). These new
appointments have helped catalyse new research and innovation in key thematic areas, captured
in four GIC working groups on: Peacebuilding, Critical Development Politics, The Climate
Emergency, and Everyday Insecurities, and four international research programmes: Somali
First (lead: Herring), SafeSeas (lead: Edmunds), Disaster Risk Management (lead: Christie), and
the Secrecy, Power and Ignorance Network (SPIN) (lead: Van Veeren). The GIC working groups
provide collective fora through which colleagues can share and collaborate around common
research interests. The research programmes comprise dedicated thematic research activities built
around consecutive grant capture successes and/or enduring international collaborative networks.

Grant capture and research innovation:
The GIC functions as a key hub for grant capture activities in SPAIS. GIC members engage
actively in shaping and strengthening research grant ideas and applications from Centre
colleagues through grant scrutiny meetings and application review processes. The efficacy of
these processes is demonstrated by a series of major grant successes in the period (detailed in
Section 3) and represents a step change from REF2014. For example, the GIC’s work on
Peacebuilding has led to major grants from the H2020, ESRC and Marie Skłodowska-Curie
programmes (Weldes, Juncos, Herring) as well as IAA, WUN, AHRC and GCRF projects (Juncos,
Joseph, Christie, Brett). The EU-CivCap research, for example, has generated new evidence on,
and policy recommendations to support, civilian capacities for sustainable peace and was
assessed by H2020 as ‘a success story’. Medie and Rossdale bring, respectively, black feminist
and decolonial, and queer theoretical insights to civilian responses to security and militarism. Our

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
work on maritime security through the SafeSeas programme has received funding from the BA-
GCRF and ESRC. It has played a pivotal role in establishing maritime security studies as a
substantive sub-discipline of IR and initiated the nascent field of blue criminology (see Edmunds’
Impact Case Study). The interdisciplinary Somali First programme, funded by UKRI-GCRF, NERC
and EPSRC, makes innovative use of participatory and co-produced methodologies to foster
grassroots-led capacity building in Somali governance (see Herring’s Impact Case Study). The
GIC’s cross-disciplinary interests in community participation in sustainable development are further
evidenced in Christie’s work on development and disaster management. He leads a work-package
in the GCRF ‘Multi-Hazard Urban Disaster Risk Transitions Hub’: a major multidisciplinary, multi-
institutional programme of research on disaster/risk management for urban populations in the
Global South. SPIN projects include using visual methods and culture to investigate drone, torture
and interrogation technologies, and ECR projects on surveillance (Kearns) and normative
dimensions of security technologies (Pratt).

In IR, our research interrogates disciplinary approaches, boundaries and concepts through
innovative decolonial (Tucker), social theoretical (Joseph), Chinese (Zhang) and European
(Michel) philosophical perspectives. Weldes works on gender and IR theory applied to US and
world politics. Adding to our research in this area is the work of Peoples on nuclear, ballistic and
space technologies, and Dionigi on political actors in the Middle East.

Disciplinary leadership and policy impact:
The GIC has played an important international leadership role in the security studies discipline as
a whole. The Centre founded and hosted the European Journal of International Security for the
British International Studies Association in 2015-19, with Edmunds as founding Editor-in-Chief and
Weldes as Associate Editor. The EJIS is premised around the GIC ethos of fostering excellence,
plurality and inter-disciplinarity in security studies, is now in its sixth volume, and ranked 69/529
(87th percentile) of all journals in the Scopus Political Science and International Relations index.

The GIC remains committed to fostering work of direct and substantive relevance to user
communities, including in the policy sphere. In addition to the impact detailed in the two GIC ICSs
(Edmunds and Herring), GIC colleagues have developed strong relationships with multiple UK
government departments (Cabinet Office, MoD, Home Office and Department for Transport), as
well as, amongst others, the Federal Government of Somali, the Government of Somaliland and
the European Commission.

Gender Research Centre (GRC)
The GRC promotes cross-disciplinary research on the nature and persistence of gender
inequalities and critical engagement with, and contributions to, feminist scholarship, underpinning
our work on gender and political institutions, (in)security, development, and IR (creating productive
synergies with the GIC), and global feminist, decolonial and queer theory and politics. Strategic
investment in this research area through new appointments at Professorial, mid-career and ECR
level expanded the GRC from eight FTE P&IR staff in REF2014, to 13 – Director Guerrina (new
Professorial appointment, formerly Jean Monnet Chair in EU Gender Politics, University of Surrey),
Carver, Christie, Cini, Herring, Medie (new mid-career appointment), Tucker, Weldes, Van Veeren,
and new Lecturers Cesnulyte, Matthews, Pratt, Rossdale (alongside seven colleagues from
Sociology).

Work on gender and political institutions was advanced in the current period by Childs’ ground-
breaking research on gender-sensitive parliaments in the UK and elsewhere. Whilst GRC
Director, Childs’ ESRC Seminar Series Feminising Politics and Power in the UK: (2015-17) brought

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
together leading scholars on gender and political representation, contributing to her project The UK
Parliament: A Gender Sensitive Institution, based on a University-funded Knowledge Exchange
secondment (2015-16) to the House of Commons. The Good Parliament report (2016), with its
43+ recommendations, is one of the most extensive and impactful research projects on gender and
politics to date (see Childs’ Impact Case Study). Following Childs’ departure, Guerrina was
appointed to direct the GRC and lead our continuing work on gender and political institutions,
extending our work driving change in gendered institutional practices and representation, including
on Brexit. This direction is complemented by Cini’s involvement in the Women and Leadership in
EU Institutions project (2019-20), led by Müller (New York University, UAE) and Tömmel
(Osnabrück). With the appointment of Medie, whose work examines models of female leadership
in Africa, notably as co-PI on the Andrew Mellon-funded project, Female Traditional Leaders in
Africa (with University of Ghana) and author (with Kang) of the 2019 European Journal of Politics
and Gender best paper on ‘Power, knowledge and the politics of gender in the Global South', we
have broadened our research on gender and political institutions geographically, theoretically and
critically by bringing in EU and Global South cases and perspectives.

The GRC’s research on gendered dimensions of (in)security and development, characterised by
cross-disciplinarity and innovative participatory methodologies, has expanded since REF2014
with new projects and appointments. Weldes’ ESRC/ISRF project examined transnational,
everyday security practices of groups combatting street harassment, using research with African
and Latin American grass-roots organisations. Tucker researches gendered (in)security,
development and decolonialism through her interdisciplinary work on the Quipu project (see
section 3), which had far-reaching impact on women and civil society groups in Peru and
beyond through its use of innovative participatory methods.

The GRC’s work in these areas has also been strengthened by the appointments of Medie and
Cesnulyte. Medie addresses gender-based violence and women’s activism in Africa, drawing on
Black and Global South feminist perspectives, through community-based research on campaigns
to end gender-based violence in Liberia and Côte D’Ivoire, civilian self-defence and gender norms
in Liberia and Ghana, and models of female traditional leaders in Botswana, Ghana, Liberia and
South Africa. Cesnulyte focuses on sexual and reproductive health and rights and everyday moral
economies in Africa, through her research with sex workers in Kenya. Her expertise on gendered
forms of informal and precarious labour recently widened to food insecurity and provisioning in the
Caribbean (in collaboration Paddock, Sociology) supported by Cabot Institute funding - a good
example of the cross-disciplinary collaborations enabled by co-location with sociologists in SPAIS
and engagement with the University Research Institutes (see REF5a). Appointing ECR Rossdale,
with interests in queer, feminist and postcolonial theory, has bolstered the GRC’s critical
engagement with gender and the disciplinary and methodological scope of P&IR.

• Invest in and support research in political theory, parties and institutions
Encouraging a diverse range of theoretical and methodological approaches across all areas of
interest to colleagues is vital to attracting and retaining high-quality researchers and PGRs to P&IR
at Bristol. To support this aim we invested in new appointments (at professorial level – Tormey –
and ECRs Floyd and Dietzel) and put in place mechanisms of support to advance our strengths in
political theory and the study of political parties and institutions. Work in this area is supported by
the three SRGs on: Social, Political and Cultural Theory, European Politics and Society and
Party Politics.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Bristol has significant expertise in political theory. Carver is an international authority on Marxist
thought, recognised by Fellowship of the Academy of Social Sciences, multiple international
associations (particularly China) and awards, notably the Charles A McCoy Lifetime Achievement
Award in 2016 (the only non-American political scientist to receive this prestigious award). Tormey,
formerly Head of Social and Political Sciences at Sydney University, was appointed Dean of the
Faculty of Social Sciences and Law at Bristol in 2019. His work on political and democratic theory
and European politics is internationally recognised for contributions to the understanding of
populism and democratic change. Several theorists work on normative political theory and its
applications. Floyd’s focus on methodological questions in political theory connects to real world
policy problems such as principle-justification in determining resource allocation - recognised by
a British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award in 2017. Fowler works on liberalism,
intergenerational ethics, justice and rights with a focus on how normative theory can resolve
tensions between parental and children’s rights. Michel draws on international political thought and
continental philosophy to develop his normative approach to how conceptions of the human are
used in the prosecution of genocides. ECR Dietzel applies normative political theory to
environmental politics to assess global responses to climate change, and contributed to the Cabot
Institute (2020) policy briefing on COP26: Just Transition: Pathways to Socially Inclusive
Decarbonisation.

Our significant expertise on European and EU politics draws on diverse methodologies and
theoretical approaches, with a particular focus on: good governance, lobbying, procurement and
anti-corruption; resilience and capacity-building; institutional change and reform; and populism and
the politics of Brexit. Cini, a distinguished scholar of the politics of the EU and EC, was co-editor of
the leading interdisciplinary Journal of Common Market Studies (2010- 17). Her current research
focuses on EU institutions embedding notions of good (ethical) governance during processes of
reform, also working with Pérez-Solórzano to apply insights from this work to EU lobbying
regulation. ECR Popa’s research focuses on good governance, corruption and EU
institutions using large-scale quantitative datasets, an area bolstered by Juncos and Joseph’s
collaboration on risk and resilience in EU foreign policy, Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow Maurer’s
work on European diplomacy (mentor - Juncos) and Guerrina’s on EU institutions and gender-
mainstreaming. The implications of Brexit for EU and European politics is a concern of Cini,
Guerrina, Pérez-Solórzano and Tormey, whilst Popa studies the nature and effects of political
change in Europe more broadly.

We have long-standing research strength in party systems and politics in the UK, Europe and
globally. Wickham-Jones is internationally recognised for his work on social democracy and Labour
party politics, and recently published a major book on political parties in the US. ECR Matthews
brings research on electoral systems and party politics in Ireland, and was Co-I on the ESRC
project Out of Touch and Out of Time? on social and ideological distance between UK voters and
political elites (lead: University of Strathclyde). Feldmann’s expertise on central and Eastern
Europe underpins his work on the social bases of support for Putin, and Tormey’s concerns with
democratic change and governance underscore wide-ranging interests in party politics across
Europe. Wyatt’s research is based on sustained engagement with party politics in India
(particularly South India), whilst ESRC New Investigator Flesken worked on comparative analysis
of ethnic politics in party systems across Latin America, Asia and Europe. There is a strong cross-
cutting expertise on elite politics, reflected in the work of Matthews, Popa, Wickham-Jones,
and Wyatt, and on corruption in the work of Cini, Feldmann, Popa and Wyatt.




                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
•   Strengthen international research profile and connections
The transnational and international orientations that characterise much of our research contribute
to, and are sustained by, our international visibility and connections. Strengthening these has been
core to the realisation of our research ambitions. We set out to achieve this by: (i) facilitating links
with international scholars and research teams through visits and seed-funds for international
collaborations, drawing on the University’s Benjamin Meaker and the SPAIS Richard Hodder-
Williams Visiting Fellowship schemes to fund 13 international visitors, mostly hosted by the GIC or
GRC; (ii) supporting staff to lead or join international research initiatives (e.g. Somali First, EU-
CivCap, SafeSeas); (iii) encouraging colleagues to lead or join the editorial boards of international
journals (21 in the current period); (iv) supporting colleagues to make international visits, attend
international conferences, and contribute to international professional associations with additional
School funding. These goals have been facilitated by the Research Centres’ remit to attract and
host international speakers and visiting fellows and develop international research collaborations.
The range of our international collaborations is detailed in Section 4.

•   Further cross-disciplinary connections and collaborations
Interdisciplinarity is a key focus of both the Unit and wider UoB research strategies (see REF5a).
P&IR researchers have actively developed cross-disciplinary connections through engagements
with the University Research Institutes (URIs), particularly: the Cabot Institute for the Environment
– Christie is Cabot Theme Lead for Natural Hazards and Disaster Risk, Dietzel sits on the Cabot
Environmental Change Research Group, and Cesnulyte, Edmunds, Flint, Juncos and Herring are
active members; and the Brigstow Institute for interdisciplinary co-produced research on ‘Living
Well’ - Van Veeren is Steering Group member. Our researchers also connect with two of the
university’s Specialist Research Institutes (SRIs): Migration Mobilities Bristol (Dionigi,
Edmunds); and the Bristol Poverty Institute (Herring, Juncos). We also engage with the Perivoli
Africa Research Centre (Cesnultye, Flint, Herring, Juncos). As an interdisciplinary School, P&IR
staff engage closely with Sociologists through the SPAIS Research Centres and Groups, and P&IR
staff are active in the Faculty Research Groups on Gender, Global Political Economy, and
International Development.

This approach has enriched and extended our research, through cross- and inter-disciplinary
collaborations, notably in relation to (in)security, critical development and gender, where
colleagues have forged collaborations with sociologists, criminologists, geographers, earth
scientists, engineers, physicists, historians, vulcanologists and educationalists. Herring has
contributed to major projects with geographers, historians, engineers and educationalists (UKRI-
GCRF-NERC War Impact on Dryland Environments and Social-ecological Resilience in Somalia;
UKRI-EPSRC Evaluating Claims of Nuclear Waste Dumping in Somalia; UKRI-GCRF
Transforming Education for Sustainable Futures). Christie works with engineers and vulcanologists
to study disaster management, supported by engagement with Cabot. Juncos collaborates with
Earth Sciences and Mathematics to study civilian responses to earthquakes (GCRF). Flint works
with Health Sciences on community-led responses to HIV-Aids in Africa, and Tucker highlighted
the experiences of unconsented sterilisation through collaboration with History and Arts (funded by
Brigstow).

•   Strengthen and embed capacities for impact and engagement.
Engaging with non-academic audiences to promote peaceful, fairer and more inclusive societies at
the national and international level is central to our research ambitions. Our work is both critical
and committed to constructive engagement with policy actors and other stakeholders.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)


SPAIS has successfully embedded a culture of research impact, collaboration with external
partners and public engagement through strategies detailed in Section 3. The scale and reach of
our impact, partnerships and engagement are set out in Section 4.

1.3 Open research and research integrity
Our research is subject to rigorous ethical review (see Section 3). We follow the University’s
policies on Open Access to Research Publications (mandating open access publishing) and
Research Data Management (see REF 5a). Websites such as http://www.safeseas.net/ https://eu-
civcap.net/ and https://www.bti-project.org/en/home.html contain open access research and data
by members of the School.

1.4 Looking ahead: future research and impact objectives
This REF cycle has been a period of significant growth and renewal, enabling the achievement of
our 2014 goals. In the next five years we aim to build on these achievements, extending the
breadth of our research whilst promoting the key strengths of P&IR at Bristol, and working with and
beyond the University’s strategic research structures to increase the range, productivity and
integrity of our partnerships with research collaborators and users. Key elements of our strategy
will focus on the development of our supportive, inclusive, environment to continue to foster
research development and attract and retain high calibre researchers.

Research, Funding and Collaboration:
   •   Build on our core areas and identify opportunities for building research capacity in growth
       areas, particularly in cross-disciplinary collaborations such as digital politics and
       migration (connecting with major university initiatives such as the Bristol Digital Futures
       Institute and Migration Mobilities Bristol).
   •   Support external grant capture across all career stages and areas of the discipline, through
       training, targeted support, incentives, mentoring, and sharing grant-raising and project
       management experiences.
   •   Diversify funding sources, cross-disciplinary and international collaborations and
       partnerships with external organisations.
   •   Strengthen our international research links and collaborations, whilst seeking innovative
       solutions to the challenges to international scholarly mobility presented by climate change
       and the pandemic.
   •   Further strengthen co-produced and participatory approaches to P&IR research through
       dissemination, exchange, resources, training and academic, policy and public
       engagement.
   •   Support impact by sustaining relationships with external partners and advancing
       our models of impact, collaboration and impact support.
People:
   •   Protect the research intensity of our staff by maintaining a healthy balance across
       educational and research activities (through curriculum and unit review, protecting workload
       relief for externally funded research buy-outs and study leave provision).
   •   Invest in research leadership within SPAIS by supporting emerging research leaders to
       move into senior positions through promotion, training, mentoring, professional
       development and peer support.
   •   Provide a nurturing, enriching research environment for our ECRs that enables and
       rewards research ambition and supports them in developing their intellectual, research and

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       professional skills, and attracting new high-calibre postdoctoral researchers through
       strengthened support for applications.
   •   Build on our PGR recruitment success in this REF period to continue to expand our
       postgraduate community.
   •   Continue to introduce and implement policies to make SPAIS more equal, diverse and
       inclusive through work on the SPAIS EDI Committee, Athena Swan and Race Equality
       Charter.



 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy
We have striven to create a supportive, inclusive and energising research culture and environment;
to recruit and retain outstanding researchers at all career stages; and to ensure that all colleagues
flourish at Bristol and fulfil their research potential. We have recruited outstanding senior leaders to
professorial appointments to strengthen research leadership and our capacity to support, manage
and mentor mid and early career researchers, develop collaborative, strategic research
programmes and sustain our collegial research culture. We have also sought to further grow
research leadership by supporting mid-career researchers in developing their leadership capacities
and appointing excellent mid-career researchers with clear leadership potential. At the same time,
we have strengthened our mechanisms for nurturing and supporting promising ECRs, including
Lecturers, externally funded researchers and PGRs.

Growth of P&IR at Bristol has been strategically managed to enhance capacity in core areas and
develop new areas of enquiry, whilst ensuring that our support structures keep pace. Equality and
diversity considerations have been integral to our hiring, with care taken to ensure gender-
balanced selection and interview panels and short-lists. We have successfully supported internal
career progression, achieving ten promotions in the current REF cycle. Together, our promotions
and appointments have achieved a balanced staffing ratio of 33% senior/ professorial, 40% mid-
career, 27% early career/lecturer staff; and 33% female Category A staff, and 40% female
professoriat.

2.2 Appointments
We made 13 appointments in the current period as a result of retirements, departures and strategic
investment by the University, increasing our staff FTE from 26 in REF2014 to our current 33. This
expansion has helped to revitalise P&IR research at Bristol.

Our main strategic aims were to strengthen our Research Centres, broaden our country and
regional expertise (particularly in Europe and the Global South), sustain research strengths across
the discipline, and achieve a balance of established and emerging leadership and ECRs, to secure
research momentum and ensure our capacities for supporting and mentoring staff keep pace with
expansion. That strategy has resulted in excellent appointments of three Professors: Guerrina,
Joseph and Tormey (all established senior Professors and international authorities in their fields);
two Senior Lecturers: Brett and Medie; and eight Lecturers: Cesnulyte, Dietzel, Dionigi,
Floyd, Pratt, Matthews, Popa and Rossdale.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
2.3 Staff support and development
The quality and intensity of our research are promoted through:
   •   careful management of workloads based on a 40-40-20 research, teaching and
       administration distribution, with transparency of, and equity in, teaching and administrative
       workloads. Staff who secure externally funded research buyouts are granted corresponding
       workload relief.
   •   provision for research leave of one teaching block in eight. We also promote applications
       to the University’s Research Fellowship (URF) scheme, a highly competitive funded one-
       year research leave scheme (securing five URFs over this REF cycle for Pelopidas,
       Fowler, Van Veeren, Floyd and Feldmann).
   •   personal research accounts of £1k p.a. to support research, engagement and impact
       activities.
   •   personal support and mentoring through Staff Review and Development (SRD) for
       individuals with their Line Manager, incorporating strategic advice, review and planning of
       research goals. Staff also discuss research and impact plans with the Research Director
       (RD), Impact Director (ID), Centre Directors and Head of School (HoS).
   •   a collegial, collaborative research culture in SPAIS, with many opportunities for staff to
       benefit from discussion and peer review of their ideas, publications and proposals in School
       seminars and Centre and Research Group seminars, meetings, reading groups and away-
       days.
   •   centralised support from RED, a well-resourced University-wide division that provides
       support for all aspects of research and impact (see REF5a).
Staff support is tailored to all career stages, to ensure they are clear about what is expected at
various role levels and how to achieve career progression.

New Lecturers are allocated a mentor, who offers guidance on research and career planning.
They enrol on the University of Bristol's CREATE (Cultivating Research and Teaching Excellence)
programme, which includes research and leadership strands, and are granted workload relief for
their first two years to support this. The SPAIS ECR Network organises events and raises issues to
the HoS and School committees. A representative from the SPAIS ECR Network sits on the
Faculty ECR Group to ensure coordination with Faculty initiatives and support.

Bristol is committed to the UK Concordat to support the career development of researchers, and
our externally funded researchers are supported by Bristol Clear, a research staff development
hub providing training, resources, mentoring and peer support for research skills and career
planning, and a structure for the representation of research staff within university governance (see
REF5a). The SPAIS research staff group coordinates with the HoS and School Research
Committee.

We encourage mid-career researchers to develop capacities for research leadership by
participating in the University leadership training programmes for mid-career staff (such as the
Future Leaders and Leading Collaborative Teams programmes). The Bristol Women’s Mentoring
Network and the Female Leadership Initiative support women’s career development and
promotion. Mentoring and support for research leadership also comes from senior colleagues, e.g.
a senior colleague, Weldes supported a mid-career colleague, Van Veeren, to act as mentor to
ESRC New Investigator, Kearns. We also promote participation in the university leadership
programmes for Readers and Professors, such as the Bristol Senior Leaders programme,
Leadership Master Classes and Senior Leadership coaching.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
The School’s approach to fostering a broad spectrum of research, engagement and impact
contributions is mirrored in the University’s revised progression and promotion framework, which
recognises and rewards achievements across research, education, engagement and impact, and
leadership and citizenship (see REF5a), meaning our staff are well placed for successful career
progression. The success of our commitment to staff development is evidenced through the
promotion of Herring and Juncos to Professor and supported progression to SL for Christie,
Feldmann, Flint, Floyd, Michel, Peoples, Tucker and Van Veeren in the current cycle.

2.4 Training and supervision of PGR students
The number of students registered on P&IR PhD programmes has increased substantially since
REF2014: from 35 to 64 students. We awarded over 50 doctorates in the current period (see table
below), compared to 37 in REF2014. The high quality of Bristol P&IR PhD candidates means they
attract significant funding, with 46 domestic and international scholarships in the current period,
including 26 ESRC and 18 international PhD scholarships.

PhDs awarded (by proportion of P&IR supervision, no professional doctorates)
 2013-14   2014-15     2015-16      2016-17     2017-18      2018-19     2019-20        Total
 7.50      6.00        7.00         8.00        4.75         9.50        9.80           52.55

PGRs have two co-supervisors and undergo monthly supervision, annual monitoring and a mid-
PhD Progression Review. Supervisions cover career development advice, pastoral care and
mentoring. Professional/academic development opportunities are provided by the South West
Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP), which offers methods, workplace and public engagement
training; research and impact funding; and peer support. The Bristol Doctoral College provides
resources and training to PGRs through its Personal and Professional Development Programme,
events and showcases, and coordination of PhD scholarships (see REF5a).

SPAIS organises an annual PGR/Staff Conference covering topics such as effective fieldworking,
writing for publication and public engagement and research impact. PGRs play a vital role in the
Research Centres and Groups through attendance at or (co)organisation of events. The Centres
and Groups provide mentoring, feedback and a lively intellectual milieu for our PGRs, whilst a
PGR/staff common room and shared PGR offices in the core SPAIS buildings facilitate interaction.

There is a strongly collegial spirit and high levels of self-organisation among our PGR community.
They regularly organise lunchtime discussions, seminars, writing retreats, and professional
development workshops, which the School supports with funding, advice or staff contributions. E.g.
SPAIS and the Political Studies Association supported the PGR-organised Write Here, Write Now
national conference in 2018, featuring invited speakers including Prof Jon Tong (Liverpool) and
Prof Heather Savigny (De Montford), and talks on the REF, impact, publishing and demystifying
academic careers. PGRs can raise proposals or concerns through the SPAIS PGR liaison
committee and their Representatives attend School meetings.

PGRs are offered the opportunity to gain teaching experience by leading first year undergraduate
seminars. They are paid to undertake School-based training and induction sessions and can
access further university training. Unit Directors provide on-going support to PGR teachers and an
annual teaching observation system provides constructive review and feedback.

Career development support is provided by the UoB Careers Service, Bristol Doctoral College and
SWDTP, and opportunities for work placements and internships are organised by the UoB careers
officers and SPAIS staff. Examples of our PhDs post-graduation employment in this REF cycle

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
include: A. Chisholm - Senior Lecturer, Security Studies, KCL; and R. Waters - Lecturer in IR,
Cardiff.

2.5 Promoting equality and diversity
Equality and diversity are embedded in the day-to-day functioning of the School. The SPAIS EDI
Committee identifies equalities and inclusion priorities and objectives to be pursued by the School
(including, recently, the impact of Covid-19 on staff with caring responsibilities, the gendered
distribution of pastoral responsibilities and decolonising the School curricula).

Meetings are scheduled to end by 5:00 pm to allow members of staff with caring responsibilities to
participate fully in the life of the School. After consultation with staff, seminars have been moved to
lunchtime as a default and a set of seminar good practices has been introduced to create a
respectful environment. We monitor our seminar series for diversity and have made gender an
explicit consideration in selecting speakers. The School supports flexible working hours to enable
staff to combine work with their caring responsibilities. Circumstances such as parental leave and
ill-health are accommodated not only by re-assigning teaching, but also by buying in replacement
teaching, which helps protect research time. As per University procedures, staff can claim
childcare costs to enable them to attend conferences. In addition to formal leave, staff are also
able to request, and are granted, career breaks of up to one year. Workload allocations are
determined through a transparent School workload model and part-time working is supported, with
staff entitled to the same research leave and research support funds pro rata as full-time staff.
Those taking maternity or additional paternity leave are offered ‘Keeping in Touch’ days and can
access the Returning Carer’s Leave Scheme and Maternity/Paternity Coaching (see REF5a).

Currently 38% of academic staff across all grades, 33% of REF-eligible staff and 40% of the unit’s
professoriate are female. 40% of PGR students, 66% of post-docs and 40% of teaching fellows are
female. 48% of our staff are non-British, and 5% are minority ethnic. SPAIS’s application for an
Athena SWAN Bronze award will be submitted in April 2021. A Self-Assessment Team has been
formed to collect and analyse data on gender in/equality within SPAIS, the results of which will
inform a five-year action plan for improvement. Line Managers participate in the Inclusive
Managers Workshop and facilitate participation of BAME colleagues in the University’s and
external BAME mentoring and staff support schemes (such as the BAME staff network
and Stepping Up and Elevate programmes to support respectively BAME colleagues and BAME
women to move into senior leadership roles). All staff are strongly encouraged to participate in
Bystander at Work training within the Stand Up Speak Out programme to promote awareness and
reporting of unacceptable behaviour at work, and the Disrupting Racism programme. Reports of
unacceptable behaviour, including bullying, micro-aggressions and unconscious bias can be made
to the Report and Support portal.

The School’s approach to the REF follows the University’s code of practice with a fair and
transparent approach to guide selection decisions. Members of staff were invited to submit
information on any circumstances which restricted their research during the relevant period. All
eligible staff were given equal opportunity to propose their best outputs and these were evaluated
internally by at least two members of staff. Selections are decided by a REF committee comprised
of four women and four men – with Head of School, Research Director and Impact Director all
women. The distribution of the proposed selection was analysed in terms of its EDI profile and the
outputs chosen were a fair representation of staff and their protected characteristics.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Overview
Our thriving research culture is supported and sustained by excellent facilities and by excellent
administrative and professional support for research and impact at School, Faculty and University
levels. We have benefitted greatly from the high-quality central support provided by RED,
particularly for grant capture and impact and engagement (see REF5a). Aided by the strategic
investments in the School made by the University, we have been able to supplement this central
support with enhanced School-level support. This has enabled us to build a significantly stronger
research environment during this REF period. The success of our approach to supporting research
and impact is evidenced by our large-scale funding successes and increased grant income, by the
quality of the outputs we are producing, and by our development of long-term and meaningful
collaborations with a growing number of research users.

3.2 External Grant Income
In the current cycle we have been awarded approximately £1.4 million research income. Our
annual research income has been on a steady upward trajectory, from £138k in 2013-14 to £274k
in 2019-20, resulting from the establishment of support mechanisms across the lifespan of the
application process provided by the RD, Research Centres, mentors and peers within SPAIS and
the University’s Research Enterprise Development (RED) division. Our strategy of supporting
researchers at each career stage (see details below) has produced considerable success in grant
income – during the current REF period, funding was secured by senior (Edmunds, Herring,
Juncos, Weldes, Zhang), mid-career (Brett, Christie, Medie, Tucker) and early career (Algar-Faria,
Ejdus, Kearns, Matthews, Maurer) colleagues.

ERC funding was secured by:
   1) Juncos (PI, with Christie and Edmunds CIs) H2020 EU-CIVCAP (£1.7million);
   2) Ejdus, MSCF ‘Local Ownership in EU Security Sector Reform Missions’ (£131k, mentored
      by Edmunds);
   3) Maurer, MSCF European Foreign policy and Europe’s role in the world’ (£175k, mentored
      by Juncos).
ESRC awards were secured by:
   4) Edmunds (CI) ‘Keeping Enough in Reserve: The Employment of Hybrid Citizen-Soldiers
      and the Future Reserves 2020 Programme’ (£237k, led by University of Newcastle);
   5) Edmunds (PI) ‘Transnational Organised Crime at Sea: New Evidence for Better Responses’
      (£433k);
   6) Herring (PI) and Weldes (CI) ‘Transforming Insecurity through Non-violent Grassroots
      Networks’ (£250K);
   7) Matthews (CI) ‘Out of Touch Out of Time?’ (£160k, led by University of Strathclyde);
   8) Kearns New Investigator ‘Listening in on the secret state: Numbers stations and the aurality
      of secrets’ (£161k, mentored by van Veeren with support from Weldes);
   9) Algar-Faria, Post-doctoral Fellowship ‘State-society relations and international-local
      interactions in post-war states’ (£101k, mentored by Juncos).
Colleagues joined multi-institutional and multidisciplinary teams to secure UKRI funding from the:
EPSRC:
   10) Herring (CI) ‘Evaluating Claims of Nuclear Waste Dumping in Somalia’ (£70k, with Physics
       Bristol).

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
AHRC:
   11) Tucker’s collaborations as CI with History Bristol on: ‘Peace Festival: Sharing Creative
       Methodologies for Unearthing Hidden War Stories for Peace’ (£79k); ‘Tying Quipu’s Key
       Knots’ (£199k); and ‘Quipu: A Living Documentary with the Socially Excluded in Peru’
       (£50k);
   12) Brett (CI) ‘Screening Violence: a Transnational Study of post-Conflict Imaginaries’ (£795k,
       led by Newcastle University).
GCRF:
   13) Christie (CI) GCRF-NERC ‘Urban Disaster Risk Management Hub (MURTH)’
       (£17.65million/ £229k led by GeoSciences University of Edinburgh, with Earth Sciences
       Bristol);
   14) Herring (CI) UKRI-GCRF ‘Transforming Education for Sustainable Futures - TESF’
       (£4.75million/£62k, led by Education Bristol);
   15) Herring (CI) GCRF-NERC ‘War Impact on Dryland Environments and social-ecological
       Resilience in Somalia’ (£159k, led by Geographical Sciences Bristol);
   16) Herring (PI with Transparency Solutions as CI) UKRI-GCRF ‘COVIDEV: COVID-19
       Response and Sustainable Development in Somalia/ Somaliland’ (£20k) and ‘COVIDEV:
       COVID-19 Response and Sustainable Development in Somalia/Somaliland’ (£55k);
   17) Edmunds (CI), BA-GCRF ‘Safe Seas: A Study of Maritime Capacity Building in the Western
       Indian Ocean’ (£264k, led by Copenhagen University);
   18) Brett (CI) AHRC-GCRF ‘Preventing conflict in fragile countries through understanding and
       promoting economic justice’ (£59k, led by Coventry University).
Charitable funding won included:
   19) Pelopidas (PI), British Academy ‘Global Nuclear Vulnerability: the perception of the Cuban
       Missile Crisis in Paris and Brasilia’ (£74k);
   20) Zhang, Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship ‘International Relations of Ancient China:
       Ideas, Institutions and Law’ (£79k).

3.3 Strategies for supporting external grant capture
Research support in SPAIS is led by the RD, who manages the School’s research budget and
coordinates the School Research Committee, to lead the implementation of SPAIS’s research,
grant and impact strategy. The RD is assisted by the School’s research administrative staff in
coordination with Faculty and University support. Mechanisms for expanding and diversifying grant
capture have included:

Individual support to plan funding applications, provided by the RD, with planning of external
funding applications embedded in the annual SRD. Research Centres organise opportunities for
members to pitch grant ideas and receive feedback.

Close collaboration with RED to optimise grant capture (see REF5a). RED provides
comprehensive high-quality support to Schools for grant activity, including identifying funding
opportunities, and anticipating potential future opportunities. RED runs an internal demand-
management (University Peer Evaluation and Review – UPER) process for UKRI applications,
involving peer reviewers who provide scores and detailed comments on applications before they
can proceed, resulting in a University of Bristol success rate of 36% for UKRI applications in 2019-
20.



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Seed-funding: the SPAIS Research Initiatives Scheme provides £500 to pump-prime research
ideas, and the SPAIS Grant Incentivisation Fund provides £2k to early and mid-career researchers
to develop grant applications, with mentoring from a senior colleague. The RD supports
applications to the Faculty Strategic Research Fund and Knowledge Exchange scheme, University
International Strategic Fund, WUN, GW4, Cabot and Brigstow seed-fund schemes. Support to
colleagues to secure seed-funding and plan the trajectory to larger grants was a factor in many
grant successes. E.g. Christie secured a Faculty of Social Science KE Fellowship to work with the
Global Network for Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR), strengthening his links with the UK and
International DRR community, in turn underpinning his participation in MURTH. Herring was
awarded £3k from the University Building Global Partnerships for Global Challenges fund, which
led to his involvement in the £4.75milllion Transforming Education for Sustainable
Futures programme.

Support throughout the application process: research grant proposals are reviewed by the
RD, HoS and School Manager. The RD works closely with the University’s RED team to
coordinate: general training and guidance on understanding and de-mystifying funding schemes
and applications processes; how to access peer mentoring, seed-funding and technical support for
developing funding applications; ECR training sessions; application-writing workshops and
retreats; mock-ESRC panels; and feedback on draft applications from RED and via the additional
UPER process for UKRI applications.

3.4 Strategies to support research impact
The School’s impact strategy is led by the Impact Director (ID), who chairs the SPAIS Impact
Working Group, whose membership includes impact case study leads and ECRs. Its purpose is to
advance impact training and initiatives, and share good practices, expertise and experiences. The
ID works with teams in RED including the Impact Development team, PolicyBristol (the University’s
policy unit), and the Public Engagement Team (PET), to support colleagues in the planning and
design of pathways to impact and policy and public engagement. Our impact strategy is based on:

Embedding a culture of impact through advice, mentoring, training and funding, led by
the ID, coordinating with RED, PolicyBristol and PET. The ID works with colleagues to identify
opportunities for impact, organises impact training events and liaises with RED to run impact
clinics and coordinate one-to-one, targeted support for impact projects. They liaise with
PolicyBristol, which provides advice and support for impact-related activities, from grant
applications to dissemination to policy audiences. PET provides advice, toolkits and funding for
public engagement events. The ID supports researchers to source impact funding, including the
PolicyBristol impact travel fund, which facilitates relationships between researchers and policy
makers, and the University-administered ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA). The School
provides strategic workload relief to staff to enable them to develop research impact (including
to impact case study leads).

Strengthening partnerships and collaboration with external research users. For instance,
drawing on RED funding, we brought KE fellows into SPAIS to enable collaboration with political
and policy actors, including Terry Gibson of Inventing Futures to work with Christie and the GIC on
disaster management; and Halla Gunnarsdóttir of the Women’s Equality Party, to work with Childs
and the GRC on the feminisation of politics. The ID supported applications to the UoB-
administered ESRC IAA for exploratory awards, impact projects and KE fellowships. An IAA KE
fellowship award enabled Childs’ secondment to the House of Commons in 2015-2016, which led
to her Good Parliament report and impact case study. Christie’s 2015 IAA project fed into


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
his participation in the MURTH programme. Herring secured an IAA award in 2015 to support his
work with Somali First, which fed into his Impact Case Study. Juncos secured an IAA award to
create a film to promote the policy impact of the finding from the Horizon 2020 project Preventing
and Responding to Conflict: Developing Civilian Capacities for a Capable Peace (EU-CivCap) –
a large programme of comparative multidisciplinary research involving twelve international partner
institutions, and SPAIS colleagues Edmunds and Christie which generated new evidence on, and
policy recommendations to support, civilian capacities for sustainable peace.

Communicating with public, practitioner and policy audiences. PolicyBristol provides regular
Horizon Scanning briefings to enable researchers to connect with upcoming parliamentary and
local City Council agendas. They run training sessions with the Parliamentary Outreach team on
the role of POST and providing oral and written evidence to Parliamentary Committees and
support drafting and dissemination of policy briefs. E.g. PolicyBristol has supported Algar-Faria,
Edmunds, Ejdus, Juncos and Tucker to draft and disseminate 11 Policy Briefings with
recommendations on maritime security and capacity-building, conflict-resolution and peace
capacity-building, Trident renewal, the Strategic Defence and Security Review and rebuilding
community in post-authoritarian societies.

3.5 Critical, constructive engagement with policymakers
Critical, constructive engagement with policy makers is key to our approach to generating research
impact. This approach, combining conceptual innovation alongside pathways to impact, is
exemplified by our work on security sector reform and maritime security, Somali development,
gender in Parliament, and forced sterilisation in Peru.

Tucker’s Quipu project harnessed online and media technologies to allow those subjected to
forced sterilisation in Peru to bring their testimonies to global audiences, based on collaboration
with an historian (Brown), a transmedia documentary company (Chaka Studio), and local women’s
organisations in Peru, supported by AHRC funding and PolicyBristol. The AHRC promoted the
Quipu project at their 2017 Mobilising Global Voices International Development Summit as an
exemplar of sustainable development research. The Quipu project was awarded a 2015 Nominet
Trust 100 award (for ‘leading social ventures using technology to solve the world’s biggest
problems’) and selected in 2017 as one of ten ‘most inspiring ventures’ in Nominet Trust’s first five
years, it won an ARS Electronica Prix Ars Digital Communities Honorary Mention (2016), and
Mette Janson Innovation Award (2017). In 2017 The Guardian made a documentary about the
research (more than 100,000 views). It directly inspired the UK-based Transform Drug Policy
Foundation and Colombian Truth Commission to adopt aspects of Quipu’s award-winning
methodology.

Edmunds has a substantial track record of research and policy impact in the field of security
sector reform and maritime security, supported by PolicyBristol and the IAA, underpinning his
Impact Case Study: SafeSeas: Building Effective Capacities for Maritime Security. The SafeSeas
programme provides evidence and guidance to maritime security policymakers and practitioners,
and led to the establishment of the SafeSeas research network (registered with the UN as a
voluntary commitment to achieve Sustainable Development Goal 14).

The University supports Somali First as an official Strategic Priority, awarding it a Public
Engagement prize in 2015. It has also been supported by PolicyBristol and IAA Impact funds.
Somali First secured cooperation from the Federal Government of Somalia, the Government of
Somaliland, and leading telecommunications companies and civil society organisations in the Horn
of Africa. Herring was asked to join the COVID-19 Task Force for the Benadir Regional

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Administration (BRA) and helped to devise its COVID-19 strategy. Subsequently, Herring and
Transparency Solutions established COVIDEV, a research and practice collaboration to address
the impact of COVID-19 and promote sustainable development in Somalia/Somaliland. This
programme underpins Herring’s Impact Case Study: Co-producing locally led development in
Somalia.

Childs’ Good Parliament report, enabled by her IAA-funded KE secondment to the House of
Commons, provided the basis for fundamental institutional change, for instance in relation to proxy
voting and maternity leave. Childs’ work informed parliaments beyond Westminster (including
Scotland, Wales, Alberta, Catalunya, Finland, Jersey, and New Zealand). This work underpins
Childs’ Impact Case Study: Implementing Gender Sensitive Reforms in Parliament.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Overview
The School actively and enthusiastically encourages a broad diversity of collaboration: internal and
external, national and international, academic and non-academic. In line with our aspiration to be a
nationally and internationally recognised hub for critical, innovative, impactful work, we support
colleagues’ contributions to and collaborations with the academic community and with a wide
range of external partners and research-users.

We make contributions to many professional associations and learned societies, and to many
journal editorial boards, book series and funding bodies, nationally and internationally. International
academic collaboration is supported by additional funding (on top of the £1,000 pa personal
research allowance) of up to £1500 for international conference attendance and for engagement
with international professional associations and networks. We also support international
fellowships, visits and keynotes. Before the outbreak of Covid-19, the School had begun
discussions about how to curtail the environmental impact of international travel without
diminishing the scale of our international collaborative activities. We believe that by learning from
and embedding some of the online practices that have evolved during the pandemic, we will in the
future be able to forge even stronger, but less travel-dependent, international collaborations.

4.2 Professional associations, learned societies and networks
P&IR staff contribute to a wide range of national and international professional associations and
learned societies, including the:
   •   Political Studies Association: Carver sat on the Executive Committee (1999-2016),
       acting as International Officer; Wyatt was organiser of the Politics of South Asia Specialist
       Group (2016); Herring sat on the prize board awarding the Harrison Prize for best article
       in Political Studies (2015); Cini is on the PSA REF committee; Juncos was Vice-chair of the
       Commission on Adding Depth (2015).
   •   International Political Studies Association: Carver was member of the Executive
       Committee, Vice-President for Europe (2014-18) and Program Co-Chair for the World
       Congress 2018.
   •   British International Studies Association: Van Veeren is convenor of the Secrecy and
       Security Workshop (2018) and EDI Lead.
   •   European International Studies Association: Zhang acted as English School Section
       Chair for the 9th Pan-European Conference on International Relations (2015).


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   International Studies Association: van Veeren is Member-at-Large, Science, Technology
       and Art in International Relations Working Group (2016-); Zhang was organiser of the
       Presidential Theme Roundtable at the 56th Annual Convention (2015).
   •   European Consortium for Political Research: Floyd runs an annual section on ‘methods
       in political theory’ for its conference; Dionigi is Lead of the steering committee for the
       Standing Group on Migration and Ethnicity.
   •   University Association for Contemporary European Studies: Cini was co-opted
       member of the Executive Committee (2014-17); Perez, Juncos and Joseph were jury
       members for UACES best book and thesis prizes in 2016 and 2018, Guerrina is EDI Officer
       (2020-).
   •   Council of Military Education Committees: Edmunds was elected member of the
       National Executive Committee, Universities of the UK (2013-16).
   •   COP26 Universities Network: Dietzel is a member.
   •   Finnish Institute for International Affairs: Cini is member of the International Scientific
       Committee (2014-).
   •   Gendering EU Studies Research Network: Guerrina is a founding member of
       this UACES-funded network.

4.3 Journal editorships and editorial board membership
Many staff are active in the editorial management or boards of a wide range of politics and IR
journals and major book series:
   •   Carver is Co-Editor and Journal Manager of Contemporary Political Theory (2011-), and
       Co-General Editor of the Palgrave/Springer Marx, Engels, and Marxisms Book Series
       (2012-); Rowman & Littlefield Globalization Book Series (1998-); and Routledge Innovators
       in Political Theory Book Series (1998-).
   •   Cini was (2010-17) Co-Editor of the Journal of Common Market Studies.
   •   Guerrina is Co-Editor of the Journal of Common Market Studies Annual Review (2017-).
   •   Edmunds was founding Editor-in-Chief (2015-2020), and Weldes was Associate Editor
       (2015-20), of the European Journal of International Security.
   •   Joseph was Co-Editor, and Edmunds was editorial board member, of Review of
       International Studies (2016-end 2019).
   •   Edmunds (2014-), Herring (2014-), Rossdale (2015-) are editorial board members of Critical
       Military Studies.
   •   Wyatt is Co-Editor of Commonwealth and Comparative Politics (2020-) and was Associate
       Editor Politics for the Journal of South Asian Development (2013-17).
   •   Feldmann is scientific council member of Unia Europejska in Warsaw (2012-).
   •   Juncos is Co-Editor of the Journal of European Integration (2018-), Guerrina is editorial
       board member (2020-).
   •   Juncos is/was editorial board member of: Journal of European Public Policy (2012-16) and
       Contemporary Security Policy (2017-).
   •   Peoples is editorial board member of Critical Studies on Security (2013-).
   •   Herring is editorial board member of: Journal of Contemporary Iraq & the Arab World
       (2014-present); Critical Studies on Terrorism (2014-present); Globalizations (2014-).
   •   Medie is Co-Editor of African Affairs (2017-).
   •   Weldes is Co-Editor of the Routledge Book Series on Popular Culture and World Politics
       and New International Relations (2006-).
   •   Zhang is Co-Editor of Bristol Studies in East Asian International Relations, Bristol University
       Press (2018-).

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
4.4 Research councils and funding bodies
P&IR staff contribute to various funding bodies in the UK and beyond:
   •   Juncos is member of the ESRC Grant Assessment Panel (C) (2018-20); Herring (2015-19)
       and van Veeren (2012-present) are members of the ESRC Peer Review College; Weldes
       was a member of the Commissioning Panel for the ESRC Transformative Research Call
       (2014-15), and reviewer/rapporteur for the Security in an Age of Austerity programme
       (2015).
   •   Joseph, Juncos and Christie are experts for the ERC MSCF and COST Actions (2014-).
   •   Weldes provided reviews for the Estonian Research Council (2016) and Danish Council for
       Independent Research DFF-MOBILEX Mobility Grant (2015); Herring acted as reviewer for
       the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (2015), and Transformative Knowledge Network
       grants scheme for the National Research Foundation South Africa (2015); Peoples acted
       as reviewer for the Austrian Science Foundation; Dionigi is International Pool of Experts
       member for the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research.

4.5 International visits and fellowships
In the current cycle, Carver is Affiliated Professor at the Beijing and Nanjing Universities (2018-
ongoing) and was Visiting Professor at Fudan University (2017); Christie held a visiting position at
York University, Toronto (2020); Cini held the Pierre Keller Visiting Professorship at Harvard
University (2014); Feldmann was Visiting Fellow at the University of Uppsala, Sweden (2017);
Fowler was Visiting Fellow at Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona (2016); Joseph is Associate
Researcher at the University of Gent and Université Catholique de Louvain, and Visiting Professor
at the University of Luxemburg; Juncos and Guerrina are Visiting Professors at the College of
Europe in Bruges; Juncos was Visiting Fellow at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (2014); Michel
was visiting Fellow at the University of Erfurt (2017-18); Zhang was annual Visiting Professor to the
Chinese University of Hong Kong (2014-2016) and is Corresponding Fellow at the Institute of
Advanced Studies of Humanities and Social Sciences, Taiwan University (2016 & 2017).

Our staff are regularly invited to give prestigious addresses internationally, e.g.:
   •   Carver keynotes at: Peking University, Beijing, 2nd World Congress on Marxism (2018);
       Nanjing University, International Symposium for Marx’s 200th Birth Anniversary; and
       Wuhan University, Marx’s 200th Anniversary Conference (2018).
   •   Cini keynote to the Annual Graduate Conference on European Union Studies at the
       University of Pittsburgh (2014).
   •   Edmunds was Lead speaker at the Global Maritime Security Conference Abuja, Nigeria
       (2018).
   •   Zhang Distinguished Public Lecture at the National University of Singapore (2014); keynote
       at the University of Groningen (2015); and semi-plenary address at the 5th Global
       International Studies Conference at the National Taiwan University, organised by the World
       International Studies Committee (2017).

4.6 Contributions to government, policy and society
Our impact strategy has enabled engagement, collaboration and impact with a wide range of
audiences and users, including:
   •   National governments and legislative bodies in the UK (House of Commons, MoD, FCO
       and DfID) and elsewhere, including the US, Bosnia, Peru and Somalia. For example
       Edmunds gave oral evidence to the parliamentary Defence Select Committee, SDSR 2015
       and the Army. He acted as Consultant on the review of the SDSR 2015 to the Cabinet

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       Office. Matthews’ work on gender and candidate selection informed the Northern Ireland
       Assembly Report on Women in Politics and the Northern Ireland Assembly (2015). Herring
       was Adviser on peacebuilding and state building to the Ministry of Justice, Republic of
       Somalia; invited speaker to the Ministry of Aviation, Republic of Somaliland; Advisor to the
       Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Investment, Federal Republic of Somalia (2014-
       15) and Advisor to the Benadir Regional Administration Covid-19 Taskforce. He
       is UoB Lead on the Technical Capabilities for Nuclear Security project with the Ministry of
       Petroleum and Mineral Resources, Federal Republic of Somalia and Ministry of
       Environment and Rural Development, Republic of Somaliland (2016-present).
   •   Inter-governmental organisations in the European Union (European Commission,
       Council of the EU, European External Action Service); UN (UN Office for Drugs and Crime,
       UNHCR and UNDP); and International Atomic Energy Agency. For
       example, Juncos presented to the EU Military Committee on Strengthening Resilience in
       the Western Balkans. Dionigi convened a two-day workshop on The Long-Term Challenges
       of Forced Migration: Perspectives from Lebanon, Jordan and Iraq, with academics and
       representatives from the UNHCR and governments of Jordan, Lebanon, KR Iraq. Brett
       contributed to the UNDP investigation into the experience of victims in the peace process in
       Colombia.
   •   Non-governmental organisations – such as the HALO Trust, European Peacebuilding
       Liaison Office, Conciliation Resources, One Earth Future foundation and the
       Transform Drug Policy Foundation. For example, Cini presented on EU lobby ethics to the
       Practitioner Workshop on Lobbying in the US and Europe in Washington DC; Herring is
       Consultant at the HALO Trust – a large global mine clearance charity (2018-19). Herring
       was CI with the Observatory on Conflict and Violence Prevention and Transparency
       Solutions on a programme of ‘High Quality Research Support’ in Somalia, which trained 50
       Somali researchers over 2014-15. Matthews was invited by the Electoral Reform Society to
       co-author a report on STV and the 2016 Northern Ireland Assembly election.
   •   Media: our research has features in print, digital, and electronic media, nationally and
       internationally. For example, following its release in 2016, Childs’ Good Parliament Report
       generated over 30 news stories and was the focus of a BBC Radio4 Woman’s Hour
       programme. Tucker’s Quipu project was covered by The Guardian, New York Times,
       Independent, Scroll India, Wired, openDemocracy, BBC World Service, BBC Radio 4, TV
       Perú Noticias, La República, The Conversation, Latin Correspondent, New Internationalist,
       El País and New Statesman.
   •   General publics: The GRC, for example, holds annual Decoding Gender in the Media
       workshops for Bristol schools, and a regular Gender Question Time for academic, student,
       practitioner and public audiences, and works with the Royal Mail supporting victims of
       domestic abuse (https://www.parcelforce.com/blog/need-to-know/online-safe-spaces-
       launched).


Final comments
Over the REF period P&IR at Bristol has undergone strategic expansion, strengthening and
renewal that is closely aligned with and supported by the University’s research strategy. Our
academic strengths and inclusive research culture, coupled with our commitment to sustained
collaboration with both academic and non-academic partners, enable us to make significant
contributions to national and international academic debate, politics and society.




                                                                                          Page 19
