Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 University of Central Lancashire
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA34: Culture, Communications, Media and Library Management
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Achievement of Research and Impact Strategic Aims
UoA34’s profile of researchers and research students comprises an exciting mix of creative
practitioners and theorists whose interactions and collaborations create a stimulating environment
within which to produce and disseminate internationally significant and world leading research, with
tangible real-world impact. Drawn mainly from the School of Arts and Media, the unit derives its
identity from two intersecting thematic strands: a) digital media innovation and governance; and b)
creative practices and their contexts.
Working around these themes, the unit aims to enable meaningful transformations for people and
communities through empowered engagement with new insights in media innovation, governance
and creative practices. These themes align to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) with
particular focus on SDGs 3, 4, 8, 9, 10 and 16. The unit has had significant research impacts both
nationally and internationally. Some of these include:
   •   Enabling independent and citizen filmmakers in Malaysia, Ghana, Colombia and California
       to harness the power of their stories through innovative approaches to mentor-based
       cinematic storytelling skills training (Knudsen)
   •   Using novel artistic forms as a therapeutic approach to supporting people living with dementia
       (Beesley)
   •   Advancing our understanding of the role of local print media in contemporary civic societies
       through community relevant collaborative historical research (Hobbs)
   •   Capacity building in research production in Official Development Assistance (ODA) countries
       through mentor-led writing schemes (Ogola)
   •   Helping major news providers re-imagine journalism in the digital age through explorations
       of the Internet of Things (IoT) through community engagement and co-design practices (Mills)
   •   Empowering local communities, both regionally and internationally, to harness the
       opportunities that creative engagement with visual culture can offer for political and social
       change as well as benefit wellbeing (Bratchford and Aitken)
   •   Changing journalistic organisational policies through advanced understandings of the impact
       of new digital technologies on the practice and management of news organisations (Nel)
   •   Offering new innovative opportunities for small and medium sized new enterprises and exiled
       media from politically repressive countries to develop financially sustainable business models
       in the digital age (Cook).
A shared impact aspiration across UoA34’s diverse portfolio of research activity - be this scholarly-
led research, collaborative or community-led research, or creative practice-led research – relate to
UCLan’s overall civic university aspirations and centers around enabling and empowering individuals
and communities to meaningfully transform their lives for the better.
The Strategic Aims of our Future Research and Impact
UoA34 previously sought to “develop […] new talent” and to “produce research that is nationally and
internationally recognised for its quality of outputs, the significance and reach of its impact” (UoA36
REF2014 Environment Statement) and has, since its achievements of REF2014, sought to build on

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
these aims. It is within this context that the unit’s work revolves around the intersecting strategic
themes of digital media innovation and governance and creative practices and their contexts. In
order to achieve its impact aims, UoA34 seeks to further develop, enable and empower research
staff, including research students, to effectively deliver high-quality research leading to meaningful
impact and engagement within and outside the academy. This involves building on the considerable
success to date in developing a strong, supportive and vibrant research environment. We have put
in place structures and processes, which we discuss in the next sections, to help us realise the UoA’s
key strategic aims for the next REF cycle, which include:
   a) ambitious targets for the quality of outputs, through mentoring, peer review support, a
      seminar series and dedicated writing and practice research workshops for members
   b) improving the reach and significance of research impacts by encouraging diverse forms of
      outputs and their dissemination
   c) encouraging transdisciplinary working through enhanced engagements with University wide
      Research Institutes and Research Centres
   d) strengthening of the research environment by supporting PGRs to engage with the research
      community through the seminar series and through dedicated workshop participation at unit
      and faculty level
   e) increasing the number of research-active staff by growing our practice-led cohort of
      practitioner researchers through the faculty-wide mentoring scheme and the professional
      doctoral scheme
   f)   increasing the unit’s grant capture profile, which in turn will enable more funding support for
        the UoA members.

Some of these plans are already in place, such as mentorship and funding schemes and investment
in staff development with notable impact on the profile of the unit even as we initiate additional
structures for the future. For example, in REF2014, UoA36 made significant progress since
RAE2008. Delivering an overall score of 20% 4*, 47% 3*, 25% 2* and 8% 1*, compared to RAE2008
scores of 15% 4*, 20% 3*, 35% 2* and 30% 1*. For REF2014, 11 research staff were submitted and
this number has grown to 13 for REF2021. In REF2014 UoA36 had 4 PGR students enrolled within
the unit’s remit, whereas 23 PGR students are enrolled in REF2021. Additionally, the School of Arts
and Media and the Faculty of Culture and Creative Industries (FCCI) appointed a new professor
(Professor Knudsen) in the area of creative practice research, whose remit is to develop the practice
led research community, its outputs and impacts across the School of Arts and Media and FCCI.
Internal promotions for UoA34 staff included four new Readers (Ogola, Nel, Mills and Beesley),
further evidencing the strategic commitment to strengthening investment in research and in the
thematic area of digital media innovation and governance. The faculty also employed a Bid Writer
(John Law) who has had a significant impact on the research bidding activity within UoA34. Where
for REF2014 audit period the then UoA36 had three staff actively bidding predominantly to research
councils during the audit period, UoA34 has broadened and diversified the number of staff actively
bidding to 11. Furthermore, the range of institutions to which they are bidding within the REF2021
census period has been widened beyond research councils to include institutions such as the Arts
Council, Open Eye Gallery, Google and other public and private institutions.
In addition, UoA34 will be submitting creative practice outputs as well as traditional outputs to
REF2021. In creative practice terms, the four creative practice outputs, – two of which are double
weighted, constitutes a significant development, since no creative practice outputs were submitted
by the then UoA36 for REF2014. Our aim is to triple these outputs in the next REF.
By carefully encouraging and supporting research staff, and enhancing the environment in which
they work, our aim is to encourage and increase the range of output types and their quality. We have

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
a strong portfolio of impact beyond our Impact Case Studies, including: ‘As and When: Documenting
Socially Engaged Practice- Arts Praxis, Health and Wellbeing’ (Bratchford), and ‘Harnessing the
Benefits of Open Journalism Innovation’ (Mills and Cook), indicating the breadth and depth of the
impact engagement being led by UoA34 researchers. We aim to continue to use the REF impact
framework as a benchmark for capturing and articulating research impact and for the research being
undertaken by UoA34 to be original, rigorous and significant.
UCLan and FCCI have as part of both University Research Strategy and Faculty Strategy a
commitment to the development of transdisciplinary Research Institutes and Centres, each of which
has financial resources attached. Knudsen has played a leading role in the development of FCCI’s
Institute for Creative Practices Research (ICPR), to which all of UoA34's researchers are members.
This is a cross-faculty Research Institute bringing together a transdisciplinary group of researchers
engaged with creative practices, including researchers in art, design, fashion, English and
journalism. UoA34 researchers are also involved in a range of the transdisciplinary Institutes and
Centres resourced by UCLan and other external bodies such as the Arts Council, Preston Borough
Council, Lancashire County Council and the Open Eye Gallery. For illustration, Figures 1 and 2 show
how UoA34 seeks to engage with the University’s various Institutes and Centres. An important
element of UoA34’s strategic aims includes expanding and deepening our engagement with these
networks to help facilitate transdisciplinary and interdisciplinary research and impact delivery.


Figure 1 – UOA34 membership of UCLan Interdisciplinary Research Centres and Institutes

                                                Centre for         Institute for Global       Institute for
  Centre for Digital    Centre for Global   Migration, Diaspora,        Health and        Citizenship, Society
        Life             Development                Exile               Wellbeing              and Change

 • Binns               •Knudsen             •Ikoniadou             •Knudsen               •Knudsen
 • Ogola               •Ogola
 • Nel                 •Bratchford
 • Bratchford          •Atkinson
 • Mills               •Hobbs
 • Cook                •Aitken
                       •Beesley
                       •Gregory




                                                                                                      Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Figure 2 – UOA34 linkages to Research Themes and Interdisciplinary Research Centres

                    UCLAN RESEARCH THEMES, INSTITUTES AND CENTRES




                                                                                      Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
This evolving network and infrastructure of Research Institutes and Centres is already providing the
community of UoA34 researchers exciting opportunities to explore and develop collaborative,
integrated and transdisciplinary research projects beyond our own clusters and institution to engage
nationally and internationally. Examples include; the AHRC funded StoryLab (an international
research collaboration with University partners in Australia, Malaysia, Ghana and Colombia, which
is exploring innovative skills training practices for democratized film industries, led by Knudsen), the
British Academy funded Writing Workshop Scheme, which is a capacity building research skills
training programme for ODA countries, led by Ogola, and Mills’ work with the University’s
Engineering Innovation Centre on the potential uses of drones in civic and civil uses including in
search and rescue scenarios, journalism and in humanitarian work.

Relationship to Unit Structure and Future
UoA34 is led by the unit lead Ogola, supported by a small advisory team. Ogola feeds into key
committees at faculty level – such as the FCCI Research Strategy Committee and the FCCI
Research Committee (as well as the FCCI’s REF2021 Panel D Committee) and is a leading
contributor to the governance committee of the ICPR. Through the strategy of deploying the human
and financial resources of the University’s Research Institutes and Centres, and the FCCI’s ICPR,
the School of Arts and Media’s mentoring scheme, the FCCI’s sabbaticals scheme and the faculty
research fund, UoA34 continues to play a leading role in enabling the achievement of ambitious
outputs, impact and environment goals. These goals include encouraging all of the UoA’s members
to put in a peer reviewed grant bid ever year (i.e. bids over £50,000); have every researcher involved
with at least one of the University’s transdisciplinary Research Institutes and Research Centres, such
as LIFE, ICSC and MIDEX, and increasing the number of members of UoA34 with significant
responsibility for research by 50%.
UoA34, through its representation at faculty level by its unit lead, advocates for faculty funding to
support open access publishing, exhibitions, community engagement, writing support and
conference attendance support. These initiatives complement the active publishing and engagement
activity undertaken by unit members. Effective sharing of research findings is a central part of what
the unit seeks to encourage and support. This is through a range of mechanisms including
submitting research outputs in the University’s open institutional repository CLoK, open publishing
and exhibitions. Hobbs, for example, published his award-winning monograph, A Fleet Street in
Every Town: The Provincial Press in England 1855 – 1900, with Open Book Publishers (2019), with
support from the faculty, following advocacy by the unit. Bratchford’s exhibition project, Visual Rights,
at the Open Eye Gallery in Liverpool (2020), was partially supported by the faculty, following
advocacy by the unit. Other public facing initiatives include publishing on open-access platforms
such as The Conversation where Ogola, Binns, Hobbs and Bratchford are regular contributors.


 2. People

Staffing Strategy and Development
To support the UoA’s ambitious strategic aims, we have planned an equally ambitious staffing and
development strategy. To encourage and increase the practice-led research in the unit, the faculty
appointed a new professor of creative practice research Professor Knudsen. Now the Faculty
Research Director, his remit among other roles, has been to develop the practice-led research
community, its outputs and impacts across the unit and in the FCCI. There is now a growing cohort
of creative practice researchers, some of which are feature in the REF2021 submission. The unit
has a series of dedicated research workshops for the development of a practice-led research culture.
These workshops have covered areas ranging from articulating what research means for the creative
practitioner, exploring creative practice methodologies and understanding how to put together
portfolios of creative work and what publication entails. A number of new research groupings have

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
evolved directly as a consequence of these interventions during this census period, including the
Photography Research Group, the Somatic Dance Research Group and the Music Research Group.
The unit also operates a mentoring scheme for ECRs, giving them an opportunity to have confidential
discussions with senior researchers about their research and their careers. This has enabled the unit
to include, for the first time, ECRs in a REF exercise. ECRs all have a named mentor whom they
can consult on a regular basis. This mentoring scheme is transdisciplinary in nature and involves
UoA32, UoA33 and UoA34. This allows an element of interdisciplinarity in the approach taken to
supporting research colleagues, particularly those involved with creative practice research. In any
one year up to 30 staff members from across the three UoAs take up the opportunity to be mentored.
These mentoring sessions have been particularly useful in engaging with creative practitioners
traditionally left outside the established research cultures of the past in efforts to help them develop
strategies for articulating their creative practice as research, thereby directly leading to the increase
in practice submissions for REF2021 over REF2014. Ikoniadou and Bratchford are some of the
ECRs whose outputs are included in our submission having been supported by the UoA’s mentoring
scheme.
Researchers who do not have a research degree also take advantage of the mentoring scheme as
a means of commencing higher degree studies and are able to take advantage of Head of School
discretion to partially waive fees and negotiate appropriate time allocation for part time study. Since
REF2014, four research staff have completed their PhDs and a further nine members of academic
staff are currently undertaking Professional Doctorates. The aim is to continue to develop research
staff from within, enhance the research culture and advance our PGR supervision capacity in part
through such internal development. Supplementing and supporting these developments is the
University’s comprehensive training programme aimed at supporting research active staff.
Supervisor training, provided by the Graduate School, and training and support related to grant
applications provided by the Research Services’ Grants and Funding Unit (GFU) complement the
mentoring. Altogether, the PGR opportunities for staff, the Adelphi Research Network seminar series
- a fortnightly research workshop for UoA and faculty staff - the targeted staff development research
workshops and the faculty events delivered at a more local level make up a rounded and
comprehensive training and development structure.
The School of Arts and Media operates a staff appraisals process for all staff and academics with
significant responsibility for research. This is done by appropriate senior colleagues with research
experience. Institute and research centre directors are able to feed informally into this process as
the Head of School negotiates with the appropriate member of staff and the research allocation in
their workload. Alongside this process, the FCCI operates a sabbaticals scheme open to any
member of staff undertaking research. Researchers, including early career researchers (ECR), can
apply to the sabbaticals scheme for up to one semester of research leave. To date four UoA
members have been awarded sabbaticals during the REF2021 census period. One of them (Hobbs)
was able to complete and publish his monograph A Fleet Street in Every Town: The Provincial Press
in England, 1855-1900. The book won the 2019 Robert and Vineta Colby Scholarly Book Prize and
is one of the UoA’s double-weighted submissions.
Staff development can also be seen in the number and types of promotions that have taken place
within the School and in the UoA. There are three pathways to promotion; research, teaching and
innovation and enterprise. These pathways recognise the diversity and strengths of the staff in the
School and in the UoA. Within this REF cycle the UoA has seen four members promoted from Senior
Lecturers to Readers through these three pathways.
UoA34 further encourages members to be actively involved in faculty and University committees
thereby contributing to their own development as well as being part of the formal research
governance in the University. Knudsen sits on the University’s Research Strategy Committee,
chaired by the Pro Vice Chancellor for Research; Knudsen and Ogola sit on both the FCCI Research


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Strategy Group and the FCCI REF2021 Panel D Committee, which advises the University’s
REF2021 Panel, chaired by the Deputy Vice Chancellor; Ogola and Mills sit on the University’s
Ethics Committee. Other members of the UoA34 team, including Hobbs, Bratchford and Gillon,
contribute to PGR governance through membership of the University’s Post Graduate Research
Degrees Committee, the body that also advises the Vice Chancellor on the conferment of research
degrees, by virtue of their roles as Research Degrees Tutors (RDTs).
UoA34’s core strategy is to build and enable a vibrant culture in which researchers flourish in an
environment that supports both their personal development as well as their professional
development and research profiles.

Support, Training and Supervision of PGR Students
For REF2014, the then UoA36 reported two PhD completions but for REF2021, UoA34 can now
report seven completions, with a community of 23 PGR students and nine Professional Doctoral
students currently enrolled. The development of supervisor capacity means that all the members of
UoA34 are appropriately qualified and trained to be a member of a PGR supervisory team. Growth
and development has been achieved without the resources of a research council funded doctoral
training college. However, this has, in part, led to innovative approaches to collaborative funding
with external partners, such as the Media Innovation Studio’s industry-funded PhD, supported by the
World Association of Newspapers and News Publisher’s Global Alliance for Media Innovation. FCCI
initiated a Fees Only Bursary and UoA34 benefitted from this scheme, enabling the successful
completion of five PhDs who were able to take advantage of these bursaries. The SoAM staff are
also able to take advantage of the Staff Fee Waivers Scheme, encouraging staff development as
well as equality and diversity. Funding is also provided to staff undertaking PhD programmes in other
universities.
Like other research staff members, PGRs apply to the FCCI Research Grant Scheme for funding to
support them in their research, which can assist with a research trip or costs associated with a
implementing a particular methodology, and they are encouraged to apply. Likewise, PGR students
can also apply, to the School’s Travel Grant Scheme for funding to assist with their research related
travel and other costs. Many PGRs have therefore been able to attend national and international
conferences and buy equipment for their research projects.
UCLan has a well-developed PGR progression monitoring and support infrastructure. Each PGR
student is attached to a supervisory team that comprises a Director of Studies, a 2 nd Supervisor,
sometimes a 3rd Supervisor, as well as a Research Degrees Tutor (RDT) that oversees and monitors
the development of the cohort. The student will meet with the Director of Studies and/or the entire
supervisory team at least 10 times in an academic year. Milestones include a Research Proposal
Assessment after three months for full time students, in which an independent research colleague
assesses the developed research proposal of the student; annual milestones in which the PGR
student and supervisory team write a short report about progress, which is then followed up with an
interview with the RDT and progression recommendations to the University’s Research Degrees
Board; a transfer viva after 18 months for a full time student, in which the student is examined
formally, including a viva, by two independent colleagues on a 6000 word report. At all of these
points, students receive independent feedback and are guided on their work and progression.
Every PGR is allocated their own desk with computer access. In addition to having access to all the
normal University infrastructure from library services to proof reading services, all PGR have access
to the extensive range of studio and equipment facilities in the areas covered by the creative arts of
journalism, media, film, television and photography. These state-of-the-art production facilities – from
the broadcast spec 4K television studio to the chemical darkrooms - offer PGRs exciting
opportunities to produce work to the highest professional standards.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGR have access to the Graduate Research School’s Postgraduate Research Student Training
Programme with over 33 specific short training courses, some of which are compulsory. Not only do
these courses provide comprehensive training in a range of skills areas from how to write a literature
review to how to use Nvivo, the courses also provide UoA34 PGRs opportunities to meet and engage
with a transdisciplinary community of PGRs from a spectrum of disciplines. These opportunities are
supplemented by PGRs’ full participation in the monthly Adelphi Research Network seminar series,
the bespoke workshops led by senior staff and FCCI research events, such as away days. PGR
students also engage with research projects, seminars, symposia and conferences organised by
members of their supervisory teams. StoryLab Research Network, headed by Knudsen, for example,
engaged a PGR Iakovos Panagopoulos, now a lecturer at the Ionian University in Corfu, Greece, to
undertake research led workshops in California during 2018 and 2019. The StoryLab Symposium
2018 saw PGRs not only participate in the event, but organise a team of undergraduate students to
deliver a live broadcasting of the event on YouTube. Journalism PGRs have been involved in a
series of workshops on the future of journalism in the developing world organised by Ogola and
funded by the Faculty as part of the digital media innovation and governance thematic strand.
Students are also encouraged by their supervisors to present their work at seminars and
conferences, including UCLan’s 3MT competition, which sees PGRs presenting their work in three-
minute slots during which they can only show one slide, and the Annual PGR Conference. These
internal opportunities to present their research enhances PGR confidence and presentation skills.
A unique feature of UCLan’s encouragement and development of the next generation of PGRs from
within UCLan is the innovative Undergraduate Research Intern Scheme (URIS) and Graduate
Research Intern Scheme (GRIS). These competitive schemes enable undergraduate and taught
postgraduate students to apply to take on a research support role supervised by a senior researcher.
Not only does this provide valuable support for researchers, it provides opportunities for
undergraduate and taught postgraduate students to discover and learn about higher level research.
UoA34 PGRs are encouraged to engage with some teaching and learning on UG and PGT courses
in areas commensurate with their expertise. These arrangements are made on a case-by-case basis
to ensure that both quality and research relevance are achieved. Examples include, Knudsen’s
recent three PhD completions having delivered guest lectures for the film and photography
undergraduate programmes and three of Ogola’s PGRs have been given opportunities to lead
seminars in the BA Journalism programme. These initiatives give PGRS an opportunity to teach,
share their research and also learn from the experience. They are given detailed feedback on their
performance and the structure of the seminars.

Equality and Diversity
The UoA is a good example of the University’s commitment to equality and diversity. It is mindful of
the University’s inclusion strategy whose key objectives include valuing and engaging people,
ensuring fair processes and inclusion, empowering people (protected groups), and embedding
diversity, dignity and wellbeing. The UoA is further committed to the Athena Swan principles and has
made structural interventions that enable the realisation of these principles and by engaging in
research that speak to marginalisation in its various manifestations. It also has targeted staff
development initiatives and training programmes in relevant areas such as unconscious bias. The
composition of the UoA now demonstrates the UoA’s commitment to inclusion. Only two female
members were entered for the REF2014 in UoA36. There are four in this cycle, including an ECR
and one completing her PhD, which is funded by the faculty and who has also been awarded a
sabbatical.
The work done by UoA34 members is also indicative of the unit’s interest in marginalised
communities and the margins more generally. Some indicative work includes Ogola’s research
capacity development in the University and in ODA countries, Cook’s work on sustainable business
models for exiled media largely from the developing world and Knudsen’s Story Lab project.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research and Impact Income
Since REF2014, UoA34 has significantly increased the number of people bidding for research
income and the diversity of sources of funding. Of the 14 researchers included in UoA34’s REF2021
submission, 12 have submitted at least one research bid during the census period to a wide variety
of funding sources from Research Councils to art galleries. Research projects such as StoryLab
attracted two AHRC grants - £27,031 GBP and £92,679 respectively - and this is indicative of the
growing confidence within UoA34 to access research council funding. Ogola attracted funding from
the British Academy’s writing scheme targeted at skilling Early Career Researchers from ODA
countries totalling £70,000. Bratchford and Beesley have received funding from the NHS for their
work on photography and wellbeing, while Nel has been successful in obtaining funding from Google
News Initiative and WAN-IFRA for his World Press Trends reports. Hobbs’ commitment to open
access publishing of his monograph, A Fleet Street in Every Town, attracted funding from the Marc
Fitch Fund and Research Society for Victorian Periodicals. Binns received funding from Tate
Liverpool to help support a research project on a history of British heroines.

Interconnected with traditional research funding is the extensive research, development and
innovation funding received for the Media Innovation Studio (MIS). In particular, this was aided by
the work of Mills and Cook, whose research informed enterprise and innovation work often involved
significant external partners such as Google and Reach PLC. The MIS has a strong record at
boosting the research environment through its grant capture, building on foundational work
completed during REF2014. Examples include SenseMaker (Google Digital News Initiative,
€49,863), NewsThings (Google Digital News Initiative, €49,947.93), Aerial Uptake (Interreg income
to UCLan £174,422 / total project £1.2m), Collaborative Revenue Capture (RCUK, £12,657), Value
My News (Google Digital News Initiative; income to UCLan £12,000/ total project £179,000) and
Transmit Transform (Internews, £12k). The Studio has also captured the UoA’s first industry fees-
funded PhD programme, which started in October 2019. In total, the MIS has been involved in
bidding activities, across external and internal funding opportunities, and commercial consultancy
totalling in excess of £11m (for all partners). This work has contributed significantly to the research
outputs, impacts and environment and provides strong evidence of external validation of the quality
of research being undertaken within UoA34.
UoA34 is committed to developing its members grant capture profiles as it considers this an
important part of staff development. UoA34 thus works closely with the Faculty bid writer to
encourage a culture of grant bidding. With the bid-writer’s guidance, unit members are advised to
put in at least one research grant bid every year. Researchers are encouraged through membership
of research groups, Research Institutes and Centres, mentoring and a series of dedicated annual
faculty research away days to bid for external research funding. The faculty’s bid writer plays an
important role in brokering, introducing, supporting and advising researchers on their bid ideas and,
because of his role across the faculty, is particularly well placed to encourage transdisciplinary
project development. Feedback and peer review are an important part of this process and all
researchers have an opportunity, through the bid writer, to get feedback on research bids in
progress. For bids over £50,000, a formal peer review process involving the University’s Grants and
Funding Unit is initiated in which the bid writer organises for applications to be scrutinised by two
independent colleagues with experience of bidding. The role of this process is twofold: a) to provide
support and feedback to the staff applying for funding to enhance the quality of the bid; and b) to
provide an element of quality control of bids aimed at, predominantly, research councils. The GFU
provides comprehensive additional services and support in the bidding process, including budgeting,
partnership arrangements, quality control, funder and criteria analysis and many other types of



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
support. The unit also runs workshops and advice sessions for staff interested in bidding for research
funding.

Research and Impact Infrastructure
Researchers within UoA34 are supported by the considerable research infrastructure of the
University under the auspices of Research Services. Dedicated teams of support staff operate within
delivery mechanisms that include: the GFU, who support funding searches, advice, budgeting help
with funding applications, as well as providing post award support, including financial management
of successful bids; the University’s Ethics Committee, who play a central role in advising and
scrutinising the ethics of all research projects, including PGR projects; and the Impact Team, who
advise researchers on impact strategies and capture, including the management and training around
the online support portal, Impact Tracker. The University also operates a number of funding
opportunities through Research Services, such as the Catalyst Scheme and the Global Challenges
Research Fund QR Scheme. StoryLab, for example, has been able to take advantage of these
schemes to help it deliver its research and impact objectives in Malaysia, Ghana and Colombia with
the support of £11,004 from the Catalyst Scheme in 2018-19 and £10,150 from the GCRF QR
Scheme, also in 2018-19, £5,000 from the Centre for Global Development (G4Globe); Ogola has
received the GCRF QR funding for a project on improving public health communication in East
Africa; Mills received funding from UCLan’s Innovation Voucher Scheme to support his ideation of a
web-connected paper prototype. UCLan’s Research Services provides a comprehensive support
infrastructure which includes the Research Governance Unit (RGU), which includes research
integrity and research ethics; Research Excellence Unit (REU), supporting UoA34’s REF
submissions; Research Development Unit, which provides research development and training for all
academic staff; and the Scholarly Communications Unit, which oversees the University’s repository,
open access policies and ORCID management.
MIS has provided substantial infrastructure to support both research and innovation through its
dedicated facility in the Media Factory. This facility, now the Creative Innovation Zone (CIZ) provides
space and state-of-the art workshop and conference equipment as well as technical support for
faculty staff. Research staff work through the facility helping to deliver a range of research related
projects, usually in partnership and collaboration with external companies or research institutions.
During the REF2021 period, the MIS has also enabled a range of infrastructure for underpinning and
supporting the research environment, and catalysing impact from the action research it undertakes.
This includes supporting the Adelphi Research Network, which sees researchers from across the
School and Faculty, alongside visiting researchers, come together to share research insights and
narratives. The Studio has also hosted visiting researchers from Brazil, China and Europe to
collaborate on a range of research projects. The most recent example of this is a visit that enabled
a small grant from the European Media Management Association that enabled a visiting researcher
to collaborate on a project that maps journalism innovation structures across Latin America and
Europe. It has also acted as a training hub, bringing over 800 journalists, editors and senior
managers into the University to create live and tangible opportunities for industry to contribute to the
research environment and vice versa.
The link between research and enterprise and innovation is important in UoA34’s overall aims and
objectives. Such engagement is realised locally through the FCCI’s Innovation Escalator Fund, which
supports projects where research, innovation and enterprise intersect, including Knowledge Transfer
Partnerships (KTPs). UoA34 staff have taken advantage of a range of innovation and enterprise
opportunities over the duration of the REF2021 cycle. For example, HEIF funded ‘ideas vouchers’
were used to continue world-leading research into conductive inks, web-connected paper and
journalism. Projects totalling £63,000 created a range of industry-focussed and award-winning
prototypes and conference papers, alongside a pop-up exhibition in Helsinki at the Finish
Technology Institute in 2015.


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research and Impact Facilities
In addition to scholarly infrastructure, Research Staff and PGR students have full access to
comprehensive creative practice facilities including 4K TV studios, editing suites, audio dubbing
suites, animation suites, games creation suites, audio and camera equipment, audio mixing facilities,
theatre and dance studios. These facilities are based in the state of the art Media Factory. As noted
above MIS, provides additional facilities related to practices around the internet of things and
journalism and has a dedicated facility to host interactive media driven events, symposia and
workshops, including the world leading Remerge digital ideation facilitation hardware and software
that enables advanced documentable ideation and collaboration.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research Collaborations

As a result of the research activities being undertaken by members of UoA34, a number of formal
collaboration agreements have been instituted between UCLan and other HEI and non HEI
institutions within the UK and internationally that tie in with the creative practices and their context
research strand within UoA34 (see Table below).
Many in the research team have strong national and international research and impact reputations
that enables them to bring experience back to colleagues for sharing via the mentoring scheme and
the Adelphi Research Network seminar series, which encourages the sharing of research across
FCCI. Such esteem includes Knudsen’s role during the REF2021 cycle as AHRC Peer reviewer and
panel member and his ongoing role as editorial board member, and chair until June 2019, of the
Journal for Media Practice and Education. Ogola is a member of the editorial boards of Journalism
Studies, African Journalism Studies, Journal of Eastern African Literary and Cultural Studies and
Africa: The Journal of the International African Institute as well as editor of the African Popular
Culture book series published by International African Institute and Zed Books. Nel is editor of the
WAN-IFRA's World Press Trends while Beesley’s honorary doctorate from the University of Bradford
is in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the photographic heritage of the north of England.
Bratchford is President of the International Sociological Association Visual Research Committee
Mills collaborates with the World Association of Newspapers’ Global Alliance for Media Innovation
and is involved in the Royal Society’s Human Transformation programme, while Cook participates
in the Google Digital News Initiative’s funding panel and mentoring services to the European
Journalism Centre.

Research Networks and Partnerships

In addition to the extensive networks emerging out of the above outlined research collaborations and
partnerships, UoA34 members including those not being ‘returned,’ engage with a range of research
and professional networks that inform and support the research culture.

Knudsen, for example, has extensive network connections into the film and television industries,
internationally, and is an ongoing producer of award-winning feature films. He has acted as trustee
board member for a number of prominent arts organisations, including The Cornerhouse (now
HOME Manchester), Square Chapel Arts Centre, Halifax, where he was chair of the board of
trustees, and the theatre company, Horse and Bamboo, where he was also chair of the board of
trustees. These organisations also have interactions with UCLan on a number of different levels,
including consultancy and impact work. He is a member of MeCSSA and its Practice Sub Section
and is a member of, and former chair of, the editorial board of the Journal of Media Practice and
Education.


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Research
                                        Research Strands                                               Collaborations and Beneficiaries
    Lead
 Aitken        His work explores the contested nature of contemporary urban               • Art Practices and the Housing Crisis Conference, at the
               redevelopment in the UK and China and the role visual imagery plays          People’s History Museum, Manchester (2017)
               in coding its portrayal. He is a curator practitioner who often exhibits
                                                                                          • Architectures of Displacement, at the Tate, Liverpool
               his research outputs.

 Atkinson      His research focuses on cultural representation of northern England
               post-1955. Exploring the role of broadcasting and local broadcasting
               industry, in economic development and the creation of images and
               mythologies of the North. His publications include Producing
               Habitus: ITV Soap Operas and the “Northern Powerhouse,” (2017).

 Beesley       His work straddles photography, visual literacy and wellbeing and          • Bradford Institute of Health (Born In Bradford Project)
               has worked on the benefits of collaborative arts projects on the           • 16 Dementia Support Groups in Yorkshire and across the
               health and wellbeing on a variety of NHS longitudinal medical                country.
               research projects.
                                                                                             o   Yorkshire -highlighted the challenges facing dementia
                                                                                                 suffers using public transport,
                                                                                             o   The North Yorkshire council agreed to make blue
                                                                                                 badges available to people with dementia
                                                                                             o   Northern Rail have engaged the support groups to
                                                                                                 provide advice on redesigning timetables to make
                                                                                                 them more dementia friendly.

 Binns         Binns’s research focuses on managing problems on social media              • UCLan’s Cybercrime Research Unit.
               and social history, concerning non-conformism and interwar
               feminism. Her latest research concerns the lack of reporting of            • Government’s White Paper on Intimidation in Public Life by
               coroners’ courts in the press.                                               the Committee on Standards in Public Life in 2019
                                                                                            following her work on online bullying of women MPs.




                                                                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Research
                                        Research Strands                                           • Collaborations and Beneficiaries
    Lead

 Bratchford    His research includes visual activism, power and the politics of         • Art institutions, public bodies, health organisations and
               in/visibility related to a number of themes and contexts including the     charities including
               Israeli occupation of Palestinian Territories as well as working           o Open Eye Gallery, Liverpool
               collaboratively with health organisations and arts institutions to         o NHS, Merseyside Clinical Care Group (CCG)
               explore notions of photography and wellbeing. He is actively               o Care homes
               engaged in impact work emerging out of his research, such as the           o Charities (supported by Arts Council, England)
               Socially Engaged Art, a 3-year commission with Halton CCG                  o Paul Hamlyn Foundation
               (Clinical Commissioning Group), Open Eye Gallery, Liverpool & NHS          o Halton Clinical Commissioning Group (CCG)
               Merseyside.
                                                                                          o Community of Runcorn, specifically Windmill Hill area

 Cook          Cook’s research explores the obstacles with which global publishers      • CAST project, which explored how proximity broadcasting
               struggle with as they adapt their journalism business models to the        could be used in a range of environments, specifically in
               online environment. The impact of her work has fed into high-level         Armenia.
               recommendations to media policy-makers and politicians on media              o Impact Hub Yerevan
               sustainability. The industry itself has used the actionable business
                                                                                            o WiCastr.
               insights from Cook’s research to directly strengthen business
               operations, including the Sustainable Business Models on the Net         • Value My News project
               report which has been downloaded 40,000 times in 30 countries.               o University of Cardiff
                                                                                            o Omni.
                                                                                        • Cairncross Review, a Government-commissioned
                                                                                          initiative, which examined the challenges facing high
                                                                                          quality journalism in the UK
                                                                                            o This review is a key document aimed at shaping policy
                                                                                              around journalism sustainability




                                                                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Research                              Research Strands
    Lead                                                                                            Collaborations and Beneficiaries

 Gillon        His research focuses on aesthetic and meta-critical studies in visual     • Co-director of the UCLan Music Research group
               and performing arts, with a focus on the ways in which meaning can        • Director of UCLan Recordings Group (Music Label)
               be generated by means of abstract sounds and images. His
               monograph, The Uses of Reason in the Evaluation of Artworks:
               Commentaries on the Turner Prize (2018) is a significant articulation
               of this research

 Gregory       Her research revolves around gender, identity and popular music
               performance, including popular music’s relationship to spirituality
               and the sacred. Her publications include the monograph Boy Bands
               and the Performance of Pop Masculinity (2019).

 Hobbs         His award-winning work focuses around the history of local                • Harris Museum, Preston
               journalism. His book A Fleet Street in Every Town: The Provincial
               Press in England, 1855-1900 was awarded the 2019 Robert and
               Vineta Colby Scholarly Book Prize by the Research Society for
               Victorian Periodicals, which also led to him being elected a Fellow of
               the Royal Historical Society.

 Ikoniadou     Her research clusters around the intersection of visual culture,
               design and cultural history during the Cold War. Her recent work
               investigates the ways in which political refugee populations and their
               solidarity networks in socialist and third-world countries mobilise the
               qualities of illustrated magazines to negotiate national belongings
               and internationalist sentiments.




                                                                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research      Research Strands                                                       Collaborations and Beneficiaries
 Lead
 Knudsen       StoryLab sought to develop new training methods for filmmaking         • Griffith University, Australia
               practices that are rooted in the notion of democratisation and take    • University of Ibagué, Colombia
               advantage of networking, collaboration and sharing in order to         • National Film and Television Institute, Ghana
               encourage the development of creative sectors that truly reflect the   • University of Ghana
               shifting paradigms emerging from within budding and developing
                                                                                      • Sector NGOs such as El Inconsciente Colectivo, Global Eyes
               economies and contribute to addressing some of the UN’s 17               Production and Cine a la Calle Fundación
               Sustainable Development Goals, such as Reduced Inequalities (goal
                                                                                      • Internal UCLan colleagues, such as Dr Robinson and his team
               10), Quality Education (goal 4) and Decent Work and Economic             of archaeologists working with Tejon tribes in California
               Growth (goal 8).                                                         around cave art
                                                                                      • Workshops in Malaysia, Ghana, Colombia and California
                                                                                        between 2017 and 2020. Over 90 independent and citizen
                                                                                        filmmakers enabled and empowered through innovative
                                                                                        story and narrative skills training initiative to develop their
                                                                                        own independent creative voices in pursuit of meaningful
                                                                                        cultural contributions and employment opportunities within
                                                                                        growing cultural and professional film sectors in these
                                                                                        countries (See Impact Case Study).

 Nell          Nel is the principal investigator of the world news media innovation   • World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
               study initiated in 2009. The annual global study conducted in 10         (WAN-IFRA).
               languages underpins a variety of scholarly and industry outputs,           o Edited Group’s annual global study of press trends,
               including WAN-IFRA’s new World News Publishers Outlook 2017                  The World News Publishers Outlook Report. This has
               report.                                                                      become a key reference annual report for media
                                                                                            organisations around the world.




                                                                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Mills         His research explores innovation and the relationship between         • Media Innovation Mapping (2016 - present):
               emerging technology, journalism and human-centred methods.            • Worked with the Global Alliance for Media Innovation
               Focusing on action research and co-creation, his work is                (World Association of Newspapers), NxtMedia Network,
               interdisciplinary, with outputs spanning journalism, human-computer     Norway, Stibo Accelerator, Denmark, UbiLab, PUCRS
               interaction and experience design. He has won funding from industry     (Pontifical Catholic University of Rio Grande do Sul),
               and academic sources including the European Interreg programme,         Brazil
               the Google Digital News Initiative and the European Media             • Google-funded NewsThings and SenseMaker research
               Management Association. He has presented his work at the World          projects on web-connected paper (November 2018 to
               News Media Congress, World Publishing Expo, the Conference of           March 2020); worked with Reach PLC, MIS, UCLan’s
               Tangible, Embodied and Embedded interfaces and curated                  Engineering Innovation Centre, the Manchester Mayor’s
                                                                                       Office/Greater Manchester Combined Authority,
               conferences at the Finnish Technology Institute.
                                                                                       Journalism.co.uk, The Things Network.
                                                                                     • AERIAL UPTAKE (Autumn 2019 to December 2022);
                                                                                       worked with Municipality of Enschede Province of
                                                                                       Overijssel, I2CAT Private Foundation, Internet and Digital
                                                                                       Innovation of Catalunya, Government of Catalonia, City of
                                                                                       Osijek, Rzeszow Regional Development Agency, Preston
                                                                                       City Council, RISE Research Institutes of Sweden.
                                                                                     • Royal Society; Policy on Human Transformation within the
                                                                                       context of the emerging digital technologies, specifically
                                                                                       big data and artificial intelligence

 Ogola         Ogola’s research focuses on the intersections between technology,     • British Academy
               media and politics in Africa. Outputs include; Popular Media in
               Kenya’s History: Fiction and Newspapers as Socio-Political Actors     • Association of African Studies Association of the UK
               (2017) and the Future of Quality Journalism: A Cross-Continental        (ASAUK) on research capacity building for Early Career
               Analysis (2014). These are key reference texts for a number of          Researchers (ECR) in ODA countries, has seen nearly 200
               journalism schools focusing on international journalism.                ECRs publish their work in internationally recognised peer
                                                                                       reviewed journals and the creation of North-South
                                                                                       academic networks, which encourage international
                                                                                       research partnerships.




                                                                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Knudsen was also during the census period for REF2021 an AHRC Peer Review College Member
and an AHRC final award Panel Member. Knudsen is regularly delivering keynote talks globally,
including recent talks at Beykent University in Istanbul, Sichuan University in Chengdu, University of
Ibagué in Colombia, Xian Jiaotong-Liverpool University in Suzhou and KL Converge conference in
Kuala Lumpur.
Ogola sits on the executive board of the African Studies Association of the UK (ASAUK), which is
one of the largest associations of Africanist scholars in the world. He is a grants and research ratings
peer reviewer of the National Research Foundation (NRF) South Africa, the British Academy, Next
Gen Fellowships, Carnegie Corporation and a Reader in the Chevening Scholarships Committee,
which is a funding scheme for ODA countries supported by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office
(FCO). Due to his links with ASAUK and partners, Ogola has been invited to give keynotes and
lectures at the University of Edinburgh’s Centre of African Studies, University of Birmingham’s
Department of African Studies and Anthropology (DASA), School of Oriental and African Studies
(SOAS), Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium and the Editors Guild Convention in Kenya.
Mills is a founding member of the Global Alliance for Media Innovation (GAMI), which seeks to bring
together academia, legacy media publishers, start-ups and key stakeholders to catalyse innovation
throughout the global media ecosystem. He has also fostered partnerships such as the University’s
research Memorandum of Understanding with PUCRS (Pontifical Catholic University of Rio Grande
do Sul) Brazil.
Nel is co-founder of the UK Digital Editors Network, which regularly brings together editors from
across UK media organisations to reflect on industry developments, and the international Innovation
Research Group.
Bratchord is book review editor for the journal Visual Studies (Taylor & Francis), Board member of
the Open Eye Gallery, Liverpool and President of the Visual Sociology Research Committee under
the auspice of the International Sociological Association. Bratchford is also co-founder of Critical
Lens, an online platform which foregrounds the visual as a tool for analysing the world, locally,
nationally, and globally. It encourages work at the intersection between visually orientated practices
and the socio-political sphere.
Hobbs is a member of the Society for the History of Authorship, Reading and Publishing, Research
Society for Victorian Periodicals and is council member of the Historic Society of Lancashire and
Cheshire. He is also an associate editor of the Dictionary of Nineteenth Century Journalism,
responsible for the local and regional press and a peer reviewer for Journalism Studies, Media
History, Victorian Periodicals Review and Book History. Binns is a member of the editorial board of
the Journal of Applied Journalism and Media Studies and a peer reviewer for various journals
including Feminist Media Studies. Mills is a peer reviewer for several journals including Media and
Communication, Designing Information Systems and Interactive Surfaces and Spaces. He is also an
advisor to the World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers’ Global Alliance for Media
Innovation (GAMI) and was in the steering group of Preston FM community radio station.

Activities Contributing to Research Base, Economy and Society
UoA34 engages with the wider research base, the economy and society through a diverse range of
activities reflecting the transdisciplinary nature of its core research strands of digital media
innovations and governance and creative practices and their contexts. Workshops include: the
AHRC funded creative StoryLab workshops being delivered to beneficiaries in Malaysia, Ghana,
Colombia, California and elsewhere between 2017 and 2020; innovation led workshops with industry
partners such as Reach PLC and Google; and research capacity building workshops in developing
countries, such as the British Academy funded Writing Workshops for ECRs in Kenya, Tanzania,
Nigeria and Ghana delivered between 2017 and 2020. Symposia delivered within UoA34 include:


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
two symposia held at UCLan bringing the international community of StoryLab researchers together
to explore research findings and new research opportunities (2018 and 2019).
Across the two research strands of the unit, researchers have produced and published a diverse
range of outputs: five monographs, over 40 refereed journal articles and book chapters, two feature
films and six photography exhibitions. Policy intervention also forms an important part of the activities
the unit engages with, such as the Cairncross Review 2019 and the Government’s White Paper on
Intimidation in Public Life in 2019.

UoA34 will be contributing two Impact Case Studies which align with the strategic research strands
of digital media innovations and governance, and creative practices and their contests: StoryLab:
Developing Innovative Skills Training for Democratised Film Industries, and A Life More Ordinary –
Supporting and Empowering People Living with Dementia. Three additional reserve case studies –
Harnessing the Benefits of Open Journalism Innovation, Enabling and Sustaining Independent
Journalism to Promote Press Plurality and As and When: Documenting Socially Engaged Practice –
Arts Praxis, Health and Wellbeing – reflect the breadth and depth of the research led impact activities
that engage with the wider economy and society.




                                                                                                Page 18
