Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Kingston University

 Unit of Assessment: 19 – Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

a) Context

Kingston’s research in UoA 19 has greatly expanded since 2014 through investment in academic
staff and the creation of synergies across research sub-fields. For REF2021, our submission
comprises 46 members of staff (41.40 FTE). The Unit, mostly based in the School of Law, Social
and Behavioural Sciences (SLSBS), brings together a dynamic and diverse body of researchers
across the intersecting disciplines of Politics; Criminology; Sociology; Law; Economics; Social and
Political History and Forensic Archaeology.

b) Unit strategy, structure and interdisciplinary collaboration

Promotion of thematic research collaboration across disciplinary and departmental boundaries has
been at the centre of our Unit’s research strategy throughout the REF period and has proved vital
to our growth and performance. An important part of our research is produced under the umbrella
of the Centre for Research on Communities, Identities and Difference (CResCID), a
University-recognised research centre created in 2017 to foster interdisciplinary engagement on
issues of social justice, inequality, human rights, migration, identity, development, environmental
sustainability and security. In addition to CResCID, the Unit hosts seven cross-departmental
research groups (colleagues are members of at least one), which feed into our collective strategy
by coordinating PGR supervision, grant applications, impact-generation, seminars and research
events.

The Human Rights, Society and Justice research group focuses on NGO practice (Miller);
development, environmental justice and rights (Olmos Giupponi, Higginbottom, Latimer);
restorative justice (McStravickECR); labour and employment rights (Wynn, PuchetaECR); political
participation, activism and protest (Favretto, Nuttall, Peggs, Pettitt); neo-liberalism (Choat), and
gender (Appleford). The group also engages in critical criminological research in diverse, yet
connected, areas: postcolonial and decolonial perspectives on criminal justice (Barker); gender,
policing and the politics of protection (De Camargo, Dodsworth); the role of law and society in
constructing gender and sexual identities, and victimization (Jamel, MorrisECR); and species
justice and green criminology (Peggs). Group research has awards from Animal Free Research
UK and Leverhulme Trust. Impact and public engagement are central to its activities supported by
the Independent Social Research Foundation and the Political Studies Association. Olmos
Giupponi’s research has been key to the drafting and approval in November 2020 of the Escazu
Agreement – that is, the Regional Agreement on Access to Information, Public Participation and
Justice in Environmental Matters in Latin America and the Caribbean (ICSUoA19OlmosGiupponi2).
Together with the Centre for Human Rights Practice, established by Kingston in 2017 to facilitate
dialogue with stakeholders and practitioners, the group runs (jointly with CResCID) an annual
Human Rights Festival open to the wider public. The Festival has, over the years, helped academic
staff to forge close relationships with human rights and social justice organisations, with many
working with NGOs and the third sector (see also section 4).

With unprecedented levels of migration, the issue of national belonging and how it is lived,
practiced and experienced, is becoming ever more urgent. The Migration and Nationalism
research group covers a wide range of dimensions of nationalism and migration, including
perceptions and challenges of belonging, national-minorities rights and governance (Nancheva,
Ranta), economic impact of immigration, and coexistence in multilingual societies (Ortega). Ichijo,
Ranta and Nancheva began a systematic analysis of food and nationalism. Ranta and Ichijo co-
authored Food, National Identity and Nationalism: From Everyday to Global Politics (2016,
Palgrave Macmillan), which led to a new collection of essays on the emergence of national food

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(2019, Bloomsbury). Ichijo and Ranta have been working with the food study groups of Birkbeck
and SOAS, which has resulted in joint conference participation and contribution to a special issue
of Political Quarterly. Members of the group (Cinpoes, Woodbridge) also investigate neo-fascism
and right-wing populism in Europe and have been working closely with think tanks and
organisations that monitor and combat radicalisation. External funding has allowed the group to
expand international collaborations and the geographical scope of its activities: thanks to a British
Academy/Leverhulme research grant, Nancheva and Ranta have created an EU migrant network
of researchers holding (jointly with CResCID) four workshops in 2016-19, several talks and a
conference at Kingston to explore perceptions and challenges of belonging among EU migrants in
the run-up and aftermath of the EU referendum. Ichijo ran a British Academy project with
Academia Sinica in Taipei that looked at The development and transformation of political
subjectivity in East Asia focusing on Taiwan and Hong Kong. Most notably, an ERC grant
(SEXHUM - €1.6M) allowed Mai to study migration, trafficking and the sex industry in Australia,
France, New Zealand and the US, challenging prevailing humanitarian representations of migrant
sex workers as prominently trafficked. It provides a better understanding of agency and exploitation
in the sex industry. Mai’s work has been widely recognised in the field: his Mobile Orientations. An
Intimate Autoethnography of Migration, Sex Work and Humanitarian Borders (Chicago University
Press, 2018) co-won the American Sociological Association ‘Sociology of Sexualities 2020’
Distinguished book award. SEXHUM has been of high relevance to NGOs, policy-makers and
migrants’ and sex workers’ organisations.

Whether in terms of gender, foreign policy or community relations, religion has emerged as one of
the most contested aspects of contemporary societies across the world in the twenty-first
century. The Religion, Public Institutions and Culture research group examines the circulation
of religious symbols and discourse across mass and social media and its political consequences
(Herbert), the use of religious imagery and language in collective action (Favretto); religion and
national identity (Ichijo, Cinpoes); gender relations and feminism in Muslim majority societies
(Ware), European cultures of non-belief and secularisation (BullockECR, Doggett), religion and
spirituality in health care settings (Sharma), and young people’s spirituality (Collins-Mayo).
Sharma and Collins-Mayo have both contributed to a recently published volume (co-edited by
Sharma) on the place of prayer and religion in health care facilities in the UK and Canada. The
book originated from collaborative research supported by the Canadian Social Sciences and
Humanities Research Council. Funding from the John Templeton Foundation for the project
Reaching for a New Sense of Connection? Towards a deeper understanding of the sociality of
Generation Y non-believers in Northern Europe (Herbert - £99,993) supported newly graduated
Kingston PhD student BullockECR to continue to work with the group as a post-doctoral fellow and
later co-author (with Herbert and project partners) of three book chapters (forthcoming) and one
journal article (published).

The Law Technology research group, created in 2017, unites the interests of researchers who
work on the intersections between politics, law and technology (BielickiECR, Collingwood, Onishi,
and Sinha – former staff), and encourages synergies within and outside the Faculty of Business
and Social Sciences. Bringing together scholars, practitioners and a variety of stakeholders from
both legal and scientific disciplines, it explores issues such as aerospace, military technology,
artificial intelligence, autonomous vehicles, biotechnology, business-tech, cyber law and digital
entertainment. It runs a seminar with regular contributions from internal and external speakers. The
group has also contributed research on cybercrime and money laundering, and terrorism financing.
Consultancy by Sinha, supported by UK Overseas Aid Budget, was key to the Jamaican
government’s recent reform of its domestic legislation on counter terrorism financing
(ICSUoA19Sinha3).

Research by the Power, Conflict and In/Securities group encompasses cultural representations
and impact of wars and militarisation (Ware, Renshaw, Hawkins); war detentions (Finn); the
construction of public and governmental perceptions of in/security and the processes and power
relations underlying these (Rindzeviciute); risk, (in)security and protection (Dodsworth); empirical
research on the Arab/Israeli conflict (Ranta); peacekeeping and humanitarian intervention
(Gilmore); political violence (Cerella). Building on her book The Power of Systems (Cornell UP,

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2016), which explored the impact of transnational scientific expertise in the Soviet Union during the
Cold War), Rindzeviciute has recently taken her research further to analyse public understandings
of the nuclear industry. Her work on ‘nuclear cultural heritage’, a new category of research she
developed, has been funded by the Swedish Foundation for Humanities and Sciences, the AHRC
and the Foundation for Baltic and East European Studies (award total £116,173); has informed
policies and practices of documentation and archiving, and museums’ cultural activities in the UK,
France, Sweden, Lithuania and Russia (ICSUoA19Rindzeviciute1). Ware’s and Renshaw’s work
on public commemorative cultures of war casualties has generated several workshops and
conferences (supported by CResCID), involving both specialists and stakeholders e.g. the Imperial
War Museum, Defence Academy and American Battlefield Cemeteries. During the period, Ware
has led two collaborative research projects: the Swedish Research Council (£52,350) funded
researching the impact of military deaths of European soldiers in Iraq and Afghanistan in six
countries, including the UK. The Leverhulme Trust project (£186,260, 2018), explores the
relationship between the military and civilian communities in the UK.

The Applied Economics research group (AERG) encompasses applied research (empirical and
theoretical) in areas such as labour economics (Ortega, Choudhury), banking and financial
management, economic development (Stewart, Choudhury and former staffs Kiose and Daly),
financial economics (Spanjers), and environment and climate change (Eskander). The group has
produced outputs published in international journals such as Labour Economics, Journal of
Population Economics, Land Economics and World Development, among others, and has been
reinforced by the arrival of Ortega. It collaborates with institutions in France, Germany,
Switzerland, China, Malaysia, Bangladesh, Colombia, Canada and the US. Ortega is Senior
Research Fellow at the Department of Government, London School of Economics. Eskander is
also currently working with colleagues at LSE on projects on vulnerability of female entrepreneurs
and climate change laws. Environment is increasingly central to this group’s research agenda. In
2016-17 the group secured funding for a project on Environmental and Social Risk (WWW
Switzerland, £23,628). Impact is gaining strength in the group’s activities: Spanjers advises a
regional branch of the German CDU; Choudhury worked with the Indian Council for Research on
International Economic Relations (World Bank’s ‘Jobs and Development’ initiative); Eskander has
recently started a project with the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations (FAO)
on Livestock Productivity and CO2 Emissions.

The Political Economy research group (PERG) explores economic, social and political
processes through reference to effective demand, institutions and social conflict, bringing together
insights from philosophy, history, sociology, politics and other social sciences. The group has
strengths in Post-Keynesian theory and Marxist economics at the intersection of critical economics
and comparative and international political economy. Former staff member Stockhammer’s work
on ‘wage-led growth’ has had increasing impact in the debate on Varieties of Capitalism and on the
role of financialisation. In 2016 Capps was awarded the Bernstein and Byres Prize for best article
in the Journal of Agrarian Change for his innovative piece on tribal landed property in
contemporary Africa. His work has also informed pro-poor strategic litigation and social justice
activism in rural South Africa. The group has produced outputs and worked collaboratively with
other national and international institutions on: income inequality, distribution and growth
(Stockhammer), urban inequality (McKenzie), financialisation (ChurchillECR, WolfECR, and
Stockhammer), natural resource extraction, colonialism and world development (Capps,
McKenzie, Higginbottom, Latimer). Higginbottom, Latimer and Choat have also contributed to
the scholarship on globalisation studies, including debates on the North-South divide in the global
capitalist system and on neoliberalism. PERG runs a seminar series and has organised several
academic workshops. New external awards in this period total £64,669, enabling research on the
relationship between rising inequalities and financial and economic crises, the relation between
income distribution and economic growth, and the effects of unemployment.

CResCID and the research groups offer venues for PhD students to integrate into our research
community and for early career researchers to develop their research agendas under the
mentorship of senior researchers. As shown above, they have also played a key role in supporting
impact generation, grant applications and the expansion of national and international

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
collaborations. Their work is supported by an Associate Dean for Research, a School Director of
Research, a Director of Graduate Study, an Impact Development Manager, a Research
Development Manager and a School Research Committee that coordinates the work of CResCID
and the groups, and devises the Unit’s research strategy.

The Unit’s International partnerships have grown in parallel to the widening of our geographical
reach, which, together with interdisciplinarity, is another distinctive characteristic of our research.
Besides the UK, our outputs, externally funded research projects and impact activities cover:
Romania (Cinpoes); Bulgaria and North Macedonia (Nancheva); Ireland (McStravickECR); Italy
(Favretto); Spain (Renshaw); Germany (Spanjers); Austria (Peggs); France (Renshaw, Ortega,
Mai); Middle East (Ranta, Choudhury); East Asia (Ichijo, Onishi); India (Choudhury);
Bangladesh (Eskander); Australia and New Zealand (Mai, Renshaw, Peggs); the US (Finn, Mai,
Collingwood, Sinha); Canada (Sharma, Ortega); the Caribbean (Olmos Giupponi, Sinha,
Barker); Latin America (Olmos Giupponi, Higginbottom, Latimer, PuchetaECR); Lithuania and
the former Soviet Union (Rindzeviciute); and Africa (WolfECR, Capps, Eskander, Higginbottom).

Institutional support, internal funding, recruitment strategies, the notable diversity in the places of
origin of many of us and colleagues’ fluency in multiple languages, have all helped the Unit to
extend its outlook to extra-European contexts. They have also supported our efforts to re-centre
the global South and decolonise our research. Legacies of colonialism and slavery, indigenous
struggles are central to the research of Higginbottom, Latimer, Capps, McKenzie, Sharma and
Barker. Ware has long investigated the relationship between racism and militarism in the
postcolonial context and analysed in recent work the obliteration of anti-imperialist feminists in the
memorialisation of British suffragettes. Appleford’s monograph Classifying Fashion, Fashioning
Class explores the relationships between body image, race and celebrity. Choat has questioned
political theory’s ‘whiteness’ and brought to the fore hitherto neglected theories of people of colour
and women, alongside the frequently studied white male thinkers of the canon.

Our Unit is committed to maintaining the highest possible standards of research integrity. The
newly centralized University review processes for research ethics ensure compliance of all
research proposals with GDPR legislation and ethical requirements for research involving human
participants. Staff and PGR students are offered training in research ethics via the university-led
workshops and, from 2020, Epigeum online programmes. Ethical issues are regularly discussed
during research away days and have been of special interest to some members in the Unit: in a
briefing paper (The PhD and the Powerful, May 2020) produced for the British International Studies
Association to support PGR students’ and ECR researchers’ first steps in the field, Finn provides
extensive guidance on research ethics. Nancheva has recently contributed to a workshop
(organised by Wolverhampton and the University of Neuchâtel) on ethical issues in migration and
deportation studies.

Finally, as part of the ongoing strategy to raise the profile and accessibility of our research, we
have pursued an Open Access research environment, beyond the University’s Research
Repository ‘green’ approach. Ten of our submitted outputs, including Rindzeviciute’s monograph
by Cornell, are Gold Open access. Most of our funded projects (e.g. SEXHUM, The Military in our
Midst, Nuclear Cultural Heritage, Atomic Heritage Goes Critical) had built-in expectations and
resources for free access and have made their findings and data available online via dedicated
websites. The Kingston-funded project on Covid-19 and Democracy (2020) published its eight
country case studies on OA. Finn’s report The PhD and the Powerful was published in OA. The
database produced by Hawkins as part of her digitisation project of the Voluntary Aid Detachments
archive (250,000 records), is freely accessible via the British Red Cross website
(ICSUoA19Hawkins4).

c) Research and Impact Strategy for 2021-2026

Our main achievements since 2014 include: the creation of a vibrant, interdisciplinary and outward
looking research Unit; the capture of large grants from the EU (ERC) and UK major funding bodies
and a significant increase of our income (£2,190,069). As evidenced in section 4, we have also

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
succeeded in expanding our national and international partnerships and in generating impact with
a wide range of beneficiaries. Our aim for the next five years is to further our progress in all these
areas. This will be achieved through the following research strategy:

(i) Foster an inclusive research culture:

In UoA19, 81% of staff have significant responsibility for research. Whilst further expanding our
Unit’s research capability (via mentoring and internal funding), equality and diversity will continue
to be at the core of our activities. As discussed in section 2, Kingston’s inclusive strategy has
enabled the Unit to achieve a gender (female 41%) and BAME (20%) balance above the sector
(36% and 4% respectively). We are aware that more can be done on gender parity. From
September 2021, we plan to conduct a pilot allowing staff to include care costs when applying for
internal funding for conferences or other research activities. Research mentors will be expected to
promote leadership courses such as Aurora more actively.

(ii) Enhance interdisciplinary research and expand our research agenda:

CResCID and our cross-departmental research groups have played a key role in fostering new
synergies between politics and international relations and cognate disciplines such as criminology,
sociology, law and economics and, by so doing, in our Unit’s expansion and improved
performance. Over the next five years we will push interdisciplinary collaboration further, creating
new opportunities to develop research ideas at Faculty and University level, especially with
colleagues in Business, Psychology, Health, Art and Design with whom members of our Unit have
already started collaborating. In addition to the existing Festivals of Research, the Faculty will also
establish a weekly Faculty research seminar with presentations both from staff and PhD students.
Moreover, CResCID’s budget will be further increased, with more internal funding to be
strategically deployed to support cross-Faculty, cross-University dialogue and collaboration.

Via mechanisms such as internal funding allocation and support of external grants applications, the
Unit is aiming to further consolidate recognised areas of strength such as human rights,
nationalism, migration and environmental development. It will also strategically expand its research
agenda to new areas of growing academic and political significance. One will be pandemic politics.
A Kingston-funded project on Covid-19 and democracy co-led by Finn and contributed to by Ichijo,
Cinpoes, Pettitt, Ranta, has looked at the intersection between political and policy responses to
Covid-19 across 8 democracies (the UK, Germany, Romania, Bulgaria, Israel, Japan, Taiwan, and
the US) and shown the political nature of the way the Covid-19 pandemic has been handled. Covid
has exacerbated race, gender and socio-economic inequality and has had profound repercussions
on our polity. It has faced governments with policy dilemmas that require further investigation for
our democracies to be able to better deal with future health crises. The Unit is also planning to
expand research in Human Animal studies, under the leadership of Peggs. Power, species justice
and relations, and the Anthropocene is one of the most rapidly growing areas of scholarship and
speaks to our Unit’s attention to issues of social justice and inequality. Lastly, we will continue
pushing our decolonising research agenda. Choat’s recent awards from the ISRF and the PSA
Pushing the Boundaries scheme for the Decolonising Political Thought project will enable the
creation of a new global network of scholars committed to decolonising political theory, leading to
the publication of an edited book, Reconsidering Political Thinkers, with Oxford University Press
(delayed due to Covid-19). Sharma has just started a collaboration with colleagues based in
Canada, Nigeria, South Africa and Tanzania on a SSHRC funded project Mothering and Albinism
(2019-23) aimed at mapping patterns of resilience at the juncture of gender, colourism, religion and
human rights.

(iii) Support and assist Early Career Researchers (ECRs):

We recognise that ECRs face distinct academic and employment challenges. Newly appointed
lecturers transitioning from PhD are currently given a reduction in teaching hours in their first year
of appointment to work on the revision of their PhD thesis. They also have a dedicated First Grant
scheme that they can apply for to obtain sabbatical time and financial support for a wide range of

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research activities. In addition to this (and to the central training and support provided by the
Research, Business and Innovation directorate), we will introduce tailored mentorship in grant
writing and impact generation. We are also planning to introduce new mechanisms that promote
ECRs’ integration into our research community. In applying for internal funding for organising
conferences, networking or impact-related activities, research groups will be encouraged to
demonstrate involvement of early career researchers (and PhD students) in the activities for which
they are seeking support.

(iv) Increase the number of Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs):

Overall numbers of PGR students remain healthy and the completion rate is strong.

Table 1. PGR completions (includes 2 PhD by publication and 3 wholly overseas students)

 2013-14     2014-15      2015-16     2016-17      2017-18      2018-19      2019-20      TOTAL
 4           5            9           4            10           8            11           51

Table 2. PGR students enrolled

 2013-14     2014-15      2015-16     2016-17      2017-18      2018-19      2019-20      TOTAL
 4           5            7           7            5            9            16           53

We aim to further increase the number of PGRs while preserving the quality of students and the
quality of their student experience. For this, we are planning to enhance support for grant
applications that include PhD studentships. From next academic year, in addition to the University
studentships, the Faculty will offer competitively awarded scholarships.

(v) Increase the attainment of external funding:

The strategies and the mechanisms set in place during this REF period to support grant writing and
bid applications have produced a substantial increase in our income.

Table 3. Research Income per annum

 2013-14     2014-15      2015-16     2016-17      2017-18      2018-19      2019-20    TOTAL
 305,794     110,720      139,747     257,751      526,258      500,771      348,028    2,190,069

Recent grant (£436k from the AHRC led by KU (£141k)), awarded after the census date, confirms
our upward trajectory. In recognition to the pivotal role that external funding has played in our
Unit’s research and impact, we are in the process of devising new policies to augment the
production of bids and their success rate. Staff who are awarded grants of at least £100k will be
entitled to a teaching buy-out (the current threshold is £200k). We will also enhance opportunities
for researchers who have obtained research income to share good practice and will expand the
scope of our training provision, covering a wider range of funders. Further diversification of our
external income sources will be vital to our long-term sustainability.

(vi) Foster and Increase Impact:

Impact is part of the agenda of Research Groups. Staff impact activities are supported by a
Faculty-specific Impact Development Manager, training, and University schemes such as the
Faculty Research Advancement Fund and the University Research Transformation Fund. During
this REF cycle our Unit has obtained £88,462 from these funds, which, together with the extra
support received from other more recent programmes such as the Impact & Environment Uplift
Fund and the Strategic Priorities Funding programmes (£14,834), has been key to our impact
activities, including the case studies submitted (Hawkins (ICSUoA19Hawkins4), Olmos Giupponi

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(ICSUoA19OlmosGiupponi2), Rindzeviciute (ICSUoA19Rindzeviciute1) and Sinha
(ICSUoA19Sinha3)). As discussed in section 4, our Unit’s research has been of direct relevance to
national and international governments, elected bodies, NGOs, think tanks, schools, museums and
art galleries, generating impact in the UK and 18 countries overseas. Our case studies
demonstrate impact in UK, Lithuania, Russia, Latin America and the Caribbean. Funding recently
obtained from the Global Challenges Research Fund for three projects on Somalia and India, will
help us expand our impact in the global South.

In order to enhance the impact of the research undertaken by staff we will:
    •     Engage more effectively, via CRESCID, the Centre for Human Rights Practice and the
          Human Rights Festival, with alumni who hold positions in government, international
          organisations, NGOs and the private sector.
    •     Improve communication of research results to stakeholders to create new impact
          opportunities. Members of the Unit have increasingly engaged via social media and blogs.
          Ware disseminated findings of her Leverhulme project The Military in Our Midst via a
          podcast series run by the organisation Forces Watch. In collaboration with associations
          representing communities of migrant sex workers, Mai (SEXHUM) produced two
          documentaries now available online. Pettitt summarised the findings of his work on party
          activism on the blogs of the Lib Dem President and The Labour Society of Campaigners.
          Finn has just launched a podcast series to disseminate the results of his co-led Covid
          project. More financial and technical resources and training will be made available to
          encourage and support similar initiatives.
    •     Create more incentives for staff (e.g. via allocation of internal funding and teaching
          buyouts) to exploit the impact potential of their work.
    •     Work closely with the University’s Research, Business and Innovation (RBI) directorate to
          design subject-specific training opportunities that help colleagues develop an appreciation
          of different types of impact, including cultural, economic, environmental, and social
          impact.
    •     Improve monitoring and measurement of our impact activities and use more
          systematically the Impact Tracker software.

 2. People

a) Staffing strategy and staff development

Since 2014, the hiring strategy of the School has been focused on developing a diverse staff
base with strong research potential in the key areas covered by CResCID and the research
groups. Our pre-existing expertise on nationalism and identity has been greatly enriched in
different complementary directions by the hiring of Herbert and BullockECR (religion, media and
civil society as facilitators of the co-existence of heterogeneous groups in diverse societies), Ranta
(food and national identity), Nancheva (trans-national identities), Rindzeviciute (cultural policy,
heritage), Ortega (modelling of nationalism, coexistence in multilingual societies). Also, the
multifaceted aspects of migration are now even more at the core of the centre with the recruitment
of Mai (trafficking, exploitation and agency in migration), Nancheva (intra-EU migration and
security/governance) and Ortega (economic impact of immigration). Finally, CResCID’s research
on human rights, social justice, inequality and economic development has been given a
fundamental push forward with the recruitment of Olmos Giupponi (environmental rights and law),
Sinha (terrorism and money laundering), Ware (racial oppression, militarization, gender), Cerella
(political theory, political violence), Eskander (climate change and economic development),
ChurchillECR (post-Keynesian Economics), Capps (political economy of development), McKenzie
(housing market inequalities), WolfECR (macroeconomics and structural transformation),
Choudhury (development economics), PuchetaECR (employment law and policy), and
McStravickECR (restorative justice). Recent appointments have also added important new research
strands such as non-human-animals’ rights (Peggs) and space, politics and law (BielickiECR).

These appointments strike a good balance between all levels of seniority, providing long-term
sustainability while securing adequate levels of research leadership and experience. Newly
                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
recruited mid-career and senior members of staff have played a pivotal role in the Unit’s increased
success in attracting external funding (e.g. Mai, Ware, Herbert, Rindzeviciute) and generating
impact (Olmos Giupponi, Sinha, Rindzeviciute).

Probation places a large emphasis on research and the achievements of research-specific
targets, including one publication, submission of one grant application and participation to one
conference. Mentoring has been key to the Unit’s growth and improved performance. On
appointment all staff are assigned to a research mentor, usually an experienced member of staff
working on a cognate research area. Research achievements, objectives, projected outputs,
research income plans, skills gaps and training needs are also discussed during the annual
appraisal with the HoD. Career progression is managed through annual appraisal and
development reviews. Appraisers are trained and promotion procedures are designed to recognise
research excellence and talent at all levels. Since 2014, 19 members of our Unit (41%) have been
rewarded with well-merited promotions in recognition to major publications and achievements in
areas such as impact, public engagement, external funding and research leadership.

Training is offered in areas such as research supervision, impact, media work, open access,
intellectual property, diversity and inclusion, leadership, research project management and grant
writing. The Unit uses a peer review system to oversee the preparation of new research projects
and bids, which on top of improving the quality of our funding applications, enhances individual
researchers’ grant writing skills. Workload is organised to maximise research time. Colleagues are
given at least one teaching-free day a week for research and are encouraged to teach modules
close to their research interests. Funding is available for four competitively awarded sabbaticals
(for one teaching block) per year. Dodsworth, Cinpoes, Herbert who held heavy administrative
duties were given a period of study leave when their role ended. Staff who gain external funding
are eligible to buy out some of their teaching and administrative responsibilities.

Since 2014 there has been a strong commitment in the School to turn fixed-term contracts into
permanent positions, a policy which has benefited members in our Unit (Latimer, Finn) including
early career researchers (BullockECR, ChurchillECR). The career and personal development of
newly hired young colleagues is at the heart of the Unit’s research strategy. Early career
researchers (15% of our Unit) are offered a reduction in teaching hours in their first year of
appointment. The First Grant Scheme, open to staff who are within six years of the start of their
academic career, provides them with the possibility to secure extra research time and funds to
build research collaborations and work on grant applications. BullockECR has recently obtained
funding from this scheme (£6,530) to work on the preparation of a large multi-partnered bid to be
submitted to the William Templeton Foundation in 2021 on non-religion, values and European
migration focusing on 26 European countries. In April 2020 BielickiECR received funding to
organise a conference on artificial intelligence, leading to a book coming out with Routledge in
2021. Teaching, administration and marking is equitably shared among staff irrespective of their
grade. A representative of early career researchers sits in both the School and the Faculty
research committees, which gives them a voice in our research strategy and allows them to flag
research needs and concerns.

Colleagues have an allowance of up to £1,000 per year to participate to national and international
conferences. The School has a budget for external speakers. Extra financial support is available
competitively via a wide range of internal funding schemes. During this REF cycle, Unit members
have received a total of £103,296, which has been key to their individual research and to the
research groups’ growth and enhanced performance in areas such as research collaboration,
impact and external funding. In recognition to the challenges posed by Covid-19 to research, in
May 2020 the Faculty introduced a special Research under Lockdown scheme. Funding obtained
by our Unit (£14,640) has supported the purchase of licenses, databases and digitised material, as
well as research assistance and online interviews.




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
b) Research students

The Unit currently hosts 54 PGR students (including 1 MScRes), with 51 having completed their
PhD during the reporting period (see section 1.c.iv for full figures). Kingston sponsors several fully
funded PhD studentships, which are competitively awarded across the entire university, and the
Unit has been successful in winning seven of these. PhD students in the Unit have been in receipt
of funding also from other sources, including the AHRC TECHNE doctoral training partnership, the
Iraqi government, the Italian government and the Ghana Education Trust Fund. Two were offered
salaried employment as Graduate Teaching Assistants.

We have several mechanisms for monitoring PGR students’ progress: monthly meetings with the
principal supervisors followed by the completion of a supervision log; annual monitoring reports;
transfer usually within twelve months of initial registration for those enrolled full-time. Each
department has a designated PGR tutor. All PhD students are assigned two supervisors. Members
of staff working with PhD students receive training in research supervision to ensure good practice
and consistency throughout the Unit. Established supervisors take refresher training every 5 years.

The Unit’s postgraduates benefit from the university wide system of support through the Graduate
Research School. They receive mandatory training on qualitative and quantitative data analysis,
open access, research ethics, social media for research, intellectual property, getting published,
and impact. Postgraduate Researchers can take language courses for free and are offered training
in media and public engagement. PGR students have access to the Epigeum online suite of
research training tools. Our students have contributed to media such as Open Democracy, the
Conversation, Al Jazeera, Sky News, Indus News and CGTN America, which enhances their
career prospects. Those involved in teaching activities undertake mandatory training such as
Introduction to Teaching and Supporting Student learning. They are also offered the possibility to
take the PGCert in Learning and Teaching in Higher Education.

PGR students are vital members of our research community and, whenever possible, academic
staff involve them in the Unit’s research activities, including the organisation of workshops,
conferences and events. Since 2014, Economics PhD students have helped in the organisation of
the Post-Keynesian Economic Society PhD conference (initially PKSG PhD conference). Colliver,
Constantine, Kohler, Wildauer, Zankawah co-published with their supervisors (Jamel,
Stockhammer, and Stewart) during their PhD studies or shortly after completion. All these
activities are key to doctoral students’ integration into the Unit’s research environment, as
well as to their future employability. PGR students who graduated during this REF cycle have
secured post-doctoral fellowships and academic jobs in UK institutions including Kingston
University (four), Girton College-Cambridge, King’s College London, UCL, University of Bath,
University of Warwick, Coventry University (two), the University of Greenwich, Nottingham Trent
University, Birmingham City University. Five have been offered academic jobs in Italy, Norway,
Turkey, Iraq and Switzerland (the United Nations Institute of Training and Research). Many moved
to the private sector or policy think tanks, including, the Arab Institute for Security Studies in
Jordan, the TRT World Forum, and the Africa Research and Consulting Centre in London. Some
started a career in politics: after briefly working for an MP as a senior caseworker, Young was
elected as LibDem Councillor, Kingston.

PhD students are expected to present their work in an annual conference organised at Faculty
level, in (cross) departmental PhD seminars, research groups’ seminars and workshops, such as
the annual PGR symposia that we co-run with the School of Public Administration at Gothenburg
University (Sweden) as part of our joint training programme. Since September 2016, the
Departments of Sociology and Criminology and Politics have organised joint PhD workshops,
recognising overlapping research interests among the research students. These workshops are
used as a venue for presenting work, discussing methodological issues and are designed to
encourage interdisciplinarity and collaboration among students. The initiative has been very well
received by students, who have enhanced their connectedness by setting up a related Facebook
page. The School sees student community building and well-being as high priorities. The
Student Wellbeing service offers a range of health and wellbeing support, including workshops on

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
stress management and anxiety. During the beginning of the Covid-19 crisis (May-July 2020), extra
online training and career development webinars were organised to supplement individual
supervision. In 2020, students were offered the opportunity to apply for fee-free extensions of up to
6 months to mitigate the impact of Covid-19.

Research students are entitled to apply for internal funding up to £350 to participate at
conferences. Our Research office also supports them in applying for conference grants and other
funding schemes with some of them having succeeded in obtaining extra resources for their
research activities from the British Sociological Association, the Society for the Scientific Study of
Religion, the British Humanist Association, the Getulio Vargas Foundation, the University of
Guyana (Clive Thomas Award for Best Graduating Student in Economics), the Institute of New
Economic Thinking and the University of Birmingham (Peter Sinclair Prize).

The policies put in place since 2014 to strengthen our mentoring system and training provision
have enhanced our Unit’s attractiveness to prospective PhD students. Yearly enrolments (see
table in section 1) have steadily grown since 2014 with the number of newly registered students in
the period 2018-2020 almost tripling compared to 2013-15. The quality of the students registered is
reflected in the completion rate (see table in section 1), the quality of research produced, our PhD
students’ media work, and careers and publications after completion.

We work with and train an exceptionally diverse student body: 52% of our currently enrolled PGR
students are BAME and 39% are from overseas. During this REF cycle we have almost reached
gender balance with 47% of our currently enrolled PGR students being female. Kingston’s strategy
for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) aligns with the postgraduate admissions and training
framework. Since 2019, four of the University’s competitively awarded studentships have been
reserved for BAME students. Furthermore, PGR students with protected characteristics are
provided with extra support during their study, such as the Beyond Barriers Student Mentoring
Scheme. Kingston provides postgraduate students with disability and mental health support and
counselling. Postgraduate students are supported through the Accessibility Network (AN).

c) Equality and diversity

Kingston is committed to the promotion of a diverse and inclusive research environment. Its
achievements have been recognised both by a Race Equality Charter Bronze award in 2015 –
Kingston was one of the first eight UK institutions to receive it—and by an Athena Swan Bronze
award in 2013, which has been renewed in 2017. EDI is embedded in recruitment as well as in the
support provided to staff. Recruitment and promotion panels are inclusive and representative in
terms of seniority, gender and ethnicity and receive unconscious bias training. The School ensures
that adjustments are made so that staff is not disadvantaged by any factors such as ill health, care
and family commitments, maternity/paternity, disability, religious commitments or part time status.
Female academic staff are supported through the Aurora programme and BAME women through
BAME leadership programmes. Two female members of our Unit (Collingwood and Renshaw)
took part of the Beyond Barriers Staff Mentoring Scheme and later acted as mentors for the
programme. All these mechanisms have allowed us to make significant progress against our
equality and inclusivity goals. In this submission to UoA 19, of 46, 19 (41%) are female, 9 (20%)
have BAME backgrounds, 3 (7%) have declared a disability.

In the university overall, women are well represented at the professorial level. This is well reflected
in our Unit, where 3 out of 7 Professors are women (43%), a proportion far higher than the
discipline’s female professoriate average (15%). Female colleagues have played a key role in
our Unit’s research strategy and performance: the Head of School, the School Director of
Research and the Unit’s REF coordinator are all women. As far as our REF submission is
concerned, peer review was run according to a fair and consistent process set out in the Code of
Practice. Female and BAME academic staffs have authored respectively 44% and 15% of our
submitted outputs. All our impact case studies have been led by female colleagues (one with
BAME background).


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

a) Strategies for generating research income and research funding

During this REF reporting period, Kingston has enhanced its institutional mechanisms and policies
to encourage applications for externally sourced research income and support their successful
outcome. Staff are expected to apply for external grants, with both applications and awards
constituting a key element in career progression. Our recruitment strategy places paramount
importance on grant capture and candidates’ potential and record in this area: members of staff
hired in this REF cycle (Mai, Ware, Herbert, Rindzeviciute, Nancheva, Ranta) have played a key
role in income generation.

Support for applications is provided by the University Research, Business and Innovation
directorate. A Faculty-based Research Development Manager helps individual staff identify funding
opportunities and suitable partners. Support also involves facilitating internal approvals and
preparing budgets. The university-wide Peer Review College provides detailed feedback on
proposals before submission. During the drafting process, senior researchers in the Unit commonly
offer extra guidance and support. Training on grant writing and workshops on major research
bodies’ funding schemes is regularly provided including ‘Bidathon’ away days since 2017, when
grant writers are offered support at a day-long intensive session of bid development, writing, space
and time to advance their application. Teaching buyout is available to facilitate the production of
the large research funding applications >£200k.

Kingston’s improved strategy and continuous investment in this area have resulted in a significant
increase in the number of applications submitted, as well as in the external funding obtained. The
total research income of the Unit since 2013-14 amounts to £ 2,190,069 and headline value
of new awards in the same period to £1,957,570. Including former staff and those with less
research responsibility, 52 have applied for external grants. 55% of submitted staff have received
an award as KU lead during the period. Research Income per FTE per annum averaged £7,557,
from a mixture of new and continuing awards.

Table 4. Income & Funders by Research Group

 Research Group         Research      New Award       Example funders
                        Income        Value
 Human Rights,                                        AHRC, ESRC, Leverhulme, University of
                        £168k         £89k
 Society and Justice                                  Gothenburg, Animal Free Research UK
                                                      AHRC, British Academy, European
 Migration and
                        £965k         £974k           Research Council, Royal Borough of
 Nationalism
                                                      Kingston
 Religion, Public                                     British Sociological Association, John
 Institutions and       £387k         £333k           Templeton Foundation, Leverhulme, Public
 Culture                                              Health Wales
                                                      Nuffield Foundation, Legal Education and
 Law Technology         £69k          £2k
                                                      Research Network (LERN), KTP scheme
                                                      AHRC, Foundation for Baltic and East
                                                      European Studies, Leverhulme, Swedish
 Power, Conflict and
                        £397k         £403k           Foundation for Humanities and Social
 In/Securities
                                                      Sciences, Swedish Research Council,
                                                      University of Gothenburg
                                                      WWF Switzerland, MISTRA-Swedish
 Applied Economics      £40k          £24k
                                                      Government
                                                      Austrian Ministry of Social Affairs,
                                                      Foundation for European Progressive
 Political Economy      £163k         £65k
                                                      Studies, INET- Institute for New Economic
                                                      Thinking, International Labour Organisation

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The largest headline awards have been:
   •    Sexual Humanitarianism: Migration, Sex Work and Trafficking (SEXHUM - (€1.6M,
        (€1.34M KU), European Research Council (Consolidator)) awarded (2016) to Mai to
        investigate the relationship between migration, sex work and trafficking;
   •    The Military in Our Midst (£186,260, Leverhulme Trust, 2018-2020) for Ware to analyse
        the complex dynamics of an embedded military presence in Tidworth, a historic garrison
        town on the edge of Salisbury Plain, and explore the impact of the military footprint in a
        locality shaped by more than a century of continuous war-preparation;
   •    Atomic Heritage Goes Critical: Community, Waste and Nuclear Imaginaries
        (£106,773, Swedish Foundation for Humanities and Sciences, 2018-2020) awarded to
        Rindzeviciute to support a collaborative research project on atomic heritage;
   •    Reaching for a New Sense of Connection? Towards a deeper understanding of the
        sociality of Generation Y non-believers in Northern Europe (£99,993, John Templeton
        Foundation) granted to Herbert for a project on cultures of unbelief across Europe;
   •    The Politics of Military Loss in Europe (£52,350 Swedish Research Council), co-led by
        Ware, to examine meanings and justifications given to military losses of European
        soldiers (across six countries) in Iraq and Afghanistan;
   •    Rising inequality as a structural cause of the financial and economic crisis
        (£77,790, Institute for New Economic Thinking (INET), awarded Jul-13, undertaken in
        REF period) to Stockhammer for work in period to analyse the impact of rising inequality
        on economic and financial crises.

These collaborative research projects have been of great significance to multiple non-academic
beneficiaries, including policy-makers, NGOs, museums and cultural institutions; they have
generated several single and multi-authored publications; and have helped the Unit forge new
national and international partnerships (see also section 4). They have also added a total of eight
post-doctoral fellows, research assistants and PhD students who have contributed to and been
enriched by our research environment. Post-doctoral fellows in this period also included Dr
Roberto Colozza, previously at the Scuola Normale Superiore of Pisa and Sciences Po’s Centre
d’Histoire in Paris, and currently Associate Professor at the University of Rome, supported by a
Leverhulme Visiting Scholarship to work (directed by Favretto) on The European New Left in the
1950s-1960s (£32,066 income in period).

Research and consultancy income have been pivotal to the growth and vitality of our research
groups and their impact activities. Three of our four impact case studies have been supported
by external funding: an AHRC network grant allowed Rindzeviciute to gather for the first time an
international and interdisciplinary group of leading experts, practitioners from museums, cultural
organisations and nuclear industry to explore the conceptual and institutional premises for the
making of nuclear cultural heritage. A small grant from Programa Raices (£3,000) assisted Olmos
Giupponi’s earlier work on the implementation of environmental access rights in Latin America
and the Caribbean. Sinha’s case study was partially funded by the British High Commission (UK
Overseas Aid Budget).

During this reporting period Rindzeviciute and Dodsworth were each awarded a research
fellowship (c. £57k total) from the University of Gothenburg, which led to the creation of a joint PhD
training programme with colleagues in Gothenburg, allowed Rindzeviciute to write an article for
Modern Intellectual History; and Dodsworth to finish his monograph The Security Society.
Favretto and Ware also won research fellowships, both from the Leverhulme: Favretto (£49k) to
complete a book on industrial conflict that by concentrating on protest tactics, workers’ protest
cultures and practices, rethinks factory protest in twentieth-century Italy (under contract with OUP);
Ware (£36k) to work on an ethnographic project on the impact of immigration and globalisation on
dominant notions of rural England (to be published in 2022 with Repeater Books).




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
b) Infrastructure and facilities

CResCID and the research groups receive managerial and logistical support by two Faculty-
based research administrators, the Faculty-based Research Development Manager and
administrative support for PIs and CoIs at School level. Kingston’s strategic improvement of
research infrastructure and support services during this REF cycle has been paramount to our
growth. Investments in Open Research and enhancements to our Data and Research Repositories
have improved our outputs’ visibility, supporting PGR recruitment and our expansion of national
and international collaboration (see section 4). The purchase of an Impact Tracker software in
2015 has been key to colleagues’ impact activities and gathering of evidence. The recent
subscription to Epigeum, including a wide range of online research training modules, has
expanded and made more accessible training provision on research-related areas (e.g. research
integrity, research methods, Professional Skills for Research Leaders) for both staff and PGR
students.

In terms of physical infrastructure, a major redevelopment of the Penryhn Road campus, where
our Unit is located, has provided us with two newly refurbished lecture halls for large conferences.
The John Galsworthy building, completed in 2007 with a £20 million investment, has since then
offered CResCID and our research groups vital space for their research seminars and events.
Most notably, in January 2020 Kingston inaugurated a new £50m pound six-storey library building,
Town House, at the heart of the campus. Designed by Grafton Architects, recipient of the 2020
RIBA gold medal, the library, open plan and with dedicated postgraduate research spaces, holds
resources, both physical and digital, which are vital to our research. In support to our Unit’s
expansion, expenditure on journal subscriptions and database packages for our subject area has
been steadily growing (e.g. by 6% from 2018 to 2020), extending access to cutting edge
international research. This is supplemented by our generous Inter-Library Loan service, which
provides easy access to resources available from the British Library and other libraries nationwide
and occasionally further afield.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

a) Research collaborations

Thanks to institutional support and increased internal funding, during this REF cycle the Unit has
significantly expanded its research collaborative work, both in the UK and overseas. In
addition to collaborations with several British universities, including LSE, SOAS, UCL, Durham
University, The University of Sheffield, Keele University, University of Portsmouth and University of
Oxford, colleagues have academic partnerships with 46 institutions outside the UK, covering 21
countries and six continents. Academic staff also held visiting positions or are associated to 11
academic institutions, including Cornell University, University of Cambridge, LSE and Humboldt
University of Berlin.

External partnerships have been key to the Unit’s increased success in capturing major grants for
multi-institutional collaborative projects and immensely enriched our research activities: 43% of us
co-authored publications with scholars from other universities. Since 2014, academic staff have
organised 32 workshops and 10 conferences at Kingston with both internal and invited speakers.
In addition to that, academic staff have organised or co-organised nine workshops at other
institutions including Sciences Po Paris, the Science Museum London, University of Cambridge,
SOAS and the University of Oslo.

b) Impact and wider contributions to the economy and society

Our Unit’s work has been of direct relevance to users, beneficiaries and audiences in four broad
areas:




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(i) International governmental organisations, governments, political parties and think tanks

Olmos Giupponi has worked with the United Nations Economic Commission for Latin America
and the Caribbean (UNECLAC) and the National Coffee Institute (ICAFE) in Costa Rica on GHG
emissions in the agricultural sector. Her work has aided the implementation of climate change
norms by simplifying the methods and process to measure CO2 emissions reductions. Her
research has also been pivotal in the drafting and signing of the Escazu Agreement – that is, the
Regional Agreement on Access to Information, Public Participation and Justice in Environmental
Matters in Latin America and the Caribbean (adopted in March 2018 and ratified in November
2020). Sinha advised the Jamaican government to bring domestic legislation on counter-terrorism
into conformity with international obligations. Choudhury worked with the Indian Council for
Research on International Economic Relations on the World Bank Jobs and Development initiative.
Following the publication of her book on transphobic hate crime, Jamel was asked to represent the
Institutes of the United Nations Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme Network to
provide recommendations for changes in policy and legislative practice on an international scale to
UN members. Peggs is part of the All Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Vegetarianism and
Veganism, House of Commons. Higginbottom contributes to the All Party Parliamentary Group for
Tamils. In June 2020, Olmos Giupponi provided oral and written evidence to the House of Lords
on the ongoing negotiations with the European Union after Brexit. Colleagues have supported the
work of elected bodies also outside the UK: Mai (SEXHUM) contributed to the Australian
Government’s Public Consultation Paper on the National Action Plan to Combat Modern Slavery
2020-24. BielickiECR collaborated with the Polish Space Agency on a draft of the National Space
Legislation. He also presented on legal aspects of mega-constellation of satellites at the Senate of
Poland (May 2018). Spanjers has worked as an advisor to the Small Medium Enterprise and
Economic Association (MIT) of the German CDU party. Cinpoes’ research on right-wing populism
in Romania has been used to train young progressive politicians and activists (Friedrich-Ebert-
Stiftung (FES) Romania). Wynn advised the EU Commission on UK implementation of the
Fisheries Directive.

(ii) Schools, museums, cultural institutions and the creative industry

Cinpoes’ research has played an instrumental role in the development of several projects, debates
and events led by Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung (FES) Foundation aimed at increasing public awareness
and understanding of right-wing extremism in Romania. His work has also been used by FES
Romania to develop education tools to combat radicalisation. Rindzeviciute’s research into
nuclear cultural heritage has fostered increased collaboration between the nuclear and cultural
heritage sectors, leading to changes in the collection of material heritage in the process of
decommissioning. Inspired by Rindzeviciute’s work, high-profile artistic events (such as the
Venice Architecture Biennial and the museum at Visaginas in Lithuania) have included the themes
of infrastructure and nuclear power. Hawkins’ consultancy, funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund,
produced a database from 250,000 membership cards relating to members of Voluntary Aid
Detachments (VADs), now accessible via the British Red cross website (ICSUoA19Hawkins4).
The information on the cards provides invaluable insight into the British Red Cross volunteers
during the war effort. BRC educational materials, built from and using the records, to
commemorate the WW1 Centenary have been downloaded over 2000 times. Eight museums have
made use of the resource in their own WW1 projects. Other colleagues in the Unit contributed to
the set-up or presentation of a number of expositions in art galleries: Favretto advised the
Manchester Art Gallery in the selection of material for their exhibition ‘Get Together and Get Things
Done’; The exposition 13 Dead, Nothing Said at Goldsmiths College presented photos by Ware
documenting the Black People’s Day of Action (1981). Consultancies with the art industry and
media also include: Rindzeviciute advised the independent art filmmaker Emilija Skarnulyte and
regularly collaborates with the Stanley Picker Gallery, Kingston University’s renowned art gallery.
Peggs has been consulted by the BBC on meat-eating, and by the CNN on veganism in Germany.
Jamel has been since 2015 a research consultant on the documentary film One Taxi Ride (on
male rape and sexual victimisation). The film was released in 2019, it has been screened at both
international and national film festivals (39 in total), won 7 Jury awards over the 2019/2020 period


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and has resulted in a petition to the Mexican government to take male rape seriously as there are
no support services currently available in Mexico for male rape survivors.

(iii) NGOs and the third sector

Miller has worked within several leading social inclusion and rights organisations including:
Regenerate.COM, Regenerate RISE; SCOPE (NHS Patient and Public Involvement Forums); and
W.A.R Ethiopia. Miller also assisted War on Want in their use of the human rights frame for their
strategy and external communication. Her work helped them expand their supporter base to over
100,000 individuals, develop their income to over £2 million a year and recruit a full set of new
programme officers to develop new partnerships with social movements and grassroots groups in
countries around the world. Mai (SEXHUM) produced with the organisation Médecins du Monde a
report to assess the impact on sex workers’ living and working conditions of the law passed by the
French government in 2016 on prostitution. McKenzie has advised the charity Action on Empty
Homes and contributed to their report Pretty Vacant (April 2020) on London’s housing crisis, needs
and the waste of empty houses. The Report went forward to the London Assembly and has been
used by Local Councillors. McKenzie was later invited to sit in the Board of Directors of AEH.
McStravickECR works with a variety of secondary justice stakeholders in the criminal justice system
including police officers and probation officials as well as participating offenders on reparation
panels on restorative justice schemes in Ireland. Higginbottom has worked with London Mining
Network, an organisation that researches London-based extractive companies and lobbies for the
rights of mining-affected communities in Latin America and South Africa. Other advisory roles to
charitable organisations include: Cinpoes (Public Health Wales); Peggs (Vegan Society UK;
Pastoral Care; iCare; OCAE and Cruelty Free International); Miller (Kingston's Race and Equality
Council); Jamel (Survivors UK); Ware (Joseph Rowntree Trust); Collins-Mayo (Research and
Statistics Reference Panel - Church of England).

(iv) Relationships with and contribution to industry and commerce

Wynn has advised the Maritime Coastguards Agency (MCA) on reform of the Maritime Labour
Convention 2006 regarding financial services for abandoned seafarers (2015-17). The UK’s
transposition of the Convention has been implemented. He has also advised IPSE (Association of
Independent Professional Self Employed) on aspects of social security provision for the self-
employed (2014-16).

c) Public engagement

The Unit has been equally committed to outreach activities and informing public debate.
Over the years we have held public talks with speakers from national and international NGOs, the
British Parliament, the UN and the EU. Notable speakers include Baroness Shami Chakrabarti -
former Shadow Attorney General and Director of Liberty; Sanchita Hosali, Director, British Institute
of Human Rights; Andrea Coomber - Director, Justice; Anna Henry - Chief Executive, Global
Initiative to End all Corporal Punishment of Children and former Director of Children's Rights, The
Office of the Children's Commissioner; Kingston Race and Equalities Council (KREC) Founder
John Azah. In 2016-17 CResCID run a public lecture series on Brexit futures, including academics,
policy makers (e.g. Jacqueline Minor, the Head of the European Commission Representation in
London; Daniel Mulhall, Ambassador of Ireland to the UK) and journalists, which attracted large
interest from the wider public. Our annual Human rights Festival, a week-long event filled with film
screenings, talks and roundtable discussions with contributors mostly from the third sector, is open
to the public and extensively participated by non-academic communities and NGOs. Finn has
recently co-curated a series of contributions for the London School of Economics’ US Centre’s blog
on American Politics and Policy. Combined, these series have led to more than 60 posts from the
UK, the US, Germany, Italy, and Poland. Posts have been republished by other publications and
translated into other languages and have generated tens of thousands of page views. Ranta,
Pettitt and Nancheva have also contributed to the LSE blogs platform.



                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Several members of the Unit actively engage with national and international media:
Cinpoes: Radio London, BBC4, BBC Russia, Agencia EFE (the largest Spanish language news
agency), the Huffington Post, Radio France Internationale/Romania and Digi TV Romania (largest
privately own news channel in Romania); Favretto: RAI Radio 3 (Italy), The Guardian, BBC News,
Politiken (Denmark); Finn: The Independent, Open Democracy, The Daily Express, the Guardian,
the Conversation (Finn’s 5 articles on this outlet have currently 48,939 page views, with numerous
posts having been re-published in media outlets in the UK and abroad); Ranta: Haaretz (Israel);
BBC news; Ware: New Humanist, BBC Radio London and BBC Radio 4, Red Pepper, The
Conversation, Discover Society, Open Democracy (regular comment); Rindzeviciute: Dagens
Nyheter (Sweden), Lithuanian National Television; Mai: Open Democracy; Favretto also regularly
contributes reviews to non- academic venues such as the Times Higher Education Supplement
and Political Quarterly. Cerella writes for the The Philosophical Salon (published by the Los
Angeles Review of Books).

Staff regularly speak about our research to non-academic audiences: most notably,
Rinzeviciute gave talks at the Ministry of Defence, Lithuania; Cass School of Art (London Festival
of Architecture) Museum of Modern of Vilnius, Vilnius Contemporary Art Centre, Gallery Rüdiger
Schöttle (London), Serpentine Gallery, Goethe Institut (London), Practice Space (Royal Institute of
British Architects), Gallery and Bar (Architectural Association), Contemporary Art Centre (Riga,
Latvia); the Baltic pavilion for the Venice Biennial of Architecture. Favretto contributed to the 2017
Frank David Memorial public lectures series organised by the Courtauld Institute of Art (London) on
the history and iconography of protest. Herbert talked twice at the NATO Academy of Defence in
Rome; MorrisECR gave a talk for Metro (a South London HIV charity) and for the LGBTQ+ group
Freedom Youth. Higginbottom: presented in a Latin America Community event (SOAS), as well
as to the Pan-Afrikan Community Social Forum in Brixton, and to Eelam Tamil community
members at Wembley Arena; Peggs: talks were given at the Winchester Discovery Centre;
London VegFest and the Oxford Centre for Animal Ethics; Ware: Midland Arts Centre
(Birmingham).

d) Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline and recognition by the research base

Choat’s research on the whiteness and maleness of political thought and other colleagues’ work
on legacies of colonialism, slavery, and race inequalities speak to our research base’s efforts to
extend Politics’ research agenda and make it more relevant and inclusive. Our research in these
areas has contributed to change how political ideas, environmental justice and rights, economic
development, social inequality, memory and identity, race and class are investigated and
understood. It has also triggered significant change in our teaching curriculum: since 2017
Kingston Politics modules have been substantially redesigned to better reflect our contemporary
cultural and ethnic diversity. Reading lists have also been revised to take into greater account
contributions made by women and non-white scholars.

Members of the Unit have produced resources aimed at supporting PhD students and Early Career
Researchers. As mentioned in section 1, Finn published in May 2020 The PhD and the Powerful.
The paper draws on a BISA funded Postgraduate workshop held at Kingston in November 2018
(with a key contribution by Cerella) and discusses the disparities of power, which often exist
between PhD students and Early Career Researchers and more senior academics and the actors
they study. The report provides practical advice on how to network, and develop and maintain
professional relationships.

Our Unit contributes to the wider health of the discipline in general, also by helping with and often
playing a leading role in a vast range of research activities and organisations. Academic Staff
review grant proposals for 23 research funding bodies (within and outside the UK), including
the European Commission Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship scheme, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust,
British Academy, Wellcome Trust, Fondation Maison des Sciences de l’Homme, Freiburg Institute
for Advanced Studies and Princeton’s Visiting Fellowships Scheme. Members of the Unit act as
referees for over 130 peer-reviewed journals including the European Journal of International
Relations, Security Dialogue, Review of International Political Economy, British Journal of Politics

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and International Relations, Millenium: Journal of International Studies, Sociology, Cultural Studies,
Review of African Political Economy, Politics, International Relations, Nations and Nationalism,
Journal of Youth Studies, Contemporary European History, Global Policy, Ethnic & Racial Studies,
Contemporary Politics, Euro-Asia Studies, Ethnicities, British Journal of Sociology, and Journal of
Ethnic and Migration Studies. They act also as referees for 18 publishers, including OUP, MUP,
Routledge, Palgrave and Stanford University Press. Lastly, colleagues have served as external
examiners in PhD vivas at 19 institutions both in the UK and overseas, including the University of
Cape Town, the University of South Australia and the University of West Indies. Scholarly and
other disciplinary initiatives include: Olmos Giupponi is Co-convener of the Interest Group on
Business and Human Rights, European Society of International Law (ESIL); Member of the
Committee on Human Rights in Times of Emergency and of the International Tax Law Group
(International Law Association (British Branch)). Cerella is a founding member of the Northern
Theory School, a new interdisciplinary network for researchers at European universities working on
critical and cultural theory. From 2015 to 2018, he was Convenor of CRIPT–British International
Studies Association working group on Contemporary Research on International Political Theory.
Currently, he is Convenor, with Simon Choat, of the Political Thought Specialist Group of the PSA.
Dodsworth is member of the British Society of Criminology’s Historical Criminology research
network. Favretto is co-convenor of the Modern Italian History seminar at the Institute of Historical
Research and sits in the executive committee of the Association for the Study of Modern Italy.
Rindzeviciute sits in the Lithuanian National Research Council (research programme Modernity in
Lithuania). Miller is co-convenor for the BSA Sociology of Rights study group. Peggs was advisor
to the Food Ethics Project, University of Vienna. We sit in the editorial boards of 23 peer-
reviewed academic journals. Some of us act as journal editors: Ichijo is an editor of Nations and
Nationalism. Rindzeviciute is a co-editor of the International Journal of Cultural Policy. Favretto is
co-editor of European History Quarterly (Sage). We also act as editors of book series: Ichijo
runs the Palgrave series Identities and Modernities in Europe, and Ichijo and Ranta are co-editors
of a new book series on food and identity for Palgrave; Peggs is a consultant editor of
the Palgrave Macmillan Animal Ethics book Series; Pettitt is in the editorial board of the Palgrave
Studies in Political Marketing and Management book series.




                                                                                             Page 17
