Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: 17 – Business & Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction

 UoA 17 is based in the University of Sussex Business School and has a distinctive research
 profile. While we possess strengths across the ‘traditional’ business disciplines – including
 accounting, finance, international business, management, marketing and strategy – we are
 world-renowned for our expertise in three interdisciplinary, policy-focused areas: energy,
 sustainability and innovation. Our success in conducting research in and across these rapidly-
 evolving, globally significant subjects has enabled us to develop a dynamic research
 environment that draws top talent internationally and facilitates impactful research of outstanding
 quality. These strengths place us at the forefront of research into some of the greatest
 challenges facing modern government, industry and civil society: from climate-induced inequality
 and global trade, through sustainable supply chains and energy production, to technological
 innovation and the future of work. Building on the University’s radical history as a pioneer of
 interdisciplinarity, we aim, like the University as a whole, to be disruptive by design (see
 REF5A). We seek a deeper and broader understanding of the world than can be afforded by any
 single discipline in isolation, and we recognise the continuing need to develop new investigative
 tools and innovative approaches to meet the growing challenges of the modern world.

 This ethos is reflected in an environment that has facilitated tremendous growth in research
 activity over the current period and yielded some of the most well-funded, influential and
 impactful business and management research in the country. Sussex Energy Group (SEG), for
 example, is arguably the largest energy research group in Europe, while the department in which
 it resides – the Science Policy Research Unit (SPRU) – is consistently ranked in the top three
 science and technology think tanks in the world (Global Go To Think Tank Index). SPRU is also
 the founder and UK lead of the Transformative Innovation Policy Consortium (TIPC), which
 pioneers ground-breaking models of research co-creation and knowledge exchange. Since 2017
 we have secured more research grant funding than all but two UK business schools, and
 produced some of the world’s most cited research, with four of our faculty appearing in the top
 1% of researchers globally – across all disciplines – by citation count (source: Clarivate
 Analytics). Along with our impact cases, such examples illustrate the reach and influence of our
 research both within and beyond academia, and demonstrate the success of our environment in
 supporting high-quality, policy-focused research yielding real-world impact and wide-ranging
 societal benefit.

 1.2 Unit Context and Structure

 1.2.1 School and Departments

 The School combines the academic pedigree of much older institutions (two of its constituent
 departments – Economics and SPRU – are over 50 years old and world-renowned in their own
 right) with the verve and dynamism of a thoroughly modern business school. At barely ten years
 old in its current form, and having already gained dual (EQUIS and AMBA) accreditation, the
 School has quickly established itself as an ambitious and disruptive player in the global
 marketplace.

 UoA17 comprises four of the School’s departments: Accounting & Finance, Strategy &
 Marketing, Management, and SPRU. The composition of departments ensures critical mass in
 all fields associated with a classical business school, and we consistently produce some of the
 best disciplinary research in the world. For example, recent research in accounting, operations
 management, international business, and marketing and branding has won awards and

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appeared in the most highly ranked journals in those fields (see Section 4). Disciplinary
 excellence is highly valued for its own sake, but also as a necessary foundation and key enabler
 of interdisciplinarity and innovation in research.

 1.2.2 Mission and Strategic Approach

 Drawing on the University’s track-record of radical innovation, the University Strategy – Sussex
 2025 – commits to reimagining the original “pioneering spirit” of Sussex, inviting us to embrace
 calculated risk-taking in our approaches, courage in our choices, and critical scepticism in our
 acceptance of received modes of discourse and conventional ways of thinking. The strategy also
 commits to placing collaboration “at the heart of all that we do” and striving to work across and
 between disciplinary boundaries (see REF5a). This ethos is echoed in our School Strategy,
 ‘Innovation for Social and Economic Progress’, which sets out our vision “to be a leading
 business school that collaborates across disciplines to shape global issues in business,
 management and society, making an impact on policy, practice and people”.

 Key to realising this vision is maintaining our position “as a leading UK business school known
 for its strength in the management of innovation at the interface of business and society with
 public policy”. This is evidenced in our impact cases (see 1.4) and reflects our deeply-held
 conviction that the problems of business and management at the firm and sector levels often
 cannot be fully addressed without taking account of the broader socio-political, regulatory,
 technological, economic and environmental contexts (see the Camerani, Mazzucato, and Coulon
 impact cases). Increasingly, these contextual factors are so inextricably bound up with the
 problems facing modern businesses and governments, that understanding the deep and
 complex relations between them is fundamental to their solution. This is particularly true of the
 so-called research ‘grand challenges’ identified by, for example, the UK Industrial Strategy and
 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). These challenges are of global magnitude and
 reflect the highest priorities of, inter alia, the UK Government and European Commission (EC),
 evidenced for example in the Global Challenges Research Fund, Industrial Strategy Challenge
 Fund, and all pillars of Horizon 2020 and Horizon Europe.

 1.2.3 Research Objectives

 In line with the development of Sussex 2025, the School began reframing its own strategy in
 2018, reaffirming our mission to “carry out high-quality research that addresses real-world
 issues, pressing global policy agendas and business practices”. The past two years have seen
 the introduction and bedding-in of a raft of new measures designed to ensure our approach
 continues to yield high-quality, high-impact research – research of the utmost relevance in a
 rapidly changing world, that responds to the evolving needs of users and reflects the shifting
 priorities of stakeholders. In service to these overarching aims are the following high-level
 objectives, as set out in the Research Strategy:

    1. To pursue rigorous, internationally-leading research, clearly emphasising quality over
       quantity and, where possible, with an interdisciplinary focus.
    2. To create research with impact for the academy, policy, practice and people, addressing
       the grand issues of our time.
    3. To attract external funding at exceptional levels.
    4. To create a research environment that allows individuals and groups to excel in their
       research activities, whether in applied, mainstream topics or theoretical, highly
       specialised areas.

 Underpinning our strategy is the foundational belief that none of the above is achievable in the
 absence of a supportive and nurturing research culture. Here at Sussex, our culture has come to
 be characterised by deep intellectual curiosity, a common desire to collaborate across
 boundaries (geographical and academic), and a strong drive for creative innovation in research.
 Sustaining such a culture across departments has been a central aim in recent years, with many
 of our strategic initiatives seeking not only to achieve one or more concrete objectives but to
                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consolidate a school-wide culture that prizes research excellence and facilitates, rewards and
 incentivises its pursuit.

 These initiatives, along with our Research Impact, Communications & Engagement (RICE) Plan,
 ensure that research remains a core component of our identity and brand as a business school.
 Students and staff alike are expected to be active in our research community, attending events,
 engaging with visitors, and contributing to activities. This culture of school-wide inclusion and
 engagement facilitates the flow of knowledge and sharing of practice. This in turn informs
 pedagogy and scholarship, enabling genuinely research-led teaching and enriching the student
 experience. The result is a positive, exciting environment that enables a diverse community of
 scholars to collaborate in pursuit of emergent, curiosity-driven and applied, high-impact
 research.

 1.2.4 Governance and Management

 The School’s research lead – and institutional lead for UoA17 – is the Associate Dean for
 Research (ADR) (currently Blome), who works closely with the departmental Directors of
 Research & Knowledge Exchange (DRKEs), Director of Doctoral Studies (DDS), and the
 School’s Research Management Team. In addition, the ADR sits on the School Senior
 Management Team and University Research & Knowledge Exchange Committee, ensuring high-
 level representation of our research agenda, consistent flow of information, and maximal
 alignment of our Research Strategy with the School Strategy and Sussex 2025.

 The ADR chairs the School’s Research Committee, which has formal accountability for research
 activity and governance. It is also the principal means of collegiate decision-making on research-
 related matters, with representation from all departments and Professional Services (PS), plus
 the School’s Director of Equalities, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI). In addition to termly Committee
 meetings, several working groups meet regularly to discuss operational matters, ensuring the
 needs of the research base are met and progress against research KPIs remains on track. PS
 staff also support the Open Research agenda, assisting researchers in ensuring all outputs are
 deposited within SRO (the University’s open access repository) and liaising with the Library to
 bring all research-related materials (including data and methodologies) into the public domain.
 Open Research principles are further embedded within our open, inclusive research culture and
 realised via our RICE Plan (see below) which seeks to achieve maximal dissemination of our
 research for the greatest benefit of stakeholders and wider society.

 REF management is the responsibility of the ADR, under delegation from the Dean and with
 close support from the Research Manager. This includes output selection, which is based on
 evaluations of quality from several sources: internal peer-review, independent expert analysis,
 the relevant DRKE and the ADR, who makes the final selection. Decisions encompass
 quantitative and qualitative feedback, plus author input where appropriate. Selection of impact
 cases follows a similar process, combining internal and external review with input from case
 study authors and DRKEs, plus relevant PS colleagues. While selection is ultimately determined
 by the quality of each case following a rigorous evaluation process, in accordance with our
 institutional Code of Practice, it also clearly illustrates our specific research strengths, reflecting
 the research strategy of the School and evidencing our achievements in the fields of energy,
 sustainability and innovation, in particular (see 1.4).

 1.3 Research Strategy

 1.3.1 Strategy Evolution Post-2014

 Our environment covers all major aspects of research management, from postgraduate research
 (PGR) support, through project management and events, to engagement, communication and
 impact. Part of creating an open, inclusive and diverse research culture has involved providing
 structured opportunities for colleagues to reach out to one another and cross-fertilise research in
 a way that transcends disciplinary boundaries. This is particularly important given that much of
                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our research stands at the intersection of some of society’s most urgent and intractable
 problems – problems that by nature necessitate multi- and inter-disciplinary solutions. Our
 collective expertise and intellectual heritage mean we are uniquely positioned to leverage talent
 and funding in pursuit of these solutions.

 Building on our REF2014 submission, we continued to enhance our strengths in line with our
 Research and Impact strategies (see 1.4). Specifically, we focused on:

    1) Creating more opportunities for interdisciplinary research – primarily through the creation
       of Research Mobilisation Groups (see 1.3.3).

    2) Nurturing our international research network by:
              - Strongly supporting international conferences and increasing the scale and
                  frequency of research events.
              - Attracting/retaining the editorship of leading journals.
              - Funding visits by eminent scholars – developing research partnerships,
                  delivering lectures, and mentoring junior researchers.
              - Further enhancing our research seminar series, which between them now
                  host around 130 guest speakers annually, as well as many of our own faculty
                  and students.

    3) Driving our research funding activities through enhanced institutional support – especially
       via significant financial investment (see Section 3), considerable match-funding for
       strategic projects, actively developing our research culture, and a more strategic
       approach to bidding.

    4) Significantly enhancing our research support and management function with a view to
       developing and sustaining a world-class research environment.

 A combination of external factors and institutional developments have necessitated a deviation
 from some of our original plans for achieving these aims. External factors include the
 establishment of UKRI and Research England, the EU Referendum result, the launch of GCRF
 and the UK Industrial Strategy, the global Coronavirus pandemic, and numerous changes to
 national HE and R&D policies. More locally, the University underwent a change of leadership in
 2016 and launched a new Strategic Framework in 2018. The same year, the School of Business,
 Management & Economics (as we were previously known) restructured and rebranded as
 University of Sussex Business School, now comprising five departments instead of three. This
 saw the former department of Business & Management split into the departments of Accounting
 & Finance, Management, and Strategy & Marketing.

 These factors impacted our plans in numerous ways and to varying degrees, but for the most
 part our priorities post-2014 remained substantially similar. The four points above came to be
 refined and reformulated in response to the shifting landscape, being eventually subsumed
 within the revised set of priorities detailed in the updated strategy of 2018. Steady progress had
 been made on various fronts between 2014 and 2018, with new developments being
 consolidated and accelerated under the new strategy, which both catalysed improvements
 already in the pipeline and introduced new ones. While the disaggregation of Business &
 Management enabled stronger research identities to develop within departments, the
 departmental DRKE roles enabled a coordinated, consistent approach to implementing the
 strategy. The ADR role introduced a new level of research leadership and oversight across the
 School; and the new Research Manager post served to complement the Associate Deanship on
 the Professional Services side, overseeing the operationalisation of the Strategy and the
 introduction of supporting policies and processes.

 The process to revise the strategy was led by the ADR and structured around a school-level
 SWOT analysis, with input from faculty incorporated via a series of facilitated discussions.
 Following further discussion with DRKEs and the Dean, a draft Strategy was shared for
                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consultation before being published in October 2018 under the title ‘Better Research for a Better
 World’. Seven strategic aims were identified, encompassing the four carried forward from the
 post-2014 strategy:

    a)   Strengthen and support our research activities.
    b)   Grow our external research funding.
    c)   Communicate, promote and celebrate research internally and externally.
    d)   Establish a highly attractive research environment.
    e)   Recruit and retain the best researchers at all career stages.
    f)   Create a flourishing doctoral student cohort and dynamic PhD programme.
    g)   Ensure transparent and reliable processes for the allocation of research resources
         following high standards of integrity.

 Together, these underpin the high-level strategic objectives set out above (1.2.3) and are
 achieved via a number of ongoing initiatives, many of which are designed to fulfil multiple aims.

 1.3.2 Funding our Ambitions

 Securing high levels of research funding is strategically vital for several reasons. Grants benefit
 individual researchers, allowing the grant-holder to undertake their desired project without
 having to compromise on scale, quality or aspects of research design that would otherwise be
 untenable. They also provide invaluable leadership experience, including supervising teams,
 directing activities, managing budgets and reporting on outcomes. Grants are also the principal
 means of enabling collaboration around real-world research challenges. They provide new
 structures for involving non-academic stakeholders and gaining buy-in from potential end-users;
 for example, creating seats for industry experts on steering committees. They fund avenues for
 dissemination and community engagement (e.g. via public seminars, practitioner workshops,
 webinars and podcasts); and they fund the creation of carefully targeted pathways to impact.

 Contribution income also plays a crucial role in sustaining the environment and building capacity,
 particularly in those areas of greatest strategic significance. Overheads are reinvested in
 research infrastructure (see Section 3), including physical spaces like computer labs and shared
 resources such as software. Grants also bring other benefits for the environment. Campus-
 based project events – such as guest lectures – benefit the community at large, facilitating
 knowledge sharing and networking. Many awards fund studentships, which serve to enrich the
 PGR community, provide training for students, and shore-up the talent pipeline in a particular
 area. Grants often also include training budgets for project-funded staff. In many cases research
 projects become the platforms from which junior researchers launch their careers, and in others
 they provide the vital step for early career researchers (ECRs) to make the leap to research
 independence, supplying the experience and networks they need to begin directing their own
 research. However, the greatest strategic benefit of high-value research awards lies in the
 unique opportunities they provide for pursuing precisely the kinds of inherently complex, globally
 pressing research challenges that lie at the heart of our mission and strategy. Research of this
 nature demands considerable financial investment – plus the organisational apparatus that
 comes only with an independent research centre, programme or consortium grant.

 The School is currently ranked third in the UK for research income (CABS Research Income for
 Business & Management Report 2020). This has been achieved through active enhancement of
 our research culture and significant financial investment – including match-funding for strategic
 bids – but also by greatly bolstering our pre-award processes and practices. In 2017 we invested
 in an additional School-funded Research Development Officer (RDO) to supplement the single
 RDO provided by the University. This not only enabled us to increase our capacity for bidding, it
 also allowed us to bid smarter: targeting additional support at those calls that concern areas of
 strategic importance or afford other strategic opportunities. These posts play a central role in
 developing bids, nurturing collaborations and advising PIs on all aspects of grantsmanship. They
 handle all pre-award administration, freeing up PIs to focus exclusively on research design; and
 they provide an important quality control function, ensuring all bids are in scope, satisfy funder
                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 requirements and meet an exceptional standard. This is part of a wider effort to provide better
 cradle-to-grave project support in-house, which includes funding a dedicated research Project
 Manager, establishing an internal peer-review college, and increasing grant-management
 capacity post-award to mirror investment on the pre-award side.

 1.3.3 Centres, Programmes and Mobilisation Groups

 UoA17 currently manages a wealth of large-scale research activity taking a variety of forms,
 including:

 •   The UK Centre for Research on Energy Demand Solutions (CREDs) – investigates the
     drivers and barriers to low energy innovations and the implications of these innovations for
     energy demand.
 •   The STEPS (Social, Technological and Environmental Pathways to Sustainability) Centre –
     an interdisciplinary global research and policy engagement centre uniting development
     studies with science and technology studies, bringing together research hubs and
     stakeholders from around the world.
 •   The Sussex Energy Group (SEG) – aims to understand and foster transitions towards
     sustainable, low-carbon energy systems with more than seventy researchers university-wide.
 •   The Sussex Sustainability Research Programme (SSRP) – a five-year, £3m strategic
     investment, the Programme is a cross-campus initiative managed by the School and
     designed to provide world-class science to advance the UN Sustainable Development Goals
     (SDGs).
 •   The ESRC Digital Futures at Work Research Centre (‘Digit’) – an £8m (100% FEC) centre
     co-led by University of Leeds, seeking to advance our understanding of the impact of digital
     technologies on work and employment.
 •   The Transformative Innovation Policy Consortium (TIPC) – pioneering a new model of co-
     designed and co-funded research, TIPC brings together international policy actors and
     government stakeholders to develop innovation policy research with direct real-world
     application.

 These represent a diverse portfolio comprising a combination of research groups, centres, hubs,
 consortia, programmes and projects, varying in shape, size and structure according to their
 purpose, composition and origin. CREDS, STEPS and Digit, for example, are multi-million-
 pound, multi-partner centres undertaking research in line with UKRI strategic priorities. TIPC is
 unique in its design and approach, and is funded directly by its constituent national innovation
 agencies. SSRP is a flagship Sussex research programme, funded by the University and
 administered from the Business School. SEG began life as a multidisciplinary research cluster in
 SPRU and evolved to become one of the largest research groups in the country. In virtue of their
 longevity and size – and their track records as centres of research excellence – STEPS and
 SEG also enjoy recognition as formal research centres of the University (see REF5A). This
 status places them among Sussex’s most strategically significant and widely promoted research
 units, and confers an additional layer of institutional support and accountability.

 Major research activity across the UoA takes various forms and has evolved in a variety of ways
 in response to available opportunities and the external landscape. This is in part why we have
 such a rich, diverse portfolio (see Section 3). What remains consistent, however, is the research
 culture and environment within the School, which provides the conditions necessary for research
 to flourish. The current research strategy seeks to enhance these fertile conditions while
 introducing a greater degree of structure and support. As our portfolio has grown in size and
 complexity – expanding from 40 projects bringing £2.5m of research income in 2013-14 to 53
 projects bringing £4.1m of research income in 2019-20 – and as the external environment has
 grown increasingly challenging, there has been greater need for strategic organisation and
 active management of our internal research ecosystem.



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Beyond the level of individual scholarship, the most basic units of research organisation are
 disciplinary research groups, including, for example, the Business & Finance Group, the
 International Business & Development Group, the Quantitative International Finance Network,
 and the Marketing, Consumption & Innovation Group. These are department based and led by
 experienced academics who are well established in their fields. In addition to these disciplinary
 groupings, and in order to create a more dynamic and flexible structure for supporting
 interdisciplinary research, we recently established Research Mobilisation Groups (RMGs) –
 thematic groupings that respond to the need for careful organisation and marshalling of
 expertise in meeting strategic research ambitions and the needs of individuals to connect with
 colleagues from other disciplines around common interests.

 Mobilisation groups provide a semi-structured environment designed to: foster collaboration
 across disciplines, spark interest, build momentum and critical mass, and generate activity
 around those themes that are of greatest interest to the research community and the School as
 a whole. RMGs typically enjoy the input of a diverse range of researchers across all career
 stages, including Master’s and PhD level through to the professoriate. They are more fluid and
 responsive than the formal entities mentioned above, and allow researchers to address funding
 calls and engagement opportunities more swiftly and with greater agility. We currently have 21
 full-fledged RMGs in the School. The most recent is Research Pedagogy, which links our
 research ambitions with those pertaining to education and scholarship, strengthening our
 practice of research-led teaching.

 All RMGs are enabled by a Research Mobiliser: a dedicated group leader (of any career stage,
 including early career) with ring-fenced workload allocation (10% FTE), whose task it is to
 facilitate collaboration, catalyse discussion and establish optimum dynamics around a given
 research area in order to foster activities that ultimately result in high-quality outputs, knowledge
 exchange, grant funding and impact. Mobilisers network closely with each other, meeting
 regularly to discuss developments within groups and share news, insights and best practice.
 Networking occurs both formally via a termly Research Mobilisers’ Forum, and organically, with
 several Mobilisers coming together to discuss progress and socialise practices between groups.

 The School currently supports the following RMGs:

  Accounting & Society                             Innovation & Project Management
  Artificial Intelligence (AI)                     International Business & Development
  Business Finance                                 International Trade & Foreign Direct Investment
  Circular Economy                                 Labour Economics, Education & Health
  Conflict, Migration & Development                Quantitative FinTech (QFIN)
  Consumer Wellbeing                               Research Pedagogy
  Creative & Digital Economy                       Responsible Business
  Economic Theory & Behaviour of Agents            Science, Politics & Decision-Making
  Economics of Innovation                          Supply Chain 4.0 Hub
  Energy                                           Sustainability
  Future of Work Hub

 The medium-term aim is to develop at least five world-leading research centres from among the
 RMGs or departmental research groups, including at least three under UoA17. Ideally, emerging
 centres of excellence would attain University Research Centre status, enabling maximum
 exposure and support at the institutional level.

 RMGs have proved highly instrumental in meeting our strategic research aims. For example, the
 Future of Work Hub led a successful application for an £8m ESRC Research Centre (of which
                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the School receives £3.4m) (see below re. Digit). Another example is the successful Catapult
 funding application led by the Supply Chain 4.0 Hub. The project grew out of mobilisation
 activities and uses satellite imagery in developing sustainable supply chain management. In
 2020, the Circular Economy RMG submitted a multi-million-pound bid to the ESRC to lead a
 research centre on construction waste management for a more sustainable economy; and later
 in the year colleagues from the same group successfully applied for a £1.1m (80% FEC) share
 of a £7.5m BBSRC sustainable food systems bid led by University of Reading. Again, these
 came about as a direct result of mobilisation activities around a particular theme – one which
 purposefully plays to our sector-leading strengths in sustainability research, in line with our
 strategy.

 1.4 Research with Impact

 1.4.1 Approach and Case Studies

 Each pathway to impact is unique to its particular research project or programme, in accordance
 with its specific aims, audiences and activities; yet there is a commonality of approach across
 the School. With research oriented towards grand challenges that often take the form of pressing
 global policy issues, our impact is most frequently focused on public policy across energy,
 sustainability and innovation (often interlinked) – be this at the local, regional, national, or
 international levels.

 For example, research projects led by Camerani revealed that firms combining creative skills
 with technical expertise outperform their competitors in growth, sales and innovation. These
 findings underpinned the case for the Greater Brighton City Deal, which is delivering £170m in
 investment to support the City’s businesses. Nationally, the research significantly influenced
 AHRC’s research agenda and the government’s policy to support creative industries. Stirling and
 Johnstone’s work, which uncovered the role played by civilian nuclear power in subsidising
 military submarine capabilities, has led to public scrutiny of UK energy policy, enabling more
 robust discussion about the full cost implications of our national nuclear infrastructures.
 Internationally, a new policy approach developed by Byrne is helping to reframe global climate
 technology policy to serve low-income countries. This approach has been adopted as a funding
 mechanism by the UN’s $10.3bn Green Climate Fund and is being implemented by 18 African
 countries. Research led by Mazzucato has impacted policy on multiple levels, influencing the UK
 Government’s Industrial Strategy, as well as the Scottish Government’s development of a
 National Investment Bank, and defining Horizon Europe – the EC’s €100 billion research and
 innovation programme.

 Our approach to impact is also founded on collaboration and engagement, and covers the entire
 research process from inception to completion. Our research often involves collaboration with
 stakeholders (or intermediaries) as project partners who not only have an interest in the
 research outcomes but are integral to their achievement. We work together with policy-makers,
 industry and grassroots organisations – according to project aims – in the design, delivery and
 dissemination of research, and in so doing are able to ensure projects are ideally structured to
 elicit positive outcomes for these stakeholders and the sectors they represent. By involving
 partners in framing the research question and setting the scope of enquiry, we ensure the whole
 team works in unison towards a common goal and the research is of optimum utility for its
 beneficiaries.

 In line with our Research Strategy and RICE Plan – and as our impact cases illustrate – our
 most impactful research takes place where the concerns of industry, government and society
 overlap and interact: most notably in the spheres of innovation, energy and sustainability, where
 there are significant implications for public policy. For example, Ely worked in partnership with
 UNCTAD and, through a specially commissioned report presented to other UN bodies,
 introduced new concepts and recommendations into UNCTAD’s agenda, which featured
 subsequently in the UN's recommendations to its 193 Member States. Ely also adapted his
 research to develop a new framework for UNCTAD’s science, technology and innovation policy
                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reviews of developing countries. The new framework, which has so far been applied in Ethiopia
 and Zambia, is resulting in policy changes that will have significant long-term impacts on poverty
 alleviation, environmental sustainability and economic development. Among our other impact
 cases, Marshall's work on sustainable urban waste management in Delhi was a joint venture
 with an Indian NGO, and involved partnerships with diverse local stakeholders serving to
 promote dialogue around the topic. Coulon's work on energy risk modelling involved
 collaboration with energy industry actors in the US and Europe. The TIPC case demonstrates
 how working closely with governmental innovation agencies enabled the researchers to address
 policy shortcomings and create opportunities for deep transformative change in direct dialogue
 with policy actors. These cases illustrate how our collaborative, problem-focused approach
 enables us to co-design research in ways that include integral routes to impact for stakeholders
 and wider society.

 1.4.2 Communications, Events and Engagement

 In 2018 the RICE team produced a strategic plan in accordance with which they have
 significantly increased dissemination and engagement activities, both internally and externally.

 The Plan ensures that all research-related communications, engagement and impact-generating
 opportunities are fully explored and exploited by:

     o   Working with academics to develop and implement targeted strategies around specific
         projects or areas of research.
     o   Identifying and developing research-related engagement opportunities and organising
         strategic events, such as public lectures and the hosting of major academic conferences.
     o   Supporting a range of impact-related activities and managing preparation for the School’s
         REF impact submission.

 The promotion of research to wide and diverse non-academic audiences is an important
 component of external engagement, and a step on the pathway to impact. Through facilitating
 knowledge exchange, RICE activities empower our research to influence debates, policy and
 practice, as well as encourage collaborations and create new funding opportunities. By
 supporting these activities, the Team enables academics to engage with the right stakeholders
 at the right time, and to communicate research insights in the most appropriate language and
 format. As such, it represents an essential conduit through which we create the change we wish
 to see in the world. This in turn helps build the reputation of both Sussex and the School, which
 further supports our recruitment, funding and engagement objectives.

 Internally, the team contributes to the development of our research culture, particularly around
 impact. For example, a bi-monthly ‘Research Roundup’ newsletter goes out to Business School
 academics and PGR students, summarising recent research news stories, successes,
 publications, grants, and events, as well as any pertinent information about the external
 environment. The team also produces an Annual Research Review – a glossy magazine-style
 summary of research news and successes over the past academic year which is shared with
 stakeholders – and also run workshops on impact, communications and policy engagement.
 These efforts enable us to clearly signal our core research strengths while reaffirming the fact
 that, for us, research is not just another activity to be fitted in alongside teaching, but is rather a
 central component of our mission. Our research informs scholarship and education, our
 approach to engagement, and the ways in which we educate and train future leaders; and the
 RICE team plays an essential role in shaping and disseminating this message.

 1.5 Future Research Objectives

 As the research strategy is periodically refreshed, the major strategic aims remain in tune with
 the UoA’s research appetite and interests (as do the supporting policies, processes and
 practices). Future objectives will likely focus on:

                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Further promoting quality over quantity in research: introducing a peer-review college for
        strategic bids and publications targeting top journals; increasing in-house training and
        resources for researchers, particularly ECRs, e.g. establishing work-in-progress
        workshops, and a suite of online tools and resources to aid grant-writing and publishing.
    •   Extending our lead position in interdisciplinary research funding: being even more
        targeted in identifying funding opportunities and potential collaborators; and increasing
        success rates in winning prestigious grants/fellowships and publishing in top venues by
        engaging experienced colleagues through our RMGs and mentor programme.
    •   Introducing a new PGR structure to compete with the best international offerings:
        continuing current work to develop combined MRes-PhD programmes which will dovetail
        with our new Research Methods Centre (see below) to provide students with world-class
        methodological training and the skills needed to undertake rigorous research in their
        PhDs and subsequent careers.
    •   Ensuring all research-related practices and processes remain in line with institutional EDI
        policies and recognised standards of best practice: ensuring these standards feature
        meaningfully in our work to update the Strategy (by April 2021); engaging the School’s
        Director of EDI in the process.

 Steps have already been taken toward achieving these broad objectives, which will be further
 refined and resourced in the coming months. One such initiative is the creation of an in-house
 research methods centre. Scheduled to launch early in 2021 under phase two of the Research
 Strategy, the Centre will develop novel investigative methodologies and pioneer state-of-the-art
 research design. This cross-school initiative is driven by colleagues from each of the five
 departments, who together comprise the Centre Management Group, and aims to:

    o   Inform research practice throughout the School, furnishing colleagues and students with
        cutting-edge research skills, tools and knowledge.
    o   Disseminate these across and beyond Sussex via high-quality outputs and regular
        events.
    o   Expand the School’s networks and extend our influence in the field, further cementing
        our reputation for experimentation and innovation in research.
    o   Directly feed into our PhD Programmes.
    o   Further enrich the research environment of the School.
    o   Support staff development and provide interesting opportunities for our PGR students
        and ECRs.

 We are also exploring ways in which the Centre might contribute formally to our taught
 programmes – particularly at PGT level – and feed into our nascent training and executive
 education offerings.

 2. People

 2.1 Recruitment Strategy

 Our reputation for disruptive research has long helped attract and retain high-calibre academics
 from all over the world. Since McGuire’s appointment as Head of School (subsequently Dean) in
 2015, this reputation has expanded. For example, in 2014 Blome joined Sussex, and one of the
 most promising supply chain groups in the country. (The group has an outstanding publication
 record and grant portfolio, and will shortly host the international EUROMA (European Operations
 Management Association) conference (rescheduled for June 2021).) Similarly, O’Reilly joined in
 2017, and after only two years collaborating with colleagues in the Future of Work Hub, became
 Co-PI on an £8m ESRC grant to establish Digit.

 Success in attracting high-calibre faculty is reflected across the UoA, with all departments having
 made numerous appointments at all career stages since 2014. The UoA has grown from 44
 academic FTE at the 2014 census date to 106 by 31 July 2020. A key element of our staffing
 strategy has been to provide all staff with outstanding research support, including a collegial,
                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 highly research-focused environment. We have been careful in appointing only those candidates
 who evidence a clear focus on research excellence, ambitions to achieve real-world impact, and
 a propensity to engage others with their work. While the Research Management Team provides
 the conditions necessary for innovation and collaboration to flourish, our hiring practices ensure
 this culture is reinforced and perpetuated across the UoA.

 Our unusual provenance and pioneering research have long attracted a wide variety of talent.
 Our researchers come from all walks of life and diverse intellectual backgrounds – including from
 industry, government, the third sector and think tanks. Our distinctive ethos, combined with our
 reputation for innovation and interdisciplinarity, mean that the School is home to teams of
 researchers that are unlikely to be found in more conventional institutions, bringing a unique
 combination of perspectives, skills and experiences to bear on a diverse range of research
 problems.

 The expansion in staff numbers since 2014 has enabled us to achieve critical mass in all key
 research subjects – in both traditional subjects and emerging interdisciplinary areas.
 Consequently, we are now focussing on collaboration within our UoA and on enhancing existing
 capabilities. Several recent appointments have been in areas where researchers – especially
 ECRs – would benefit from additional peer support at a senior level. These include: Energy &
 Sustainability (e.g. Sovacool, Director of SEG), Strategy & Innovation (Manning), Marketing
 (Beverland, also Head of Department; C. Story; and Keeling, AD Engagement), Operations
 Management (Subramanian; and Blome, ADR), Finance (Jelic; Kaeck, Department DRKE; and
 Tunaru, Head of Department), OBHRM (O’Reilly, now Director of Digit), International Business
 (Bamiatzi), and Innovation Management (Hall, Director of SPRU; and Davies, RM Phillips
 Freeman Chair and Department DRKE). Such appointments ensure that important areas of
 research are led by high-calibre academics and strong leaders while consolidating existing
 expertise.

 2.2 A Research Excellence Culture

 Our strong research ethos is cultivated in part by the regular collaboration opportunities afforded
 by our strategic initiatives. RMGs provide a fertile environment for the cross-pollination of ideas
 and methods between disciplines, as well as providing a forum for discussing broad research
 challenges and mission-oriented funding opportunities. They also offer a collegial, supportive
 space within which researchers can discuss critically and learn from each other’s works in
 progress, including working papers and funding applications. In addition to our RMGs (see
 Section 1) and weekly research seminars, we frequently run regular larger scale, often public-
 facing, research events. These include memorial lectures (such as the Marie Jahoda and
 Christopher Freeman lectures), our Annual Research Away Day, and research
 centre/programme events, such as the STEPS Annual Lecture, the Future of Work Hub
 Research Showcase, and numerous events hosted by SSRP. In 2019 and 2020, we also took
 part in a wide array of events as part of the ESRC Festival of Social Sciences.

 Our research centres and RMGs function as catalysts for spurring interdisciplinary collaborations
 across the wider University. The Future of Work Hub and SEG, in particular, have long included
 members from across campus who regularly feature as co-investigators and co-authors. The
 same holds for our newer RMGs. For example, the Quantitative FinTech group includes
 colleagues from Engineering & Informatics and Mathematics; the AI group also includes
 engineers and informaticians, plus collaborators from Philosophy, the Sackler Centre for
 Consciousness Studies, and Law, Politics & Sociology. The latter school is also represented in
 the Circular Economy group; and the Conflict, Migration & Development group counts several
 academics from Global Studies among its number. The Consumer Behaviour RMG works
 closely with collaborators from Psychology, where the sharing of experimental techniques and
 methods has proved particularly fruitful. Some of these groups have also extended their
 membership beyond the University to include, for example, members of the Institute of
 Development Studies (IDS) and the local action group Circular Brighton & Hove. The latter
 recently featured in a major ESRC Centres bid which arose out of the Circular Economy RMG.
                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The £5.4m bid featured Circular Brighton & Hove and Brighton & Hove City Council as key
 partners and was led jointly by Blome and the Group’s Mobiliser, A. Alexander.

 The Mobiliser role provides a great opportunity for junior faculty to gain experience organising
 research activities and expanding their networks through the invitation of guest speakers and
 other mobilisation activities. The Mobiliser role can significantly raise an individual’s profile and
 act as a steppingstone to establishing research independence. Many Mobilisers stand with
 Centre and Programme leads as thought leaders in their fields. For example, Sovacool is an
 international leader in energy research and serves as both Director of SEG and Mobiliser of the
 Energy RMG. He is, among other things:

    o   Lead Author of the IPCC’s Sixth Assessment Report (AR6) (due for publication in 2022).
    o   Advisor on Energy to the European Commission’s Directorate General for Research and
        Innovation.
    o   The recipient of the 2019 USERN Prize for his work on ‘Social Justice in an Era of
        Climate Change and Energy Scarcity’, and recipient of the Dedication to Justice Award of
        the American Bar Association.
    o   Advisor to Climate Assembly UK – the country’s first citizens’ assembly on climate
        change.

 Having global experts working directly with students and colleagues to mobilise research is vital
 to our culture. It is important not just for producing world-class research but for setting a tone of
 excellence – establishing expectations for junior colleagues and providing exemplars to which
 students can aspire. Our research leaders exemplify the innovation and rigour we aim to
 propagate across the UoA and generate a wealth of research output of the highest quality,
 including publications in top-tier journals: e.g. Econometrica, MIS Quarterly, and Nature. Over
 the past five years, our research has featured in many journals appearing in the FT Top 50 list,
 including the Academy of Management Review, Harvard Business Review, Human Resource
 Management, Journal of Consumer Research, Journal of International Business Studies, Journal
 of Operations Management, Management Science, Organization Studies, Review of Financial
 Studies, and Sloan Management Review.

 A supporting aim of our Strategy has been to embed a high-quality publishing culture within the
 School by attracting (and developing) top journals and encouraging faculty to take on editorial
 duties. For example, the top-ranked policy management journal, Research Policy (ABS 4*,
 FT50), was established by SPRU’s founder, Christopher Freeman, and retains its editorial home
 in the School under the editorship of Martin, Nightingale and Savona. Blome is Co-Editor-in-
 Chief of the International Journal of Operations & Production Management, while the Director of
 SPRU, Hall, is Editor-in-Chief of the Journal of Engineering & Technology Management. C.
 Alexander serves as Co-Editor-in-Chief for the Journal of Banking & Finance; Sovacool is Editor-
 in-Chief of Energy Research & Social Science; and Tourish is Editor-in-Chief of Leadership. We
 also have a large number of Associate Editors on our faculty, including on the boards of high-
 ranking publications such as the Journal of Operations Management and Research Policy.

 2.3 Professional Development

 For us, the pursuit of research excellence is deeply entrenched in the core practices that
 underpin our research culture. This is evidenced in our application success rates, which are
 consistently around 33% across all funders. Key to achieving this success is our approach to
 developing our staff. The UoA supports development pathways at all career stages – pathways
 that are well-aligned with promotion committee expectations and shared with annual appraisers.
 Training for researchers, e.g. through writing workshops, helps foster excellence, while rigorous
 internal review processes contribute significantly to success rates and further ingrain principles
 of quality into our practices. We have a mentoring process whereby faculty are assigned a
 senior colleague who oversees progress and supports mentees in setting and pursuing personal
 research goals. Regular meetings establish agreed research targets across a range of outputs
 including publications, research income and PGR supervision.
                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 This is reinforced at the School level through completion of annual Personal Research Plans
 (PRPs) in discussion with Directors of Research & Knowledge Exchange (DRKEs). PRPs are a
 key development tool, allowing researchers to plan activities in ways appropriate to their
 circumstances (including career stage and personal aims) and in alignment with institutional
 strategies. They also ensure that research aims are sufficiently ambitious, and they provide an
 opportunity to highlight any additional support needs the individual may have in order to pursue
 their research, e.g. specific training, access to data or software. Research-active staff who also
 teach are permitted to concentrate their teaching in one term to enable them to focus on
 research in the other two. During the PRP process, the Department DRKE will flag any suitable
 funding opportunities, suggest conferences to aim for, and ensure the individual is involved with
 the RMGs appropriate to their research interests. Once completed, PRP data are aggregated
 and analysed in order to inform decision-making around resource allocation and training for the
 coming year. In 2018-19, for example, the PRP process resulted in a workshop series designed
 to keep staff informed and engaged with REF processes; while in 2019-20 we were able to offer
 policy engagement workshops based on input derived from PRPs.

 Professional development plays a major role in our research strategy. Specific focus is placed
 on ECRs, who receive further teaching buyouts if they are new to Sussex (10%) and new to
 academia (a further 10%) in addition to the existing 40% workload that is automatically allocated
 to research for those on teaching-and-research career tracks. Support is also available to all
 academics for attending leading conferences, at a minimum of £3k annually; and we encourage
 collaborations by offering seed-corn funding for new research projects. The fund, totalling £50k
 per year, is available to researchers at all career stages. Applications are subject to light-touch
 peer-review and approval to allow agile responses to collaboration or partnership-building
 opportunities. In addition, numerous pump-priming and impact funding opportunities are
 available at the University level, funded from central resources and an ESRC Impact Accelerator
 Account (IAA).

 The School attracts a range of international visitors, particularly through our Visiting Leading
 Scholars Scheme. Launched in 2019, the Scheme hosts up to five renowned international
 scholars per year for visits lasting 2-8 weeks, and covers travel, accommodation and
 subsistence. In addition, we offer a sabbatical scheme under which one term of fully paid
 research leave is granted following a minimum of three years of service. Since REF 2014, 17
 research sabbaticals have been granted, each on condition that the time be used to focus on
 producing a major contribution to research, with the expectation of concomitant outputs and
 impact. Each year we award up to five Research Excellence Awards for Emerging Scholars.
 These are selected by the ADR and DRKEs and provide recognition and reward for (and further
 incentivise) the achievement of research excellence or the generation of significant impact by
 ECRs. The awards include a £1k discretionary research fund that can be used to cover a range
 of research needs, including obtaining data, undertaking pump-priming activities and funding
 visits to prospective collaborators.

 2.4 Promotion and Probation

 Eight promotions to Professor were made within the UoA in the period, along with 76 non-
 professorial research related promotions. In addition, 26 new professorial appointments were
 made in the UoA, contributing to a significant increase in intellectual capital and research
 leadership.

 New research staff are subject to an initial probation period (with the exception of professors) of
 three years, with progress reviews taking place annually in meetings which can include the
 researcher’s mentor if desired. Emphasis is placed on evidencing research excellence over the
 period, reiterating the focus placed during the hiring process on the individual’s potential to
 achieve world-class research. The baseline expectation of all research staff during probation is
 the production of two research outputs of international or world-leading quality.

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All the university policies and procedures governing Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 matters are fully implemented in the School’s recruitment practices – including recruitment to
 internal officerships, such as the position of Director of Doctoral Studies. Indeed, EDI policy and
 best practice inform all actions taken in respect of the training, development and promotion of
 researchers. The same is true for researchers’ access to internal resources (including funding)
 and external networks and partnerships. To ensure that this remains the case at all times and
 across the institution, in 2019 the School appointed a senior member of the professoriate to
 serve as its first Director of EDI. It is mandatory for all staff to undertake EDI and Unconscious
 Bias training in addition to the standard training for those with responsibility for recruitment.
 Furthermore, the University is Athena Swan accredited (Bronze) and has a policy of being
 ‘flexible by default’, which commits the institution to providing, as standard, a high degree of
 flexibility around arrangements for maternity/paternity leave, and also in the case of
 compassionate leave.

 2.5 Research Students

 Doctoral students are part of the research lifeblood of the School: they play an integral role in
 defining and shaping our subject strengths and research culture, and they feature prominently
 across the full range of research activities in the School – whether as volunteer conference
 organisers, rapporteurs at seminars, peer mentors for fellow students, or active members of
 RMGs. A key strategic activity since 2014 has been continuing to grow and sustain a rich,
 vibrant doctoral research community. Achieving this entailed diversifying our sources of financial
 support for doctoral students, adopting a mixed model of School, departmental and external
 funding (including industrial sponsorship and grant-funded studentships). Approximately 40% of
 our PGR students are supported by scholarships at any one time. We provide match funding for
 studentships on grant applications (currently four PhD studentships) and attract scholarships
 from external stakeholders and partner organisations (e.g. three from Roffey Park Institute and
 one from R.M. Philipps in 2019). In 2018 the School launched a new Postgraduate Research
 Scholarship scheme as the primary vehicle for funding outstanding PhD researchers, providing
 departments with the means of converting vacant academic posts into teaching-based
 studentships. So far, eight students have been awarded these scholarships, and it is anticipated
 that a further 8-12 will be awarded for the 2021-22 intakes.

 Since the last REF we have been able to supervise a similar number of PhD students (154 in
 2013-14 compared to 140 in 2019-20) despite having to radically change our approach to
 funding PhDs in response to a decline in the availability of University-funded studentships. At the
 same time, we have been able to increase completion rates in virtue of increasing our staff-
 student ratio in our PhD programmes: in 2013-14, 18 PhDs completed compared to 32 in 2017-
 18, 22 in 2018-19 and 24 in 2019-20). Overall, we have supervised 164 completed doctorates
 since 2014.

 Our PhD students place well as academics but also, due in large part to our strong focus on
 sustainability, innovation and energy research, win high-level positions with NGOs, charities,
 think tanks, government departments/ministries, independent research institutes, and
 transnational organisations such as UNICEF, the World Bank and the UN. In recent years,
 students have secured postdoctoral and faculty positions with top universities and research
 institutes, including LSE, Imperial, King’s, Manchester, Cambridge, and the Royal Society.

 All PhD students follow a core programme structure, completing three mandatory modules in
 conjunction with subject-specific training at the department level. Students have at least two
 supervisors and a minimum of fortnightly one-to-one supervisions. They also receive
 comprehensive feedback in the form of termly written reports, have the opportunity to present
 their work at our annual doctoral conference, and attend an Annual Progression Review meeting
 to discuss their progress, future research plans and development needs. As well as being well-
 integrated into research groups and centres, PhD students receive mentoring from senior
 colleagues and have the opportunity to participate in conferences specifically targeting PhD

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students (e.g. the Young Finance Scholars’ conference hosted annually in the School, and the
 SPRU PhD Forum, organised each year by first-year doctoral students).

 Each student’s training needs are identified annually, through discussion with their supervisory
 team, and captured via a Training Needs Assessment (TNA). In a process that mirrors the
 handling of academic PRPs, TNAs are collated and assessed to help inform training plans and
 identify areas where special provision may be required. Non-standard training is available if
 considered necessary for the completion of a student’s research, with expertise sought from
 outside the University if the need cannot be met internally. In addition, the Doctoral School’s
 Researcher Development Programme is available to PGRs and ECRs to support their
 professional development. Those students who wish to gain teaching experience and/or
 supplement their income have the opportunity to work as Doctoral Tutors, leading PGT seminars
 and contributing to the delivery of UG teaching, including the provision of assessment and
 feedback. Many PhD students visit each year from a broad range of UK and overseas
 universities (17 PhD students visited from overseas in 2018-19). Such exchanges further enrich
 our research community and provide valuable links with international institutions, often serving
 as the basis for long-term collaborations and future exchanges.

 2.6 EDI and Wellbeing

 We take very seriously our commitments to equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), and our
 responsibilities in maintaining high levels of staff and student wellbeing. Of all academic staff in
 the UoA, 38% are female. While this is above the sector average, it falls short of our mid-term
 target range of 40-50%. However, in addressing this the School is leading from the top: fifty
 percent of the senior leadership team is female, and of the four AD positions three are held by
 women, and women occupy many of the most senior positions within Professional Services,
 including those of Head of Professional Services and School Administrator, the two most senior
 non-research PS posts in the School. On the research side, except for the School Research
 Manager and Project Manager, all other management-level posts – eight in total – are held by
 women. In addition, 31% of our Category A staff identify as BAME, and a significant number of
 staff belong to the LGBTQ+ community.

 The School recognises the great importance of embedding EDI principles into all research
 activities and practices. We ensure the internal allocation of resources across the community is
 fair and equitable, and devoid of opportunities for fostering conscious or unconscious bias. The
 Director of EDI, who heads the School’s EDI Working Group, sits on the Research Committee
 and is involved in deciding how resources are deployed across the research base. This includes
 the allocation of seed-corn and impact funding, and the Research Excellence Awards – advising
 on the assessment process and scrutinising the decisions of the selecting panel. The Director
 also provides advice and oversight on a range of issues, from researcher recruitment to the
 composition of speaker panels at events. The School recently reaffirmed its commitments under
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, announcing additional
 measures in support of ECRs and in particular researchers with protected characteristics. These
 include a commitment to provide additional mentoring by role models from similar backgrounds
 both from within the school and externally, and will complement other initiatives under the
 School’s EDI agenda, including our BAME Ambassador Programme.

 In addition to EDI matters, the School takes very seriously its obligations to help secure the
 general health and wellbeing of its research staff and students, and has implemented a number
 of initiatives in support of this. For example, all staff and PGR students are encouraged to attend
 coffee mornings and take regular, meaningful breaks from work in order to socialise and check
 in with each other in a relaxing environment. The School also provides regular wellness activities
 for staff, such as weekly facilitated mindfulness sessions, while the School’s Running &
 Rambling club encourages staff and students to break from work to enjoy physical exercise on
 the South Downs. The School also has a Wellbeing Officer and Green Impact Team, who run
 events for staff and share information on wellness and sustainability, often organising campus-
 based events and promoting local community initiatives.
                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income

 In the current period, UoA17 generated research income of £23.6m, of which 62% came from
 BIS/BEIS via UKRI and the British Academy and 19% came from the European Commission
 (EC). In 2019-20 we received record awards in excess of £7.5m; and overall our income is
 increasingly diversified from year to year, with more coming from non-UKRI bodies, including UK
 charities and UK government, as well as from international governments (e.g. Colombia, South
 Africa, Sweden, Finland, Brazil, Norway) and corporations (e.g. GSK, Southern Water, Baillie
 Gifford), plus philanthropic sources (e.g. RM Phillips).

 The UoA has undertaken 62 externally funded research projects since REF 2014, with the
 following receiving the highest funding:

    •   Arora raised £375k for the project ‘Towards a rational approach of agency for building
        pathways out of poverty’ from ESRC.
    •   Byrne was granted £276k by the British Council to study ‘Transformative innovation and
        the 4th industrial revolution for sustainable development’, and £499k by DFID for studying
        modern energy cooking services.
    •   Chari won £262k from ESRC to investigate Privatisation and Productivity Growth.
    •   Chataway raised £597k from EPSRC to research the next generation of low-cost energy.
    •   Ely raised £364k from UNESCO for work on constructing pathways to sustainability, and
        £227k from EPSRC to study low-carbon innovation in China. Ely also secured £680k for
        a project on Constructing Pathways to Sustainability.
    •   Foxon won £2.7m from EPSRC for the Centre on Innovation & Energy Demand (CIED,
        and subsequently £1.2m for the UK CREDS (see above).
    •   Hielscher raised £303k from the EC for Social Innovation in Energy Transitions.
    •   Hopkins secured £258k from the EC for a project exploring diagnostic innovation in
        cancer screening.
    •   Keeling was awarded £991k to extend the University’s ESRC Impact Accelerator
        Account (IAA).
    •   Kivimaa raised £400k from the Academy of Finland for work on Smart Energy Transition.
    •   Mackerron raised £355k from EPSRC for a Centre for Energy Systems Integration; plus
        £891k for TRANSrisk: ‘Transitions Pathways and Risk Analysis for Climate Change
        Mitigation and Adaptation Strategies’ from the EC. He also won £302k from the EC to
        study sustainability transitions.
    •   Marshall won £245k from the British Academy to explore Inclusive Green Infrastructure
        for Urban Well-Being.
    •   Martiskainen was granted £221k by the EC for researching solar-biomass reversible
        energy systems; and £600k from CREDS to investigate fuel and transport poverty.
    •   Mazzucato raised £413k from the EC for ‘ISIGrowth: Innovation-fuelled, sustainable,
        inclusive growth’.
    •   McGuire was granted £398k for the project ‘RESPECT: Realizing Europe’s soft power in
        external cooperation and trade’.
    •   Nightingale raised £1.17m from ESRC to establish the IAA, and £278k for ‘Project X:
        Improving project delivery’. Also, with colleagues, he won £300k to examine Capability
        Building for Infrastructure Delivery.
    •   O’Reilly secured £3.4m from ESRC for Digit (see above), plus £327k from the EC to
        develop new tools to foster social resilience in Europe.
    •   Ramirez raised £1.5m from Baillie Gifford for work on Deep Transitions, plus £2.5m for
        TIPC (see above).
    •   Rogge was awarded a £1.2m ERC grant to investigate governance of sustainable
        energy-mobility transitions.


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Siepel was granted £551k by AHRC to establish the Creative Industries Policy &
        Evidence Centre with NESTA.
    •   Smith won £294k for the TRANSIT project (Transforming Social Innovation Theory).
    •   Sovacool raised £507k from NERC for investigating framing and effective participation of
        “fracking”; as well as £310k from the EC for ‘Innopaths: Managing technology
        transitions’.
    •   Stirling raised £352k and £565k respectively for two ESRC projects: ‘Governance of
        Sociotechnical Transformations’ and ‘Planetary Connections’. He also won funding from
        UKRI for a project mapping development pathways between science, research,
        innovation and SDGs (£506k).
    •   Watson, who was awarded £235k from EPSRC to research Multi-scale Infrastructure
        Analytics.
    •   Yaqub won £1.25m from the EC for his ERC Starting Grant on Serendipity in Research
        and Innovation.

 Faculty are strongly encouraged to seek research income, not only as a way of realising their
 research ambitions, but as an important means of progressing their careers, in line with
 promotion criteria. Income generation is also encouraged through Research Incentive accounts.
 Ten percent of grant contribution income is charged to the investigators’ discretionary accounts,
 to cover personal research expenses. Investigators have the facility to use this income to
 replace teaching and administrative duties, essentially buying out their time to focus on
 research. In addition, researchers receive dedicated support from the RICE team and University
 Press Office. This includes: designing and implementing targeted comms and impact strategies
 around specific research activities; drafting news stories, policy briefs and press releases;
 disseminating research news/outcomes via School social media accounts and web pages;
 inputting into research proposals; supporting interaction with policy-makers and other
 stakeholders; delivering training for impact and policy engagement; and assisting with event
 organisation and administration.

 Our public engagement via direct media has increased rapidly over recent years, and continues
 to do so. For 2018-19, School faculty contributed to 394 items of UK media coverage, reaching a
 total estimated audience of 83 million; while for 2019-20 these figures increased to 979 discrete
 items of UK media coverage reaching approximately 1.5 billion people. Our contributions to
 research on the nature and impact of Covid-19 are particularly well-recognised by the global
 press; as are our contributions on Brexit and international trade (see UoA16), with these topics
 receiving the most media attention over the past year. Along with mass media coverage, we
 have also greatly increased the variety and number of public communications around research.
 An indication of our comms and engagement activities is provided by our large research centres
 and programmes, which together produced the following during 2019-20: 26 policy briefs, 144
 blogs, 22 podcasts and 28 responses to consultations/calls for evidence.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The University’s investment in the School in the form of new faculty has been complemented by
 a proportional investment in infrastructure and facilities. The recently renamed and restructured
 University of Sussex Business School occupies modern offices and research and teaching
 space, and provides staff and students with a light and spacious work environment. Both faculty
 and students are largely co-located in the building, facilitating interaction and fostering a shared
 sense of community; and both are provided with high-quality facilities: excellent computer and
 printing facilities (free for PGR students and staff) plus the requisite software, a dedicated
 research seminar room, two large social spaces exclusively for staff and PGR use, and
 electronic subscription to all mainstream business and management journals. There is also a
 café, plus well-appointed kitchen facilities for staff and PhD students on every floor. During term
 time, social coffee mornings are held twice a week for all staff and PhD students, providing free
 hot drinks, pastries and fruit.


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School also houses a number of specialist resources, including the Keith Pavitt library – an
 extensive collection of works in science and technology policy and innovation management –
 and the Sussex-Harvard Information Bank: the world’s largest open-source archive of material
 on chemical and biological weapons. The Bloomberg Financial Markets Lab provides 22 high-
 specification computer terminals and round-the-clock trading information, enabling Finance
 students to monitor real-time trading data and undertake financial market analytics. The School’s
 Consumer Behaviour Lab provides 24 computer workstations in highly controlled laboratory
 conditions, enabling researchers to undertake a range of experiments.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Base

 4.1.1 Collaboration and Engagement

 Part of our core mission is to produce research of great value to society as a whole, as well as
 serving the needs of businesses, policy-makers and others. To do this most effectively, we
 increasingly seek to involve these stakeholders in co-designing the research we undertake, and
 to develop partnerships that enable us to pursue avenues of research that would otherwise be
 closed to us.

 Through strategic recruitment and active networking, we have succeeded in building links with
 numerous UK and international institutions, as well as extending our influence out into the wider
 economy and society. This is evidenced, for example, through co-authorship of outputs and
 collaboration on projects. In the current period, 60% of the UoA’s published outputs (totalling
 1,117) were internationally co-authored while 17% were co-authored with other UK researchers.
 Specific financial support schemes are in place with Renmin University, China and University of
 Bocconi, Italy. In both cases, faculty can apply jointly with researchers from the partner
 institution for collaborative research projects with the aim of combining complementary research
 strengths and consolidating existing institutional links. Similarly, Roffey Park Institute is a
 practitioner partner in much of our research into work and employment. This partnership was
 cemented in 2018 when the two institutions established three co-funded and jointly supervised
 PhD studentships and began co-applying for research grants.

 Researchers in the UoA greatly contribute to international academic conferences, and recently
 the School has significantly increased its capacity to host such events. Along with our Visiting
 Leading Scholars Scheme, this is a crucial part of our strategy to enrich the research
 environment by enticing colleagues from across the world to come and share their insights and
 research contributions. Increased capacity in the RICE Team provides the organisational and
 administrative capacity to run leading international conferences and events. For example, in
 2019 alone the School hosted the following, some of which attracted over 200 participants:

    •   Academy of International Business UK & Ireland Chapter Conference (AIB-UKI)
        Conference
    •   European Meeting on Applied Evolutionary Economics (EMAEE19) Conference
    •   6th Young Finance Scholars (YFS) Conference
    •   SPRU Science, Technology & Innovation Policy for Turbulent Times
    •   International Association for Relationship Research (IARR) Conference
    •   Production and Operations Management Society (POMS) Conference
    •   Post-Automation Symposium

 Alongside events, the UoA has sought new modes of engagement and knowledge transfer. For
 example, from 2018 onwards SPRU has provided training on innovation policy for a range of
 government actors and mid-level policy-makers. This week-long residential course aims to
 furnish delegates with cutting-edge knowledge, engaging them with contemporary debates in
 industrial policy, transformative innovation, emerging technologies and global challenges.
                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our major centres and projects also regularly host events, and have engagement at their core.
 All involve a theory of change that is heavily policy-focused, and include collaborations that
 enhance the breadth and depth of research expertise, creating new synergies and increasing the
 ‘value added’ per project in terms of output, engagement and impact. For example, Digit
 includes business and policy communities as knowledge exchange partners involved in the
 design, implementation and dissemination of its research. Project X is a unique collaboration
 between a consortium of universities, industry, the project delivery professions and the
 Infrastructure & Projects Authority (IPA) that aims to understand how to improve major project
 performance. The close partnership with the IPA enables direct and seamless translation of
 research into official government-mandated guidance, while ongoing dialogue with project
 delivery professionals will help close the gap between research and practice. The same is also
 true for smaller projects: A. Alexander is working with an NGO responsible for managing a large
 protected area of the Amazon rainforest, along with local communities and government, to
 gather evidence and inform regional and national policy in Peru in support of the nation’s vision
 for sustainable development. This is how we work: regardless of the scale or scope of the
 project, the RICE Team provides the tools and expertise to support researchers in engaging
 stakeholders throughout the project lifecycle, while our ethos and environment generate the
 appetite and ambition to deliver research with real impact.

 4.1.2 Reach and Influence

 In order to better gauge the impact our research is having within society and the academy, we
 rely increasingly on alternative metrics to provide more nuanced indicators of the propagation
 and utilisation of our research. These include independent research rankings and citation data,
 which reflect the extent to which our research is drawn on and referenced in the work of others.
 For example, in the Times Higher Education Rankings 2019, the School places 9th in the UK for
 research overall and 15th in the world for number of citations. In the US News and World Report
 2020 we placed 14th in the UK for overall research and 24th in the world for citations. While in the
 NTU Rankings 2020, we placed 13th in the world for overall research, 19th for H-Index, and 19th
 for citation count. In 2020, Sussex placed 1st in the world for Development Studies for the fourth
 consecutive year (QS Rankings), reflecting the School’s substantial contribution to the subject.

 According to the Clarivate 2020 ranking, Sovacool belongs to the top 0.01% most cited scholars
 in the field of energy research, with Sorrell falling into the top 0.07%. The UoA also had a
 number of faculty falling within the top 1% of the most cited researchers in their fields according
 to the 2019 data. These included Smith (0.15%), Stirling (0.2%), Martin (0.23%) and Foxon
 (0.23%); plus Bailey (0.32%), Kivimaa (0.36%), Schot (0.48%), Beverland (0.51%), and van der
 Heijden (0.73%). Storey, Davies, Humphrey, Subramanian, and Rogge, meanwhile placed in the
 top 1-2% in their fields, while their colleagues Blome, Tourish, and Hopper were within the top 2-
 3%.

 Our research standing is also reflected in other rankings. SPRU has been consistently ranked 1st
 in the UK by the Global Go To Think Tank Index Report in its list of top science and technology
 thinktanks, and has appeared in the global top ten since 2013. In 2018 SPRU increased its
 overall position from 7th to 3rd in the world, where it has remained for the last two years; while the
 School as a whole was recently ranked 1st in the UK for Energy Economics and 2nd for
 Innovation in the most recent Research Papers in Economics (RePEc) rankings. Furthermore,
 our staff have received international recognition for their research through numerous prizes
 including, among many others (since 2015): Temple/AIB Best Paper Award (Academy of
 International Business); IM Division Douglas Nigh Award (Academy of Management); several
 Literati Awards; Best Paper Award at the European International Business Academy
 Conference; Best Paper at the AIB Annual Conference; Emerald Citation of Excellence Award;
 New Statesman/SPERI Prize in Political Economy; Leonardo da Vinci Medal (SHOT); and Best
 Paper Award at the International Conference on Sustainability Transitions.

 4.2 Economy and Society
                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2.1 Partnerships and Networks

 The School’s Corporate Connections strategy aims to realise strong partnerships with external
 stakeholders, centred around three key areas where corporate connections add value for our
 staff and students: Teaching & Learning; Research & Knowledge Exchange; and Employability.
 The School is already well linked in to nearby businesses through local networking groups and
 business hubs, including Brighton & Sussex Chambers of Commerce, Gatwick Diamond for
 Business, MD Hub, the Sussex Innovation Centre, Basepoint centres, Barclays Eagle Labs, Nat
 West Entrepreneurial Spark, Wired Sussex, Platform 9 and the Scale-Up Institute. The School
 also sponsors the local Creative Industries and New Business awards. We are active members
 of the University’s Creative, Digital & IT (CDIT) Steering Group, set up to engage local digital
 businesses through events and exhibitions, collaborative activity, and working with partners such
 as Wired Sussex and the Digital Catapult to support this important local sector. We also work
 closely with our Local Enterprise Partnerships (the Coast-to-Capital and South East LEPs) and
 Local Authorities.

 Our impact cases demonstrate some of the national and international benefits of our research,
 but such benefits are felt much closer to home too. For example, the Community Water
 Partnership brought together Southern Water, Brighton and Hove City Council (responsible for
 11,000 social housing properties), the Consumer Council for Water, and the University, including
 the Business School. As a result of the Partnership’s research, the Water Executive Summary
 Report was published in 2019 and a DIY Manual for saving water was produced with and for
 local people, directly benefiting the community.

 The School has identified a number of key corporate stakeholders with whom we seek to
 deepen our existing relationships, including Alpiq, American Express, Barclays, EDF Energy,
 EY, GSK, IBM, KPMG, Microsoft, PwC, Prysmian Group, Southern Water, Technopolis, Unilever
 and Walmart. Our connections with these and other partners take a variety of forms, including
 work placements, mentorships, provision of consultancy services, graduate recruitment, product
 testing, invited talks, and long-term research collaborations. We also work closely with many
 non-corporate stakeholders. Of our top ten collaborators – measured by number of discrete
 engagements – only four are corporations (PwC, EY, Technopolis and Alpiq). The rest are
 government departments and independent research institutes: the African Centre for Technology
 Studies, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (UK), the International Development
 Research Centre, IDS, and NESTA. The nature of our engagements varies between
 partnerships, but the majority centre on areas of core research strength, including energy,
 sustainable development, and innovation for societal benefit.

 In addition to undertaking contract research via collaborative projects and government tenders,
 our academics provide expert advice and consultancy to a wide range of non-corporate
 stakeholders. Sovacool alone has acted as consultant/advisor to – amongst others – the World
 Bank, US Agency for International Development, US Department of Energy, Global Environment
 Facility, International Development Association, International Energy Agency, and the Asian
 Development Bank, and has held multiple roles with various UN agencies. Many others across
 the UoA have undertaken similar engagements over the period, advising high-level
 intergovernmental agencies and national governments, as well as numerous think tanks, NGOs
 and non-profits. Our staff also regularly provide expert evidence to Parliamentary select
 committees and respond to government consultations, for example via the Cabinet Office or
 POST (Parliamentary Office for Science & Technology). We also enjoy close links with research
 funders, including our principal Research Council, ESRC, through our research centres and
 projects (including STEPS, Digit and Project X) and the IAA. Having served as Director of the
 IAA until 2019, Nightingale now balances his research commitments here in the School with his
 role as ESRC’s Director of Special Projects (80% FTE).

 The University works with over 600 collaborators from across the public, private and third
 sectors. A third of these partners are based abroad and a quarter are based locally within the
                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Greater Brighton region. Of all the sectors in which the University engages, the great majority
 overlap with key areas of engagement for the Business School, which forms one of the main
 interfaces between the University and the outside world. For example, 38% of the University’s
 engagements fall within the Health and Pharma sectors, 16% within International Development,
 16% in Technology, and 9% in the Finance sector – all areas of research strength and
 collaboration for the School. We coordinate and collaborate on events held within the community
 to engage stakeholders with issues emerging from our research in accessible ways. Knowledge
 Exchange Networks provide transparent channels for debate and discussion between academic
 and non-academic stakeholders. For example:
     • Policy@Sussex (P@S) was originally an ESRC IAA-funded initiative to develop more
         effective ways to engage policymakers and to package research in a manner appropriate
         to policy processes. P@S was created in the School and now spans four schools of
         study. Our Research Communications Manager has led the project from its second year
         and is able, through its activities, to help manage the School’s relationships with
         policymakers and government actors, ensuring effective communication and
         engagement, and linking our highly policy-relevant research with potential users in
         Westminster and elsewhere.
     • The Brighton and Sussex Universities Food Network (BSUFN) is a multi-disciplinary
         network, established in 2012 to bridge the gap between researchers and practitioners
         working in local community food initiatives.
     • The international NEXUS network fostered innovative thinking about the
         interdependencies, tensions and trade-offs between food, water and energy security, in
         the broader context of environmental change and the challenges posed by the SDGs.
     • The Responsible Research in Business & Management (RRBM) network promotes the
         wide-spread use of research in business and other organisational practices for the
         benefit of society. The School has been a member institution since 2020 and is due to be
         awarded ‘Pioneering’ status in early 2021.
     • The STEPS Summer School: Open to doctoral and post-doctoral researchers from all
         over the world, this residential has run annually since 2012. The two-week immersive
         course focuses on theories and practical approaches to sustainability, through creative,
         interactive and participatory learning.

 As a signatory of the United Nations Compact for the Principles of Responsible Management
 Education (PRME), the School contributes to numerous external networks focused on PRME
 issues, such as corporate social responsibility, sustainability and the environment, and inclusion
 and social justice. We enjoy membership of the PRME UK and Ireland South East Chapter, the
 Global Responsible Leadership Initiative (GRLI), and the Ellen MacArthur Foundation Network.
 We are also a World Benchmarking Alliance Ally, and undertake a range of activities to promote
 engagement and knowledge exchange in these areas, including workshops and public events.
 PRME-related issues feature heavily in our research. Our latest Report (published February
 2020) identifies over 140 publications and 36 research grants covering PRME-related topics in
 the two-year reporting period alone. In addition, over half our RMGs work on core PRME themes
 (see 1.3.3).

 4.2.2 Contributions to the Sector

 In addition to EQUIS and AMBA membership, the School is a highly active member of the
 Chartered Association of Business Schools (CABS). Our contribution to and participation in
 CABS takes various forms. The Dean is a member of the CABS Executive Board, while the ADR
 and Head of Professional Services sit on the Research Committee and Management
 Committee, respectively. As well as having a large number of staff – both PS and academic –
 involved in numerous CABS networks, members of the School are regularly invited to contribute
 to CABS professional development events. For example, Tourish presented at the CABS Annual
 Research Conference in 2019 and 2020, while our Research Manager presented at the
 Professional Managers’ Annual Conferences in 2018 and 2020. By having such a close
 association with the sector’s leading professional body, we are able both to assert influence and

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to bring back up-to-date knowledge and best practice to be shared across the School. Similar
 benefits flow from the involvement of Research Management Team members in relevant trade
 bodies, including the Association of University Administrators (AUA), the Association of
 Research Managers & Administrators (ARMA), and the Universities Policy Engagement Network
 (UPEN). Staff are actively engaged in these professional organisations and the communities of
 practice they provide, thus ensuring a continually well-informed faculty and Professional
 Services team, and a consistently cutting-edge research environment.

 We are currently working towards the final of the ‘gold standard’ institutional accreditations –
 AACSB – which we hope to secure within the next 2-3 years. As a result of this, and our
 memberships of EQUIS, AMBA and PRME, we find ourselves in a state of continuous, expertly
 guided and rigorously monitored professional improvement. These accreditations and affiliations
 not only testify to our current state of excellence with regards research (and other measures),
 but also mean we are constantly held to account by these international professional bodies,
 ensuring we continue to maintain world-class standards of research, improve our environment,
 and exemplify best practice in our approaches to research.




                                                                                          Page 22
