Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen Mary University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 14 Geography and Environmental Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
  The School of Geography at Queen Mary University of London provides an intellectually vibrant
  research environment for undertaking and disseminating research of the highest standard
  across the science, social science and humanities strands of the discipline. It combines its
  contribution to advancing knowledge and understanding with a commitment to fostering a
  supportive, collegial and inclusive research environment based on mutual respect and concern
  for the welfare of all staff and students. Our research environment is underpinned by an ethos
  that upholds the value of knowledge and understanding to society in the widest sense, thus both
  valuing all forms of research, from individual scholarship to large interdisciplinary collaborations,
  and pursuing meaningful and effective collaboration and public engagement, local, nationally
  and internationally.

  Our research is pursued within and across four research themes (Earth Surface Science;
  Culture, Space and Power; Economy, Development, Social Justice; Knowledge, Interventions
  and Networks in Health); and three affiliated research centres (The Centre for Studies of
  Home; The Centre on Labour and Global Production; The Centre for the Study of Migration).
  The research themes are intellectual homes, fostering debate, discussion and collaboration
  amongst academic staff, research staff and postgraduate research students with related
  interests; and facilitating interactions with academic visitors, external research groups and non-
  academic partners. Their focus and activities are regularly reviewed to refresh and reinvigorate
  them and ensure that meaningful collaboration and sharing of ideas takes place. Research
  centres are intellectual meeting places whose members are drawn from across Geography, as
  well as from other Schools and Faculties and, in some cases, external organisations.

  Research theme convenors, research centre directors, and PGR and PDRA representatives
  and the School’s Research Manager work with the Director of Graduate Studies (DGS) and
  Director of Research (DoR) on the School’s Research and Graduate Studies Committee
  (RGSC) in supporting research activity, developing research strategy, achieving external
  research funding, supporting impact activities and cultivating a vibrant research community and
  strong Graduate School. The RGSC reports to the School Management Group and the School
  Board (Chair: Head of School). The School contributes to the cross disciplinary networks and
  discussions facilitated through the Institute for The Humanities and Social Sciences (IHSS,
  directed by Reid-Henry). It benefits from the guidance and support of the Faculty of Humanities
  and Social Sciences (HSS) Dean for Research who meets regularly with School Directors of
  Research on cross-Faculty research issues and strategic priorities, the faculty Research
  Manager, and from HSS research and impact support funding (see REF5a).

  The key strategic aims of our Research Strategy, which is part of the School’s wider Strategy
  2019-24, are to create original knowledge that is internationally excellent and world-leading; to
  support the next generation of researchers, and to increase research impact within and beyond
  the academy. These aims reflect and extend those set out in REF2014 which were to: 1.
  continue setting international research agendas within and beyond Geography in the areas
  identified by each research theme; 2. increase external research grant income and funding for
  PGRs through strategic collaborations; 3. further develop the quality of research outputs through
  enhanced mentoring and peer review; 4. build and consolidate our external research



                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  partnerships; 5. continue to implement our impact strategy; and 6. ensure that all UKRI funded
  research is compliant with its Open Access policy.

  Key achievements against these aims, include:
 1. Major outputs (448 major outputs, including 14 books) showcasing our research of
    international standing (compared to 200 outputs and 7 monographs in REF2014)
 2. Continuing the grant income trajectory established in REF2014 by achieving a total income of
    £7.34m over the REF2021 period (an increase of 59% on £4.61m in REF2014) and the
    introduction of a research mentoring scheme and peer review process for all funding
    applications over £10k in order to draw on existing research funding application experience
    and increase the likelihood of applications being funded;
 3. Successful involvement with PGR funding partnerships including the ESRC London
    Interdisciplinary Social Sciences DTP (9 studentships), the AHRC London Arts and
    Humanities DTP (directed by Blunt) (8 studentships), the NERC London DTP (5 studentships)
    and as part of QMUL’s successful Leverhulme DTP on Mobile People (4 studentships). These
    partnerships have contributed to a 25% increase in PGR numbers (58 FTE PGRs in
    2020 compared to 46.5 in 2014) and 83.34 PhDs have been awarded in the REF2021 (an
    increase of 94% on 42.97 in REF2014).
 4. Significant impact across the range of research in Geography: on river and canal surveying
    and restoration (Gurnell, Wharton, Harvey), museums (Blunt, Owens), landfill sites and
    sediment transport (Spencer), and the extent to which EU trade agreements enhance working
    conditions around the world (Smith), with stakeholders including the Museum of Home,
    Ragged School Museum and V&A Museum of Childhood, the Environment Agency, The Canal
    and River Trust, HR Wallingford, the International Labour Organisation, and the EU
    Parliament, underpinned by significant support for impact in the School (workshops, Research
    Manager and Academic Impact Lead support) and Faculty (Deputy Dean for Impact, strategic
    impact funds).
 5. We are embracing an open research environment, placing the Concordat on Open
    Research Data at the heart of our research efforts with a focus on the FAIR principles for all
    appropriate future research outputs, in line with wider QMUL open research policy (see
    REF5a). 91% of our research outputs are compliant with UKRI OA policies, with an increasing
    number of research outputs being published in gold and diamond open access venues. The
    creation, archiving and re-use of open data is an integral part of research in the School and
    we are working to strengthen existing collaborations with the Alan Turing Institute, the QMUL
    Institute for Applied Data Science and the QMUL IT Research team to deepen our expertise
    in these areas. This has led to high impact publications (e.g. Grieve with Chen et al Nature
    2019) and the creation and publication of new datasets which are being adopted by the wider
    academic community. Furthermore, we have been active in developing and implementing
    policy on effective sharing and management of research data beyond academia including the
    collaborative development of an agreed protocol on the archiving of academic research
    material with the Museum of The Home. This attention to both the digital and physical
    archiving of data is a distinctive feature of the School. Staff have led the way in developing
    open source software (Grieve is a Fellow of the Software Sustainability Institute in recognition
    for his on-going development of open source software) and in advising UKRI about policies
    on open research.

  Building on our long-term commitment to socially engaged research we have embedded
  impact more fully within the School’s research culture and research strategies. Our strategic
  aims in relation to impact are to:
    • inspire and inform the public about the School’s research;

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    • disseminate research findings proactively to academics and research users;
    • enhance the influence of School research on decisions or behaviours in appropriate
    spheres (e.g. economic, social, public policy and services, health, cultural, quality of life,
    international, environmental);
    • demonstrate and evidence the public benefit of the School’s research.

  To ensure the vitality and sustainability of the unit’s impact in the future we have addressed and
  continue to address these aims by:

  i. supporting the integration of impact activities into our research by using the School
       mentoring programme and targeted workshops to increase staff awareness and
       understanding of impact and public engagement; integrating impact and public engagement
       routinely into applications for UKRI-funded research; increasing the number of research
       grant applications, where appropriate, with named involvement of research users e.g.
       Project Partners;
  ii. effectively disseminating our research by using the School’s Marketing and Communications
       Officer, the Faculty’s Public Relations Manager, and the university’s Centre for Public
       Engagement to support dissemination activities; encouraging staff to undertake university
       and externally provided courses on media and public engagement; the increased use of
       social media to report on School research activity and events; encouraging academic staff,
       where appropriate, to apply for externally funded Knowledge Exchange Fellowships;
  iii. fostering collaborative research and non-HEI partnerships by using the Business
       Development Office to support development and implementation of knowledge exchange
       activities with non-HEI organisations in industry, government, and the third sector with
       support from the HSS Collaboration Fund (see REF5a); pursuing and securing collaborative
       PhD studentships in partnership with external organisations; using the Research Centres to
       add value to research impact through collaboration, external partnerships and
       interdisciplinary collaborations; engaging with significant research partnerships and
       initiatives beyond the School, doctoral training arrangements, and UKRI and other research
       priorities; increasing links with non-academic stakeholders in industry, NGOs, government,
       think tanks to facilitate research collaborations and, where possible, co-funded projects.
       QMUL’s Centre for Public Engagement provides generous funds for work arising from
       research that includes participation from external public-facing organisations. Geography
       has secured over £92k for projects related to public engagement since 2014. In addition, the
       School has benefited from over £163k in funding from the HSS Collaboration Award. Recent
       awards have supported a project with Film Pill (a local Bengali production company) and
       Tower Hamlets Local History Library and Archives to produce a 20-minute documentary film
       that will explore the 1970s east London Bengali squatters’ movement, and a research
       partnership with Knepp Wildland, to quantify the change in landscape-scale vegetation since
       the inception of a pioneering rewilding project in West Sussex.
  iv. identifying the most promising impact-relevant research and expanding its reach and scope
       by targeted investment in influence activities; establishing and maintaining information
       systems for tracking impact activity; identifying and implementing techniques for measuring
       or evidencing public benefit. Our impact activities have been supported by the QMUL Centre
       for Public Engagement and Faculty impact funding. For example, this has support work with
       The Audience Agency to develop an evaluation framework to capture audience responses
       to exhibitions, thereby increasing our understanding of how impact can be captured and
       understood. The selected impact case studies reflect the School’s commitment to pursuing
       research that is of public value in the widest sense, from the direct application of research-


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     based methodologies (Gurnell and Wharton) or influence on labour regulations and
     environmental policy (Smith, Spencer) to the broader ways in which cultural institutions
     (Blunt), and the public more widely, benefit from academic scholarship.

  Our work in advancing knowledge and understanding takes place within a long-established and
  highly-valued research culture for staff, PDRAs and PGRs which is intellectually stimulating,
  supportive, inclusive and collegial. This is cultivated by innovative strategies to encourage
  mutual understanding, support and research synergies in the School. They include two annual
  Research Sharing events (at the beginnings of Semester A and B) in which all staff and
  postgraduate students present their research. First year PhD students present at the annual
  Postgraduate Conference, attended by all staff. The School dedicates every second
  Wednesday afternoon of the teaching semesters as Research Afternoons (open to all Masters
  students, PGRs and academic staff and kept clear of teaching and admin meetings to allow full
  participation) which include the School’s seminar series, research theme meetings and cross-
  cutting research events and activities organised by staff, researchers and postgraduates (e.g.
  paper and grant writing workshops, peer review discussions, reading meetings). Our seminar
  series focuses on presentations by new academic and research staff, staff returning from
  sabbatical leave and academic visitors. These initiatives reflect and enhance the sense of
  mutual interest, understanding and intellectual exchange in the School. Furthermore, two
  seminars per semester are reserved for discussions of EDI issues and initiatives, including
  research undertaken by members of the School (Ford, Johnson).

  Our research culture is enhanced by external guests, the annual David M. Smith lecture (Pulido,
  Sagan, Valentine, Mitchell, Slater, Robinson), visiting scholar initiatives, and a distinguished
  international scholar programme (Saldanha, Cronin, Sidaway). The School hosts leading
  scholars through the IHSS Distinguished Visiting Fellows programme (Maier, Lake, Levitt).

  This ethos of our research culture is reflected in the equitable provision of research support
  funds. The HoS, DoR and DGS manage funds for academic staff and PG research activity
  (£1200pa for early career academic staff and £900pa for academic staff SL and above); £6k pa
  shared among PGRs, funds for research visitors and events (£5.5k) and School funds for
  Research Theme activities (£5k).

  The School views interdisciplinarity as integral to the vitality and sustainability of the research
  environment and supports interdisciplinary research through the research centres (see
  below) and considerable success in pursuing funding for interdisciplinary PhD studentships
  (including collaborative doctoral awards). The School is an active member of the HSS Institute
  for the Humanities and Social Sciences (directed by Reid-Henry) (REF5a). Geographers (Datta,
  Monteith, and Reid-Henry) are leading on the Institute’s thematic interdisciplinary programmes
  on Democracy, Mobility, and Work. Staff in the School contribute to QMUL’s cross-disciplinary
  programmes by leading the IHSS’s South Asia Forum and Resilient Futures India Initiative
  (Williams) with the Oxford India Centre for Sustainable Development, the British Council, and
  the Commonwealth Secretary General. The School has benefited from the appointment of two
  ECRs (Bourne and Calkin) funded through IHSS with dedicated time and resource to develop
  interdisciplinary research. Significant multidisciplinary research, facilitated by our specialist
  laboratory facilities, is undertaken by staff in the Earth Surface Science theme (Beylea, Heppell,
  Spencer) in collaborative relationships with colleagues in the Schools of Engineering and
  Material Science and Biological and Chemical Sciences at QMUL.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Research Integrity: The School is committed to upholding the core principles of honesty, rigour,
  transparency and open communication, care and respect, and accountability in all our research
  in accordance with the UKROI Concordat to Support Research Integrity (2019). These principles
  are embedded in our collective research culture and inform our mutual support for each other
  (e.g. in research grant application peer reviewing, research supervision, mentoring and in
  research sharing events). All social research is subject to QMUL ethical review and all research
  is undertaken in compliance with relevant ethical, legal and professional frameworks,
  obligations and standards.

  The four research themes lead international research agendas and define future research
  priorities. They operate as open constellations of interest rather than rigid groupings, and some
  staff are aligned with more than one theme. They are co-ordinated by a staff member with a
  PGR co-lead, and bring together senior, mid- and early- career staff, PDRAs, research fellows,
  and PGRs, to foster mutual intellectual support and stimulus, develop collaborative research,
  and apply for School funding of £5k pa to develop research initiatives and enhance the impact
  of research. We also host or co-host three research centres that foster cross-theme,
  multidisciplinary and outward-facing research agendas and programmes through their
  resources, physical space, conceptual networks and the leadership of Human Geography staff.

  RESEARCH THEMES AND CENTRES

  1. The EARTH SURFACE SCIENCE theme comprises four interacting sub-themes: Past
  climates and environments, which uses multiple approaches to infer environmental change
  and ancient human history on time scales up to millions of years; Landscape and ecosystem
  dynamics, which investigates how and why landscapes and ecosystems change, providing a
  robust science base for quantifying resilience to environmental change and assessing hazard
  risk; River science, which contributes to building the fundamental foundations of a quantitative
  river science whilst also enhancing the scientific basis for sustainable river and catchment
  management; and Carbon, nutrients and contaminants, which examines the processes and
  dynamics of biogeochemical cycles, as well as their biological, physical and anthropogenic
  controls. The appointment of five new staff (Bourne, Bradley, Ford, Grieve, Lines, Trinci) since
  REF2014, to cover departures of three staff (Brasington, Carr, Lukas) has expanded our
  research strengths to encompass terrestrial, freshwater, glacial and marine environments, and
  consolidated and diversified our expertise in palaeo-environments and environmental data
  science and modelling. Research across the sub-themes is strongly interdisciplinary, and
  employs cutting-edge, multi-method approaches to address fundamental and applied issues at
  nano- to global scales. Key achievements and contributions include:

  •    Developing and using spatially-distributed palaeo-records to discover and understand past
       climates and environments, including: i. reconstructing the strength, depth and tilt of the
       equatorial Pacific thermocline, providing new insight on past climate variability on a range
       on time scales with the potential to improve climate models’ ability to predict future tropical
       Pacific behaviour, including El Niño–Southern Oscillation (ENSO) (Ford); ii. advancing
       frameworks for volcanic ash stratigraphy of marine and ice core records, enabling the
       timing of rapid environmental changes to be established on centennial and sub-centennial
       timescales and revealing previously-underestimated risks of long-range volcanic ash
       dispersal along flightpaths (Bourne); iii. exploring and mapping the environmental context,
       migration pathways and timing of ancient humans, including discovery of the oldest



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      hominin footprints outside of Africa (Lewis, Leverhulme funded, including interdisciplinary
      collaboration with archaeologists).

  •   Investigating how ecosystem engineers (both plants and animals) and biological-physical
      feedbacks either regulate or promote change in Earth surface systems, including: i.
      developing a unifying conceptual framework that explains the world-wide biogeomorphic
      similarity of fluvial and coastal ecosystems through the two-way relationships between
      plant traits and their geomorphic environment (Gurnell, international and interdisciplinary
      collaboration); ii. providing novel conceptual frameworks and the first field data to reveal
      how invasive crayfish drive erosion and fine sediment dynamics and aquatic systems,
      exposing the potential for globally-relevant catchment-scale effects (Harvey, international
      and inter-disciplinary collaboration); iii. providing the conceptual foundations required to
      reveal the genomic basis for trade-offs in functional traits of the peat-forming ecosystem
      engineer, Sphagnum, with the potential for fundamental ecological and evolutionary
      insights and globally-important implications for carbon sequestration (Belyea, part NERC-
      funded, with international and interdisciplinary collaborations in multiple countries); (iv)
      showing how self-organized patchiness in aquatic macrophytes promotes species
      coexistence by creating a landscape of facilitation, where new niches and facilitative effects
      arise in different stream locations (Wharton, funded by HYTECH Marie Curie ITN, with
      collaboration with Dutch ecologists).

  •   Developing and applying innovative methods and data analysis frameworks to exploit new
      streams of remotely sensed data, including: i. development of physically-meaningful
      remote river reach classification, automated quantification of sedimentary bar and channel
      morphodynamics and graph theoretical insights into braided river structure and behaviour
      (Henshaw, with international, Erasmus-Mundus funded collaboration with engineers at
      Trento University, Italy); ii. development of high performance geocomputational algorithms
      which allow the analysis of river morphology at an unprecedented, global scale and identify
      a topographic signature of climate within river networks to show water availability is a first
      order control on river evolution (Grieve, NERC funded, with international collaboration at
      University of Potsdam, Germany); iii. the first quantified analysis of structure-from-motion
      photogrammetry applied to the complex terrain of a braided river, with results suggesting
      that this logistically simple, low-cost method can deliver high-quality terrain datasets
      suitable for change detection and hydrodynamic modelling (Brasington).

  •   Using cutting-edge approaches and community resources to create new insights on
      sediment and biogeochemical cycles, including i. revealing how geology and hydrology
      can control the relative importance of different nitrate cycling pathways in rivers, with some
      of the first direct measurements to demonstrate the important contribution of anaerobic
      ammonium oxidation to nitrate removal in rivers (Heppell, interdisciplinary collaboration
      funded by NERC Macronutrients thematic programme); ii. developing novel numerical
      models to reveal the role of energy in shaping microbial communities and the associated
      degradation of organic carbon in the marine subsurface and Arctic soils including their role
      in organic carbon degradation and greenhouse gas production (Bradley); iii. showing how
      large, old trees actively fix large amounts of carbon by increases in total leaf area outpacing
      declines in leaf area-specific productivity, thus resolving conflicting assumptions about
      individual vs stand- and leaf-level carbon dynamics in forests (Lines); iv. translating 3D-
      microscopy techniques typically used in the biomedical sciences to quantify the geometric
      properties of fragile, naturally-flocculated suspended particulates (‘flocs’), providing


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       knowledge for more accurate hydrodynamic models and opening up new opportunities to
       study floc associations with pathogens and pollutants (Spencer, NERC funded with
       interdisciplinary collaboration with material scientists).

  2. The CULTURE, SPACE AND POWER research theme critically examines the geographies
  of cultural practices, forms and knowledges. Its members inform and shape debates and new
  directions in cultural and historical geography through theoretically innovative and critically
  engaged research that has strong interdisciplinary links with humanities subjects and involves
  external collaboration with organizations beyond the academy, including museums and arts
  organizations. It has three main strands:

  Global geographies of knowledge and practice: research exploring the geographies of global
  connections and knowledge-making at a planetary scale has explicated the significance of
  globalising practices and planetary ways of knowing: for imperial political and economic orders
  (Ogborn); historical geographies of development (Reid-Henry); the production, organisation and
  translation of scientific knowledge past and present (Holden, Nash, Reid-Henry); and the
  political aesthetics of environmental and climatic change (Yusoff). Miles Ogborn has established
  a new basis for examining the relationships between practice, representation and power through
  his work on the multiple uses of talk in Anglo-Caribbean slavery. Kerry Holden’s National
  Science Foundation funded research with computer science communities in East Africa has
  revealed the tensions between the universal language of computer science and the realities of
  applying algorithmic models in African cities, and has initiated new approaches in the
  geographies of science that take account of African forms of knowledge production. Other major
  contributions include research on the geographical assumptions of claims to global justice
  (Reid-Henry) and Kathryn Yusoff’s retheorising of human subjectivity and human-earth relations
  through the inhuman and nonorganic dimensions of ‘Geologic Life’ in the Anthropocene.

  The interrelated themes of home, identity and relatedness have been addressed in innovative
  research demonstrating the cultural and political significance of ideas and practices of
  belonging, origins and movement for urban diasporas (Blunt), transnational experiences of
  institutional childcare (Soares, Brown, Owens), and performances of identity and racialisation
  (Johnson). Understandings of the intimate geographies of home have been enhanced by AHRC
  funded research on the home as a site of historical knowledge and practice (Nash, Blunt,
  Owens), and by explorations of home-work and home-religion relationships in London from the
  17th century to the present day (Blunt, Owens). Alison Blunt’s research continues to shape the
  field of home studies, notably by developing ideas about home-city geographies and through
  her work as founding co-director of the Centre for Studies of Home (see below). Her expertise
  informs her new UKRI/AHRC funded (£500k, with £393k to QMUL) research on understandings
  and experience of domestic homes in the Covid-19 pandemic. Catherine Nash has made a
  distinctive contribution to geographical and wider scholarship though her original critical
  engagement with the science and culture of ancestry, origins and genealogical relatedness and
  is extending this focus on relatedness to animal breeds and interspecies kinship.

  Research on urban culture and public life is at the forefront of scholarship addressing cities
  as spaces of possibility, creativity and identity formation. This has included: investigations of
  urban public space (Koch); the city as a site of diasporic identity (Blunt); and the relationships
  between philanthropy, religion and urban change (Brown, Owens). Regan Koch has developed
  novel perspectives on how convivial, inclusive and democratic forms of collective life might be
  nurtured. At a transnational scale research in this theme has elucidated the significance of cities
  as sites of humanitarian engagement (Reid-Henry); the role of space and territoriality in

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  grassroots social movements (Halvorsen) and histories of democracy and inequality (Reid-
  Henry).

  3. The ECONOMY, DEVELOPMENT AND SOCIAL JUSTICE research theme challenges
  conventional geographical and sub-disciplinary boundaries to produce critical and
  transformative research within and between spaces of the global south and north. Research in
  this theme contributes to debates in political economy, social and political geography, and hybrid
  economic-development geography through three research areas:

  Uneven development, production and labour encompasses major ESRC funded
  interdisciplinary research such as Adrian Smith’s project on the impact of legal and institutional
  mechanisms established by EU Free Trade Agreements on workers’ lives and working
  conditions. This research makes multi-scalar recommendations to improve labour standards
  within complex corporate governance environments. In addressing policies for reducing regional
  inequalities Konstantinos Melachroinos has highlighted the role of foreign direct investment in
  promoting economic development in lagging regions and the territorial effects of the knowledge
  economy, especially investments in intangibles. Sydney Calkin’s work on the emphasis on
  gender equality in global development policy, specifically the World Bank and its gender-
  focused corporate partnerships and their policy implications, has made a distinctive critical
  contribution to feminist political economy in geography.

  Research on work, finance, and migration focuses on the relationships and institutions
  through which people make a living in diverse economies while maintaining connections to
  places much further afield. Kavita Datta’s Leverhulme funded research on the global remittance
  marketplace provides original insights into regulative frameworks and the everyday negotiation
  of financialisation by Money Transfer Operators. This will be extended through her ESRC
  funded project on migrant remittances and care during the Covid-19 crisis. Datta’s expertise on
  migration informs her ESRC-AHRC funded Migration Leadership Team which is building a
  shared and participatory global strategy for identifying and supporting migration research, and
  her lead role in the UKRI GCRF funded ‘South-South Migration, Inequality and Development
  Hub’. Through his ethnographically grounded research in diverse economies, which is central
  to emergent multidisciplinary debates on ‘ordinary work’, and featured in the African Mobilities
  exhibition (Munich, 2018), Will Monteith has questioned what it means to ‘work' in contexts in
  which people’s labour is unvalued by the state or capitalist economy. Philippa Williams’ research
  on the new service economy, work and agency in India was recognised as the most innovative
  paper in 2017 by Environment and Planning A.

  Contested political geographies theme examines how sites and spaces of politics and the
  political are produced and contested, from the state to grassroots and everyday practices. Jon
  May’s research on the political potential of austerity in the UK through the concept of ‘meantime’
  and the politics of foodbanks, provides new understandings of the shifting relationship between
  state and voluntary welfare bureaucracies, corporations and subjects. This has informed
  practical and progressive transformations in food bank actors and UK political debate through
  the Independent Food Aid Network co-founded by May. Joe Penny interrogates austerity
  governance through the lens of land and housing to make original arguments concerning the
  financialisation of the local state. The award of a Philip Leverhulme Prize in 2019 to Philippa
  Williams, and AAG Political Geography Speciality Group book prize for Everyday Peace? in
  2016, recognises the disciplinary shaping significance of her innovative focus on the practice
  and politics of everyday peace. Her ongoing research on policy and non-state activism in
  relation to domestic violence in India is being supported by British Academy funding (£300K).

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Sydney Calkin’s work on the availability of safe abortion through pills elucidates how state
  control over reproduction is being challenged in innovative and potentially transformative ways,
  as abortion access is decoupled from a woman’s place of residence and from national legal
  frameworks. In his research on grassroots politics in Latin American cities, supported by a
  Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship, Sam Halvorsen has examined the intersection of
  social movements, political parties and local governance, and revealed the significance of the
  overlapping strategies of different political actors at a local, territorial scale in cities for
  consolidating democracy in the region.

  4. The KNOWLEDGE, INTERVENTIONS AND NETWORKS IN HEALTH (KIN Health)
  research theme works across conventional sub-disciplinary boundaries to consider questions
  of power, distributive justice and inequality in vital systems and biomedical geographies. A
  shared priority of the theme is to produce rigorous, relevant and conceptually-informed research
  with a global reach that reframes disciplinary approaches to investigating the uneven
  geographies of human health. Research has pioneered understandings of health from a
  geographical perspective along four novel intellectual paths:

  Form and function of interventions examines, as well as contributes to, the development of
  public health and global health interventions, policies and practices. Peter Congdon has
  pioneered Bayesian and spatial statistical approaches to the analysis and visualization of health
  data. Involving multiple collaborations (e.g. with public health agencies in northeast London and
  the US-based National Minority Quality Forum), this research has enhanced practitioners’
  strategic capacity to identify and mitigate area-based health needs. Brown’s collaborative
  research (MRC; with Kavita Datta and Andrew Prendergast (PI), Blizard Institute) into severe
  acute malnutrition in Zimbabwe is helping to shape the direction of future nutritional, behavioural
  and environmental interventions by identifying the importance of mobility within caring networks
  to children’s recovery.

  Commensurability and friction in health networks explores the production, politics and
  governance of vital systems at multiple scales. Working with a range of non-governmental
  organisations (e.g. INASP in the UK and the Ugandan National Health Research Organisation),
  Kerry Holden’s ESRC Future Research Leader-funded research examined the uses of evidence
  in the Ugandan parliament. Raising questions about how knowledge practices shape political
  culture and promote democracy, the research reveals how civil servants and institutions achieve
  commensurability through the everyday enactment and performance of evidence techniques.
  Through ongoing collaborations (e.g. Yale University), Simon Reid-Henry’s interdisciplinary
  investigations into vital geographies and ‘counter-vitalities’ examine how human lives are valued
  and devalued. Working across sub-disciplines, this research demonstrates how health itself
  becomes a powerful discursive domain and exposes how tensions in enacting and securing vital
  systems produce new logics, values, and power relations within ‘global health.’

  Signification and forms of knowledge concerns the politics of representation and the
  discriminatory practices of making things, people and knowledges visible and invisible. Stephen
  Taylor’s research, focusing on the political and institutional geographies of mental health
  knowledges and practices in Kinshasa, has produced recommendations for responding to the
  pluralising and de-institutionalising landscapes of psychiatric treatment and care in the city.
  Through a collaborative project with Homerton University Hospital and the Wolfson Institute of
  Preventive Medicine on efforts to promote breast awareness among black women, Tim Brown
  has problematized epidemiological constructions of blackness and risky subjectivity and
  highlighted the importance of accounting for political configurations of identity and self in

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  attempts to cohere subject-citizens into biosocial communities. In collaboration with public
  health specialists at Makerere University in Kampala, Kerry Holden explores the historical
  geographies of health administration in Uganda with the aim of supporting district health
  management teams to evaluate health interventions.

  Power, distributive justice and health inequalities are a core focus of the group,
  complemented by both political- and moral-economy investigations of justice and power.
  Stephen Taylor highlights the spatially differentiated ways in which the global goal of eradication
  has emerged, transformed, and become institutionalised through an examination of the Global
  Polio Eradication Initiative in Pakistan and Nigeria (funded by British Academy and Rockefeller
  Foundation). Simon Reid-Henry has identified how competing accounts of global health justice
  produce political philosophical problems. Through an analysis of the impact of financialisation
  on the careers of biomedical scientists Kerry Holden has investigated the moral and political
  economies of science in UK universities. Research on this subtheme will be extended by
  Philippa Williams’ Philip Leverhulme Prize (2019) funded research on the technological and
  political agendas that are driving India’s digital health ecosystem, the value of healthcare data,
  and the implications of digital health for ordinary citizens. Questions of power, inequality and
  justice are also central to Sydney Calkin’s Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship funded research
  which explicates how political, technological, and medical changes at the state and global levels
  are currently transforming the ways that women can access abortion in states with restrictive
  laws.

  The Human Geography research themes pursue elements of their agendas via three Research
  Centres:

  The Centre for Studies of Home is a formal partnership between QMUL and the Museum of
  the Home. It is an international hub of research, knowledge exchange and public engagement
  activities on past and present homes. The Centre has co-curated five exhibitions at the Museum;
  hosted two AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award programmes on Home and Religion and Home-
  work; a Leverhulme Artist-in-Residence (Janetka Platun, 2015); two Leverhulme Early-Career
  Fellowships on Home and Inhabitation (Baxter, 2013-16) and Luminous Verticality (Laing
  Ebbensgaard, 2018-2021) and networks focussed on home and migration (Home for Refugee
  Children, Home, City and Migration (see also, impact case study). The centre works actively
  with academic staff across the HSS faculty, including History and English and Drama, including
  the co-hosting of PhD students and an interdisciplinary seminar programme at the Institute of
  Historical Research.

  The Centre on Labour and Global Production (CLGP) draws upon a critical mass of
  researchers across different disciplinary areas at QMUL who are engaged in research on the
  changing position of workers, labour and regulation in the world economy. Significant work
  through the centre has stemmed from Adrian Smith’s ESRC-funded project, Working Beyond
  the Border, which has examined and engaged with the EU’s approach to trade and sustainable
  development in ‘third countries’ (see also, impact case study). In addition, the centre (Smith)
  has worked with an NGO, Electronics Watch, on the role that public procurement regulations
  can have in improving regulations for workers within the global electronics industry. Two PhD
  students, funded through ESRC CASE Studentships are being undertaken in collaboration with
  Electronics Watch and the International Transport Workers Federation.

  The Centre for the Study of Migration facilitates, promotes and develops interdisciplinary
  work on migration at QMUL. The Centre is a focal point in London for research related to

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  migration and to offer opportunities to scholars of migration within and beyond QMUL to share
  and develop their work through participation in the Centre's events and publications.
  Achievements in the current REF period include the award of a cross-disciplinary Leverhulme
  Doctoral Scholarships programme on Mobile People; and the AHRC-ESRC Migration
  Leadership Team (Datta, CoI) with SOAS and the London International Development Centre,
  work to improve collaboration on migration studies between the social sciences, the arts, and
  the humanities, having significant impact not only on UKRI practice, but on non-academic
  communities and stakeholders, nationally and globally.

 2. People

  Our staffing strategy has been to consolidate existing strengths and provide a balance across
  the range of academic posts in recognition that we were heavily weighted towards senior roles
  in the last REF period. Replacements for senior staff who have left (McIlwaine to KCL, Wills to
  Exeter, Brasington to Waikato, NZ, and Pinder to Roskilde, DN) have thus been made at
  Lecturer or Senior Lecturer level. New permanent posts have included Bradley (from University
  of Southern California); Calkin (from Durham and Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship
  transferred to QMUL); Ford (from Cambs and NERC Independent Research Fellow award
  transferred to QMUL), Grieve (from UCL), Halvorsen (from Cambs and Leverhulme Early
  Career Fellowship transferred to QMUL), Holden (from KCL and ESRC Future Leader award
  held at QMUL), Koch (from UCL), Monteith (from UEA). All are early career researchers with
  outstanding potential in their respective fields. Promotions so far have included: Datta, Lewis,
  Heppell, Owens, Reid-Henry, Spencer, Wharton and Yusoff to Chair; Brown, Harvey and
  Williams to Reader; Henshaw and Taylor to Senior Lecturer. Five of these eight promotions to
  Chair are to women which is important to note given the under-representation of women at
  senior levels in UK geography. 56% of the professorial staff in the School are women.

  We have sought to recruit and support more early-career researchers through bespoke
  support for individual applicants from supervisors and our Research Manager as well as
  targeted advertising, and improved website information. As a result, the School has secured
  fifteen independently funded ECR fellowships (BA: Guillen, Inverardi-Ferri, Soares Speer;
  Leverhulme: Johnson, Kumar, Laing Ebbensgaard, Materka; ESRC: Clarke, Johnson,
  Ghoddousi, Schling, Stansfeld), compared to only one during the entire REF2014 census
  period. This has meant significant funding success for ECRs, an enhanced and more balanced
  academic community, and clearer identification of career paths for PGRs and ECRs. We
  encourage our ECRs to lead in the development of new research and networking initiatives (e.g.
  QMUL Latin American Network established by Halvorsen), through the democratic nature of our
  research culture, and by supporting their applications for institutional support for ECRs (e.g.
  Monteith on re-theorising work, Halvorsen on urban political party activism in Latin America).

  Research students are central to the School’s vibrant research culture. They are integrated
  into the research community through research theme and cross theme activities and make
  important contributions through participation in research events and postgraduate-led initiatives.
  They are represented on the RGSC and School Board and each research theme has a
  postgraduate co-leader. They benefit from initial induction into the School and Faculty and
  subsequent training and support opportunities within the School, in QMUL's Centre for
  Academic and Professional Development, and through the QMUL Doctoral College. They can
  undertake the QMUL PhD Researcher Development Programme and work towards a QMUL
  Diploma of Researcher Development. Research students are required to complete a PhD skills
  Points log to record their progress in meeting training goals set in discussion with their

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  supervisor. They can avail of support for academic writing through the QMUL Thinking-Writing
  programme and personal support from the Advice and Counselling Service. Specialist training
  is also provided by collaborative partners. PGRs receive a personal Research Training Support
  Grant, and draw on the School’s PG Training Events Fund and QMUL’s PGR Research Fund.
  All PGRs have desk/computing space in dedicated offices and full access to School research
  facilities.

  PhD completions in the REF2021 period have been 83.34 compared to 42.97 in REF2014 (an
  increase of 94%). Since 2014 our PhD studentships comprise: UKRI: 9 LISS DTP (including 4
  CASE awards), 9 ESRC DTC (including 3 CASE awards; 8 AHRC (6 CDA awards); 5 NERC
  (including 1 with CASE partner); 1 EPSRC; Leverhulme Trust: 4 QMUL-LTDS; QMUL Principal’s
  Studentships: 17 and 1 HSS faculty award; Non-UK funding: 1 SMART EMJD; 2 CONACyT
  (Mexico); Lloyds Register Foundation International Consortium of Nanotechnology (1), Chinese
  Scholarship Council (1). The School has had a key role in developing and directing the ESRC
  London Interdisciplinary Social Science DTP (LISS) with Imperial and KCL (Thematic Pathway
  Leads: Brown, Datta, Koch), and was formerly part of the London Social Science DTP with
  Goldsmiths. The School is a partner in the London NERC DTP with UCL, KCL, Birkbeck, Brunel
  and RHUL and part of the AHRC London Arts and Humanities Partnership (LAHP) directed by
  Blunt. With other QMUL departments, the School is part of a Leverhulme-funded Doctoral
  Scholarships Centre, Mobile people: mobility as a way of life, which welcomed its first cohort in
  September 2018. The School has been awarded four ESRC LISS collaborative studentships (3
  began in September 2018, 1 in September 2020). The Erasmus Mundus SMART PhD
  programme with Trento and FU Berlin continued during this REF period, with the final cohort
  starting in 2015.

  PGR research excellence is evident in the number and destinations of appointments to
  academic posts and professional roles. Six have moved to lectureships (at UCL, RHUL, Exeter,
  Goldsmiths, QMUL, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine), and seven to
  postdoctoral research positions (including at the National Maritime Museum, Goethe University
  Frankfurt, University of Antwerp, Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries,
  and HSE St. Petersburg). Others have been appointed to significant professional roles in major
  environmental, cultural and public organisations (including the Royal Horticultural Society; The
  Environment Agency; Health and Safety Executive, Department of Business, Energy and
  Industrial Strategy; Natural Resources Conservation Service, USA; Civil Service; Royal College
  of Surgeons). A considerable number of our PhD students succeed to museum and art gallery
  curator roles (Metropolitan Museum of Art and Africa Centre, Jane Austen House Museum,
  Science Museum, the Hunterian Museum, National Maritime Museum) reflecting our strong
  partnerships with this sector in postgraduate training and our research.

  Staff development
  The School is committed to the career development and welfare of its staff. This is pursued
  through annual appraisal and research mentoring schemes within the School and centralised
  training and support services. Support for career development and skills training is provided by
  the Organisational and Professional Development support and the Researcher Development
  Team, reflecting QMUL’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
  Researchers (see REF5a). Early career researchers are supported by the HSS Early Career
  Researchers Network and Early Career Workshop funding scheme (which has supported pilot
  research by Monteith and Halvorsen). QMUL operates a full sabbatical scheme (one term or
  year in seven) open to all by application. Early career staff are supported through a probation
  scheme that sets achievable and appropriate research objectives in discussion with senior staff

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  mentors. Administrative and teaching workloads are agreed between HoS, mentors and ECRs
  to support their research strategy. In addition, postdoctoral research staff are supported through
  the QMUL Postdoctoral mentoring programme.

  Equality and Diversity
  The School is a diverse student and staff community with a long standing and genuine
  commitment to equality and diversity. This is explicitly stated as one of the core values and
  fundamental commitments of the School’s Strategy (2015-19 & 2019-24) and our Key Principles
  document. The School is committed to inclusiveness, transparency, non-hierarchical
  management structures, collegial working relationships and research integrity and supports and
  promotes equality, diversity and inclusion in a range of ways. EDI issues are standing items on
  all School committees and addressed by a dedicated EDI committee. Academic staff (Ford,
  Johnson) have undertaken research on EDI in academic cultures and institutions and we have
  drawn on their work in our dedicated EDI slots in our seminar series. The School was awarded
  an Athena Swan Bronze award in 2016 and has implemented the subsequent action plan. All
  staff have undertaken unconscious bias training and all staff involved in appraisal and
  appointments have undertaken EDI training.

  The School’s research mentoring scheme is both a career development and EDI initiative.
  Research mentoring is available to all staff at all career stages, but has been particularly
  promoted to ECRs (including lecturers and researchers on fixed-term contracts). The scheme
  provides informal support and career development guidance beyond the university’s formal
  probation and appraisal structures. Its inception has coincided with QMUL’s wider EDI
  initiatives, including the introduction of mentoring schemes for women and for postdoctoral
  researchers. The School has long been well-known for its overall gender balance and the
  proportion of senior women academic staff (comparing very favourably to national and sector
  averages e.g. 56% female professors in 2019-20, compared to 25% nationally in HE). The
  School’s academic and professional services staff, postdoctoral and postgraduate community
  have become more ethnically diverse since 2014 and BME staff are supported through B-
  MEntor: a cross-institutional London-wide mentoring scheme for academic and research staff
  from BME backgrounds.

  EDI concerns are integral to our approach to staff welfare. The School is committed to
  enhancing the work-life balance of staff through: the careful management of workloads; HoS
  consideration of all requests to work on a part-time or flexible basis; support for staff in taking
  their full annual and other leave entitlement; and support for academic staff in working away
  from the office when not required to teach or attend meetings. Administrative meetings and
  teaching are only scheduled within normal working hours to allow full staff participation and the
  School’s collective expectation is that emails will only be answered during working hours. These
  strategies are important to staff welfare in general but are particularly important in relation to
  caring responsibilities, family circumstances, gender, health and disability.

  Support for fixed-term academic and research staff is a key element of the School’s EDI
  agenda. The School has a policy of not offering fixed-term academic contracts of less than 12
  months. Fixed-term staff are inducted and supported to ensure their full integration into the
  School and are encouraged to avail of training, mentoring, staff development and funding
  opportunities.

  Our REF preparation and submission processes have been conducted in accordance with these
  values and commitments. This includes our nominations for external assessors and our internal

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  reviewing process which involved a wide range of academic staff rather than a few senior staff.
  Internal reviewers were also nominated so that their diversity reflected the diversity of the School
  as a whole in terms of gender and ethnicity. Those involved who had oversight of REF
  processes and decision making have undertaken EDI training (unconscious bias training) and
  all the staff involved in the internal review process also had this training as part of our Athena
  Swan action plan. In accordance with QMUL’s REF 2021 Code of Practice, we adopted a
  consistent approach to reviewing outputs and impact case studies to ensure equitable treatment
  of all individuals. Decisions on outputs and impact case studies to review and submit were made
  in consultation with the staff involved and all decisions and preliminary reviewing scores remain
  confidential. Our staff mentoring and appraisal processes offer support for individuals whose
  circumstances have constrained their ability to produce outputs or work productively throughout
  the assessment period.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  Over this REF period, the School’s has fulfilled its strategic aims to increase its research
  income, to achieve a more even spread of research income among staff; to prioritise research
  council funding; and to increase ECR and PGR funding. The total grant income of £7.33m is an
  increase of 59% on the £4.61m in REF2014. Major research projects are: ESRC ‘Migrant
  remittances and Covid-19: Practices of care during crisis’ (Datta, 407k); NERC-NSF ‘Sensors
  Under Snow–Seasonal Processes In The Evolution Of Arctic Soils’ (Bradley, £511k); GCRF
  ‘Building Trans-disciplinary Partnerships For Exploring The Impact Of Population Displacement
  On Nutrition Interventions In Rural Zimbabwe’ (Brown and Datta CoI, £193k); UKRI GCRF
  South-South Migration, Inequality and Development Hub (Datta, £190k); NERC ‘Response of
  Ecologically-mediated Shallow Intertidal Shores and their Transitions to Extreme Hydrodynamic
  Forcing in UK Settings (RESIST-UK) (Spencer as CoI with Cambridge, £328k); NERC ‘3D Floc
  Dynamics’ (Spencer, £530k); ESRC ‘Working Beyond the Border’ (Smith, £500k); Leverhulme
  Trust ‘Making Speech’ (Ogborn, £140k); Leverhulme Trust: ‘The Political Anatomy Of Digital
  Healthcare In India (Williams, £99k); British Academy: ‘Surviving Violence: Everyday Resilience
  and Gender Justice in Rural-Urban India (Williams, £282k) ‘Disciplining the Remittance
  Marketplace’ (Datta, £92k) and ‘The Breckland Project’ (Lewis, £255k); four Leverhulme
  Fellowships (Ebbensgaard, Kumar, Johnson, Materka, £309k total); four British Academy Post-
  Doctoral Fellowships: Speer (£100k), Guillen (£372k), Inverardi-Ferri (£302k), Soares, (£240k);
  five ESRC LISS DTP Post-Doctoral Fellowships (£490k); partner in four doctoral training
  partnerships – ESRC LISS DTP with Imperial and KCL, AHRC LAHP2, NERC London DTP2,
  Leverhulme Doctoral Studentships on Mobile People (£1m) with other QMUL Schools.

  Operational Infrastructure: Research and impact have been supported by a full-time
  Research Manager from August 2014 who has responsibility for pre- and post-award
  management of all research grants, as well as responsibility for overseeing impact
  arrangements in the School. Oversight of research continues to be undertaken by the DoR and
  the RGSC which is an inclusive forum whose membership includes academic and PGR
  research theme co-leads; Academic Lead for Impact; Graduate School Directors, PGR and
  postdoctoral representatives; Laboratory and Facilities Manager, and the Research Manager.
  The School’s research and impact activities are also actively supported by the HSS Dean for
  Research and the faculty Research Manager (see REF5a).

  Technical Infrastructure: Physical Geography and Environmental Science research is
  supported by extensive laboratory facilities and 3.0FTE technical staff, with additional staff hired
  during periods of high demand. Investment in equipment since 2014 has emphasised

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  improvements in facilities that enable new interdisciplinary collaborations and consolidating
  existing world-leading activities. Our micromorphology suite (supported by £130k of QMUL
  infrastructure funding) has enhanced capabilities for the 3D characterisation of nano to
  microscale sediment structure. Use of this equipment has generated new understanding of
  structure-function relationships in depositional coastal environments; enabled new
  interdisciplinary collaborations with material scientists (QMUL, School of Engineering and
  Material Science), national and international engineer end-users (HR Wallingford UK, Deltares
  Nl); and supported publications in journals such as Science of the Total Environment and
  Environmental Science and Technology. Our Geospatial and Numerical Modelling Facility
  (£124k), equipped with high-performance workstations and specialist software for remote
  sensing, geomatics and hydro/morphodynamic modelling applications, has facilitated
  computationally-intensive Erasmus-Mundus and NERC-funded research by 12 PDRAs and
  PhD students (published in Water Resources Research, Earth Science Reviews, WIREs Water,
  Environmental Modelling and Software) and included the development of a novel toolbox for
  understanding braided river morphodynamics. The analytical suite for chemical analysis of
  water, gases, soils and sediments (including ICP-OES, ICP-MS, GC-ECD/FID, ion exchange
  chromatography, PSA and TOC/DOC analysers) and for characterising organic matter (£200k)
  has supported NERC and Defra-funded collaborations (e.g. CEH Bangor, Essex and Leeds
  University) examining transformations of nutrients across land-water-atmospheric interfaces;
  underpinning research to demonstrate the importance of ebullition as a methane transport
  pathway in lowland peatlands, and providing data to parameterise models of catchment-scale
  nitrogen cycling and transport published in journals such as Nature Geoscience, Hydrological
  and Earth System Sciences, JGR Biogeosciences and Water Resources Research and Science
  of the Total Environment.

  Our state-of-the-art field equipment includes terrestrial laser scanning and differential GPS
  surveying equipment, DGI Phantom drones and Acoustic Doppler Velocimeters for high
  frequency flow measurements. Investment in innovative high resolution scanning and surveying
  techniques are enabling NERC-funded research to investigate forest health, legacy impacts of
  drought and the impacts of disease on forest structure in Mediterranean ecosystems. High
  frequency aquatic measurements of flow and turbulence are enabling collaboration with
  European partners (Trento, Berlin, Florence) to assess fish habitat and inform restoration
  practice in alpine and temperate river systems. The Laboratory Facilities also comprise a river
  laboratory for small-scale physical modelling experiments relating to hydraulics, sediment
  transport and morphodynamics; and a palaeoenvironmental suite to help reconstruct past
  environments.

  Equipment within the School has directly benefited impact work, particularly the analytical work
  that underpinned the findings on Historic Coastal Landfill and Legacy Waste. As part of
  Spencer’s contribution to a BBC4 documentary, The Secret Life of Landfill: A Rubbish History,
  samples were collected at sites near London by our technicians and Spencer with the
  documentary team; these were analysed in our laboratories and the results used in the final
  documentary. Impact has been further supported through workshops run by the Academic Lead
  for Impact and Research Manager on approaches to impact, using case studies from the
  School. Funding has been secured through QMUL internal funds to support new and ongoing
  impact, including: work on invasive crayfish species and their effects on river bank erosion,
  evidence-informed policymaking in Uganda, the implications of demonetisation on the Indian
  real estate market, as well as supporting impact activities for two of our four submitted case
  studies: (dissemination research on the toxic legacy of landfill sites and assisting with the
  running of training courses related the Modular River Survey).

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  Driven by our strategic aim ‘to maintain and further enhance a stimulating, outward-looking and
  sustainable research environment’ the School has encouraged collaborations with academic
  colleagues at the local, national and international level. Formal collaborations through funded
  research projects have been: UKRI/AHRC Covid-19 project with The Museum of the Home and
  The Royal Geographical Society (with IBG) (Blunt, £393k to Geography, £500k total); UKRI
  Covid-19 bid with UCL and SOAS (Datta, £334k to Geography, £407k total); NERC RESIST
  (UK) with Cambridge (Spencer, £328,927 to Geography, total £724k); ESRC Working Beyond
  the Border with Warwick (Smith, £295,486 to Geography, total £500k); and Leverhulme Trust
  The Breckland Project with The British Museum (£244,792 to Geography, total £256k).

  Interdisciplinary research is evident through research collaborations with Engineering &
  Materials Science (NERC funded), Business Management and Law (ESRC funded), English &
  Drama (ESRC funded research), Biological and Chemical Sciences, and through joint inter-
  School PhD projects. Support is provided at the university level through the Vice Principal for
  Research Advisory Group, which facilitates applications to cross-disciplinary funding calls that
  require a coordinated approach across the University (e.g. Leverhulme Research Centres,
  Global Challenges Research Fund calls) and through new cross-faculty University Research
  Institutes (see REF5a). Cross-disciplinary projects have been supported by funding from
  QMUL’s Public Engagement, HSS Collaborative, Life Sciences Institute, and CritiQues funds.

  The School’s contributions to the wider research base include two consecutive Vice-
  Presidents (Research and HE) of the Royal Geographical Society (with IBG) (Smith, 2015-19;
  Blunt, 2019-23); founder of the Latin American Geographies Working Group of the RGS
  (Halvorsen); seven journal editorships (GEO: Geography and Environment, Journal of Historical
  Geography, European Urban and Regional Studies, Geography and Environment, Geography
  Compass, Journal of Victorian Culture); twenty-four additional editorial roles, as subject, co-,
  associate, guest, or advisory editorial board members (Area, Journal of Latin American
  Geography, Forced Migration Review, Economic Geography, Estuarine and Coastal Shelf
  Science, Feminist Review, Third World Thematics, River Research & Applications, City, Urban
  Geography, Health & Place, Social Science and Medicine; Water Resources Research, Soils &
  Sediments, WIREs Water, Earth Surfaces Processes, Cultural Geographies, Social and Cultural
  Geography, Media and Environment). Staff have made significant contributions to peer-review
  and programme development with national and international research funding bodies. They
  include: Chair (Belyea) and member (Spencer) of NERC Strategic Programme Area scoping
  groups; programme review panel (Spencer) for UKRI; programme development for AHRC,
  ESRC and NORDFORSK (Datta); membership of peer review colleges for the major UK
  research councils (AHRC, ESRC, NERC, UKRI) and of other UK funders (Leverhulme, British
  Academy, Royal Geographical Society) and internationally including the Academy of Finland
  (Nash), Russian Science Foundation (Belyea), Canada Research Chairs Program (Belyea),
  ERSC Open Research Area funding panel with French, Dutch and German Research Councils
  (Smith).

  Peer review of grants has included AHRC, ESRC, NERC, The British Academy, The
  Leverhulme Trust, Newton Fund in the UK, ISRF, and, internationally, ECR Horizon 2020, Swiss
  National Science Foundation, Irish Research Council, The Royal Irish Academy, the Austrian
  Science Fund, Canada Research Chairs Program, Russian Science Foundation, US National
  Science Foundation and staff have undertaken reviews of articles for over 100 leading
  international journals. Staff have worked closely with academic colleagues at a wide range of

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  UK universities, including Cranfield, KCL, Westminster, Centre for Ecology & Hydrology
  (Gurnell); UCL, University of the West of England (Harvey); Warwick (Smith); Cambridge,
  Southampton (Spencer); Newcastle, LSE, Cambridge (Williams); Exeter, Cardiff (May); UCL
  and Birkbeck (Horne). The contribution of staff to the research base is recognised through
  prestigious research prizes including the Philip Leverhulme Prize and Political Geography book
  prize to Williams, the European Geosciences Union Alfred Wegener Medal to Gurnell.

  PGR Training: Geography at QMUL has been a partner in six research council funded doctoral
  training programmes during the REF census period – ESRC London Social Science DTP with
  Goldsmiths (2011-2016); ESRC London Interdisciplinary Social Science DTP with King’s
  College London and Imperial College London (2016-); AHRC London Arts and Humanities
  Partnership (with eight HEI partners and >300 PhD students and Directed by Blunt, 2019-);
  NERC London DTP1 and DTP2 with UCL, Birkbeck, Kings College London, Royal Holloway,
  Brunel, Institute of Zoology, Royal Botanic Gardens (DTP1 only), Natural History Museum
  (2019-). In addition, the School was instrumental in attracting £1m in funding from the
  Leverhulme Trust for a Doctoral Scholarship programme on Mobile People. This programme is
  an interdisciplinary partnership with schools across the Faculty of Humanities & Social
  Sciences. ERASMUS SMART European Joint Doctorate with Trento and the Freie Universitat
  Berlin concluded during the census period and accepted its final cohort in 2016.

  As stated in REF5b 2014, one of our key aims for this REF period was to embed impact more
  fully within the School’s research culture. The School’s strategies for 2015-2019 and 2019-2024
  include the specific objectives: to inspire and inform the public about the School’s research; to
  disseminate research findings proactively to academic and research users; to enhance the
  influence of School research on decision or behaviours in appropriate spheres; and to
  demonstrate and evidence the public benefit of School research. In practice, these objectives
  are supported by the School’s Research Manager and Academic Lead for Impact: meetings are
  held with academic staff to discuss their impact plans and activities; impacts are included in
  annual appraisals and probation meetings; workshops and presentations to the School Board
  have been made to staff and PGR students to promote impact; internal funding of £30.5k has
  been secured to support the generation of impact or gather evidence for impact already
  occurring.

  The University is committed to supporting impact through the appointment of impact support
  officers at University and Faculty level. Support for external collaborations is provided through
  Research Partnership Managers in QMUL’s Business Development Office, and through QMUL
  Innovation which offers advice on intellectual property and developing ideas for
  business/industry application. Staff have benefited from support provided by the GCRF
  research development team at QMUL who assist in developing cross-disciplinary bids for
  internal and external GCRF funding opportunities (e.g. internal funding of £37.7k to the KIN:
  Health group).

  Individual staff members, or teams of staff, have engaged with a range of external stakeholders
  to develop impact during the census period in addition to the impact captured in the impact case
  studies. Examples include, Kerry Holden’s ongoing work on the role of evidence in policymaking
  in Uganda, which has engaged with parliamentarians, the Prime Minister’s Office and local UN
  Development Programme representatives, through a number of engagement, including a series
  of workshops held in November 2017 that looked at building the research capacities of the
  Ugandan parliament to address the sustainable development goals; Peter Congdon’s long-
  standing work in public health led to a social fragmentation index he developed in relation to

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  wellbeing indicators being recommended for use by public agencies through the Public Health
  England Joint Strategic Need Assessment processes; Jon May’s research has increased public
  and government understanding of the widespread use of foodbanks in Britain under austerity
  and has shaped progressive practice through the Independent Food Aid Network he co-
  founded. Further impact work has engaged with the National Trust, the River Restoration Centre
  and Brazilian NGOs on river management and invasive species (Harvey); water management
  with Thames Water (Heppell). Other key collaborations non-academic institutions include: The
  Museum of the Home, V&A Museum of Childhood, Ragged School Museum, Bank of England,
  British Museum, Natural History Museum, HR Wallingford, Canal & River Trust, Environment
  Agency, DEFRA, Deltares (Netherlands), National Maritime Museum, the Broads Authority,
  Friends of the Earth, Citizens UK, Natural England, Runnymede Trust, and the Irish
  Environmental Protection Agency.

  Our impact case studies foreground four exemplary cases within the wide and diverse range of
  ways that our research contributes to society. They include important contributions to practices
  of public environmental assessment (Gurnell and Wharton), labour policy (Smith), coastal waste
  management policy (Spencer) and museum practice (Blunt).




                                                                                           Page 18
