Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Gloucestershire
 Unit of Assessment: 21 Sociology
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
UoA 21 context
The Social Sciences Subject Community is situated in the School of Natural & Social Sciences, at
the University of Gloucestershire. The Subject Community was formed in 2015, deriving out of the
pre-existing and larger Social and Environmental Sciences group. Although this larger group was
submitted to REF2014 under UoA17 Geography, Environmental Studies and Archaeology, no work
was submitted from the then small cohort of social scientists. A period of considerable growth in
research activity has resulted in the Social Sciences Subject Community achieving readiness for
submission to the REF process for the first time. Led by Hobson (2015-2020) and Jones (2020
onwards), the subject community has grown from 9 staff, c.180 students and 5 courses to 19 staff,
c. 360 students, and 8 courses, including bachelor’s degrees in Sociology, Criminology, and
Policing. Alongside this growth in numbers we have worked hard to develop an impactful,
supportive and creative research environment. With a focus on developing ECRs, working with
community partners, and growing PGR recruitment and research income, our new subject
community has achieved its overarching ambition of proving itself as a supportive and exciting
place to undertake research.


UoA 21 strategic aims for research and impact
Our strategic aims for research and impact over this REF period were to:
Aim 1: Support our staff to become research active and build their research career.
Aim 2: Identify and grow key areas of research strength.
Aim 3: Achieve excellent research with impact, including work co-produced with community
partners.
Details of each aim and the work we have completed in each case follow.

Aim 1: Support our staff to become research active and build their research career.
The University of Gloucestershire describes itself as an institution that is student-centred, learning-
led, and research-informed. When the Social Sciences subject community first formed, none of the
academic staff had been submitted to an earlier research assessment exercise. Our aim since that
point has been to ensure that staff receive the tailored support that they need to become active
researchers, to develop the sustainability of their research and to submit work to a REF
assessment. To achieve this, the subject community has drawn upon a budget allocated from QR
funding through the Environmental Dynamics and Governance Research Priority Area, which is
also located within the School of Natural & Social Sciences (see Institutional Environment
Statement and Infrastructure section below for further details). This has supported us to establish a
supportive and developmental research opportunities, a programme which has been remarkably
successful and enabled us to achieve this REF submission. The key mechanism of our
development is a programme of five core activities for growth, outlined below and referenced
throughout this document:
   I.   Using reading groups, writing retreats, and workshops as a vehicle to guide staff
        development, build research teams and create a vibrant and supportive research culture.
  II.   Use internal QR funding to seed-fund small research projects, and in doing so help staff to
        develop research.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 III.   Programmes of research mentorships that include targeted writing support, journal
        selection, and the inclusion of ECRs in research and supervision teams.
 IV.    Growing the PGR base through funding studentships using QR allocation and research
        income and attaching these studentships to staff research projects.
  V.    Targeted funding from QR and research income to build capacity and strength in high-
        impact areas of work, including funding external support from impact experts and funding
        PGR RAs.
As a result of this, the team are proud to have achieved a significant growth in published work
during the REF period.


Aim 2: Identify and grow key areas of research strength.
As part of our research strategy, we have placed a strong focus on collaborative work and
interdisciplinarity. We have supported staff to work in research teams across disciplinary
boundaries, developing research that explores topics in the margins between disciplines and
benefitting from the sharing of strengths as the teams develops. We work closely with researchers
in Psychology (UoA 04) and Human Geography (part of UoA 13). To support the development of
research in the team, we have arranged our activity into two clusters:
Stalking, homicide, and sexual violence
Led by Monckton-Smith, this theme focuses on research, training and system change in support
of those charged with managing violence and abuse, primarily that targeted against women.
Spanning sociology and criminology, and involving collaboration with psychologists, this work
includes Monckton-Smith’s Impact Case Study on the homicide time-line (ICS ‘Risk Assessment
Policy and Practice in Domestic Homicide’). The research that underpins the time-line has been
used to build training and bring about system change for the management of domestic Homicides,
as captured in the ‘Homicide Timeline.’ This work has reached a wide national and international
audience, including charities such as Victim Support, the Suzi Lamplugh trust, the Alice Ruggles
trust, Hollie Hazard trust, Reducing the Risk of Domestic Abuse, Advocacy After Fatal Domestic
Abuse, Protection Against Stalking, Veritas Justice, and Stand Up To Domestic Abuse. It has been
used by national Police forces in Cumbria, Dyfed-Powys, Gloucestershire, South Wales,
Staffordshire, Sussex, Surrey, and Thames Valley, and international including the Garda in Ireland,
the Gendarmerie in France, and the Portuguese Police Force. The Australian Police force are also
begging to use this work. Further work in the area includes review of approaches to Child Sexual
Exploitation (Livesey), including extensive research and evidence-based development work with
Gloucestershire Police.
Vulnerable communities
Comprising work from across sociology, criminology, and work in collaboration with human
geography. The theme explores the causes, consequences and responses to harms against
vulnerable communities, and includes: examining the impacts of austerity for local communities
and those most vulnerable to change and marginalisation (Jones); the impacts of residualisation
and service reduction in supported housing (Hobson); masculinity, vulnerability and civilian
transition (Parker); the rise of right-wing extremism and islamophobia in the UK and Poland
(Narkowicz); everyday routines as transformative process (Hockey); and peer-to-peer mentoring
for prisoners (Nixon). Other work in this area concerns reducing or policing types of crime to
protect or increase the safety of a vulnerable community. This includes tackling crimes against
retailers and licenced-businesses (Stafford and Hobson), police handling of low-level crime and



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
disorder (Stafford), tackling organised crime in Ireland and Northern Ireland (Payne), and the
prevalence and approaches to policing football hooliganism (Hester).
The research support we have put in place and the theming of research projects has helped us to
achieve a growth in peer reviews papers, incising numbers of PGR students applying to study
under our areas of socialism, growing research income, and the development of an engaging and
supportive research culture. In July 2020, we collaborated with UoA 13 to host an online
conference on the theme of ‘Social Vulnerabilities’, with presentations from policing, criminology,
sociology, human and physical geography.


Aim 3: Achieve excellent research with impact, including work co-produced with community
partners.
The co-production of research is key to our impact strategy, and it is reflected in our third strategic
aim, to ‘Achieve excellent research with impact, co-produced with community partners.’ We
actively involve our community partners in shaping projects and ensuring that findings are used to
bring about change and benefit. We look for innovative ways to involve our students in research
with partners, and produce research involving our students appropriately in this activity has brought
significant successes. For example, our Impact Case Study on Business Crime Reduction
Partnerships (Stafford and Hobson) was developed from a research project with a local crime
reduction partnership, Gloucester City Safe, through which all our undergraduate Social Science
students contribute to a longitudinal research project and produce findings that inform the
partnership’s ongoing activity.
Engaging with charities and community partners is central to Prof. Monckton-Smith’s work on the
Homicide Timeline, Hidden Homicides, and domestic abuse. This work provides research and
training for charities including Victim Support, the Suzi Lamplugh trust, the Alice Ruggles trust,
Hollie Hazard trust, Reducing the Risk of Domestic Abuse, AAFDA, Protection Against Stalking,
Veritas Justice, and Stand Up To Domestic Abuse. Other co-produced projects that take this
approach include research with Local Authorities and with Child Friendly Gloucestershire
(Livesey), our ‘Public Sociology’ projects with local action groups (Jones; Parker; Roberts), our
evaluations of local and county-wide Restorative Justice initiatives (Hobson and Hester), and our
successful and wide-reaching program of commissioned projects delivered by Postgraduate
Taught students as part of their programme (Livesey; Boughton). Where possible, as good
practice we encourage researchers to present outcomes of these co-produced projects to clients at
workshops and research events, where appropriate, giving PGR students the opportunity to
contribute and develop networks for research and employability. Working in partnership with
organisations in this manner has also brought us access to data or resources which have later
been used as the basis for academic publication.
We have built a portfolio of funded research including projects with local, regional, national, and
international networks and partners. Monckton-Smith works with police forces and justice
agencies across the UK, developing tools for improving practice around homicide and domestic
violence, in the UK Police Forces including Cumbria, Dyfed-Powys, Gloucestershire, South Wales,
Staffordshire, Sussex, Surrey, and Thames Valley. Internationally, with the Garda in Ireland, the
Gendarmerie in France, and the Portuguese Police Force. As part of this research and
development work, we estimate a little over 5000 Police and multi-agency professionals have been
trained in the Homicide Timeline, and a further 3,500 in the preceding Domestic Abuse Review
Tool (DART). Monckton-Smith has provided extensive expert advice and research leadership in
the production of Domestic Homicide Reviews, including working alongside the organisation
Advocacy After Fatal Domestic Abuse (AAFDA) to provide Home Office accredited training for
around 200 Domestic Homicide Review chairs and panel members. She currently sits on the

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
National Domestic Homicide Stakeholder Group and on the regional process review panel for
Bristol.
Other key areas of work include Restorative Justice, where Hobson and Payne work with
organisations including Gloucestershire Police, Restorative Gloucestershire, and the Restorative
Justice Council UK. A recent Restorative Justice Knowledge Exchange co-organised by Hobson
and Payne with colleagues in Northern Ireland saw participation from a wide range of community
groups, civil society organizations, statutory agencies and academic institutions including:
Community Restorative Justice Ireland, Northern Ireland Alternatives, Restorative Gloucestershire,
Restorative Practices Forum NI, The Office of the Police and Crime Commissioner for
Gloucestershire, Police Service of Northern Ireland, Gloucestershire Police, NI Prison Service,
Probation Board NI, Probation Service Ireland, Department Of Justice NI, Victim Support NI,
Quaker Service NI, Family Group Conference NI, Home Group (Supported Housing), Ulster
University (Northern Ireland), University of Gloucestershire (England), Maynooth University
(Ireland), Fourah Bay Coll., (University of Sierra Leone). Jones as work-package lead in a Horizon
2020 programme CHIEF sees her working alongside partners from nine countries: the UK,
Slovakia, Croatia, Georgia, Germany, Spain, India, Latvia, and Turkey.
At a local and regional level, we undertook research for the Cheltenham Business Improvement
District examining pattens of and solutions to crime in the night-time economy (Stafford). We were
involved in scoping research for the Gloucestershire Health Inequalities fund on the potential in
smart commissioning of alcohol related services in the county (Dooley). Research with
Tewkesbury Borough Council mapped services and spaces that have transitioned to community
ownership and management (Roberts). Examination of failures in cases within Gloucester’s Child
Services divisions to find any patterns and potential revisions to working practices (Livesey).
Research on the police-led intervention for young people for Gloucestershire police (Hobson).
Research projects funded by the Police and Crime Commissioner for Gloucestershire, including
research to understand patterns of and solutions to rural crime in Gloucestershire (Stafford),
research and development of the Gloucestershire Restorative Youth forums (on the extent and
potential solutions to alcohol related crime in the county (Hobson).
We measure our impact success primarily through the testimony of our partners. Both impact case
studies include strong endorsement of our activities and independent corroboration of the benefits
we believe we have brought to partners outside of academia. Our community partners value our
collaborative activities, evidenced by their enthusiasm for co-producing research and the ongoing
nature of our partnerships. For example, annual research reports have been produced in
partnership with the crime reduction partnership Gloucester City Safe each year since 2014
(Stafford and Hobson). Research reports have also been co-produced at regular intervals with
Cheltenham West End Partnership (Parker, Roberts, and Jones), Restorative Gloucestershire
(Hobson, Payne, and Hester) and with Gloucestershire Constabulary (Hobson and Payne;
Livesey).


Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
Both the University and the subject community have ambitious goals to continue to grow research
in the Social Sciences. To achieve these goals, the subject community has revised and expanded
its strategic aims for research and impact for the next REF cycle to include the following:
Aim 1: To refine areas of research excellence as we solidify our research base.
Aim 2: To strengthen the national and international reach and impact of our research,
contributing to meaningful change in society.
Aim 3: To grow success in funded research and increase PGR completions.

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
These aims for the coming years will enable us to develop from the successful base we have built
since the creation of the subject community. Supporting the areas of strength that emerged over
the past period, strengthening our national and international ties, and growing PGR and income
completion will enable us to provide an exciting and supportive environment for researchers.




 2. People
Staffing strategy and leadership
Our aim in developing the Social Science Subject Community is to build staff research capability in
parallel with the course portfolio growth in staff numbers. Our staffing strategy for achieving this is
two-pronged: to recruit high calibre, early career, research-active candidates; and to support staff
in developing new research opportunities and links and the skills they need to develop as
researchers.
A Senior Leadership Team lead on the strategy, supported by a cross-University research
leadership network. The UoA Coordinator and research lead for the Social Science Subject
Community (Hobson) is responsible for the coordination, management, and development of the
staff. He is supported by a Professor (Lynch), part-seconded from Geography to support staff
development and cross-disciplinary research efforts, and by Jones (now Head of Social Science
Subject Community). They work to provide research leadership; support for staff in writing papers,
proposals and funding applications; manage the internal funding grants for staff and PGR
studentships; integrate research development into the staff annual review process; and convene
the various research support groups runs across the team. The development of this New UoA has
been supported by the institution, benefitting from the Universities research structure, as reflected
in the institutional environment statement. This including support from the head of Research
(James) and the formal UoA peer-support network, where UoA coordinators exchange and
develop ideas and offer guidance concerning publications, outputs, impact, income, research
students and overall performance and management. Further support comes from the
Environmental Dynamics and governance Research Priority Area (RPA) in which the UoA sits. The
RPA has provided an additional level of guidance from senior academics as the UoA has
developed across the course of this REF period, including from professors in biology
(Goodenough, Hart), Geography (Chambers) and from the Community and Countryside
Research Unit (Short).
Our strategy and leadership efforts are underpinned by the University-wide coordination and
strategic framework for staff support and development, detailed in our Institutional environment
statement. The University’s People and Culture strategy ensures that staff are valued, empowered,
and given the time and support to participate in training and development and achieve their full
potential. We draw upon this ethos in our Subject Community approach to ensure that we are
developing and growing talent and continuing to motivate and inspire staff at all career stages and
on all three of the University’s academic career pathways. The institution's collaborative,
supportive culture is also reflected in our research leadership approach.


Approach to development of staff
Staff development is facilitated through the formal processes of staff manages withing the
structures of the institution as well as the local support organised by the UoA and Subject
Community management team. In the formal sphere, the Staff Review and Development
programme involved line mangers working closely with individual staff and in consultation with the
                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research leads to develop suitable research goals and to tailor support and development for
individual staff. Staff are supported through a central university scheme to achieve the various tiers
of Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy accreditation and Postgraduate Certificates in
Academic Practice. Staff undertaking research degrees are allocated 100 hours a year on their
workload models and encouraged to identify and block time to undertake that research. At a school
level, all staff are entitled to an annual Development Fund of £150 a year, used to support the
development of research work, including the presentation of papers, conference attendance costs,
additional training and networking as appropriate to their level of experience. All staff are supported
with £100 contribution to professional subscriptions. Additional funds are available for staff,
particularly ECR staff, who are seeking to undertake development activities.
At the level of the UoA, the development of staff as researchers is supported through the
programme of five core activities for growth, outlined above under Aim 1 and presented in the
context of staff development, here:
    1. Reading groups, writing retreats, and workshops: a monthly Reading Group that operates
       across Social Sciences and Human Geography gives staff the opportunity to present
       papers and receive feedback from colleagues prior to submission for publication. The
       Group has actively sought contributions from Early Career Researchers (ECRs). Of the 36
       papers presented since the group was initiated, 18 have been from ECRs. We run regular
       ‘shut up and write’ sessions for staff to bring and work on writing projects in a supportive
       environment, which have been very successful in helping staff to find the time and
       supportive space to finish and submit manuscripts. The wider School of Natural and Social
       Sciences runs a research seminar series which invites staff and postgraduate researchers
       to present papers, ideas or findings to peers and engage in discussion in a supportive
       environment. ECRs in the team are encouraged to present work in this series.
    2. Using internal QR funding to seed-fund research projects: for ECRs and staff reengaging
       with research, as a chance to develop research for publication; for more experienced staff,
       to support the scaling of existing projects for bidding into externally funded work.
    3. Programmes of research mentorships: for both ECRs and established staff, offering target
       support including the production of personal research plans, support with internal and
       external grant funding applications, writing and publication workshops, and research
       mentoring from experienced research staff (Hobson, Hockey, Lynch) and members of the
       University Professoriate from cognate disciplines.
    4. Funding PGR attached to staff research projects: offering more staff the opportunity to
       develop supervisor experience and thereby create to a wider pool of experienced PGR
       supervisors in the team. Consequently, we have gone from 2 staff supervising PGR when
       the team was created, to 10 at the end of 2020.
    5. Building capacity and strength in high-impact areas of work: particularly through providing
       targeted support including training events, guidance and mentorship from other impact
       generators, funding for staff submitting ICS, developing work that has potential as a future
       IS, or is high-impact.
We have been particularly keen to support ECRs as part of our collective growth and development,
recognising the difficulties faced by many in this position in finding work and then being able to
develop as part of a team. To support this, Hockey has been retained on a fractional post to
provide additional support and mentoring to this group, including reading of manuscripts, providing
feedback on written work, advice on journals for publication, and networking staff with other
colleagues working in similar areas. Hobson and Lynch provide additional support to ECRs as
part of the reading and writing groups, research development seminars, and one-to-one

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development meetings. There is an Early Career Researcher group in the Social Sciences
(coordinated by Narkowicz), which meets monthly and is supported by the QR funding allocated to
the UoA. They have organised and contributed to University seminars and worked in partnership
with external agencies to bring about opportunities for co-produced research for its members and
for Postgraduate Research Students. The group also ties in with the University-wide Early Career
Researchers Network (ECRN). Narkowicz was one of two conveners of the British Sociological
Association’s Early Career Researcher Forum, which manages events, bursaries, and other
supportive activities across the UK. Recent appointment to the team, Folkes, successfully won
competitive funding to convene an ECR Regional Conference from the BSA.


Evidence of success
The success of our strategy for the development of both new and long-standing team members is
reflected in the career trajectory of the group. Our approach, scaffolded through our five core
activities, has brought us some key successes, and helped us to grow into a research active and
impactful team. Our strategy of recruiting and developing research active early career academic
staff have led to the employment of 10 such staff in the last five years. 5 of these staff have been
entered as part of this REF submission: Payne, Transnational organised crime and restorative
justice; Stafford, police-public relations and business crime reduction; Narkowicz, State violence,
racism, gender and religion; Hester, policing of major events; and Nixon penology, peer mentoring
in prisons.
The tailored mentoring and support offered to our staff has also helped more established staff to
succeed. Over the REF period, four staff members have been promoted to Senior Lecturer
(Payne, Stafford, Hester, Narkowicz). In addition, in recognition of success in their research and
in supporting the successful leaderships and development of the team, Monckton-Smith has been
promoted to Professor of Public Protection and Hobson to Associate Professor of Social Sciences,
and Lynch, who has provided support to the team from the Geography team has also been
promoted to Professor of Community and Engagement. Our approach has led to strong growth in
the quality and quantity of research outputs produced by the team over the REF period. Numbers
of peer reviewed publications produced by the group increased over five-fold, we have seen many
of our ECRs develop into successful published researchers, and the community has developed a
vibrant and supportive research culture.


Support mechanisms for, and evidence of the training and supervision of PGR students
Postgraduate Research (PGR) students form a growing, part of the Subject Community, reflecting
the developing success and visibility of our research profile. The subject community has grown
from a small base, and during the REF period we have had 4 PhD completion. However, we
currently have 19 active PGR students; 8 on PhD programmes, and 11 on Masters by Research
programmes of which 5 are on a pathway to upgrade to PhD.
The development of our PGR programme has been an integrated part of the wider successful staff
and research strategy. Our approach to PGR supervision has the dual purpose of providing
research students with supervision teams that have appropriate expertise and sufficient
supervision experience, and of developing the supervision experience of staff further. The UoA and
subject Community leadership team will develop research supervision capacity by matching
experienced supervisors with less experienced supervisors when bringing together a team. A
measure of our success here has been an increase from 2 staff supervising PGR at the point the
team was created, to 10 at the end of the REF census period.


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Fees-funded PGR places have created valuable opportunities for students and for staff to
undertake supervision, and we are continuing to grow the PGR pipeline from Masters by Research
to PhD. Over the course of the REF period we have provided fees bursaries for 1 PhD and 8
Masters by Research students, using research income and QR allocations. We also now have a
rolling programme that offers 2 fees bursaries for Masters by research places each year, with the
possibility for one of those students to continue that bursary into the following years on upgrade to
PhD.
Within the team, we support staff to undertake PGR study. Currently, 4 staff members are working
on PGR projects, one at Masters by Research and three at PhD. Two of these are supervised
within the team by experienced staff (Hobson and Jones). Staff on PGR courses are allocated 100
hours per year to focus on this, on top of the standard Research and Scholarly activity of 185 hours
a year that all staff receive. Additionally, staff studying PGR at the university receive a full fee-
waiver for their study.
PGR students have access to an annual bursary of £200 to spend on development activity. With
support from the School’s PGR coordinator and through a school-wide programme of activity, we
aim to integrate our PGR students within the University’s active research community so that
students can both take part in and be inspired by the activities to which they are exposed.


Supporting and promoting equality and diversity
Within the university and the UoA, we have worked hard to develop an include research culture.
The University’s Equality and Diversity policy reflects the committed to advancing equality and
valuing diversity in all our practices. Policies and procedures relating to staff are designed to foster
a culture in which equality and diversity considerations are embedded into all areas of work. The
University monitors, analyses and reports staff and student data to senior managers and trade
unions on an annual basis to inform University equality priorities. External accreditations through
the Stonewall, Disability Aware, and Workplace Wellbeing schemes underpin and formalise our
commitments here, and our investment in staff wellbeing helped bring about our recent re-
accreditation to the Workplace Wellbeing Charter.
In the Social Sciences team more widely, 12 staff identify as female and 7 as male. There are 9
Early Career Researchers. The researcher development and support initiatives, including writing
groups, peer review, retreats and small grants are available to all and are intended to give team
members time, support, and resource to prioritise and pursue research activities.
Equality impact assessments are imbedded into institution wide projects and policy reviews, and
staff are supported to meet their equality and diversity responsibilities through learning and
development programmes and initiatives. Staff Review and Development meetings are a
fundamental part of this, helping colleagues achieve a balance between their core duties and
research objectives. These have particularly targeted support at ECRs and those returning from
maternity leave. The University monitors all stages of the employment process from selection, re-
grading, incremental progression, promotion, training, and development and acts to address any
identified or potential inequality and under representation.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
Income
the unit has been awarded £158,422 in research income over the duration of the REF census
period.

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As a new subject community and Unit of Assessment, one of the key tasks has been the
development of a successful and ambitious research portfolio that includes funded work.
Supporting staff to undertake funded research is an important part of our overall aims for the UoA
and of our five core activities for growth. Under the leadership of Associate Professor with
responsibility for leading research development (Hobson) and a Professor from within the school
(Lynch), we have seen particular success in the growth of funded research since the creation of
the Subject Community and UoA. Furthermore, investment in facilities and research infrastructure
has helped us to develop a vibrant research footprint and a supportive and high-impact research
culture.
Through our five core activities for growth, we have implemented a programme of development for
our researchers that includes: bid writing workshops, targeted seed-funding for developing wider
research bids, paper writing workshops, targeted support for research mentorships, incorporation
of ECRs on active research teams, and funded PGR studentships.
The development of a funded research portfolio was twofold. For ECRs and staff reengaging with
research in the new community, we provided support to build research links with community
organisations including funding small grants, opportunities in Knowledge Exchange and
conference events, and provision to work on in-kind funded research. For staff already engaged
in research and impact activities, we provided support for larger bid writing, RA support, and the
initial phase of fees-funded PGR’s., The successful funded research work carried out by the Social
Science subject community includes:
Funded research at a County and regional level in crime and harm reduction including: the police-
led community harm reduction scheme for young people, ‘the Aston Project’ (Payne & Hobson);
Community Ownership of Local Assets with Tewkesbury Borough Council (Roberts); Managing
Anti-Social Behaviour in Rural Gloucestershire (Hobson); ‘youth forum’ Restorative scheme
(Payne & Hobson); the potential for responsible Off-Licensing Schemes (Dooley); Research with
the College of Policing on professionalisation on police training (Clay-Davies); an evaluation of
student-led community patrols (Dooley); research on community safety partnerships at a county
level (Stafford & Hobson); and a study on the potential for ‘Smart commissioning’ services in
Gloucestershire (Hobson) (total c. £111,072)
Funded research at a national and international work, including: Jones as a work-package lead on
the Horizon 2020 project ‘Cultural Heritage and Identities of Europe's Future’ (CHIEF) alongside
partners across the EU and Turkey [UoG portion of funding total c. £21,000]; Monckton-Smith on
domestic abuse, Hidden Homicides and the development of the ‘Homicide Timeline’, with charities,
advocacy groups, police forces and justice agencies, including Gloucestershire, Dafyd Powys, and
Sussex, and in Ireland with the national Garda College and the Department of Justice. (total c.
£47,350).


Infrastructure
The University’s infrastructure for research offers support to subject communities in several ways.
Our Academic Development Unit (ADU) has a University-wide enhancement function in line with
the ambitions in the University’s Academic Strategy (2017-22) and leads on the formation and
implementation of the Academic Strategy. The ADU provides a strategic and operational influence
on teaching, learning, assessment, and research, and is the central department for the
development and support of academic practice, including research. The ADU coordinates the
University’s Research Priority Areas, oversees the University’s Early Career Researcher Network
and Women Professors’ Group, manages the internal funding allocation and various competitive
funding opportunities, coordinates the University’s REF activity, runs training and development

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
workshops for researchers, research degree students and research supervisors, supports research
staff with external bid writing, disseminates information on funding opportunities, and deals with
issues of research ethics and integrity. As a newly formed subject community and Unit of
Assessment for the University, the ADU has provided the Social Sciences group with advice and
guidance on REF submission and guided the growth of our strengths and the development of our
staff by supporting and advising on the implementation of our approach.
The University also hosts an open access Research Repository which serves as a storage and
distribution service for the University’s research and publishing outputs whether articles,
conference papers, book contributions, artefacts, or video. The Repository provides a public
window into the research activities undertaken by the University and holds the unpublished
postgraduate research theses as open access full text documents wherever possible. It is also
used to disseminate Open Educational Resources (OERs) for reuse and adaptation subject to
Creative Commons license terms. In the Social Sciences we have used the repository not only as
a means of cataloguing our academic output but to share our coproduced outputs and policy
documents safely and securely with community partners and public audiences.
The University’s Research Priority Areas (RPAs) are underpinned by infrastructure that brings
many benefits to the Social Science subject community. Not only are these RPAs the means
through which QR funding is allocated across the Institution, but the associated structure of staffing
and resources has provided researchers in our subject community with mentoring, guidance, and
opportunities for multidisciplinary collaboration. The Sociology UoA is supported by the
Environmental Dynamics and Governance RPA, which has allocated funding to support research
projects in the Social Sciences, and its staff have been instrumental in our efforts to leverage
external funding. We have had success in research and analysis work for external partners, with
the work subsequently forming the basis for academic outputs submitted to this UoA. This includes
Monckton-Smith’s work with police forces, justice agencies, charities, and community partners,
reflected in her papers and the ICS on ‘Risk Assessment Policy and Practice in Domestic
Homicide,’ submitted as part of this UoA. Work with partners also includes a paper based work on
the police-led community harm reduction scheme for young people ‘the Aston project’ (Payne &
Hobson); a paper on the ‘youth forum’ Restorative scheme (Payne & Hobson); work on
Community Ownership of Local Assets, alongside with Tewkesbury Borough Council (Roberts,
Lynch, Hobson) which also formed part of basis of an ICS in the University’s submission to
UoA14.
The strong focus on Interdisciplinarity in the community, particularly with colleagues in human
Geography, is recognised though our Social Vulnerabilities research group. This research group,
run by Hobson and Lynch, helps to support and articulate the joint activity undertaken in the areas
and bring further mentoring and development support for our staff. This research group pools
resources to coordinate research, provide opportunities for multidisciplinary working, events and
conferences with partners, and provides an online presence for public visibility and access to
research outputs. Through opportunities brought about by this larger research group we have been
able to showcase our work and partnerships at events, such as an online research conference in
July 2020 on Social Vulnerabilities and a virtual conference on Global Sustainable Development
Challenges in December 2020.
As a significant portion of the work conducted in the Unit of Assessment involves research on the
challenges facing vulnerable groups in society and so it is a key value that the research maximises
benefit and minimises harm. The University has a Research Ethics Committee that oversees the
ethics of all research that is conducted, and the School has a designated Research Ethics lead
who sits on this committee and advises researchers and students on the University’s ethics policy.
As part of this policy, researchers are expected to keep abreast of the subject discipline

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
association ethics, for example the British Sociological Association Statement of Ethical Practice.
This ensures that there are ethical checks and balances on the work that we do. This support is
underpinned with research ethics training for all staff and PGR students.


Facilities
The Social Sciences subject community is located at the University’s Francis Close Hall Campus in
Cheltenham, co-locating our staff with others in cognate disciplines. This has supported the
development of cross-disciplinary research, a key theme in our approach to exploring research at
the boundaries between disciplines and in building research ability. This is typified in the work of
the Social Vulnerabilities Research Group. To bring about further benefit from this co-location the
University has invested in the redevelopment of existing space to support teaching and research.
This includes:
    • The development of a new computing laboratory, equipped with sophisticated GIS capacity
        and analytical software, used by Stafford & Hobson to enhance activities conducted in
        partnership with several crime reduction partnerships [spend: £341,656].
    • The refurbishment and repurposing of an additional building, to include open research
        space for staff and PGR students. This has enabled the expansion of research workshops,
        ‘Shut up and Write’ events, conferences and community dissemination events, such as
        Domestic Homicide Timeline training, Public Sociology projects, dissemination events on
        the commissioned research postgraduate taught projects and meetings of the Homicide
        (Monckton-Smith) and the Sexual Violence (Livesey) Research Groups. The facility also
        includes PGR research space and new research labs, including a Virtual Reality lab used in
        teaching and research in Criminology and Policing and used in the development of
        interdisciplinary research with colleagues in psychology focusing on the interviewing of
        vulnerable witnesses including children [spend: £127,631].
    • The refurbishment and repurposing of a two-storey lodge building as a specialist ‘crime
        simulation facility’ with high-definition audio/visual recording and broadcast capabilities.
        From this facility it is possible to instruct students, co-host training activities with external
        partners, and conduct research [spend: £23,515].
    • The construction of a forensic interviewing suit with recording facilities and one-way glass,
        used for teaching and research purposes and in concert with local police forces [spend:
        £13,582].


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
Our collaborative activities and projects within and beyond academia have been the means
through which we have made significant contributions to the research base and to society more
broadly. In the Social Science subject community, efforts to achieve our objectives for
collaboration, external research funding, and excellent and impactful research have resulted in
collaborative research at a national and international level with colleagues in other HEIs, and
through partnerships outside academia with community organizations, third and public sector
organizations, and local, national and international policy makers. These projects are central in
efforts towards our strategic aim of enabling relevant, user-focused, and impactful research
through the involvement of stakeholder partners throughout the research design, conduct and
dissemination process. Where we work with non-academic partners, we strive for projects that
create significant value and contribute to our third Strategic aim, to ‘Achieve excellent research
with impact, co-produced with community partners’



                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Monckton-Smith’s work on domestic abuse, hidden homicides and the nationally and
internationally used ‘Homicide Timeline’ is a particular success. This work includes research,
review, development, and training for a national and international range of governmental and
statutory, charity, and community agencies and organisations. Work with charities, including the
co-production of research, includes Victim Support, the Suzi Lamplugh trust, the Alice Ruggles
trust, Hollie Hazard trust, Reducing the Risk of Domestic Abuse, AAFDA, Protection Against
Stalking, Veritas Justice, and Stand Up To Domestic Abuse. Monckton-Smith works with police
forces and justice agencies across the UK, using her research to develop and evaluate tools for
improving practice around homicide, domestic violence and child sexual exploitation, including
Cumbria, Dyfed-Powys, Gloucestershire, South Wales, Staffordshire, Sussex, Surrey, and Thames
Valley. Monckton-Smith has undertaken a wide range of media dissemination work as part of this,
with numerous guest appearances on television and Radio. Most recently, she has completed a
Podcast series with Tortious Media focusing on ‘Hidden homicides,’ which has been picked up by
the UK government and led to renewed calls for changing in police practice. Internationally,
Monckton-Smith has worked with the Garda in Ireland, the Gendarmerie in France, and the
Portuguese Police Force, and the Australian Police force are adopting work around the Homicide
Timeline. As part of this research and development work, we estimate a little over 5000 Police and
multi-agency professionals have be trained in the Homicide timeline, and a further 3,500 in the
preceding Domestic Abuse Review tool (DART). Monckton-Smith offers expert advice and
research leadership in the production of Domestic Homicide Reviews, alongside AAFDA, providing
Home Office accredited trying for around 200 DHR chairs and panel members. She currently sits
on the regional process review panel for Bristol and on the National Domestic Homicide
Stakeholder Group (See also ICS Risk Assessment Policy and Practice in Domestic Homicide).
Jones’ involvement in the EC Horizon 2020 CHIEF (2018-2021) project brings significant
international collaboration and includes anthropologists, historians, youth studies academics and
educationalists alongside sociologists and social statisticians across nine HEI and research
institute partners in nine countries: the UK, Slovakia, Croatia, Georgia, Germany, Spain, India,
Latvia and Turkey. Jones’ work on Minority congregations' use of Anglican church spaces in
Birmingham provided the Church of England with guidance around building positive relationships
with minority congregations.
Narkowicz collaborates with colleagues in Canada as part of the project Islamophobia and
Populism in East Central Europe, led by the University of Toronto and funded by the Social
Sciences Research Council of Canada. Livesey’s work with Gloucestershire Constabulary has led
to the development of supportive tools for child sexual exploitation.
Hobson and Hester’s work on restorative justice and post-conflict reconstruction involves wide
stokehold engagement and participation, including community restorative justice agencies in
Northern Ireland run in some cases by former combatants; the Department Of Justice NI,
Gloucestershire Police and OPCC, NI Prison Service, Police Service of Northern Ireland, Probation
Board NI, Probation Service Ireland; Charites including Family Group Conference NI, Home Group
(Supported Housing), Quaker Service NI, Victim Support NI; and academics from other institutions
including Ulster (N.Ireland), Maynooth (S.Ireland), and Univ. Sierra Leone. Hobson, Lynch &
Dooley’s work on residualisation in supported housing was used by the UK Government’s Inquiry
into the Future of Supported Housing (2016), and Hobson was invited by the Communities and
Local Government and Work and Pensions Joint Select Committee to provide in-person expert
evidence, parts of which feature in the final report on the issue. Stafford & Hobson’s work on
business crime reduction partnerships has contributed to the re-working of the UK National
Business Crime Centre’s national standards for such schemes (see also ICS Business Crime
Reduction Partnerships).


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Members of the Social Sciences subject community are active contributors to the research base in
their respective disciplines and academic communities of specialism. They engage in peer review
work for a range of journals, including Gender, Place and Culture, Feminist Review, Current
Sociology (Narkowicz), Citizenship Studies, Sociological Research Online (Jones). Journal of
Ethnic and Migration Studies, Ethnicities (both Jones and Narkowicz), Policing and Society, The
Police Journal: Theory, Practice and Principles (Stafford), International Studies Perspectives,
Safer Communities, Psychology Research and Behaviour management (Hobson). In addition,
Stafford is a member of the Editorial Board for The Police Journal: Theory, Practice and
Principles, and Jones has served as an Associate Board Member for Sociological Research
Online.
Contributions to the wider academic community are also made through leadership roles and
organising activity within learned societies. Narkowicz is a convenor of the British Sociological
Association’s (BSA) Early Career Forum and was an organiser of the BSA pre-conference ECR
forum event at the society’s annual conference in April 2020. Livesey is a convenor of the BSA
Violence against Women study group and convened a British Society of Criminology (BSC)
Violence against Women and Girls event. Folkes won funding from the BSA for an ECR workshop
on austerity in local contexts. Jones convenes the Tamils in Europe Research Network that
comprises academics based in the UK, continental Europe, South Asia, North America, and
Australia who share a research interest in Tamil migration and diasporas. Nixon, an ECR, received
the ‘Annual prize for outstanding article’ from Prison service Journal’ run by Centre for Crime and
Justice Studies, for her paper ‘I just want to give something back’: Peer work in prison.’




                                                                                          Page 13
