Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Manchester
 Unit of Assessment: 22a (Development Studies)
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Overview
 The Unit of Assessment (UoA) consists of the Global Development Institute (GDI), which
 seeks to advance development theory, policy and practice through interdisciplinary
 scholarship and innovative impact work, plus three colleagues from Economics and the
 Business School. Since REF2014, the UoA has undergone a significant re-making and
 expansion, designed to further strengthen our capacity to undertake rigorous and engaged
 critical scholarship in order to advance social justice. GDI was established in 2016, when it
 sought and won Research Institute status – a large-scale multi-disciplinary hub working
 across the University of Manchester (UoM) – and was chosen to lead one of the University’s
 five Research Beacons, on Global Inequalities. Its establishment built on the longstanding
 strengths of the Institute for Development Policy and Management and the Brooks World
 Poverty Institute, and we used this opportunity to undertake a major strategic reorganisation,
 establishing new structures for our research and impact work aimed at promoting an even
 more vibrant and sustainable centre of excellence for development studies. Celebrating 60
 years of research and teaching in 2018, GDI sits within the five-discipline School of
 Environment, Education and Development (SEED) and a wider Faculty of Humanities that
 includes Schools of Social Sciences and Business, and also alongside departments of
 Engineering and Medicine in other Faculties, facilitating multi-disciplinary collaboration in
 research. In July 2020, GDI employed 44 Cat A staff, almost double the number of 26 staff
 employed at REF2014.

 Since 2014, our achievements include:
     An accelerated flow of high-quality publications, including over 400 papers in
        premier journals and 24 books with leading publishers.
     Securing significant impacts on a wide range of development policy actors in
        ways that have directly improved development outcomes in the global south.
     Graduating 136 PhD students in development studies compared with 96 in the
        previous period; creating the Brooks Doctoral Training College in 2016 has enabled us
        to secure increased PhD scholarships and further enhance our PGR provision.
     Outstanding success in attracting 22 postdoctoral fellowships awarded by the
        British Academy, ESRC, GCRF, Leverhulme and UoM’s Presidential Fellowships and
        Hallsworth endowment.
     Significant contributions to the field of development studies, including hosting
        five major international conferences, providing two DSA Presidents and an EADI Vice-
        President, and eight full journal editorships.
     Winning many prestigious international prizes and commendations for our
        contributions, including from the Academia Europaea; Academy of Social Sciences;
        American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Association of Geographers;
        Australian Research Council Laureate Fellow; the Royal Geographic Society–Institute
        of British Geographers Busk Medal; Balzan Prize; Order of Agricultural Merit (Officer;
        France); and an Order of the British Empire.
     Winning over £47million of external research grants, compared to £14million in the
        last period, including for three major international research consortia led by GDI staff
        and with over 70% of CatA staff securing funding.

 b. Research strategy

                                                                                          Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The key objectives that we established at REF2014 were to:
       (1) contribute to the development of theoretical and empirical scholarship in
       fields central to development theory and policy;
       (2) explore and propose new or emerging concepts from across the social
       sciences, as they relate to development studies;
       (3) provide our researchers with the independence and resources to develop and
       pursue important ideas and issues that lie outside our present major themes;
       (4) build new co-productive research approaches.

 Following the launch of GDI, we undertook a major strategic reorganisation to build on our
 previous success and fulfil our strategic objectives. An Institute-wide participatory exercise
 identified new knowledge frontiers around which we established new research groups, each
 built on a critical mass of staff and with all staff belonging to at least one group. These groups
 support individual and collective scholarship, with an emphasis on producing trans-
 disciplinary and impactful knowledge. Inter-group activities, and the fact that 20 staff from
 other UoM departments are also active participants in our research groups, further
 strengthens trans-disciplinarity. This section introduces these seven research groups. Prior to
 this, it sets out the four integrative themes that cut across our research endeavours, enable
 collaborative work across GDI and reflect our distinctive contribution to the field. (The impact-
 related activities of each group are covered in Section 4.)

 GDI’s research has four key integrating themes:

    1. Addressing inequality, injustice and poverty. All research groups focus on how
       persistent inequalities should be understood and challenged in pursuit of social
       justice.
    2. Overcoming North–South binaries. This is manifest in our organising concepts
       (global development), modes of working (explicit North–South comparisons),
       knowledge exchanges and co-productive relationships between Northern and
       Southern collectives. Institute-wide efforts to develop a new paradigm of ‘global
       development’ have included a monthly Global Development Reading Group, an
       international workshop in 2017 and papers that catalysed a special issue of
       Development and Change in 2019 and informed World Development’s special issue
       on pandemics (accepted June 2020).
    3. Environmental sustainability. The critical challenge of ensuring a sustainable future
       shapes the work of most research groups and our major trans-disciplinary research
       centre on FutureDAMS.
    4. Exploring multi-scalar governance and politics. GDI researchers have identified
       and theorised new forms of multi-scalar governance, including South–South and
       polycentric governance in global value chains, and revealed how the interaction of
       transnational, national and local governance processes shapes development futures,
       particularly through the Effective States and Inclusive Development (ESID)
       research centre.
 Research group members regularly interact with each other across group boundaries in order
 to interrogate these broader themes, through joint meetings, research strategy sessions of
 group leaders and informal relationships built around shared interests and ideas. All of our
 major externally funded research centres, including the new £32million research centre on
 African Cities, were won through collaborations between research groups. These centres
 form a critical element of our research environment, enabling us to deliver on our research

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and impact strategies both within and across groups. This is reflected in the key contributions
 that each of our seven research groups has made in this REF period.

 Research groups
 The Agrarian Change and Political Ecology (ACPE) group includes eight staff, five
 postdoctoral researchers and eight PhD students. Members have published 59 SSCI journal
 papers, four special issues and three books since 2014 and generated £8.5million in research
 awards, including the FutureDAMS consortium. ACPE’s key achievements have been in three
 areas:

    1. Agrarian change. Agarwal has placed gender at the centre of agrarian debates and
       transformed understandings of the gendered nature of collective action through
       Leverhulme-funded research on group farming (see ICS). Woodhouse’s ESRC-
       funded research (with Dimova and Foster) has shown that small-scale irrigation is
       more widespread in Africa than previously recognised, suggesting a new route for
       improving food security and agricultural productivity for smallholders.
    2. Natural resource governance. The group’s research has changed how natural
       resource governance is conceptualised and the implications this has for inequality and
       poverty reduction. Bebbington’s DFID-funded research via ESID reconceptualised
       how politics shapes the governance and outcomes of extractive industries. Working
       through FutureDAMS, Hulme, Dimova, Lavers and Whittington have combined with
       engineers to develop decision-making frameworks to improve the planning and
       governance of water/energy/food/environment systems. Frederiksen’s British
       Academy- and ESID-funded research on mining provides a new framework for
       conceptualising private sector approaches to corporate social responsibility.
       Oldekop has established a new standard for evaluating the outcomes of natural
       resource government policies through EU-funded research. Whittington’s research
       shows how current approaches to water resource governance are placing increasing
       costs on low-income households. Enns shows how contemporary investments in land
       and natural resources help reproduce colonial era processes of land alienation and
       displacement.
    3. Conservation and environmental change. Multiple breakthroughs include Oldekop
       producing the first global-scale assessment of the social and conservation outcomes
       of protected areas; Brockington’s original critiques of the poverty-inducing effects of
       conservation areas and the role of ‘celebrity advocacy’ in promoting conservation;
       Pritchard’s new interdisciplinary method for evaluating environmental coping
       strategies; and Kothari’s use of ESRC funding to generate new understandings of the
       everyday social challenges of environmental change for island communities.

 Our Digital Development (DD) group has published 37 SSCI journal papers and a book, and
 generated £918,000 in research awards since 2014. DD includes ten GDI researchers and
 11 PhD students, and forms part of the Centre for Digital Development, which it runs with
 colleagues from the Alliance Manchester Business School (AMBS) and the School of
 Computer Science. DD’s core contributions include:

    1. Promoting data justice: Heeks, Renken and Tampubolon have developed a
       conceptual and practical foundation for “data justice” for groups marginalised by
       datafication and aligned this with original datasets and data science to provide novel
       insights into development issues.
    2. Tracking the uneven impact of digital technologies: Gao, Duncombe, Heeks and
       Krishnan have developed new models to calibrate the uneven impact of digital

                                                                                          Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       systems on low-income communities and on labour, agricultural and innovation
       markets.
    3. Conceptualising digital economies: Azmeh, Foster, Gao and Heeks have created
       new conceptualisations of emerging digital economies and mapped the role and
       impact of digital trade, platforms, standards and innovation.

 Our Growth and Distribution (G&D) group includes eight GDI staff, two colleagues from
 Economics, three postdoctoral researchers and 16 PhD students. Members have published
 129 SSCI journal papers, one special issue and five books since 2014, and generated
 £3.9million in research awards. G&D’s significant achievements encompass three areas:

    1. Economic growth and fiscal capacity. Sen’s research with world-leading
       economists from Harvard has provided a new framework for understanding economic
       growth that has had significant policy impacts (see ICS). Savoia and Sen have
       demonstrated that the ability of states to deliver increased revenues, effective financial
       management and poverty reduction depends on the role of political institutions.
       Ouattara has shown how multi-country insurance schemes help offset the fiscal stress
       generated by climate change shocks and Zhang how investments in infrastructure
       support the growth process in China.
    2. Social protection and social policy. A Barrientos used ESRC–DFID funds to
       produce the Social Assistance Explorer, a unique database that has catalysed new
       research and policy. A significant body of DFID- and World Bank-funded research by
       Hickey and Lavers generated a new framework for measuring and explaining how
       politics shapes social protection in Africa. Innovative mixed methods work by Das
       reveals that social protection schemes in India are producing new forms of post-
       clientelistic politics. Tampubolon’s work on mitigating cardiovascular disease has
       transformed health policy in Indonesia (ICS).
    3. Income and asset inequalities. Using behavioural economics to generate new
       understandings of household-level inequalities, Fielding has improved
       understandings of ethnic inequalities and conflict by incorporating experimentally
       induced measures of trust. Dimova’s British Academy research has generated a
       novel interpretation of educational inequalities through the prism of parental
       behavioural preferences. New insights have also been generated into the effects of
       gender inequality in Sub-Saharan Africa (Lawson) and the evolution of rural–urban
       inequality in Asia (Imai).

 The Global Production Networks, Trade and Labour (GPNTL) research group has
 published 38 SSCI journal papers, four special editions of leading journals and two books
 since 2014, and generated £1.6million in research awards. It consists of five GDI staff, three
 postdoctoral researchers and ten PhD students, and includes colleagues from Geography
 and AMBS. Key contributions include:

    1. GVCs and the uneven rise of the Global South. GPNTL has led research on the
       changing role of the Global South in global value chains (GVCs). Horner and Nadvi’s
       work on ‘polycentric trade’ reconceptualises development trajectories in GVCs,
       foregrounding the role of Southern actors, particularly through Nadvi’s ESRC-funded
       work on Rising Powers. Horner’s ESRC award revealed the distinct South–South
       value chains constituting India’s pharmaceutical industry in Africa. Jepson’s CUP
       monograph demonstrated the impacts of China’s rise on natural resource-exporting
       countries.
    2. Social upgrading and gender within GVCs. S Barrientos’ research leadership on

                                                                                          Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       social upgrading and labour in GVCs is encapsulated in her 2019 CUP monograph
       (supported by Leverhulme), which pioneers new and impactful understandings of
       gender and inequality within GVCs (ICS). GPNTL’s work has demonstrated how trade
       regimes (Azmeh, Nadvi) and state governance (Alford) shape labour conditions in
       GPNs. Nadvi’s ESRC-funded work showed how Brazil, India and China increasingly
       set labour standards within GPNs. S Barrientos, Alford and Nadvi’s current ESRC
       GCRF project explores the implications of regional value chains in Sub-Saharan Africa
       for decent work.
    3. The fourth industrial revolution and global production. Foster has demonstrated
       the implications of internet connectivity for producers’ participation in GVCs, while
       Azmeh and Foster have exposed the dangers of inequality in the growing
       digitalisation of GVCs and trade. Krishnan’s ESRC and Hallsworth Fellowships
       explore the implications of ‘Agtech’ for farmers in East Africa.


 The Migration, Refugees and Asylum (MRA) has published 23 SSCI journal papers, one
 special issue and six books since 2014 and generated £1.2million in research awards,
 including two major new grants. The group includes four GDI academic staff members, with
 an additional six academics from Politics, Sociology and HCRI, and ten PhD students from
 across these disciplines. MRA’s core contributions concern:

    1. Migration and inequalities. MRA has advanced understandings of the relationship
       between migration and inequality, including Bastia’s work on intersectionality and
       ageing, Bakewell’s critiques of neo-liberal approaches to migration and Müller’s work
       on forced migration. Bastia and Bakewell are producing novel insights into the
       interlinkages between migration, poverty and gender through their leadership roles
       within the new GCRF South-South Migration Hub and ongoing work on migration and
       displacement in East Africa and the Horn of Africa (Bakewell).
    2. Rethinking mobility and borders. Kothari, Bakewell and Müller have contributed
       original insights into current and historical patterns of migration and mobility, advanced
       new conceptions of political remittances and reframed the role of borders. This
       includes work on socialist and post-socialist citizenship and on borderlands (Müller,
       Kothari).
    3. Rethinking citizenship and belonging. Group members have reconceptualised
       citizenship as a practice of political resistance, solidarity and belonging, including in
       relation to African refugees in Israel (Müller), migrants in informal settlements
       (Bastia) and diaspora populations (Müller, Bakewell), and produced new notions of
       ‘home’ (Bastia, Kothari). ESRC funded work (Müller, Bakewell) is examining
       transnational lived citizenship in relation to diasporas in the Horn of Africa.

 Politics, Governance and Management (PGM) includes ten GDI staff, four postdoctoral
 researchers and 12 PhD students. Through capturing over £11.6million of research funding
 and publishing 77 SSCI journal papers and six books since 2014, the PGM group has made
 advances in three particular areas:

    1. Effective states. Through their leadership of the DFID-funded ESID Research Centre,
       Hickey and Sen (with Behuria, Lavers and Tyce) have significantly progressed the
       field of politics and development, offering new theoretical frameworks and insights into
       multiple policy domains (ICS). Savoia, Sen and Hulme have produced a basis for
       conceptualising and measuring state and fiscal capacity in the Global South in relation
       to reaching the SDGs and Behuria has advanced understandings of developmental

                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       states and contemporary patterns of state–business relations in Africa.
       Chimhowu’s ESRC strategic network is leading efforts to rethink how national
       planning regimes can enable the SDGs to be fulfilled.
    2. Social movements and NGOs. Banks, Bebbington, Hulme and Mitlin
       have continued to shape debates about the contribution of civil society to
       development, with new research on NGOs and development alternatives proving
       highly influential. Mitlin has reconceptualised social movement strategies and co-
       produced research with activists that shows how state–civil society relations can
       advance social justice. Banks and Brockington have compiled an original database
       on UK NGOs that highlights the resource concentration taking place in the sector.
       Bebbington has developed new theory and empirics on the impacts of social
       movements on transparency and accountability in the governance of extractive
       industries.
    3. Organisational change and effectiveness. Hossain, Mamman and Rees have
       advanced understandings of how organisations can achieve development, particularly
       at the public–private sector interface. Their new EU grant has enabled them to expose
       the interface between globalisation and business practices in Africa. Hickey’s ESRC-
       DFID-funded project identified the political conditions that shape how 'pockets of
       bureaucratic effectiveness' emerge and promote development in difficult contexts.

 The Urban Futures (UF) group has generated £24.5million of research funding, most notably
 through its leadership in winning the African Cities Research Centre, and published 40 SSCI
 journal papers, two special issues and one book since 2014. UF includes four GDI staff, three
 non-GDI academics, two postdoctoral researchers and six PhD students. Its key contributions
 have been in the following areas:

    1. Understanding urban marginalisation and disadvantage. Banks’ ESRC-Future
       Leader award revealed the intersectional disadvantages faced by urbanised
       Tanzanian youth. Mitlin has shown how civil society groups help municipal
       governments deliver poverty reduction in India and Uganda (DFID-funded via ESID).
       Whittington and Mitlin have analysed inequitable access to water in urban
       settlements, showing how needs can be addressed through improved subsidy design
       and accurate definitions of affordability.
    2. Analysing contemporary urbanisation. All members have revealed new patterns of
       informality and inequality in urban areas, including in relation to work (Banks,
       Schindler), housing (Gillespie), water and sanitation (Mitlin) and waste (Schindler).
       Schindler’s (ESRC-funded) work reveals how deindustrialisation and peri-urban
       development are reshaping patterns of urbanisation. He has also proposed a new
       paradigm for understanding ‘Southern urbanism’.
    3. Transcending North–South Boundaries. Mitlin and Gillespie have generated new
       insights into homelessness and marginalisation in the UK by applying the lens of
       development studies. Gillespie’s British Academy-funded work has demonstrated the
       significance of transnational finance to urban transformation in both Accra and London
       and his new Hallsworth fellowship extends this work to Lagos and Nairobi.

 We are confident that this reorganisation of GDI around these seven research groups and
 four integrating themes has offered us the right platform from which to further extend the
 quality and impact of our research across a wide range of frontiers in development theory and
 practice.



                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 c. Details of future strategic aims and goals for research and impact, the way these
 relate to the structure of the unit and how they will be taken forward

 Our overarching goals are to ensure that GDI undertakes rigorous and engaged critical
 scholarship that helps to advance social justice and to further establish GDI’s as a world-
 leading centre for development research. The key strategic objectives to be pursued to reach
 these goals are to:

    1. Conceptually advance the field of development studies, particularly through
       critically elaborating a new paradigm of global development. This project has gained
       urgency in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, which has re-emphasised the significance
       of global interconnectedness and lesson-learning across South–North boundaries
       (see our collective contribution to World Development).
    2. Invest in building inter- and trans-disciplinary research approaches that we can
       apply across a greater range of global development challenges. This will build on the
       kinds of expertise and networks established through our work on FutureDAMS, global
       health (ICS) and urban infrastructure, and be operationalised within both African Cities
       and through our ongoing and future bids for new research funding.
    3. Ensure a vibrant research environment through enhanced support for our new
       research groups, enabling them to drive forward new research agendas and act as
       nurturing environments for enhancing staff career trajectories, particularly of ECRs.
       Since April 2020, groups have been meeting virtually to reframe their research
       agendas in relation to contemporary challenges, including but also beyond Covid-19,
       and a new structure to institutionalise collaboration across groups has been
       established.
    4. Ensure that our research and impact strategies are delivered in an effective and
       socially responsible manner. Post-Covid, we will take further steps to ensure that
       research and uptake activities are co-produced with key stakeholders (including
       Southern-based research partners, local government officials, community activists) in
       ways that extends their capacities and deepens the quality, integrity and impact of our
       shared work. The African Cities Research Centre has these principles at its core and,
       along with our high-capacity communications and impact team, will make a significant
       contribution to achieving this shared objective.


 Section 2. People

 a. Staff strategy and recruitment
 GDI’s capacity to deliver on its research and impact objectives has flowed from its success in
 attracting, nurturing and retaining world-leading researchers from diverse backgrounds and
 across all career stages. Research excellence is the primary criterion for Cat A appointments.
 UoA staffing strategies are overseen by the Head of Institute in discussion with the Head of
 School, and informed by the departmental Research Director and research group leads. In
 this REF period, we have nearly doubled in size, from 26 to 44 members of Cat A staff.
 Recruitment is closely aligned with our research groups, with all seven benefiting from new
 appointments since REF2014. We have maintained strong continuity within our staff base,
 with only a few staff leaving to take up major opportunities (e.g. Sen, on extended leave, and
 Brockington to direct UNU-WIDER and the Sheffield Institute for International Development,
 respectively). Our status as a Research Beacon within UoM has enhanced our capacity to
 attract prestigious Fellowships (e.g. Das, Enns, Foster and Pritchard). External grant


                                                                                         Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 capture has enabled us to appoint new colleagues, and we have been successful in
 converting these into either permanent posts (e.g. Horner) or prestigious postdoctoral
 positions (Gillespie, Jepson).


 b. Staff development
 UoM is committed to supporting the personal, professional and career development of its
 researchers and PGRs and has a European Commission HR-Excellence-in-Research Award
 in recognition of this work. The Faculty Researcher Development Team uses the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework to plan and design opportunities for each academic
 year and funds researcher-led initiatives to encourage colleagues to influence and inspire
 their peers. The Staff Learning and Development team offers opportunities for personal and
 professional development, through both general training (e.g. project management) and one-
 to-one developmental support (e.g. coaching). UoM also runs annual leadership training for
 mid-career and more senior staff, and supports external training where required.

 Within the UoA, research groups are a key mechanism through which we support staff to
 produce world-leading research, develop new research agendas and proposals, promote
 impact and nurture an inclusive research community. All groups include a mixture of PGR
 students, ECRs and senior staff, with the latter providing mentoring, peer review of outputs
 and support for the development of collective and individual research projects. Research
 group leadership typically involves a senior member of staff working closely with a more junior
 colleague to help cascade research leadership skills. We receive financial support from the
 School to enable groups to invite guest speakers, hold seminars to improve research outputs
 and pursue impact opportunities. An annual budget of c£11,000 is available to GDI’s research
 groups, with additional monies for PGR-specific activities.

 Annual reviews: in line with SEED policy, GDI operates an annual appraisal system
 comprising personal and research development elements. Led by senior staff, this provides a
 structure to manage staff performance against discipline norms and UoM expectations. We
 use it to identify personal skills and career development needs and match them to internal
 and external training opportunities. This in turn nurtures the creation of personal research
 visions and supports the enactment of both longer-term and more immediate research plans.
 UoM carries out an annual Research Review Exercise, involving rigorous peer review of staff
 publications under the oversight of GDI’s Research Director, with feedback and targeted
 support provided to staff as required.

 ECR staff development: we fully support ECRs to advance to the next stage of their academic
 career. ECRs receive higher levels of support through more intensive mentoring and targeted
 access to internal funding opportunities. Senior staff and research group leaders work closely
 with ECRs to put forward clear and realisable plans related to the development of research
 bids, research publications and impact strategies within the context of the annual review
 process outlined above. All newly appointed lecturers and Presidential Fellows are given a
 three-year probationary period, with a reduced teaching and administrative load that rises to a
 full one on a staggered basis, and formal training via the Humanities New Academics
 Programme. This includes units on research development, strategy and funding;
 postgraduate supervision training; integrating research and teaching, and knowledge
 exchange activities. All new staff entering probation receive written notice of what is expected
 of them and have a mentor who meets them every two months and an annual review
 process. The HoI meets with ECRs as a group on a six-monthly basis to discuss their
 experiences and perspectives.

                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The School Research Committee oversees the wider research strategy and investment funds.
 GDI’s Research Director represents GDI on this committee and acts as the conduit for
 ensuring that our work is aligned with School priorities and benefits from support at higher
 levels within UoM. This includes ensuring that funding and networking opportunities are
 directed to the relevant research groups and individuals. The RD oversees the research
 groups and convenes regular meetings of group leaders to consider progress on our
 overarching research themes, support alignment with Institute-wide objectives and share best
 practice on research group strategies.

 Research incentives and leave: across the Faculty, 40% of the time of Cat A staff is protected
 for research activities, irrespective of research grant bidding success. Our buy-out policy
 adjusts teaching and administrative workloads to ensure that grant holders are able to deliver
 on their research commitments. UoM offers regular research sabbaticals to improve individual
 and collective research profiles, with staff eligible to apply for one semester of study leave in
 every seven semesters, subject to a clear plan and record of delivery receiving approval by
 the School Research Committee. Between 2014 and 2020, 48 sabbaticals were awarded to
 staff in GDI.

 Research support: all academic staff can claim research-related expenses (c£1,300 pa) from
 the School Research Committee’s annual budget. Both Faculty and School offer extensive
 opportunities each year for colleagues to apply for seed-corn funding to help with grant-
 raising, research piloting and impact-related work, and for targeted support for ECRs.

 Impact: our strategic emphasis on impact is central to staff recruitment and development
 processes. All research groups and colleagues can access training, advice, and financial and
 technical support from GDI’s dedicated Communications and Impact Team (see below). GDI
 staff also benefit directly from GDI’s annual £20,000 budget for communications and impact
 work.

 Post-doctoral scholars: we have attracted 22 fully funded postdoctoral scholarships in the
 current period, including ten for scholars from the Global South:

      ESRC Future Leaders/New Investigators award: Horner (2016–20), Schindler (2018–
       22);
      British Academy: Tyce (2020–23);
      Leverhulme: Jepson (2020–23);
      ESRC–GCRF studentships: Machingura, Maitrot (2016–17);
      ESRC one-year awards: Krishnan (2018–19); Tyce (2019–20); Pruce (2020–21);
      Simon and Hallsworth fellowships (three-year UoM endowments): Buckley (2014),
       Horner (2015), Behuria (2017), Krishnan, Jepson and Gillespie (2019);
      Five GCRF one-year awards for Global South scholars: Bukenya (2019–20), Efe
       (2019–20), Weldeghebrael (2020–21), Yeboah-Assiamah (2019–20), Abdulai (2020–
       21);
      UoM Presidential Fellow awards: Foster (2018–), Das, Enns, and Pritchard (all 2020–).

 We prioritise scholars working in alignment with our research groups and ensure that they
 become nested within these.




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Fostering a supportive research culture: GDI undertakes extensive efforts to nurture an
 organisational culture based on collegiality as well as excellence. This hinges on an inclusive
 and collaborative approach to management, the best recent example being the identification
 of our new research group structure through a participatory process over 2017–18. Other
 important examples include monthly Institute Forum meetings, termly group meetings that the
 HoI holds with each cohort of staff (ECR, mid-level, senior), and regular Away Days that
 enable us to revisit our collective vision for research and impact and establish plans to realise
 this in line with the wider aspirations of the School and University.

 Staff development is a priority at all career stages. Annual leadership team meetings
 proactively identify staff who can be encouraged to submit for promotion and supports them
 to build their case. This strategy has paid dividends: since 2014, five Cat A staff were
 promoted from lecturer to senior lecturer and eight from senior lecturer to
 reader/professorships. Three staff on T&S contracts were also promoted to senior lecturer.

 Social responsibility is a major strategic goal for UoM at all levels: measured against support
 for delivering the SDGs, the University ranked first among UK universities (and eighth in the
 world) in the THE University Impact Rankings in 2020. GDI’s commitment to promoting social
 justice ensures that social responsibility forms part of our institutional-DNA and our work in
 this area is led by GDI’s Director for Social Responsibility (S Barrientos, then Banks), who
 actively encourages staff to harness opportunities in this regard, including via Faculty funding.
 In 2017, three colleagues hosted a workshop for 18 participants on ‘Making a Difference’, with
 inputs from Northern and Southern think-tanks, CSOs and INGOs. GDI colleagues have won
 UoM’s Making a Difference award twice: Banks in 2016 for her work in support of youth
 groups in Tanzania and J Jordan in 2017 for helping to popularise awareness of climate
 change in Bangladesh.

 c. PGR recruitment, support and supervision
 A major benefit of the transition to GDI in 2016 was the establishment of a bespoke Doctoral
 College that has significantly strengthened the strategic management of our research training
 programme. Funded through an external endowment, the College has enabled us to commit
 greater staff time to management, to recruit even stronger students and to expand and
 diversify the academic training and experience of PGRs working on development studies. The
 College is firmly situated within the School and Faculty structures for governing PGRs, and
 benefits greatly from ongoing training opportunities for them at these levels, and from events
 such as the School’s annual PGR conference.

 Since the formation of the Doctoral College, we have pursued the following strategic goals:
       Stronger linkages between PGR recruitment and the new research groups (e.g. group
        leaders now shortlist candidates for scholarship awards).
       Ensuring higher quality recruits, by identifying potential PhD applicants among high-
        performing undergraduates and taught postgraduates at Manchester and a more
        rigorous admissions process that includes a mandatory interview.
       Attracting an increased level of scholarship funding, by fostering the early discussion
        of research projects between applicants and prospective supervisors.
       Enhanced research training provision, realised through a new MSc in Research
        Methods in International Development as part of a successful School-wide initiative to
        compete for ESRC ‘1+3’ scholarship funding, and leadership of the School-wide
        research training programme (Hossain, from 2019).


                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our new approach has increased our success in gaining competitive funding, with the
 proportion of students winning full ESRC scholarships doubling in this REF period compared
 to the last one. We have reduced our proportion of self-funded students to a situation where a
 majority of PGRs – 89% since 2016 – come with scholarship funding, which has in turn
 helped improve our completion rate. Since 2014, 136 PhD students have graduated in
 development studies at Manchester, compared with 96 in the previous period. Since 2016 we
 have professionalised PGR training with the provision of structured teaching-assistant training
 leading to associate membership of a professional body for teaching in higher education.

 d. PGR development
 GDI’s Doctoral College seeks to create a sense of community among doctoral researchers.
 Every PGR is actively incorporated into one or more of GDI’s research groups. Each new
 cohort of PGRs completes a week-long induction programme and each individual is assigned
 an existing doctoral student as a ‘buddy’ to help familiarise them with their new environment.
 Supervision is clearly structured, with expectations set out at the beginning of the programme
 and half-yearly assessments of progress recorded on a University-wide information system
 (eProg). Annual reviews by a panel comprising supervisors, an Independent Reviewer and
 the Director/Deputy of the Doctoral College generate a formal record of comments and
 recommendations agreed by the PGR concerned.
 All PGRs are provided with a dedicated workspace, computer and a range of high-quality IT
 services; they can apply for up to £1,000 of financial support for fieldwork abroad. A well-
 located common room is dedicated to this group.
 All first-year PGRs must complete a research training programme spread across two
 semesters, including three SEED modules: Research Methodology and Design, Quantitative
 Methods and Qualitative Methods. PGRs access advanced research training provided by the
 Cathie Marsh Institute for Social Research and methods@manchester network.
 PGRs are encouraged and enabled to become influential researchers, with funding to present
 their work at conferences and impact-related events. Supervisors and research groups
 actively support PGRs to publish high-quality work and our output return includes eight
 outputs produced or co-produced by our PGRs. In 2019, the College established a fund to
 support PGRs in sharing the findings of their work with key stakeholders after their viva.
 Practical support from GDI’s Communications and Impact team has included training PGRs to
 establish and maintain personal webpages to make their research more visible.
 Further research opportunities are provided through our funded research projects (e.g.
 organising conferences, contributing to research through literature reviews, involvement in
 workshops). Each year two GDI PhD students convene the weekly ‘GDI Work-in-Progress’
 seminar series. Career development opportunities are also enabled through PGR
 involvement in teaching our 450(+)-strong annual cohorts of Master’s students. All PGRs
 must complete an accredited teaching-assistant training programme and all can apply to be
 paid teaching assistants; since 2014, 94% of our PGRs have gained valuable teaching
 experience at GDI.
 e. Equality and diversity
 GDI has a deep commitment to equality and diversity. In the submission period, GDI has had
 three directors, two of whom have been women and two of black and minority ethnicity.
 Professors Uma Kothari, Diana Mitlin and Khalid Nadvi have taken on the leadership of GDI
 at the request of and with the support of their colleagues. In so doing they have enabled GDI
 to provide a substantive challenge to academic traditions, and catalysed contributions from

                                                                                        Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 many colleagues across the Institute. GDI has therefore sought to exemplify the changes that
 we recommend for others and made a significant contribution to the School’s efforts to ensure
 that the principles of equality and diversity are strongly upheld, as reflected in the award of
 Athena Swan bronze status in 2017, and an ongoing plan to secure silver status.

 All staff who sit on selection panels must undertake unconscious bias and E&D training. Of
 our 45 FTEs, 33% BAME and 31% are women. Since 2016, GDI has put forward a relatively
 higher proportion of female than male staff for promotion. Over this period, 11 women and 13
 men were put forward, of whom eight women and nine men were successful.

               Contractual basis      Job status                     Seniority
               T&R      T&S           Permanent      Fixed-term      Prof.    SL/Re.      Lect.
                                      appointment    appointment
  All          45          11         47             9               16        20         20
  Female       14          5          14             5               5         7          7
  BAME         15          5          16             4               5         5          10

 We actively monitor the embedding of E&D principles across our activities, ensuring a
 balance in research seminar speakers, with nominations for awards and recognition, and
 within interview short-lists. Mentors are carefully allocated, taking into consideration the need
 to provide appropriate support for staff.

 The School provides a ‘Women into Leadership’ training programme that has now been taken
 up by UoM. The HoI encourages women to apply for these opportunities and for leadership
 programmes open to all. GDI has encouraged the School and the University to be more
 active in effectively engaging with issues of equality and diversity and to ensure that GDI
 provides a culture in which concerns about equality and diversity can be highlighted and
 addressed. For example, a recent analysis of workload data by gender and ethnicity was
 used to raise awareness of potential inequalities and inform future workload allocations. A
 new network for female staff in DS was established in 2019 to provide informal support, peer
 mentoring and a space to discuss challenges. In 2018, all female staff and PGRs were invited
 to a private meeting on gender equality and leadership with former prime minister of New
 Zealand and head of UNDP, Helen Clark, who was visiting to present GDI’s annual lecture.
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

      Research income
 GDI has secured £47,836,956 in research grants since 2013–14, a significant step change
 compared to the £14,054,967 awarded in the previous period. This dramatically improved
 performance flows from our ambitious strategy of maximising research income in relation to
 our areas of thematic expertise, and extending these towards new and more trans-disciplinary
 challenges. This success is broad-based across colleagues within this UoA: 72.9% of Cat A
 staff (35 out of the 47) secured external funding in the period, and of the 13 who didn't, seven
 have been hired since 2018.

 In alignment with the School and Faculty’s strategic objective of increasing research income
 from prestigious and competitive funding streams, the majority of our funding comes from
 UKRI/ESRC, the British Academy, the Leverhulme Trust and DFID. This portfolio includes a
 strategic blend of very large and medium-sized grants designed to tackle major development
 challenges; prestigious fellowships aimed at more in-depth and specific contributions to
 knowledge and impact; and networks to build partnerships in pursuit of future funding.


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Major grants won within this period, all of which were led by GDI staff unless stated
 otherwise, include:
     African Cities: £32.5million (FCDO, 2020–26): Mitlin, Hickey, Schindler.
     FutureDAMS: £8million (GCRF, 2018–21): Hulme, with Lavers, Dimova and
        Engineering.
     ESID: a £3.1million extension (DFID, 2016–19): Hulme, Hickey, Sen.
     South-South Migration Hub: £18.7million (GCRF, 2019–24): Bastia, Bakewell co-Is
        (UoM award value: c.£400,000).
     Decent Work in Regional Value Chains: £694K,000(ESRC–GCRF, 2019–21): S
        Barrientos PI, Nadvi, Alford.
     Fairwork: £688,000 (ESRC–GCRF, 2018–21): Heeks co-I.
     Transnational Lived Citizenship: Political Belonging among Emerging Diasporas in the
        Horn of Africa: £642,000 (ESRC, 2020–23): Müller PI, Bakewell.
     Expanding Research to Understand Social Assistance: £501,000 (ESRC–DFID, 2017-
        2019): A Barrientos.
     The Politics of Building State Capacity in Africa: £501,000 (ESRC–DFID, 2017-2020):
        Hickey.
     Understanding Farmer-led Irrigation Development in Sub-Saharan Africa: £360,000
        (ESRC–DFID): Woodhouse.
     Covid 19 and Wildlife Trade: £380,000 (UKRI GCRF/Newton, 2020–22): Enns co-I.
     Environmental Violence, Economic Development and the Everyday Livelihoods of
        Islanders: £260,000 (ESRC-DFID, 2017-2020): Kothari.
     Leverhulme Fellowships: The politics of distribution in Ethiopia: 54,000, 2020–21:
        Lavers; Ageing and migration: £47,000, 2019–21: Bastia.
     Networks: Mamman, Hossain, Rees (EU, £252,000) on Globalised Governance
        Norms and Local Management; Heeks (ESRC, £150,000) on Development
        Implications of Digital Economies Research Network; Mitlin (Leverhulme, £125,000)
        on Participatory Planning in Urban Africa, and Chimhowu (ESRC-GCRF, £66,000) on
        National Development Planning.

 This success reflects the robust nature of our peer review mechanisms, which are embedded
 within School and Faculty processes of quality assurance. The Research Director and
 Research Group conveners alert colleagues to funding opportunities and actively support
 grant preparation, especially through in-depth peer reviews, resourcing network building with
 research partners and a focus on developing robust impact strategies.

 Research income has been leveraged to advance our strategic objectives. Three of the four
 impact case studies submitted to REF2021 flow from major awards (Agarwal, S Barrientos,
 ESID). External research funding has improved our research environment in multiple ways,
 enabling the recruitment of new staff, the provision of research assistantship opportunities for
 PGR and PGT students and funding for our regular flow of high-profile visiting speakers.

       Infrastructure
 We receive administrative support through the Faculty’s Research Support Services Hub,
 staffed by a team of three research support managers and six officers, an impact-support
 officer, grant writer and two finance officers. The team has expertise in all aspects of bid
 preparation, project management, dissemination and impact. More widely, we benefit from
 extensive University investment, including research-dedicated support for the University of
 Manchester library, designated a National Research Library (Section 4.2 of institutional

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 statement). The library aids our research via a range of services, including support for
 publication and dissemination, training for research information management, and access to
 over 40,000 e-journals and a range of research databases. The library ensures Open Access
 compliance and offers funding for Gold Open Access publications. GDI has a dedicated
 section in the local library facility within one of our two co-located buildings on campus, which
 has over 10,000 print books on development studies.

 The School’s Director of Research chairs its Research Committee, which has overall
 oversight of research activity across the UoA. The Director of Research and GDI’s Research
 Director jointly operate the Faculty’s proactive system of peer review to support high-quality
 grant applications; this is mandatory for all bids relating to major research council calls, and
 strongly encouraged for all other funding applications. Peer review is also employed for
 outputs being prepared for journal submission or other publication outlets, including through
 the GDI Working Paper series. GDI participates fully in UoM’s ethical approval process and is
 represented on both the School’s and University’s Research Ethics Committees, as governed
 by a University Code of Good Research Conduct (Section 2.5 of Institutional Statement).
 During this REF period, three GDI staff have been School Research Directors (Hickey,
 Brockington, Nadvi), underlining GDI’s commitment to shaping a progressive research
 environment within the School.

 The Faculty of Humanities Strategic Investment Fund (H-SIF) provides seed corn funding for
 the preparation of large and collaborative research grant applications and, for ECRs, to
 support first grant applications. Over 15 GDI researchers have secured H-SIF monies during
 the REF period and/or smaller grants from SEED’s own Research and Impact Stimulation
 Fund, at a combined total of £82,000. GDI staff have also successfully bid for over £29,000 of
 funds from the University of Manchester Research Institute, which provides pump priming for
 new interdisciplinary activities and flagship research institutes.

 The University has established a Committee to support bids to GCRF, with Mitlin and Nadvi
 as members. The University’s bid for GCRF monies was co-authored by GDI staff and the
 resources secured have helped to develop trans-disciplinary research partnerships across the
 University and the Global South. For example, GDI has leveraged £40,000 to support the
 attendance of GS scholars at major international conferences (DSA2018, ESID2019) and
 also made successful bids for seven GCRF postgraduate fellowships for GS scholars.

     Research impact
 Our dedication to promoting real-world impact through our research and policy uptake work
 was central to achieving institute status at UoM and to our strategic reorganisation since then.
 GDI colleagues and groups are strongly encouraged to maximise the impact of their research
 and offered high-level support to achieve this, most notably through the establishment of a
 dedicated Communications and Impact Team in 2016. This team works closely with the
 School’s Knowledge Exchange and Impact Officer located within the Faculty’s Research
 Support Services Hub, and has greatly enhanced the ability of GDI staff to ensure that their
 work moves beyond academia.

 GDI’s Communications and Impact Team has enabled us to place an even stronger emphasis
 on undertaking innovative and effective forms of knowledge exchange. The team comprises
 three full-time, permanent, research communication professionals, who work alongside
 another 2.5 FTEs on fixed-term contacts linked to large research projects. These staff
 members play a central role in ensuring that knowledge is effectively shared with policy
 actors, both during and after projects, enhancing the potential for uptake and impact. The

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 specialist support provided by the team includes:

       development of strategic communications and impact strategies and activity plans for
        specific research projects;
       ongoing training and support for research communication, dissemination, engagement
        and influencing policy;
       access to key digital communication channels (including social media);
       additional funding for high-impact activities.

 The team works directly with funded research centres, including ESID and African Cities, and
 individuals to enhance their engagement strategies. One indicator of its success has been the
 rapid increase of GDI academics featured in news stories, which rose from 25 in 2015–16 to
 39 in 2016–17 and 78 in 2017–18, involving pieces for the BBC, Economist, Financial Times,
 ABC News, Times of India, New York Times, USA Today, the Guardian, El Pais, Prospect
 and the New Statesman. The team has encouraged staff to experiment with innovative
 methods of reaching new audiences. Examples include a film documentary about a street-
 theatre performance on climate change that J Jordan directed in Dhaka (over 100,000
 people viewed the documentary, which earned awards from UoM, AHRC and the US–UK
 Fulbright Commission) and the co-production of a play on migration and belonging at
 Manchester’s Contact Theatre in 2017, a sold-out multi-media production led by Müller via
 the Migration Lab.

 Since 2014, three new forms of financial support have assisted our impact work: a Faculty-
 level investment fund, a responsive fund for opportunistic impact work at School level, and a
 £20,000 pa dedicated communications and impact budget for the sole use of GDI staff. GDI
 staff have also secured £179,000 for ESRC Impact Acceleration Activities between 2014 and
 2020, plus £100,000 for an ESRC–DFID Follow-on Impact grant (Kothari). GDI’s focus on
 impact has become further institutionalised through revisions to Manchester’s promotion and
 staff review processes, placing a stronger emphasis on knowledge exchange. As School
 Research Director, Hickey integrated a stronger focus on knowledge exchange activities
 within the Faculty’s annual review form and introduced a new category of Knowledge
 Exchange Visiting and Honorary Fellows.

 Research findings are communicated via numerous dissemination channels, including 3,500
 email subscribers, 13,500 Facebook and 12,000 Twitter followers, and a blog that attracts
 over 3,000 viewers per month. Recent innovations include the widely available GDI podcast,
 five-minute video lectures explaining key development concepts and issues, and many
 conversations with leading figures in the field recorded during visits to GDI. GDI actively
 engages its alumni to share our research, with 7,500 regular email contacts on our database,
 many of who work in influential development-related positions in the civil service, politics,
 NGOs and international organisations.

 This intensified focus on impact is reflected in the depth and diversity of our four impact case
 studies, which come from staff at all career stages, with equal gender representation and with
 strong BAME representation in three of the four cases. The cases, chosen from a wider group
 through a process of internal and external peer review, show how GDI colleagues have
 achieved extensive impacts across the full range of development actors – major private
 corporations, local women’s groups, international development agencies, national and local
 governments – and also policy domains, including gender equity, globalisation, corporate
 social responsibility, health, growth, governance, social protection and agriculture. Beyond


                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 the four impact cases submitted, every research group has been highly active in the realm of
 knowledge exchange, as reported in Section 4.

 Since 2014, for example, GDI has built further on its established expertise concerning how
 NGOs can promote transformative development goals to inform radical shifts in development
 funding, policy and outcomes. This has underpinned two main areas of impact. First, GDI
 research and policy engagement activities undertaken by Banks directly influenced the Dutch
 government’s new NGO-funding framework to take a much more political focus. Banks’ work
 helped generate a new policy framework allocating €925million to improving the capacities of
 Dutch and Southern NGOs to lobby for marginalised groups. This in turn has provided
 support to 30,083 organisations in over 60 countries, led to the implementation of 2,870 laws,
 policies or norms and directly catalysed positive social and political change. Second, Mitlin’s
 research and advisory work with Slum Dwellers International (SDI) has strengthened the
 capacity of local housing movements in Kenya and Zimbabwe to promote development
 alternatives, persuaded local governments to invest in improved infrastructure within informal
 settlements and prevented illegal evictions. New work in Nairobi has focused on community-
 driven mapping exercises of informal settlements to inform the government’s response to
 Covid-19. This important work will be further nurtured and developed, including for the
 purposes of any future REF exercise.

 The focus, culture and practical support for promoting impact has advanced significantly in
 this REF period, and will be further deepened and extended in the next one. Work is ongoing
 to extend the quality and reach of GDI’s key communications channels, designed to maximise
 engagement with our research insights and boost the influence of our researchers. Alongside
 these efforts to ensure our work is widely recognised beyond academia, we are investing
 further in a long-term relational approach to cultivating impact. This prioritises building
 ongoing partnerships and collaborations with key individuals and organisations, including with
 NGOs in the Global South such as SDI and BRAC (see below). Through these partnerships
 we gain the opportunity to maximise the relevance of our research, create a platform for
 substantive change and enable ourselves and our research partners to take advantage of
 opportunities as they present themselves. Broader lessons from any impacts we achieve can
 then be communicated widely, creating a virtuous circle of increasing awareness, influence
 and impact.

 Our enduring partnerships with BRAC and SDI reflect our commitment to both relevance and
 the co-production of knowledge. Our almost 30-year relationship with BRAC and BRAC
 University in Bangladesh (thanks to Hulme’s CPRC network, Sen’s work with ESID and
 Banks’ work on NGOs) remains active. For example, Banks and Hulme worked closely with
 BRAC in April–May 2020 in support of their response to Covid-19. GDI staff have a
 longstanding collaboration with SDI that is founded on the co-production of knowledge and
 commitment to impactful research. A Leverhulme-funded action research network led by
 Mitlin on Participatory Planning in Urban Africa involves SDI affiliates, NGO support agencies
 and academics from the universities in Bulawayo, Johannesburg and Nairobi jointly
 developing community-led approaches to upgrading in these three cities. Gillespie has
 worked with the SDI affiliate in Ghana on housing and Mitlin worked with SDI affiliates in
 India and Uganda to understand the influence of civil society on government poverty-
 reduction programming. Mitlin’s ESRC IAA grant supports work with SDI’s affiliate in Kenya
 and UN-Habitat to promote informal settlement upgrading in Nairobi. In line with our strategic
 objective of working across North–South boundaries, we have forged collaborations between
 SDI and community-based organisations in greater Manchester to share strategies related to
 community voice and urban redevelopment. Three GDI PGRs have undertaken research into

                                                                                        Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 SDI since 2014, with results fed back into SDI’s strategic development. From March 2020,
 Mitlin has worked closely with SDI in support of their response to Covid-19 in Nairobi. In July
 2020, SDI became a key partner within GDI’s major new research consortium on African
 Cities.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the discipline or research base

 GDI has sought to make major contributions to development studies in this period, including
 through our extensive range of academic and non-academic collaborations, strong support for
 the Development Studies Association and leadership roles within leading journals, research
 councils and funding bodies.

 a. Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Building extensive collaborations with centres of excellence in the Global South and North is
 central to delivering our research and impact strategies and to the sustainability of our work.
 Below we list a selection of the major partnerships that enable us to deliver on our seven core
 research themes.

       ACPE: the FutureDAMS research programme includes the Universities of Cambridge,
        Surrey, Newcastle, Southampton and UCL, IIED and IWMI, along with a network of
        researchers in Ghana, Myanmar, Jordan and India. Woodhouse’s ESRC grant on
        irrigation was delivered in partnership with the Instituto Superior Politécnico de Manica
        (Mozambique) and the Nelson Mandela African Institution of Science and Technology
        (Tanzania).
       Digital Development: DD is a leading member of ‘ICT4D North’, a network of around
        100 academic staff, and early-career and doctoral researchers across 12 Northern UK
        universities. Foster was Visiting Fellow at the Fudan Development Institute, Shanghai.
       G&D researchers have helped strengthen the capacity of researchers at universities in
        Accra, Cape Town, Delhi, Dhaka, Kampala, Dar es Salaam, Nairobi, Abidjan, Addis
        Ababa, Maputo and Kigali. Tambupolon works in partnership with Bloomberg School
        of Public Health at Johns Hopkins University. Work on institutions was deepened
        through the visit of Professor Ira Gang (Rutgers) in 2017–18. Savoia has been Senior
        Non-Resident Fellow at UNU-WIDER since January 2020.
       GPNTL: the ESRC-funded Rising Powers Network included ISS (Rotterdam), the
        University of Sao Paulo, the Institute of Applied Economics in Brazil, City University
        Hong Kong, and the Gujarat Institute of Development Research. The GCRF project on
        regional value chains and decent work involves the Universities of Cape Town, Nairobi
        and Johannesburg. The group’s work was further supported by the visit of Professor
        Subramanian from Madras IDS in 2014–15, and Mark Dallas (Union College, US) in
        2019. Jepson helped form and sits on the steering committee of the China in Europe
        Research Network, which operates across 36 countries.
       MRA: the ESRC South–South Migration Hub partners with SOAS and Queen Mary
        (London), Coventry, UNRISD, China Agricultural University and the Universities of
        Cape Town, Addis Ababa, Ghana, Beijing and Ouagadougou. The ESRC
        Transnational Lived Citizenship centre works with the University of Khartoum, the
        African Migration and Development Policy Centre (Nairobi), and OSSREA (Addis
        Ababa). The EUTF Research and Evidence Facility collaborates with SOAS, Makerere
        University, the Rift Valley Institute and Sahan Research (both Nairobi).
       PGD: ESID has research partners in Bangladesh, Ghana, India, Malawi, Rwanda,
        South Africa, Uganda and the US, plus Sussex, Oxford, Barcelona and ODI.

                                                                                         Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        ESID/ESRC work on state capacity partners with Harvard, Oxford and the German
        Development Institute, and has helped establish GDI as a global hub on development
        politics. The EU-funded ManaGlobal project has established a new network with
        scholars from Africa, Middle East and Europe.
       Urban Futures: important collaborations include those with the Middle East Technical
        University, the Universities of Dar es Salaam, Cape Town, and of Science and
        Technology in Namibia, Cornell University, and Leverhulme-funded links with the
        National University of Science and Technology (Bulawayo) and Universities of
        Johannesburg and Nairobi, as well as SDI. African Cities partners with ODI, IIED, the
        Partnership for African Social and Governance Research, Liverpool STHM, IRC and
        ICLEI-Africa.

 The global reputation and reach of GDI, with over 10,000 alumni in more than 120 countries,
 further enables our collaborative efforts.

 b. Relationships with key non-academic audiences and wider contribution to economy
 and society
 Achieving impact is central to GDI’s mission and we work extensively with a diverse range of
 non-academic audiences to achieve this. We list the key knowledge exchange and impact
 activities undertaken by each research group here.

       ACPE has directly influenced policy and outcomes, including the extension of
        women’s group farming in India (Agarwal’s ICS). Woodhouse’s ESRC research was
        a major contributor to the African Union’s Framework for Irrigation Development and
        Agricultural Water Management (May 2020). His 2017 paper is cited in the framework
        and ‘Farmer-led Irrigation Development’ is the second of four pathways through which
        irrigation is to be promoted by AU member states. Bebbington’s funded research on
        civil society, extractive industries and sustainable development has directly influenced
        the Ford Foundation’s new $300million strategy on natural resource governance and
        climate change. This has catalysed new programmes of support to civil society
        organisations working to promote sustainable development with community
        organisations and regional networks across the Global South, and directly influenced
        initiatives at the multi-stakeholder New York Declaration on Forests, Norwegian aid
        and several major foundations. Bebbington also served as one of eight members of
        the Inter-American Development Bank’s Expert Advisory Panel on the Bank’s new
        Environmental and Social Policy Framework and was appointed as a Director of
        Oxfam America (2016–present). FutureDAMS is working alongside river basin
        managers in Ghana, Ethiopia and Myanmar to improve the operation of existing dams
        and the selection of new projects.
       DDG: Foster provided inputs for UNCTAD’s World Investment Report 2017 on the
        digital economy and its Information Economy Reports 2017, 2019 and 2020. Heeks
        provided conceptual and empirical inputs on emerging digital inequalities as an
        Advisory Panel member for the 2016 World Development Report: Digital Dividends
        and his ESRC–GIZ-funded work has informed the rating and certification processes
        designed to improve decent work standards for gig economy workers in South Africa
        and India.
       G&D research and engagement has reshaped DFID’s approach to economic
        development (ESID ICS) and directly informed the European Commission’s and
        OECD’s work on reaching the SDGs (Savoia). Tampubolon’s SMARThealth project
        (ICS) has transformed the life chances of millions of people in Indonesia. The Social


                                                                                         Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

        Assistance Explorer (A Barrientos) has generated increased support for social
        assistance among international and national policy actors and work by Hickey and
        Lavers on the politics of social protection has directly shaped the policy documents
        and strategic approaches of several major development agencies (e.g. DFID, World
        Bank, UNICEF, WFP).
       GPNTL members engage actively with ILO, UNIDO, UNCTAD, IADB, WTO, DFID and
        a wide range of international nongovernmental organisations, multinational
        corporations and workers’ cooperatives/unions. S Barrientos has helped set in place
        new industry standards and directly changed the ways in which major companies treat
        their female workers (ICS). Krishnan contributed a background paper to the 2020
        World Bank World Development Report and helped design the UNFSS’s Voluntary
        Sustainability Standards Toolkit.
       MRA: Bakewell is a Key Expert on Migration and Development for the EU Trust Fund
        for Africa. EUTF is frequently invited to share its findings with government officials and
        EU delegations across the Horn of Africa, and connects regularly with IGAD, UNHCR
        and a broad network of NGOs and think-tanks working on migration and refugees in
        the region. Kothari’s photo exhibition depicting the challenges faced by local
        communities in the Maldives raised the profile of environmental degradation and
        significantly built the capacity of communities to raise concerns with government and
        propose locally driven solutions.
       PGM research via ESID has directly shaped DFID’s new governance strategies in
        Uganda and Rwanda, informed World Bank reports, influenced the Government of
        Uganda’s National Development Plan (2015–20) and informed OECD’s approach to
        SDG 16 (ICS). Banks’ work on NGOs has changed the funding policies of the Dutch
        government towards civil society and the NGO Explorer tool is helping to facilitate
        greater cooperation between UK NGOs. Chimhowu is working with the OECD to
        improve their understanding of the critical role played by national development
        planning.
       UF: Mitlin has advised the World Resources Institute on their equitable cities
        programme, and co-authored WRI reports. Gillespie is working with Greater
        Manchester Housing Action to improve housing options in the city and has worked
        with housing campaigners to support homeless people in London. Mitlin is sharing
        community-organising strategies from the Global South with women leaders in low-
        income neighbourhoods in Manchester; this has resulted in over four new
        Manchester-based savings groups and the formation of a UK charity to advance this
        work.

 c. Contribution to sustainability of the discipline and research base
 Development Studies Association: GDI staff contribute extensively to debates on the
 sustainability and future of the discipline, both nationally and internationally. GDI has played a
 central role in supporting and leading the DSA. Hulme and then Hickey were elected as DSA
 presidents (2014–17 and 2020–23, respectively) and other colleagues have served as
 Council members over extended periods, including Kothari (2014–20) and Sen (2008–14).
 GDI hosted the DSA’s 50th Anniversary Annual Conference in 2018, and Bastia, Behuria
 and Horner have and/or do co-convene DSA Study Groups. We are active within the
 European Association of Development Research and Training Institute (EADI), with Kothari
 re-elected for a second term as vice-president in 2020, and C Jordan (Head of GDI’s
 communications and impact team) co-chairing its research communications working group.

 GDI staff also support other learned societies. Agarwal was president of the International


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Society for Ecological Economics, and is also an international member of Accademia
 Nazionale dei Lincei (Italy) and appointed fellow of the Indian Association for Agricultural
 Economics. Bebbington chairs the membership panel (Geography, Sociology, Demography)
 for election to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Sen is a member of the South
 Asia Area Panel of the British Academy. Kothari is Chair of the 2020 RGS–IBG annual
 international conference and Horner co-convenes the Global Value Chains Network of the
 Society for the Advancement of Socio-Economics.

 Academic journals: GDI has hosted the leading development studies journal in the UK, the
 Journal of Development Studies, since 2010, with Woodhouse as a Managing Editor
 (2016–20), Müller as Reviews Editor and both Sen and Fielding as board members. Other
 full editorships of key journals include Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
 (Bebbington); European Journal of Development Research (Dimova); Environment and
 Urbanization (Mitlin); Conservation and Society, Environment and Society and Environmental
 Conservation (Woodhouse); Information Technology for Development (Heeks) and World
 Development (Bebbington). Overall, 19 GDI colleagues sit on the editorial boards of over 50
 academic journals.

 Research councils and funding bodies: GDI scholars help set the research agenda for
 development studies through their leadership and review roles for numerous research council
 and funding bodies. Mitlin has been Deputy Chair of the ESRC’s research committee (2016–
 18), deputy chair of the ESRC’s Expert Advisory Group for International Development (2017–
 ongoing), Chair of the ESRC’s Grants Delivery Group (2016–18) and also chaired the
 ESRC’s grant-allocating panels in 2015 and 2018. A Barrientos, Hickey, Kothari, Nadvi,
 Sen and Woodhouse are members of the ESRC Peer Review College and Hickey was a
 member of the ESRC Knowledge Transfer Team. Kothari was a member of the Going Global
 Steering Committee, British Council.

 Beyond the UK, Banks chairs the International Advisory Committee for the civil society
 research programme financed by the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Hickey
 chairs the development studies panel of the Swedish Research Council. Kothari and Müller
 are programme committee members of the NORGLOBAL-2 initiative of the Research Council
 of Norway.

 International conferences: GDI staff have organised major conferences throughout this REF
 period, bringing together diverse academic and policy actors from the Global North and South
 and advancing new intellectual agendas. In June 2018, GDI helped the DSA mark its 40th
 anniversary by hosting and organising its Annual Conference on the theme of ‘Global
 Inequalities’. Over 550 participants attended, with GDI securing funding for 90 delegates from
 the Global South. Other notable gatherings include ESID’s international conference ‘From
 Politics to Power? Rethinking the Politics of Development’ (September 2019, 200
 participants), which led to a synthesis manuscript being submitted to OUP; ‘Scaling up
 Participatory Planning’ (June 2019); ‘Global Development’ (2017), which directly shaped a
 special issue of Development and Change; ‘World on the Move: Migration, Societies and
 Change’ (Oct–Nov 2017); ‘Rising Powers and Integrated Futures’ (July 2017) and JDS’s 50th
 anniversary conference in July 2015. Several funded workshops have led directly to special
 editions of journals, including on ‘Institutions’ (JDS, 2016), and ‘Global production networks
 and new contours of development’ (Global Networks, 2015), which established a new agenda
 on polycentric trade.



                                                                                        Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Awards: Hulme received an OBE in 2020 for his service to development studies and was
 appointed Member of Academic Europea in 2015. Agarwal was awarded Agropolis Louis
 Malassis International Scientific Prize for an ‘Outstanding Career in Agricultural Development’
 and the Balzan Prize for ground-breaking research into women's contributions to agriculture in
 India (both 2017), and Order of Agricultural Merit (Officer), Government of France, 2016.
 Bebbington was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and awarded
 ‘Distinguished Scholarship Honors’ by the American Association of Geographers and the John
 Simon Guggenheim Fellowship, all in 2015; he was also Global Chair at the University of Bath
 (2018–19) and Australian Research Council Laureate Fellow (2017–19). Kothari received the
 RGS–IBG Busk Medal in 2014.

 The activities and achievements recorded here, and the significant contribution we hope that
 they have made to our field, offer testimony to the vitality of our research environment. Over
 the same period, our significantly enhanced record of attracting major research funding and the
 highest quality early career researchers, restructuring around new knowledge frontiers, and
 well-resourced commitment to delivering research excellence and impact through long-term
 partnerships, all underline its durability.




                                                                                        Page 21
