Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: City, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: C21 Sociology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Sociology at City is theoretically and methodologically diverse. We are structured around eight
 self-organising research centres (RCs), spanning a broad spectrum of inquiry from the dynamics
 of work, gender and stratification, to identity and difference, studies of violence, crime and
 criminal justice, new media and their impact, and transformative social processes and cultural
 practices. We have developed a research culture that (a) maintains breadth across the discipline
 with excellence in our recognised areas of expertise and (b) is interdisciplinary and international
 in scope, relevance, and impact. Hallmarks of this culture are engagement with new lines of
 sociological investigation and revitalisation of the discipline through innovative forms of
 knowledge generation and social analysis. The vitality and sustainability of the Unit of
 Assessment’s (UoA) research environment is evidenced by the range and quality of activities
 and achievements and its ability to recruit, nurture and reward excellent researchers.

 The UoA structure reflects the high value it places on both individual research and collaborative
 research projects. Since the last Research Excellence Framework (REF), research in Sociology,
 which has grown to 38 members of staff, is organised in centres. Our key areas of expertise, and
 the eight RCs to which they contribute, are:

    1. Centre for City Criminology (CCC) undertakes conceptual, empirical and policy research
       to advance knowledge of the changing nature of crime, criminal and youth justice,
       penality, policing, surveillance and victimisation. The work of the group is characterised
       by its theory-driven research programme (Armstrong, Birkett, Cook, Hohl, Ilan,
       Kotanen, McLaughlin, Myers, Rojek, Taylor).

    2. Centre for Creative Industries (CCI) has an international reputation that extends our
       research reach into arts and cultural management and the international creative
       economy, an influential relationship with the policy community and core concerns on
       global creative production systems, urban development and the Global South (Baker,
       Gill, Littler, Mbaye, Pratt, Rojek, Sandoval, Susen, Yeh).

    3. Centre for Food Policy (CfFP) is a University interdisciplinary RC and one of the UK’s
       leading food research centres, undertaking research on how the food system works in
       practice and what policies are needed to shape a global food system to improve its
       sustainability, the health of people, society, the environment and the economy (Hawkes,
       Caraher, Lang, Marris, Reynolds, Wells).

    4.    European Social Survey (ESS ERIC HQ) is a unique RC that has an international
         reputation for co-ordinating Europe’s most important cross-national survey. The survey
         measures the attitudes, beliefs and behaviour patterns of diverse populations in more
         than 30 nations (Fitzgerald, Harrison, Ryan).

    5. Gender and Sexualities Research Centre (GSRC) is a University interdisciplinary RC that
       is at the forefront of analysing how gender and sexuality intersect with other social
       divisions and identities in a rapidly changing world (Gill, Littler, Baker, Birkett, Cohen,
       Gash, Matos, Myers, Walby).

    6. Jeremy Tunstall Global Media Research Centre (JTC) has maintained its strength and
       increased its visibility through research on global value chains in the creative industries;
       democracy, activist and disruptive communication; space and virtual reality; gender,
       media and development (Bastos, Chalaby, Iosifidis, Matos, Mercea, Saker).


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    7. Centre for Research on Work and Society (CRoWS) is a forum for social scientists from
       across the University who are interested in the study of work, including unequal labour
       markets and careers, the social, spatial and temporal organisation of paid and unpaid
       work and new forms and patterns of work (Barnes, Cohen, Gash, Gill, Harrison,
       Jones, Littler, Matos, Sandoval, Tholen).

    8. Violence and Society Centre (VAS) is a new University interdisciplinary RC, spanning the
       social sciences, health and law, with the Director and two other staff returned to
       Sociology. The RC has strengths in theory and measurement with deep relations with
       users and producers of data in both services and surveys (Cook, Kotanen, Walby).

 The RCs act as strategic brokers coordinating and shaping activities in each area of specialism,
 integrating and assisting academic staff, postgraduates, postdoctoral researchers, visiting
 scholars and collaborators. The RCs enhance the UoA’s research environment by running a
 regular programme of research events; undertaking research mentorship and development;
 nurturing research impact as well as individual scholarship; promoting the exchange of research
 ideas and new kinds of engagement; and identifying new opportunities for strategic growth and
 grant capture. Furthermore, they operate both inter- and intra-departmentally with membership
 drawn from across the UoA (members can belong to more than one centre), the University and
 beyond. The UoA funds the RCs’ own developmental activities and cross-centre activities,
 including research training workshops. An internal annual centre review process provides an
 opportunity for critical self- and peer-review, feeding into a rolling UoA developmental process.
 The upgrading of the strategic capacity and focus of the RCs since the last REF has enabled
 them to play a key role in our impact work: the four impact case studies (ICS) submitted to
 REF2021 stem from our RCs.

 The UoA research structures are overseen by a Research Director who works with the Head of
 Sociology, Centre Directors, REF Lead, Research Environment Lead, Director of Postgraduate
 Studies and the Chair of the Ethics Committee. Research is a standing item on the agenda of
 Sociology’s management team and staff meetings. Sociology’s research activities are monitored
 by the Research and Postgraduate Research Committees of the School of Arts and Social
 Sciences (SASS). The School research committees report, in turn, to the University’s Research
 and Enterprise Committee who provides overall strategic direction and management. This
 research structure allows for considerable UoA autonomy and innovation, while also offering the
 benefits of cross-university shared policies and good practice.

 In our 2014 REF submission we identified six strategic priorities designed to enhance our
 research power.
     1. To reinforce the international reputation of our RCs.
     2. To align staff recruitment with areas of strategic policy importance.
     3. To increase external research grant income.
     4. To strengthen the postgraduate research environment.
     5. To further enhance the UoA’s reputation for methodological innovation.
     6. To promote and expand public engagement.

 These aims – which underpin our research direction, investment and support strategies – have
 largely been achieved, together with a number of notable additional achievements (see no 7).

 1. Reinforce the international reputation of our RCs
 All our areas of research have been strengthened since 2014 through strategic investment,
 which has broadened substantially the international scope of research activity within each
 centre. For example, the core infrastructure of ESS ERIC HQ has been transformed due to the
 long-term direct funding commitment of the 25 member countries. Resultant strategic investment
 has enabled ESS ERIC HQ to expand its global outreach and form new partnerships, most
 notably with South Africa and Australia.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. Align staff recruitment with areas of strategic policy importance
 Our research strategy has been facilitated by a high level of staff retention and strategic staff
 investment at all levels, including: the recruitment of two new professors, four mid-career
 academics and thirteen early-career academics. This has strengthened policy expertise and
 consolidated and/or expanded the direction and scope of research activity within each RC. For
 example, CfFP’s research agenda now foregrounds a global health policy perspective due to the
 appointment of Hawkes as Director.

 3. Increase external research grant income
 To support high-quality research, external research funding has more than doubled while our
 portfolio of funding sources has widened. A substantial shift in the number of grant applications
 and successes has enabled the UoA to increase its external funding to £10.6M (e.g. from UK/EU
 charities, government and industry sources).

 4. Strengthen the PGR research environment
 Improving the quality of PGR research training has been achieved through joining the ESRC-
 funded South East Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS) Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP)
 and the Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network (BPSN). Student experience has also been
 enhanced by the establishment of a University-wide Doctoral College in 2019 to coordinate
 training and to improve progression and completion rates.

 5. Further enhance the UoA’s reputation for methodological innovation
 Staff have continued to push quantitative methodological boundaries, pioneering a broad
 spectrum of practices, including survey experiments (Fitzgerald, Gash, Harrison, Stares), data
 mining and network analysis techniques in investigating social media (Bastos), global survey
 development (Gash, Harrison) and quantitative analysis of violence (Hohl, Walby). We have
 also boosted our expertise in qualitative methods with a notable increase in the number of staff
 working on digital culture (Baker, Saker) and narrative and participatory methods (Armstrong,
 Ilan, Schuster, Yeh).

 6. Promote and expand public engagement
 The UoA has built impact, public engagement and dissemination into activities throughout the
 research cycle, as evidenced by the four ICS. We have established and/or strengthened
 collaborative relationships with research users and partners, including: international bodies
 (European Union, UN, World Bank); NGOs (Women’s Aid, Women’s International League for
 Peace and Freedom); national government (the Scottish Government, the Home Office, Ministry
 of Justice, the Department of Health); public services (West Midlands Police, Metropolitan
 Police, British Transport Police, the NHS, Arts Council England, BBC, BFI, Office for National
 Statistics (ONS); corporations (Google, Facebook, the Co-op); charities (Leverhulme Trust,
 Nuffield Trust, Princess Trust, Wellcome Trust); campaigning groups (Islington People’s Rights);
 and professional bodies (Magistrates Association, National College of Policing).

 7. Strengthen the quality of outputs
 The UoA has also used new mechanisms to improve the quality of our publications. Sociology
 operates ‘Shut Up and Write’ workshops and an annual research writing and publication plans
 retreat. For early-career (ECR) colleagues or those aiming to improve the quality and impact of
 their outputs, Sociology has also assigned a Professorial Writing Mentor (Gill). So far, five staff
 have made use of this opportunity. The University’s Annual Research Quality Monitoring
 (ARQM) process has also been adapted to improve the quality threshold of research outputs.
 The UoA’s wide-ranging, productive publishing record over the last five years is demonstrated
 by: 34 monographs, 16 journal special issues, 40 research reports, 470 journal articles and 124
 contributions to edited collections.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Future research plans
 The focus for the future is to build on existing strengths while responding flexibly to new
 research funding agendas. Priorities are to:
    1. Increase investment in and strength across all RCs to enable colleagues to develop their
        scholarship and research leadership and drive new activities.
    2. Further develop an Impact-by-Design strategy, by investing in the relationships built with
        external partners and research end users.
    3. Sustain and enhance the UoA’s expertise in innovative data and quantitative
        methodological practices.
    4. Further strengthen the PGR research environment including continued improvement of
        training and establishing new sources of funding.

 The UoA has a well-established reputation for producing impact-oriented research that is
 sociologically engaged and informed. During the assessment period we have continued to build
 on the success of REF2014 wherein all the ICS were rated 3*/4*. In line with University strategy,
 the UoA has developed an explicitly closer relationship between research and impact. We
 engage with a wide variety of partners in knowledge exchange and various forms of ‘co-
 production’. The four ICS showcase Sociology’s innovative approach to research impact,
 demonstrating how it is part of critical policy and public debates.

 Enabling strategies utilised by the UoA to heighten research impact include:
    1. Advancing an Impact-by-Design model that ensures staff, at all stages of their careers,
        develop and thrive as impactful researchers, nurturing co-productive research
        relationships with end users and beneficiaries.
    2. Recruiting staff who have a track record of impact and public engagement work.
    3. Developing impact-focused interdisciplinary RCs.
    4. Capturing impact work in appraisal, promotion and sabbatical policies.
    5. Recognising ICS development work in workload planning.

 The UoA makes full use of University and SASS funds to support the development of research
 impact by inviting external speakers who have expertise in impact generation, developing staff
 skills for successful knowledge exchange and for building future impact cases. Internal funds
 have been used to support our ICS, financing impact activities in the UK and the European
 Union. Our Postgraduate Research Students (PGRs) are also included in our Impact-by-Design
 activities.

 A core element of the UoA’s Impact-by-Design strategy has been working with a team of Public
 Relations and Communications Officers to increase the visibility and accessibility of our research
 to diverse audiences through targeted media releases, social networking channels, websites,
 blogs or the Conversation UK (some of the most read authors during the assessment period
 were Baker: 151K; Lang: 181K; Schuster: 104K).

 Key examples of impact work include:
    1. ESS ERIC HQ has high levels of academic and non-academic impact across Europe.
       The methods employed by ESS have influenced the Eurofund’s European Quality of Life
       Survey (EQLS), the European Values Survey (EVS), the Survey for Health, Ageing and
       Retirement in Europe (SHARE) and the International Social Survey Programme (ISSP).

    2. CfFP has a prominent policy formulation role with the Global Evaluation Advisory
       Committee of the Multi-Country Obesity Prevention Initiative, the Independent Expert
       Group of the Global Nutrition Report, the World Economic Forum’s Global Future Council
       on Agriculture and Food Security (GFCAFS), the Lancet Commission on Obesity and the
       EAT-Lancet Commission on Healthy Diets from Sustainable Food Systems and the Food
       Foundation.



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. Hohl’s research on the police response to domestic and sexual violence has had deep
       reach in police forces in the UK, changing police training, procedures and resource
       allocation. Internationally, Hohl’s research is being used to inform rape law reform in
       Japan and Australia.

 The multidisciplinary backgrounds of staff and the variety of approaches, methods and research
 interests create a vibrant interdisciplinary environment. Interdisciplinarity is further reflected
 in the UoA’s success in attracting research income from different sources and in the diverse
 range of research partnerships and outputs. ESS ERIC HQ incorporates researchers from
 multiple social science disciplines: sociology, politics, economics and health. An important
 example of Sociology’s commitment to interdisciplinary research is exploiting the University’s
 IRC initiative to secure three out of the nine funded IRCs: the CfFP, GSRC and VAS. The
 centres are driving forces for strategic thinking and research growth beyond REF2021. As
 described in Sections 3 and 4, they are enabling Sociology to (a) build capacity for and scale up
 collaborative research planning with other disciplines (Computer Science, Health, Law and
 Business); (b) expand external research partnership activities; and (c) develop international
 collaborations.

 Sociology is committed to an open research environment and the principle that research
 outputs are available for peer review and dissemination to the widest possible publics. The
 majority of staff have ORCID IDs and use the University’s Open Access Repository, City
 Research Online. Staff have collectively published 686 outputs of Green or Gold open access
 since 2014 (depositing in City’s repository an average of 98 open access publications per year)
 and have uploaded 1,541 items accumulating 474,129 reads on ResearchGate.

 The VAS and CCI’s open access commitment go beyond REF and University requirements,
 including allocating their own resources to ensure Gold open access to their publications. VAS is
 developing the ‘Violence and Society Data Enclave’, allowing access to the data it collects by
 academics from multiple institutions, subject to carefully designed safeguards for GDPR,
 intellectual property and security. ESS ERIC HQ champions the public sharing of research data,
 seeking to improve the visibility and outreach of data. ESS data is available free of charge for
 non-commercial use. ESS ERIC HQ is part of the SSHOC consortium building the European
 Open Science Cloud for the social sciences. This includes exposing ESS data to the FAIR
 principles (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Reproducible).

 The UoA maintains the highest standards of rigour and integrity in its research activity. Our
 criminological research is concerned with sensitive areas (such as young people, vulnerable
 adults, violence and victims of crime) and consequently ethical concerns are prominent
 throughout the research process. Building on the University’s Code of Practice on Research
 Ethics and Integrity, the UoA also adheres to the ESRC Framework for Research Ethics. Ethical
 scrutiny at UoA level is the responsibility of the Research Ethics and Integrity Sub-Committee.
 Staff and PGRs submit proposals for scrutiny, approval and on-going review.

 The UoA is at the forefront of research data management practices. VAS is establishing
 specialised practices and Data Sharing Agreements suitable for handling sensitive data, with the
 support of University-level IT services and the Research Support Office, to enable co-production
 with data providers, which will be useable by others. In accordance with the ESS ERIC HQ
 Statutes (Article 23.3), ESS ERIC subscribes to the Declaration on Professional Ethics of the
 International Statistical Institute. ESS ERIC also has its own Data Protection Officer.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Consistent with our research strategy, the cornerstone of the UoA’s staffing strategy is the
 recruitment, development and retention of outstanding researchers to reinforce and extend

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 existing research strengths. Since REF2014, Sociology has had strong continuity in staffing,
 which has underpinned the development of the RCs, a supportive and collegiate culture and
 productive collaborations. During this assessment period only three permanent staff left to take
 up academic roles elsewhere. Complementing a stable core of staff, the UoA’s sustained growth
 has allowed it to renew, deepen and expand existing research strengths. This is reflected in the
 increase of FTEs from 21.6 in REF2014 to 37.8 for REF2021. In total, 19 new permanent staff
 have been employed (13 lecturers, 4 senior lecturers and 2 professors) since 2014. UoA staff
 have a broad international profile with scholars from Austria, Brazil, Finland, Germany, Greece,
 Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, Romania, Senegal and Switzerland.

 Key to realising research aims is the development of staff across their career trajectory. This
 includes acquisition of the knowledge and skills to take on more substantial leadership roles. All
 new staff receive an induction programme that is organised by SASS. ECRs are afforded a
 reduced workload during their probationary years and are allocated minor administrative tasks.
 ECRs are assigned a senior academic mentor during their probation to provide regular support
 and guidance on research and career development in the context of RC strategy. Career
 progression is managed through annual appraisal with the Head of Sociology. Appraisals
 engage staff in the setting and attainment of priority research objectives and identification of any
 training and support needs. Guided by the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, Directors of the University IRCs and ESS ERIC HQ also mentor and supervise
 their staff. VAS includes all staff and research students in its thrice weekly meetings.

 Research leave is available to all academic staff along with provisions for additional research
 leave for staff returning from maternity leave. There is a universal sabbatical entitlement to a
 period of time up to a maximum of one-seventh of service at the University, conditional on
 approval of a viable research plan. Research leave outcomes are monitored by end-of-leave
 progress reports to the SASS Research and Enterprise Committee and through the appraisal
 system. The UoA has awarded 5,000 days (250 months) of research leave for staff during the
 REF2021 assessment period (an average of seven months per FTE; all academic staff
 irrespective of FTE or fixed-term status have had at least one sabbatical in this cycle).
 Sabbaticals make a major contribution to enabling completion of longer-term projects and/or
 applications for research funding and to building collaborative networks through visiting scholar
 positions (e.g. Pratt established a PGR training network with Sociology at the University of
 Milan; Mercea’s visiting fellowship at the Scuola Normale Superiore was the cornerstone of a
 co-hosted international symposium, a leading journal forthcoming special issue and a successful
 Volkswagenstiftung grant).

 To ensure staff achievement, research time is protected by a transparent workload model that
 allocates 40 per cent of staff time for research. The model is regularly reviewed, discussed
 within staff meetings and updated to reflect changing UoA strategic priorities and resource
 requirements. Adherence to equality and diversity principles is central to this workload model,
 e.g. flexible working and adjustments made for colleagues with disabilities.

 All members of staff are entitled to a personal research allowance (£1,200 in 2019–2020). In
 addition, discretionary funds are available for one-off initiatives, such as organising RC events
 and workshops. Staff are encouraged to apply to the SASS and University’s competitive funding
 initiatives. SASS also operates a research sustainability funding system whereby Principal
 Investigators awarded fully costed external funding are allocated a discretionary account
 (currently over 8 per cent of research income) that can be used to bridge and support research
 staff.

 Subject to application, all academic staff are considered for promotion on an annual basis by the
 SASS Promotions Review Committee. Research performance is a key criterion for promotion at
 each stage. Sociology has an impressive track record of career development. Since REF2014,
 eleven staff have been promoted to senior lecturer, five to reader and two to professor.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Public and third sector engagement continues to develop, including in-depth relationship-
 building by the RCs with policy-making bodies, such as UNESCO (CCI); with providers or users
 of data and evidence (CfCP, ESS ERIC HQ, VAS), e.g. third-sector specialist services for
 victims/survivors of violence (VAS).

 Research students

 Sociology’s PGR recruitment process and training programme are under continuous review and
 development. Since REF2014, the UoA has realised a high level of PGR successes, graduating
 59 students, as opposed to the 23 reported in the previous period. The research topics of
 successful candidates reflect the UoA’s range of supervisory expertise. In 2020, 31 PGRs were
 registered in Sociology. We recruit and work with an international PGR body that comes from
 diverse personal and disciplinary backgrounds. A majority of our PGRs are self-funded. They
 apply to Sociology because of the research reputations of our staff. Seven have been awarded
 highly competitive University studentships, fourteen students have been awarded fee waivers,
 two have been funded by their employer, one obtained a prestigious scholarship provided by the
 Chilean Ministry of Culture and another obtained funding from the German Academic
 Scholarship Foundation.

 In 2019, Sociology joined the ESRC-SeNSS DTP and BPSN. Inclusion in the SeNSS DTP
 boosts our ability to recruit PGRs through competitive studentships. VAS has already gained
 one collaborative scholarship from the SeNSS DTP with Women’s Aid. The UoA has aligned the
 selection process and recruitment criteria with network members. Our entry requirements,
 criteria and information about financial support are published with maximum transparency.
 Admissions procedures are informed by the University’s equality and diversity policies.
 Applicants with disabilities are supported through the University’s study support services.

 The Senior Tutor for Research (Susen) oversees the application-to-graduation process for our
 PGRs. Each student works with two supervisors, at least one of whom is a senior academic with
 a strong publication record and experience in supervising PGRs to completion. The second
 supervisor tends to be an early- or mid-career researcher. This arrangement also provides
 opportunities for supervisor training and expands the pool of eligible supervisors.

 Progress is monitored through regular supervisory meetings, an online progression
 monitoring system and supervisors’ reports. Transfer from MPhil to PhD status requires the
 submission of an upgrade document, a public presentation and a viva. The outcomes are
 monitored by the Senior Tutor. Where progress is not at the level commensurate with the
 academic standards required at each stage of the PGR career, strategic support measures are
 agreed in collaboration with the student. PGR research training and professional
 development are supported in several ways. PGR research skills are developed through
 generic and methods-specific training (147 sessions were provided centrally by the University in
 2020). Incoming research students attend an induction programme split between the University’s
 Doctoral College, SASS and the UoA. The Doctoral College offers a range of developmental
 activities including an annual Researchers’ Symposium for PGRs to showcase their work and a
 researcher mentoring programme. SASS provision includes a suite of inter-disciplinary research
 training workshops that are complemented by transferable skills training sessions run by the
 careers service.

 At UoA level, due to the recently acquired ESRC-SeNSS DTP membership and ESRC
 accreditation of our MSc Research Methods, PGRs benefit from strengthened research training
 provision. Further specialist training is provided through the ESS ERIC HQ and GSRC cross-
 institutional methodology seminar series, the BPSN and the University of London’s School of
 Advanced Study. From Autumn 2021, Food Policy PGRs will have access to the specialist
 training resources of the UK Food Systems Centre for Doctoral Training (UKFS-CDT). Additional
 processes to integrate PGRs into the academic community include: (a) profiling their work on
 Sociology’s website; (b) participating in our new Graduate Teaching Assistant (GTA) scheme; (c)

                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enrolment on the MA in Academic Practice; and (d) involvement in writing workshops and
 retreats.

 Organising their own events is a crucial part of sustaining the PGR culture. This includes a PGR
 workshop series; ‘SocPIE’, an informal forum for free-ranging discussion; and training
 workshops that are run through the ESRC Q-Step PhD Network, GSRC and CfCP’s Food
 Research Collaboration, as well as focused events such as the PGR Masterclass, which is
 linked to the Rosemary Crompton Annual Lecture. Sociology provides £500 per self-funded PGR
 student and an additional £350 per academic year to those employed as GTAs to support their
 research activities. PGRs are encouraged to present their work at national and international
 academic conferences and can apply for UoA and university conference support funding to do
 so (42 have been funded since 2016). UoA funding is also available for specialist research
 training needs.

 PGR successes that evidence the quality of the UoA’s research training include academic
 positions obtained at, for example: City, Erasmus, Essex, KCL, Middlesex, Minnesota, South
 Bank University, UCL, UEA. Former students have moved into policy-oriented roles, including
 Tate Modern, WHO and the RUAF Global Partnership. Other PGRs have continued with careers
 in more senior roles (e.g. in the National College of Policing). As further evidence of PGR
 quality, their work has appeared in major journals including Criminology and Criminal Justice,
 European Political Science, Feminist Media Studies, Journal of Cultural Economy, Journalism,
 Sociology, Work, Employment and Society (WES) and as single-authored monographs (Birkett,
 Goulandris, Kerr, Levy).

 Equality and diversity

 Sociology is committed to creating an inclusive work culture in which all individuals are treated
 fairly and with respect, having equal access to career-enhancing opportunities and resources.
 As part of its commitment to well-being, the UoA is proactive in combating discrimination,
 bullying, and harassment. Staff and PGRs are actively encouraged to suggest ways in which the
 quality of the working environment and general well-being can be improved.

 Sociologists play key roles in challenging inequality and shaping the equality agenda across the
 University, for instance as Chair of the University-wide Network for Racial Justice (Mbaye),
 Associate Dean for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion for SASS and Member of the University EDI
 Workstream on Governance (Yeh) and Co-Chair of the Bullying and Harassment Working Group
 (Myers). Members also participate in staff networks including: Network for Racial Justice,
 CityUniWomen, The Disability Staff Network, LGBTQI+ network, TIGN (Trans, Intersex and
 Gender Non-conforming Network), Family and Carer’s Exchange and the Religion and Belief
 network. The Associate Dean for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion ensures that EDI factors are
 taken into consideration in research related matters such as REF output decision-making
 processes, access to internal funds and research-related promotion procedures. In the
 construction of the REF submission, output decision-making has been guided by ARQM
 evaluations, which incorporate EDI best practice, including requirements on panel diversity and
 retrospective equality impact assessments. Additionally, no Sociology staff have been
 transferred to an education-only contract.

 Questions of inequalities and social justice form a significant part our research expertise and
 culture as demonstrated by our Sociology Racial Justice Working group, and the research focus
 of the GSRC, VAS, CRoWS and CCC. Sociology has run a series of seminars focusing on EDI
 and social justice, especially on Race and Racism, encouraging greater diversity in our research
 culture. Our webinar, Racism and COVID-19 (30 June 2020) attracted over 700 attendees.

 The UoA makes every effort to accommodate the needs of staff with special circumstances in
 the organisation of work routines. This includes scheduling research events in accessible spaces
 and between 10am and 4pm to allow all to participate fully; booking accessible rooms for staff

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 who use wheelchairs or who have partial sight; fitting work around school pick-up/drop off for our
 many colleagues with childcare constraints. Work can be clustered on specific days of the week
 so that colleagues with chronic fatigue have days to recover. The UoA and University also
 provide specialist equipment and multi-tiered support for disabled staff.

 Staff who work part-time (PT) or flexibly have the same career development opportunities as
 those who work full-time (FT). For academics, this means that they are entitled to apply for
 promotion in the same timeframe as FT staff, with the flexible working arrangements or fractional
 working time fully taken into consideration when their applications are assessed. Mechanisms to
 take account of parental leave and PT working are also embedded in appraisal and promotion
 criteria. Financial support exists for staff members who have accrued additional childcare (or
 other caring or health-related) costs due to attending research conferences and/or training-
 related activities, which can be claimed via Sociology’s research committee.

 To address historic patterns of male leadership in Sociology, a decision was made to prioritise
 the leadership training of women (completed by Cohen, Myers, Taylor, Gash). This support
 resulted in Cohen becoming Head of Sociology (2017–2020), Gash Deputy Head (2018–) and
 Taylor Associate Dean for Research (2020). Additional training has been provided by the Aurora
 programme, which is designed to enable women in Higher Education to fulfil their leadership
 potential at an earlier stage in their careers. Sociology has made use of the StellarHE
 programme in order to address BAME under-representation in senior positions.

 The SASS Gender Equality Working Group is addressing the gender pay gap and career
 progression and has been conducting Equal Pay Gap Audits since 2015. Within the UoA, the
 main gendered inequality was a disproportionate number of men in senior positions. An indicator
 that our equality and diversity initiatives are having an affirmative effect is the fact that since
 REF2014 four women have been appointed/promoted to professor (Gill, Littler, Hawkes,
 Walby) and four women have been appointed/promoted to reader (Taylor, Gash, Cohen,
 Marris). In this REF period all BAME members of the UoA have been promoted. However, we
 recognise the underrepresentation of BAME staff and are working with the UoA’s and
 University’s Racial Justice Groups to encourage BAME applicants and minimise unconscious
 bias in our recruitment processes. By acting locally to support women, BAME and disabled
 colleagues to progress their research careers, the UoA seeks to affect change and reduce
 inequalities in a way that is consistent with our focus on sustainable careers.

 As to the support for staff and research students returning from periods of leave, the UoA
 has had a considerable number of parental leaves since REF2014, with 9 members taking 14
 periods of leave between 4 and 12 months. Return-to-work meetings are scheduled during paid
 ‘Keeping in Touch Days’ and workload arrangements are supported by the SASS HR manager.
 Similar support applies when returning from periods of sickness or dependent leave. University
 policy for research-excellent returners entitles staff whose academic contribution indicates a
 trajectory of 3* or 4* outputs to take one term of teaching relief in order to refocus on research.
 In relation to PGRs, SASS has recently implemented a policy whereby parental leave taken by
 PGRs does not count towards the University’s suspension-of-study limits. To ensure equity
 and/or recognition of sometimes gendered workload impacts, Sociology also prioritises
 sabbatical leave for colleagues who have had particularly onerous administrative roles.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 During the REF2021 assessment period the UoA has successfully secured competitive research
 funding from prestigious funding bodies. As the UoA has grown, it has pursued a strategy of
 diversifying streams of research income with some notable achievements: £7.7M from the
 EU, £1.09M from UK charities, £1.25M from UK government and local authorities. Overall,
 external funding has been received for 84 research projects amounting to £10.6M in research
 income, 2.5 times higher than the previous REF period. According to the latest HESA figures for
 the period 2016–2019, obtained via HEIDI Plus, the UoA was ranked 10th for research income
 among sociology departments in the country, rising to 6th in 2018–2019.
                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Sociology has secured ERIC/EC direct funding of £4.8M for ESS during the assessment period,
 as well as funding for spin-off projects resulting in multiple ESRC grants (£650K+), e.g.
 Harrison, Greer, Stares and Gash (ESRC £255K) to scope the feasibility of a global survey. In
 2018, ESS was also awarded three H2020 grants (EU project 823782 – SSHOC; EU project
 823798 – Eric Forum; EU project 824063 – RI-VIS, amounting to £276K of funding for City).

 Funded research reflects member expertise and their topical interests. Highlights include
 research on the costs of human trafficking (Walby, European Commission, £271K); police
 investigation of rape, sexual and domestic violence (Hohl, Police Knowledge Fund,
 HEFCE/Home Office, £251K and UKRI, £142K); urban youth culture (Ilan, £11.5K); the
 examination of young people’s sexual relationships in a post-#MeToo era (Gill, project led by
 Victoria University of Wellington, funded through a Marsden Trust grant of £520K); gender and
 health communications in the Global South and North (Matos, Global Challenges Research
 Fund, £8.5K) and survey methods (Fitzgerald, Synergies for Europe’s Research Infrastructures
 in the Social Sciences H2020, €8.4M).

 Moreover, members of CfFP hold several major grants, e.g. the Wellcome Trust-funded Our
 Planet Our Health project in India, South Africa and the UK (£297K). CCI members are
 collaborating with European universities on the EU CICERONE Project on cultural production
 networks in Europe (Mbaye, Pratt, £468K). Mercea (£231K) coordinates a European survey as
 part of an international project on protest and democracy sponsored by the Volkswagenstiftung.

 The increase in funding is linked to a support infrastructure that has helped to achieve a high
 level of successful grant applications, averaging more than 15 each year, increasing income by
 a third (33 per cent) in 2018–2020 as compared with 2014–2016. Sociology is supported by the
 SASS Research and Enterprise Office (REO), which works with staff to optimise funding bids
 and assist throughout the lifetime of a project. Growth has been facilitated by institutional
 investment in the online research portal Worktribe, a cloud-based software platform ensuring
 collaboration, efficiency and transparency of funded projects and the continued investment by
 SASS in its Peer Review College. The REO delivers call-focused workshops, e.g. GCRF and
 ESRC. Our members have benefitted from participation in the workshops and funding-
 associated streams (e.g. Susen, £10K from GCRF). Sociology hosts regular visits from funding
 bodies such as the British Academy, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust and the Wellcome Trust. We
 currently have one Leverhulme Fellow (Burton).

 The UoA RCs GSRC and VAS have received strategic university funding as new IRCs. GSRC
 was awarded £225K for three years. It actively maintains links with the University Racial Justice
 Network and the LGBTQ+ society and has organised both cross-London and international
 events in a sustained effort to extend and consolidate infrastructures and capacity in gender and
 sexuality studies.

 VAS is centrally funded by the University for three years at a high level and then permanently at
 a lower rate. The RC has been awarded funds by the UKRI/ESRC, UKRI/MRC, European
 Commission and the Humboldt Foundation. The UKRI/ESRC award is part of a larger
 consortium awarded £1M; the UKRI/MRC and European Commission projects involve City
 leading large consortia on violence and health inequalities and the Humboldt is a personal award
 to Walby.

 The operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting the research development and
 impact of Sociology has continued to expand. At UoA level, the funding of up to £1,200 per
 person, per academic year, is used to fund events, conference attendance, transcription
 services, and fieldwork. Each RC is allocated £800 for events funding per annum with new
 centres eligible for a further £1,400 one-off fund for promotional activities and events.

 To enhance impact, a dedicated Business Development Manager enables links between the
 UoA, stakeholders, industry and the public. A full-time Research Impact Officer ensures that
                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pathways to impact are developed, resulting outcomes of impact are fully realised and evidence
 is routinely documented and followed up. Impact funds are available from City’s Enterprise and
 Knowledge Exchange Seed Fund. Members were awarded a total of £29.5K in funding in this
 REF period to develop, evidence and capture research impact. Funded projects include Gill’s
 witness statement to 'Changing the Perfect Picture: An Inquiry into Body Image' by the UK
 Parliament’s Women and Equalities Committee.

 VAS has University funding for dedicated administrative support as well as for estates and IT
 infrastructure. The University is spending nearly £1M on office refurbishment and IT
 infrastructure for VAS, to deliver its Data Enclave, a high-quality space (in the same building as
 Sociology and ESS) and highly secure offices (including computers, servers and CCTV) for the
 analysis of sensitive data. University Facilities, IT Research Support officers and legal advisers
 are supporting its development.

 Additionally, Sociology invested more than £375K in library resources to secure continuing
 access to cutting-edge research publications for research students and staff.

 To enable its broad range of members to acquire research funding, the UoA has actively
 promoted the seed funding available from the two University Pump Prime Funding schemes.
 One of them is dedicated to ECRs and the other, which aligns closely with the Researcher
 Development Concordat, to Mid-Career Researchers (MCRs). They each provide up to £5K of
 funding per project, exceptionally up to £10K, for up to 12 months. They support the
 development of proposals with the aim of attracting external funding. All applications are
 reviewed by members of the Peer Review College and detailed feedback is given to candidates
 (successful or not).

 During the assessment period, 13 projects within the UoA received Pump Prime funding (£60K
 altogether, an average of £4.6K per applicant). The funding has underpinned innovative
 research (e.g. Sandoval on worker cooperatives in the cultural and creative industries; Stares
 on understanding public perceptions of connected and autonomous vehicles; Tholen on the role
 of education in graduate occupations; Wells on the use of social media by the UK government to
 communicate food policies) and has led to further external funding (Sandoval was awarded a
 British Academy Small Research Grant).

 Additionally, Sociology research support funding extends to visiting lecturers (employed for at
 least one hour a week for one term). They are entitled to apply for up to £350 per year and can
 sometimes apply for more. This is part of our commitment to ensuring that research support
 extends to all colleagues.

 UoA RCs have led the continuing development of impact-oriented research infrastructure,
 facilities and expertise. ESS provides policy makers, legislators and citizens with high-quality
 data derived from its methodologically rigorous trans-European survey. ESS ERIC HQ has had
 impact, documented with support from the Enterprise and KE Seed Fund (£8K), in three key
 areas: survey methodology – transforming the field of comparative survey research within and
 outside academia; pedagogy – with the unprecedented impact of its online forum for data
 analysis across Europe; and, most notably, on public policy and society – with evidence of
 extensive impact at the European and global level generated by the ESS data users.

 VAS is building relationships with the organisations that provide data on violence, so that
 research and impact are closely entwined. Walby has longstanding relations with the ONS
 through the analysis of the Crime Survey for England and Wales, publishing analyses that led
 ONS to revise its treatment of high-frequency victims. The RC has been deepening relations
 with the police and third-sector providers of data on violence (e.g. with Women’s Aid), using their
 data in its research outputs and sharing findings to assist improvements in their practices and in
 their capacity to engage in public policy debate.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As part of the UoA’s broader impact strategy, a key objective has been to generate high-profile
 media dissemination as a conduit leading to deeper and broader impacts. Testament to its
 commitment to engage with non-academic audiences, media mentions for Sociology members
 average 58 per FTE, per year. These mentions reflect investment in professional external media
 training for staff (e.g. award-winning journalist Rachel Shabi provided training in 2019).

 As an exemplar of the UoA’s specialist research infrastructure and facilities, the ESS
 provides research data to a social science community with over 160,000 data users. In 2016,
 ESS was awarded the status of a landmark infrastructure by the European Strategy Forum for
 Research Infrastructures in Europe in recognition of its excellent research infrastructure
 responding to the long-term needs of European research communities. Also, in this REF period,
 UKRI (ESRC) commissioned a review of the benefits to the UK of hosting the HQ of ESS. The
 report recommended that the UK continues to act as host country for ESS ERIC for the period
 2021–2025. Even if the statutory seat has to leave the UK due to Brexit, the ESS Director and
 HQ team will remain in the UK at City.

 Through its participation in SSHOC (2019–2022), ESS contributes to the development of new
 European infrastructure for open access to data, the European Open Science Cloud and to the
 design of a sample management system for high-quality cross-national probability-based online
 panels.

 As a cross-HEI research infrastructure, ESS became a European Research Infrastructure
 Consortium in late 2013 with 14 founder members. As of late 2020, ESS ERIC has 25 national
 members, making it the largest ERIC in terms of national membership in Europe. During this
 REF period, ESS ERIC was awarded three large H2020 grants, two of which promote and
 sustain membership (ESS-SUSTAIN and ESS SUSTAIN-2 amounting to €7.3M) and the
 SERISS grant that involved ESS coordinating with other major social science infrastructures to
 improve data collection and provision infrastructure (including with the Survey of Health, Ageing
 and Retirement in Europe – SHARE ERIC and CESSDA ERIC data archive as well as the
 Gender and Generations programme, €8.4M).

 GSRC has used a share of its university funding to develop a cross-institutional partnership with
 Goldsmiths and LSE through the establishment of a regular PGR conference. The centre runs a
 vibrant calendar of collaborative research meetings, including a series on feminist
 methodologies.

 The research of UoA members has also been supported through benefits-in-kind. In her
 research on domestic abuse, Hohl received in-kind support from Staffordshire Police (2017) that
 led to impact documented in her ICS. The police force granted her access to their domestic
 abuse risk assessment data, with permission to use it for academic publication, and the force
 invested analyst time and expertise in producing data sharing agreements and in collating and
 anonymising the datasets. In 2020, Hohl benefitted from similar arrangements with Cumbria
 Police, Durham Constabulary, Merseyside Police, Northumbria Police, Staffordshire Police,
 West Midlands Police and the Metropolitan Police.

 CCC research with the Islington Integrated Gangs Team (IIGT) was designed to contribute
 directly to crime-prevention work local to the University. IIGT staff engaged in the project as
 research participants and user groups over an extended period in Islington council and police
 station premises. Initially co-funded by the University and the Metropolitan Police, the
 collaboration received follow-on funding from UKRI/Islington Council.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The effectiveness of UoA research collaborations is evidenced by the range of networks and
 externally funded research projects in which members are involved. The ESS Director
 (Fitzgerald) and his team provide international academic leadership across the ESS network,
 which includes a Core Scientific Team (drawn from six leading European social science
                                                                                        Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 institutions), rotating Question Module Design Teams, international methods and scientific
 advisory boards and National Coordinators (responsible for realising the ESS in their countries,
 30 in ESS Round 9). Ryan has ensured ESS ERIC representation in the ERIC forum, a network
 bringing together representatives of over 20 pan-European research infrastructures in Europe.

 GSRC has a strong international postgraduate research culture, working with the Freie
 Universität Berlin on PGR supervision workshops (Littler, Gill), and with the University of
 Newcastle, Australia, where Gill is a regular visiting scholar. The RC is also running a rolling
 programme of international visiting academics from, for instance, New Zealand, China and
 France.

 VAS has hosted leading scholars (e.g. Karen Heimer, University of Iowa). Its successful
 collaborations, within the UK and internationally, are evidenced by externally funded research
 projects supported by the EC (University of Bristol, Cambridge, KCL), Humboldt Foundation
 (Host, University of Duisburg-Essen), UKRI/MRC and UKRI/ESRC (PI, KCL).

 Lang was policy lead on a pioneering report by the EAT-Lancet Commission that brought
 together 37 world-leading scientists to advocate for a healthier and environmentally sustainable
 diet. In the project funded by the Volkswagenstiftung, Mercea examines the relation of protest to
 democracy with colleagues at four other European universities.

 The UoA shapes policy and practice through participation in national and international
 governmental committees and agencies including the ONS (Walby), the Universities UK (UUK)
 Taskforce: Tackling Violence Against Women, Harassment and Hate Crime (Myers), the
 Magistrates’ Association (Birkett), UNCTAD, UNESCO, governments of Mexico, Columbia,
 Kazakhstan (Pratt), the Home Office Expert Panel: Commercial Victimisation Survey (Taylor).

 A core aspect of the UoA’s research strategy has been to build relationships with research
 users, expected beneficiaries and target audiences of its work. The beneficiaries of Gill’s
 research include governmental and non-governmental bodies (e.g. the NSPCC, Government
 Equalities Office, National Association of Women’s Organisations). They have directly informed
 Gill’s expert contributions to the Government’s Body Image Summit (2014) and the UN
 Commission on the Status of Women (2018).

 Hawkes has played a leading role in multi-level efforts to improve diets as Co-Chair of the
 Independent Expert Group of the Global Nutrition Report, as Co-Chair of the World Economic
 Forum's GFCAFS; as a member of the International Panel of Experts on Sustainable Food
 Systems. In 2018, Hawkes was appointed by The Mayor of London as Vice Chair of the London
 Child Obesity Taskforce. Taylor’s report on attacks against shop workers was discussed in
 Parliament, ultimately contributing to the Assaults on Retail Workers (Offences) Bill 2019–2021.

 VAS Director (Walby) and members have been developing relationships with users of data on
 violence, including: ONS, Women’s Aid, Rape Crisis, Refuge, Respect, Imkaan, Public Health
 Wales, the Home Office, the Domestic Abuse Commissioner, the Anti-Slavery Commissioner
 and the Victims Commissioner. This ensures impact is embedded in the earliest phases of
 research.

 The UoA has broadened its contributions to economy and society through enterprise
 activities. Members have provided professional consultancy and research to 26 industry,
 commerce and public bodies, thereby generating £261K in income. They have advised
 international and national bodies including: The World Health Organisation (Hawkes); The Swiss
 Agency for Development (Gill); Department for Education (Barnes); NESTA (Pratt); Waste and
 Resources Action Programme (Reynolds); The Co-operative Group Limited (Taylor).

 The impact of members’ research is further attested by contributions to enquiries by both
 Houses of Parliament, government and other independent bodies. Barnes submitted his co-
 authored report into disadvantaged families to the Public Accounts Committee's Inquiry into
                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Troubled Families (2016). Iosifidis submitted evidence to the House of Lords Communications
 Committee on the future of public service broadcasting (2019). Littler provided evidence to The
 House of Commons inquiry on social mobility in STEM (2019). Pratt’s Council of Europe report
 on heritage and employment in the creative economy, on which he collaborated with three
 London boroughs, was presented in information sessions at the House of Lords and the
 European Parliament. Stares’ research on attitudes towards automated vehicles was cited as
 evidence in the House of Lords Science and Technology Select Committee’s 2017 report on the
 future of autonomous vehicles. Walby has contributed evidence to select committees, the
 European Commission and the European Parliament.

 The Global Nutrition Report, co-chaired by Hawkes, has been fundamental to the shift to today’s
 more integrated understanding of global nutrition. Gill’s work with Nuffield altered business
 practices and government policies to protect young people from cosmetic procedures, notably
 the removal of cosmetic surgery ‘gaming’ apps aimed at children from Apple and Amazon’s app
 stores, as well as new UK legislation restricting access to cosmetic procedures for minors. CCI
 members have advised UNESCO on creative cities (Mbaye). Pratt (CCI Director) has been a
 long-term contributor to the British Council’s global policy work. With the government of
 Kazakhstan, he developed the first cultural economy mapping ever done in that country.

 Schuster worked alongside the Afghan Ministry for Refugees and Repatriations to develop a
 comprehensive migration policy. She co-founded AASO (Afghanistan Advice and Support
 Organisation), which has offered advice and support to hundreds of migrants, since 2014. Ilan
 was an expert witness on rap music lyrics at The Crown Court sitting in Wood Green, in a case
 involving grievous bodily harm. Taylor submitted written evidence in conjunction with the
 Aboriginal Legal Service for the review of police body-worn cameras in Australia (2017).

 The UoA has actively sought to use its research to engage with diverse communities. ESS
 and NatCen run a popular evening seminar series facilitating direct engagement with academics
 and the private/public sector. Since its launch in 2017, 20 talks have been delivered at which
 736 individuals from 174 different companies (e.g. Google, M&C Saatchi), government agencies
 (e.g. HM Revenue and Customs, Public Health England) and charities (e.g. Macmillan Cancer
 Support, NSPCC) have registered their attendance. The series is available to watch online to
 maximise knowledge transfer. During the COVID-19 pandemic, it has regularly attracted 80 or
 more attendees from across the globe.

 The JTC seminar series has been a meeting point for academics and industry leaders (e.g.
 Steve Plunkett, Chief Technology Officer at Ericsson; Ole Hedeman, Head of TV Formats and
 Development at NRK). The GSRC seminar series included 31 events up to December 2020,
 featuring numerous international and UK-based academic and non-academic speakers.

 We host thematically interlinked seminars, workshops and screenings such as ‘From Senegal to
 Singapore: Creative Spaces in a Globalised World’, to celebrate UNESCO World Day for
 Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development (Mbaye) and the Ecofeminism, Food & Social
 Justice seminar series, funded by Food Research Collaboration (Wells).

 As part of the ESRC Festival of Social Science, Hohl co-organised the webinar ‘Domestic Abuse
 During Covid-19’ in November 2020. Among discussants were representatives of Women’s Aid,
 Respect and Thames Valley Police. The event had over 640 participants.

 In 2019, Saker gave an invited talk at Facebook HQ in London about his research on hybrid
 space. Walby gave research talks to non-academic audiences including the EC, the UN Special
 Rapporteur for Violence against Women and the OECD.

 Contributing to the sustainability of the disciplinary knowledge base and providing fora for
 networking and collaboration, we have hosted 57 public conferences, seminars and workshops
 during the assessment period, many externally funded and attracting an international audience.
 The UoA has an active calendar of high-profile events including the CRoWS/BSA/WES
                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rosemary Crompton Memorial Lectures that have attracted more than 100 participants every
 year. Other events include the Sociological Review Symposium ‘Everyday Self-Employment’,
 which resulted in a special issue of the American Behavioral Scientist (14 UK and international
 speakers, organiser: Cohen) and the annual British Society of Criminology ‘Women, Crime and
 Criminal Justice Network’ conference (2018, 2019, 40 speakers and 120 attendees, organiser:
 Birkett).

 UoA members fulfil significant leadership roles within the discipline, such as chairing the REF
 Sociology Sub-Panel (Walby), and volunteer to undertake multiple professional service roles for
 the social sciences community. Among them are Cohen’s role as Co-Convenor of the British
 Sociological Association’s (BSA) Study Group on Work, Employment and Economic Life; Saker
 as Co-Convenor of the BSA Digital Sociology Study Group; Burton as Co-Convenor of the BSA
 ECR Forum; Sandoval as Co-Chair of the European Sociological Association’s Sociology of
 Media and Communications Research Network; Myers as UK coordinator of the European
 Network of Emotional Competence; and Stares as mentor for the African Leadership Centre
 (KCL/University of Nairobi). Moreover, supported by over 40 sociologists, Walby co-founded a
 new Thematic Group of the International Sociological Association on ‘Violence and Society’.

 Among the UoA’s responses to national and international priorities and initiatives is
 Bastos’ role as an advisor on the Social Science One Europe Committee, an independent
 academic body led by Harvard University’s Institute for Quantitative Social Science to facilitate
 access to social media data (2018–2019). Also: Myers is a member of the UUK Taskforce
 looking at Tackling Violence Against Women, Harassment and Hate Crime affecting university
 students; Pratt has advisory roles with the Council of Europe, UK Office of Science and
 Technology and the German Board of Trade and Industry; Walby was a member of the Eurostat
 Task Force on the Development of a Survey on Gender-Based Violence; and Fitzgerald and
 Harrison were advisors to the OECD during the revision of the technical standards for the PISA
 programme.

 Interdisciplinarity is integral to the UoA’s research and is taking place in partnership with
 researchers in health (Hawkes’ 2020 article on the implementation of the Healthier Catering
 Commitment initiative orchestrated by local governments in London); behavioural economics
 (Gash’s article with Plagnol on earning inequalities in the UK); mathematics (Bastos, Mercea
 and Baronchelli’s research on online echo-chambers); industry (Chalaby’s collaboration with
 Plunkett on streaming television standards); and geography, politics, psychology and transport
 studies (Stares’ cross-national research on attitudes towards automated vehicles).

 The Food Research Collaboration, a CfFP project funded by the Esmée Fairbairn Foundation,
 fosters collaboration across disciplines and between university researchers and civil society.
 This is conducted through joint research-yielding briefings, reports and seminars. Successful
 VAS funding (e.g. the UKRI/MRC project) is likewise the fruit of collaboration across multiple
 disciplines, including health and sociology.

 The UoA counts the following as evidence of wider influence, contributions to and
 recognition by the research base.

    1. Members are Editors/Associate Editors of 14 journals including: Survey Research
       Methods (Fitzgerald); Crime, Media, Culture (Greer); European Journal of Cultural
       Studies (Littler); Information, Communication & Society (Mercea); City, Culture and
       Society (Mbaye, Pratt); Journal of Classical Sociology (Susen); Surveillance & Society
       (Taylor).

    2. Members have held research advisory roles with national and international grant and
       award-making bodies. Barnes was an advisor on NatCen/Joseph Rowntree Foundation
       research projects (2015–2016). Gill serves on grant advisory boards, e.g. AHRC and
       BFI’s Calling the Shots award for women in the film industry. Barnes, Fitzgerald and
       Iosifidis are members of the ESRC Peer Review College. Pratt serves on the AHRC
                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Creative Economy advisory group responsible for distributing £120M funding relating to
       industrial strategy; Schuster sits on the GCRF network grants panel.

    3. Members’ contribution to the social sciences has been recognised through induction to
       fellowship of the Academy of Social Sciences (Fitzgerald, Greer, Jones, Pratt, Walby)
       and an Honorary Doctorate in Social Sciences (Queen’s University of Belfast, Walby).
       Gill has been Ernest Athelston James Fellow, University of Sydney, and Distinguished
       Visiting Professor, EHESS, France. Pratt was Visiting Professor at Bicocca University,
       Milan. Susen was a visiting scholar at EHESS and CNRS, France. Lang was elected a
       Freeman of the Worshipful Company of Cooks (2016) and has been appointed to the
       London Food Board.

    4. Members have had their work recognised with multiple awards. Gill was shortlisted for a
       Lifetime Achievement award by The British Psychological Society (2017). ESS
       collectively received the 2020 American Political Science Association
       Lijphart/Przerworkski/Verba Dataset Award. Iosifidis was presented with an honorary
       award by the University of Nicosia (Cyprus, 2017) for his contribution to communications
       research. Mercea’s research on activist social learning was recognised in 2019 with a
       best paper award by the International Communication Association. Schuster (2018) was
       shortlisted for a Times Higher Education Award for Research Project of the Year (Arts,
       Humanities and Social Sciences) for her work on the experiences of returned Afghan
       asylum seekers. Walby received the Anneliese Maier Research Award (2018) for the
       internationalisation of the social sciences in Germany.

    5. Members sit on national and international committees, acting, for example, as chair of
       the OECD commissioning panel for contractors to run the 2024 TALIS surveys
       (Harrison); elected board member of the Media and Cultural Studies Association
       (Littler); member of ESSCA standing research group on European space policy (Ryan);
       prize committee chair of the Surveillance Studies Network (Taylor).

    6. Members have curated exhibitions (Yeh, the 2016 Li Yuan-chia Retrospective at the
       Richard Saltoun Gallery in London), delivered keynotes and public lectures in 43 different
       countries on topics as diverse as creative economies (Pratt: Singapore, Cuba, Mexico;
       Mbaye: Senegal, Mali, Thailand); COVID-19 disinformation (Baker: Australia); critical
       social theory (Susen: Belgium, Czech Republic, Serbia); gender and the politics of
       beauty (Gill: Australia, Spain, South Africa); ‘Gender and Covid-19’ (Walby: 2020 ECPR
       Virtual Plenary); institutional scandals (McLaughlin: Hong Kong, USA); streaming
       services and TV formats (Chalaby: Germany, Italy, Korea); street culture (Ilan: Ireland,
       Norway); survey methods (Fitzgerald: Australia, USA); sports (Armstrong: Qatar,
       Switzerland) and tourism (Rojek: China, Norway, Spain).

    7. Twenty-one members of staff are active on 45 journal editorial and advisory boards
       including Asian Journal of Women’s Studies, Body & Society, British Journal of
       Criminology, International Journal of Public Opinion Research, Theory, Culture and
       Society, Theoretical Criminology, Work, Employment and Society and non-Anglophone
       academic journals. Likewise, 13 members edited 16 special issues of journals, e.g. The
       Political Quarterly (Birkett, 2018); Environmental Communication (Littler, 2016);
       Information, Communication & Society (Mercea/Bastos, 2016; 2019); Social Media +
       Society (Mercea, 2016); Social Politics (Walby, 2020).

       Members have acted as expert reviewers for more than 25 grant-making bodies. Among
       them, Gill, Greer, Harrison, Littler, Mercea, Stares and Susen have been expert
       reviewers for the ESRC; Bastos for the Israel Science Foundation; Cohen for the
       Swedish Research Council; Marris for Agence Nationale de la Recherche (France) and
       National Science Foundation (USA); Mercea for the US National Endowment for the
       Humanities; Pratt for the Canadian, Dutch, and German research councils; Yeh for the
       British Association for Chinese Studies.
                                                                                       Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    8. Sociology has strengthened its institutional PGR training arrangements by joining the
       University of London, the BPSN and the SeNSS DTP and by receiving ESRC
       accreditation for its MSc in Research Methods. Our PGRs benefit from our strong inter-
       departmental and cross-institutional research training provision, take advantage of the
       SeNSS VLE and of the resources and training available through the School of Advanced
       Study. Moreover, in 2020, GSRC formed a cross-institutional partnership for supporting
       PGRs and ECRs with Goldsmiths and the LSE, which runs an annual conference on
       gender research.




                                                                                        Page 17
