Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College of Osteopathy

 Unit of Assessment: A3 Allied Healthcare Professions, Nursing and Dentistry

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview: This environment statement describes the impact of UCO research within the
 osteopathic profession and in collaboration with colleagues in related healthcare fields. It is
 submitted alongside two case studies which present portfolios of research which has
 strengthened awareness and implementation of evidence-informed practice, and developed
 research literacy and skills to support safe, effective manual therapy for patients with
 musculoskeletal conditions. The British School of Osteopathy (BSO) was founded in 1917 and
 became the University College of Osteopathy (UCO) in July 2017. It is a small, specialist, higher
 education institution (HEI) with a mission to deliver osteopathic education and research to
 support musculoskeletal healthcare practice. Business enterprise includes a Patient Outpatient
 Clinic, Continuing Professional Development (CPD) courses, and validation of awards with five
 Higher Education Institute (HEI) partners. Master of Osteopathy (MOst) degree courses are
 provided for approximately 400 students on 4-year full-time or 5-year part-time pathways, with 2-
 year pre-registration MSc degrees for small cohorts of students with prior healthcare
 qualifications. Graduates apply to register with the General Osteopathic Council (GOsC), the
 professional statutory regulatory body in the UK and UCO qualifications are recognised in
 Australia, New Zealand and parts of Europe. Postgraduate courses include Certificates in
 Paediatric Osteopathy, Osteopathic Care of Animals, and Academic and Clinical Education. A
 PhD programme planned in collaboration with the University of Bedfordshire builds on the
 Professional Doctorate which ran from 2010-2020. To promote sustainability, the UCO is
 currently diversifying its’ educational portfolio with a BSc. (Hons) degree in Nutrition and
 Professional Practice awaiting accreditation by the Association for Nutrition.

 1.2 Institutional development: The UCO achieved significant academic milestones in recent
 years including gaining Taught Degree Awarding Powers (TDAP) in 2017, the only osteopathic
 educational institution (OEI) in Europe to do so; gaining ‘University College’ status, a title
 protected under law; and a TEF Silver award in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) in
 2018. To raise public awareness of osteopathy and offer university level, practice-based learning
 for students, the UCO provides accessible, affordable musculoskeletal healthcare and
 rehabilitation services to the local and wider community. The teaching clinic delivers around
 35,000 appointments per year and is founded on the belief that osteopathic healthcare should be
 accessible to all. Many treatments are delivered free of charge both on-site and in a range of
 easily accessible, off-site community clinics. In July 2020, the UCO employed 131 academic
 staff, mainly part-time clinicians with multiple managerial, administrative, and educational roles,
 plus six category A research staff who have all been submitted in this first application to REF. In
 2020, a major workforce change management process was instituted to increase the proportion
 of full-time staff and clarify work force expectations. It is anticipated that the changes will
 increase capacity for research (e.g. grant applications, project management, publication,
 dissemination of findings, impact activities and postgraduate student supervision), and are
 aligned with strategic plans to achieve Research Degree Awarding Powers (RDAP) by 2032.

 1.3 Healthcare context: Osteopathy in the UK is an allied healthcare profession which has
 evolved since statutory regulation in 2000 and formal recognition by NHS England in 2017 as
 one of 14 Allied Health Professions. Most of the 5,400 osteopaths in the UK work in private
 practice (81%) and treat approximately 30,000 patients a day; mainly adults (87%) with
 musculoskeletal pain (81%, with 5% paediatric patients and 13% under 20 (Fawkes et al 2014).

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nine osteopathic educational institutions (OEIs) are accredited by the GOsC, but the UCO is the
 only one with independent TDAP. Historically, osteopathic research focused on assessing the
 effect of biomechanical treatment on physical dysfunction. UCO research, however, has been
 instrumental in shifting the professions’ focus towards biopsychosocial models of care, and
 research staff have been involved in developing guidelines and generating evidence to influence
 practice. Previously, OEI staff tended to be clinicians with part-time academic roles but, since
 2017, UCO have been developing career pathways to recruit full-time academic staff, and
 change management processes instituted in 2020 to standardise contracts aim to clarify
 expectations for staff with multiple roles and improve effectiveness.

 1.4 Research context: Osteopathy was initially founded on experiential knowledge and still has
 a limited infrastructure for research and development. Key challenges currently facing the
 profession in the UK and worldwide include: a limited pool of academics who are active
 researchers; few resources available to small institutions; lack of access to mainstream funding;
 and a narrow range of peer-reviewed publications that focus on osteopathy. The UCO is
 currently leading the development of research capacity and expanding healthcare knowledge
 and evidence to inform osteopaths’ clinical practices. The profession has not previously had a
 long or strong research tradition, compared to physiotherapy for example, but research career
 pathways are also increasing following statutory regulation in 2000 and recognition of
 osteopathy as an Allied Healthcare Profession (AHP) in England in April 2017. Up to 2017, UCO
 development focused on achieving TDAP and institutional designation, and included plans an
 active research team with sufficient critical mass to create impact. This led to recruitment and
 promotion of five staff with doctoral qualifications, who represent approximately 15% of UK
 practitioners with osteopathic PhDs or Professional Doctorates (GOsC 2021, personal
 communication). The whole UCO research education team includes six Category A staff
 (FTE3.78), who are independent researchers and qualified osteopaths with additional
 educational and managerial roles plus two staff on teaching contracts and a part time
 administrator. Staff characteristics are described in Section 2.
 1.5 Research governance: Activities are overseen and supported by the Research and
 Scholarship Strategy Committee (RSSC), which reports to the Academic Council and thence to
 the Board of Governors. RSSC terms of reference include responsibility for oversight of research
 governance and integrity, setting strategies, oversight of research degrees and receiving reports
 from the Research Ethics Committee. The UCO is working to implement a 10-year plan in
 collaboration with the University of Bedfordshire (UoB) to achieve the necessary environment
 and experience to apply for RDAP. From 2010-2020, a Professional Doctorate was accredited
 and delivered in collaboration with UoB, and seven graduates were returned to HESA by UoB.
 This degree is being restructured as a PhD to increase the number and calibre of applications,
 especially from international students, and to develop research skills more effectively than the
 first programme’s focus on practice and education.
 1.6 Research income: This has been modest to date, partially due to institutional size, context
 as a recently recognised allied healthcare profession, and the effect of multiple job roles on
 capacity. The institution has limited demonstrable experience in developing and managing large,
 long-term projects but the research unit is steadily building a track record in hosting and
 delivering funded research. The UCO have only had to completed HESA returns since
 designation in 2017, and research income since then was £193K (Section 3). This has included
 funding for paediatric systematic reviews and a clinical trial in collaboration with international
 partners, and a doctoral bursary in neuroscience in collaboration with Imperial College. Prior to
 2017, two large funded projects created ongoing research impacts. These were a mixed,
 prospective cohort and qualitative study to explore adverse events, funded for £140K by the
 professional statutory regulatory body (Impact Case Study 1), and funding of £253K from the


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Department of Health to evaluate fidelity and outcomes in an integrated physical and
 psychological intervention for patients with persistent pain (Case Study 2).

 1.7 Impact from publications: The UCO benefits from membership of GuildHE Research,
 including the shared Research Repository. Publication summaries are also posted on the UCO
 website and intranet. There are limited finances to support open access publication, but staff
 working with other research groups have generated outputs with wider access. Recognition of
 the growing quality of UCO research and its’ relevance to other manual therapists and
 healthcare professionals has been illustrated by an increasing number of interdisciplinary
 publications and invitations to peer-review for other healthcare journals. These include the BMJ,
 BMJ Open, Annals of Family Medicine, BMC Health Services Research, BMC Musculoskeletal
 Disorders, PLOS One, PLOS Medicine, Musculoskeletal Science and Practice, European
 Journal of Pain, European Journal of Paediatrics, Medical Engineering and Physics, Clinical
 Biomechanics, and Chiropractic and Manual Therapies. Staff disseminate research and training
 to the osteopathic community via publications in a range of professional journals, including the
 International Journal of Osteopathic Medicine (IJOM), which is a key professional resource for
 osteopaths in the UK and worldwide. All staff have published peer-reviewed work during the
 REF census period and 26 of 37 publications were in IJOM. The journal is published by Elsevier
 and, although the potential audience of osteopaths is relatively small, its’ impact factor has
 increased to 1.208. UCO research staff all have ORCID identifiers but there is no institutional
 system for recording research conducted by other academics. Staff also disseminate to wider
 audiences through conferences and evidence-informed Continuing Professional Development
 (CPD) courses.
 1.8 Impact from collaborative research: National policy impact has been achieved by a
 member of the team (SV) who was part of the clinical guideline development groups for two
 NICE guidelines and a member of the team that developed the National Back Pain Pathway.
 Within the profession, impact is achieved through research portfolios which address national
 healthcare priorities (e.g. promoting patient self-management for long-term conditions) and
 maximise staff expertise. This includes exploring the mechanisms underlying poorly understood
 conditions, and ways of strengthening the safety, scope and effectiveness of care for
 musculoskeletal conditions (e.g. low back and neck pain) and for vulnerable patient groups (e.g.
 chronic pain and paediatric populations). The UCO’s paediatric research work was recognised in
 the Institute of Osteopathy (iO) research in Practice Award for 2019. Impact is also being
 achieved through collaborative research and leadership initiatives. The UCO is supporting OT
 and JDR who successfully gained places on an international research leadership and capacity
 programme hosted by the Australian Leadership Programme and UTS (Section 2). Staff have
 contributed to community impact through collaborations which included acting as recruitment
 partners for the PAIN-OMICs study coordinated by Professor Frances Williams at Kings College
 London, and with Professor Alison McGregor and Dr Enrica Papi at Imperial College on an
 innovative visualisation study to assess functional differences in daily movements in patients
 with back pain. Local community impact from UCO research includes social benefits from
 specialist clinics at the UCO and the European School of Osteopathy (ESO) for patients with
 persistent musculoskeletal pain. In the UCO, expertise in evidence-based practice has increased
 awareness and use of guidelines among staff and students in the Outpatient Clinic where
 cohorts of new osteopaths are trained.

 2. People

 2.1 Overview: The UCO has recently evolved from a private educational charity to a university
 college, necessitating significant changes in standards and skills. A recent workforce change
 management process, started in in 2020, was prompted by the need to rationalise multiple part-
 time contracts. This ongoing process aims to clarify roles to increase capacity and effectiveness,
 including research unit reorganisation in 2021. The UCO was not eligible to enter REF2014 and
 resources were focused on gaining TDAP. Since becoming a university college, the team has

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 focused on enhancing policies to support thriving academic and research environments with the
 longer-term aim to apply for RDAP by 2032. Strategies for recruitment and development aim to
 increase research literacy in the profession, demand for postgraduate training, and capacity to
 undertake large projects.

 2.2 Staff characteristics: In 2020, there were 131 UCO academic staff (57% male, median age
 41-50 years) plus six the Category A research staff submitted to REF (four male, median age
 51-60 years). Three of 137 academic staff had doctoral qualifications, compared to five of the six
 researchers. Approximately 34 UK osteopaths have osteopathic doctoral qualifications (GOsC
 2021, personal communication). Research capacity increased over the REF census period. In
 2014, three staff would have been classed as Category A (2.21FTE), increasing to six in 2020
 (3.78FTE). One researcher is on a two-year fixed term contract and five have tenure. One
 person is full time and the part time contracts are from 0.34- 0.8FTE. All Category A staff have
 responsibilities for teaching and assessment in proportion to FTE.

 2.3 Institutional growth: In 1990, two part-time staff were employed to manage student
 projects, with subsequent recruitment of a research education team. Since 2017, the UCO has
 appointed two Associate Professors, one Professorial Research Fellow and a Senior Research
 Fellow to strengthen research. The institution funds research and education conference
 attendance and supports applications for study leave, including sponsorship for further training.
 Two staff who completed Professional Doctorates in 2016-17 were promoted in line with
 Professional Development Review and Encouraging Performance policies. Category A staff
 support teaching faculty by supervising student projects and developing research skills amongst
 the academic supervisors.

 2.4 Staff development: The UCO promotes continuing professional development (CPD)
 through free, subsidised, or funded course attendance. Staff benefit from the annual
 Professional Development Review process and Encouraging Performance Policy, which uses
 peer feedback to review achievements, identify training needs and targets for the next academic
 year. In the research unit, development is supported by bespoke training events (e.g. doctoral
 supervision led by the University of Bedfordshire), held every two years and grant application
 training provided on 07/03/2018. SV and HA have regularly attended GuildHE Research
 meetings since 2018 and an NIHR event for healthcare researchers on 10/07/2018. The UCO
 hosted a research ethics event, organised collaboratively with NCOR and open to other OEIs, on
 4/02/2018. Staff with statistical expertise participated in training for managing clinical trial data
 and other datasets. Current activities focus on data collection in a randomised clinical trial and
 preparing for a single case experimental design study.

 2.5 Equality and diversity: In 2011, 86-96% of UK osteopaths were heterosexual, 82-90%
 white, 51-61% Christian, 51% female and 3% had a disability (KPMG 2011), but this data is old
 and incomplete as new graduates often choose not to record diversity data about ethnicity
 (48%), sexuality (54%) or disability (99%) (GOsC 2019). At UCO, HESA data were not routinely
 collected before 2017, and limited information about protected characteristics prevents a full
 assessment of diversity. In 2020, 9% of UCO academic staff were from BAME backgrounds, 6%
 disclosed physical or mental disability and 4% identified as LGBTQ. Given the research unit’s
 size, quantitative comparison is limited but one researcher identified as LGBTQ, no-one reported
 a BAME background or disability, and no staff requested reduced REF output. Female staff
 occupy two of four senior management positions, and two female research staff work at senior
 levels. Gender pay gap variability for academic staff is also affected by the institution’s size.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 It was 9.93% for salaried staff in 2019 and 11.84% in 2020, which compares favourably with the
 national gender pay gap of 17.3%.

 2.6 Improving diversity: Recent debates in the profession indicate that under-represented
 groups are dissatisfied with lack of diversity and cultural competence in OEIs, GOsC and
 Institute of Osteopathy. Plans to recruit and retain UCO staff from minority backgrounds or with
 protected characteristics are being addressed by the EDI Committee through policies to
 safeguard dignity, address bullying and harassment via whistleblowing, and by establishing
 community groups to support students and staff with experiences of inequality. These include
 the Black Community, OUT@UCO for people who are LGBTQI, ENable for people with
 disabilities, Carers, and the Inter-Faith and Women’s groups. Research staff have run three
 training sessions on implicit bias with participants from all departments as part of the REF
 preparations and are developing a GOsC-funded survey of EDI issues reported by students in all
 UK OEIs. To raise awareness in other OEIs, a keynote speaker at the 2019 Education
 Conference presented research identifying the challenges faced by physiotherapy students from
 BAME backgrounds (Norris et al 2018; Hammond et al 2019). We are also exploring affiliate
 membership of Advance HE to support equality and diversity practices.

 2.7 Research career development: The UCO does not yet have the financial capacity for
 sabbatical leave but offers support with training and CPD. Staff can use the Flexible Working
 Request Policy & Procedure, Study Leave Policy the Family Leave Policy to address specific
 needs. Research staff are supported in developing research leadership skills: JDR and KB were
 awarded Society for Back Pain Research Travel Fellowships. OT, HA and JDR completed
 leadership programmes with the GOsC, in collaboration with Open University, and OT and JDR
 are currently on an International Osteopathy Leadership and Capacity Building Programme.
 Doctoral studies for HA and JDR were sponsored and there is a budget for conference
 attendance.

 2.8 Category A staff:

 2.8.1 Steven Vogel DO is Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research), Editor in Chief of the
 International Journal of Osteopathic Medicine (IJOM), Trustee of the National Council for
 Osteopathic Research (NCOR), previous Secretary and President Elect of the Society for Back
 Pain Research (SBPR). He participated in several guideline development panels (NICE 2009,
 NICE 2016, IFOMPT 2020) and large, funded research projects including collaborations with
 physiotherapists to develop best practice in the assessment of vascular pathologies associated
 with neck and headache. He was part of a multi-professional team (31 stakeholders) developing
 a National Back Pain Pathway. From 2014-2020, he authored or co-authored 9 publications, 2
 clinical guidelines, 1 national clinical pathway, 9 editorials and two letters to the editor.

 2.8.2 Dr Dawn Carnes PhD, BSc(Hons) Ost, BSc(Hons) Psych is a Professorial Research
 Fellow, Director of the National Council for Osteopathic Research (NCOR), Chair of the Council
 for Allied Health Professions in Research (CAHPR) strategy committee, member of the
 European Forum and Federation of Osteopaths research working group, and member of the
 International Advisory Panel for IJOM. She has significant experience in national and
 international projects to improve musculoskeletal practice, including five large NIHR-funded and
 one charity-funded clinical trials between 20014-2020. She has collaborated with psychologists
 and GPs at UK universities to develop interventions for chronic pain, headache management
 and opioid reduction for persistent pain, and with osteopaths to identify national and international
 patient and practitioner characteristics. Her work on adverse events, risk assessments and
 patient complaints guided revisions of the GOsC Osteopathic Practice Standards, CPD scheme,
 pre-registration degree requirements and complaints process. She contributed to two WHO

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 projects (Developing Complementary and Alternative Research 2015; International Classification
 Framework for Functioning for Manual Medicine, 2019). From 2014-2020, she authored or co-
 authored 21 publications.

 2.8.3 Dr Oliver Thomson PhD, MSc, PG Cert, BSc (Hons), DO is an Associate Professor,
 Doctoral Programme Leader and Associate Editor of IJOM. He has developed qualitative
 research approaches to explore osteopathic identity, clinical reasoning and evidence-based
 practice. He collaborated in a national study of the profession to evaluate effective regulation
 with colleagues from Warwick Business School and the University of Nottingham, which gained
 a 2016 International Organisational Behaviour in Health Care (IOBH)C for its’ contribution to
 evidence about healthcare regulation. This work led to changes in GOsC policies for CPD and
 standards of osteopathic regulation in the UK. He collaborated in surveys to assess osteopaths’
 attitudes to evidence-based practice in the UK, Australia, Sweden and Spain, with ongoing work
 in Canada and Italy. Results prompted changes in osteopathic education to address skill deficits
 and a systematic review of barriers and facilitators of BPS care for people with musculoskeletal
 pain (under review). He is part of an international network of 15 osteopathic researchers from
 Australia, Canada, Italy, UK, Sweden and Brazil. From 2014-2020, he authored/co-authored 32
 publications.

 2.8.4 Dr Jerry Draper-Rodi D.Prof.(Ost), PG Dip, PG Cert, DO is a Senior Research Fellow and
 Head of UCO CPD, the largest provider of postgraduate education for UK osteopaths. Since
 2017, he has developed an evidence based CPD portfolio. In 2020, he was part of a taskforce to
 develop guidelines for remote consultations for the Institute of Osteopathy. This led to webinars
 to approximately 2,500 osteopaths and a publication. JDR collaborates in biopsychosocial
 healthcare research with osteopaths from Belgium, France, Italy and the USA, and UK
 osteopaths on headache management. He is part of an international network of 15 osteopathic
 researchers from Australia, Canada, Italy, UK, Sweden and Brazil. His research has been
 recognised in two awards from the Institute of Osteopathy and one from SBPR. He has
 supported training for curriculum transitions to biopsychosocial frameworks in French OEIs. He
 was awarded an SBPR Travel Fellowship and is the current Treasurer. From 2014-2020, he
 authored/co-authored 15 articles, 3 letters to the editor and 2 editorials.

 2.8.5 Dr Hilary Abbey D.Prof.(Ost), MSc, PGDip, PGCert, DO, FHEA is an Associate Professor
 and Head of Research. She has experience in developing integrated physical and psychological
 care packages for patients with persistent pain and led the OsteoMAP cohort study (2013-16).
 She is currently working on research training for osteopaths in a single case experimental design
 (SCED) study of low back pain management, and an applied model of integrated physical and
 psychological practice as part of a project on Active Inference with colleagues from Italy and
 Sweden, and supported by Professor Karl Friston from University College London. From 2014-
 2020, she authored/co-authored 8 publications and 2 editorials.

 2.8.6 Dr Kevin Brownhill PhD, MSc, BSc.(Ost), GradStat is a Research Fellow, experienced
 researcher in spinal biomechanical analysis, and Statistical Advisor for IJOM. He provides
 quantitative support for undergraduate and postgraduate studies including OsteoMAP, the
 CUTIES trial and the single case experimental design. He has collaborated with partners on
 spinal movement analysis, including AECC University College (AECCUC) radiographic analysis
 of video-fluoroscopic imaging of spinal movement in people with chronic back pain, Imperial
 College analysis of 3D kinematic data , and with the Ecole Superieure d’Osteopathie to develop
 the use of Wii platforms for balance assessment in fall prevention. From 2014-2020, he
 authored/co-authored 3 publications.



                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.9 Research students: Seven osteopaths completed the Professional Doctorate in
 Osteopathy, validated by UoB, and other UCO staff acted as directors of studies and co-
 supervisors. This programme is being developed as a PhD to support strategic plans to apply for
 RDAP by 2032 and is planned to recruit approximately five students per year, starting in
 September 2021. PhD students will have access to UoB and GuildHE Research resources,
 including peer support and a writing summer school. In total, nine doctoral students have been
 supervised to completion by UCO staff. Currently three PhD students are being supervised in
 collaboration with Queen Mary, University of London, London Southbank University and Imperial
 College. The student at Imperial is being funded a donation to the UCO of £110K in 2019.

 2.10 Comparison: Nine UK OEIs are accredited by the GOsC but not, as far as we know,
 submitting to REF. We are not aware of any survey data to compare impact with other OEIs.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Overview: UCO infrastructure and activities have evolved in response to changes in
 institutional designation, and it is regulated as an HEI by the Office for Students (OFS) and as an
 OEI by the General Osteopathic Council (GOsC). Since the first BSc in Osteopathy was
 validated by the Open University in 1993, educational levels have risen. Between 2004-17, MOst
 degrees were validated by the University of Bedfordshire (UoB) and the first Professional
 Doctorate in Osteopathy was created in 2010. Five of the six staff submitted to REF have
 doctoral qualifications, which would not have happened two decades ago when few osteopaths
 had higher level qualifications, and only about 34 UK practitioners currently hold PhDs or
 Professional Doctorates in Osteopathy.

 3.2 Institutional infrastructure: The transition to UCO required changes in infrastructure,
 committee accountability and reporting, and policies to guide and monitor activities. Working
 patterns evolved organically and raised challenges in managing an institution where most staff
 have multiple roles. The benefits of working in a small HEI are that overlapping roles can
 facilitate communication, integration and sharing good practice. Infrastructure is reviewed
 regularly to ensure it is still fit for purpose as the institution develops and matures. Committee
 effectiveness is surveyed regularly, and data is used to guide action plans, clarify terms of
 reference and reporting, and review membership for stakeholder representation.

 3.3 Institutional development: The UCO has had collaborative relationships with Keele
 University since 2006 and Imperial College since 2018. More recent Memoranda of
 Understanding are with the Anglo-European College of Chiropractic University College, Victoria
 University in Melbourne and Kristania University College in Oslo. UCO staff have leading
 positions in national and international osteopathic networks including the National Council for
 Osteopathic Research (NCOR), Osteopathic International Alliance (OIA), European Federation
 and Forum for Osteopathy (EFFO) and Osteopathic European Academic Network (OsEAN).
 They also contribute to the Institute of Osteopathy (iO), Osteopathic Foundation (OF), and
 Council of Osteopathic Educational Institutions (COEI). Since 2017, the UCO has continued to
 develop practices to strengthen quality assurance. Long-term strategies include increasing
 capacity to develop new courses, validate and monitor courses in other OEIs, support larger
 research projects, and expertise to apply for RDAP. Educational quality was recognised with
 TDAP and TEF and partnerships to accredit other degrees involve helping less experienced
 HEIs to develop robust academic and research strategies. Current partners are: Osteopathic
 Centre for Animals, Wantage, UK (since 2016); Accademia Italiana di Medicina Osteopatica
 (AIMO), Saronno, Italy (2018); College of World Sport Holdings (CWSH), London, UK (2019);
 College of Integrated Chinese Medicine, Reading, UK (2019); Northern College of Acupuncture,
 York, UK (2020). Negotiations are in process with the Sports Ultrasound Medicine Group,

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 London; International College of Osteopathic Manual Medicine, Rome; and Centre National des
 Études Supérieures d’Ostéopathie Animale, Châtel-Guyon, France.

 3.4 Research infrastructure: Since 2012, the Research and Scholarship Strategy Committee
 (RSSC) has been chaired by SV, the DVC-R, and supported by an external advisor, Dr David
 Langley, formerly Director of Research and Enterprise at Bristol University and currently Chief of
 External Engagement at New Model Institute for Technology and Engineering. The RSSC has
 oversight of strategies and policies to support research integrity, governance, and capacity. It is
 accountable to the Academic Council and thence to the Board of Directors. The committee
 monitors and approves activities of the Research Ethics Committee (UCOREC) constituted in
 2008, and Research Excellence Framework Committee (REFC) constituted in 2019. The RSSC
 consists of six members from different departments and an external academic member. It is
 responsible for monitoring the broader healthcare and research horizons, guiding strategic
 initiatives and enacting plans for change. Strategies to increase research capacity included
 major change to undergraduate education in 2019, with a new curriculum focused explicitly on
 the knowledge and skills needed by clinicians as consumers of research. This aligns with GOsC
 CPD requirements for objective data collection activities as part of annual registration and
 changes to limit primary data collection by undergraduates also increase staff capacity for high
 level research by reducing time needed for student supervision. Institutional change
 management processes are also clarifying expectations for staff with multiple roles, which will
 create allocated time for research and embed expectations in annual Professional Development
 Reviews (PDRs).

 3.5 Research ethics: UCOREC consists of 12 members, half of whom are lay members (non-
 osteopaths). The six external members include a Chair who is a longstanding member of a
 Research Ethics Service REC. The Secretary is a member of the research teaching team with
 an educational role. UCOREC is responsible for evaluating proposals submitted by students and
 staff. Where these involve NHS participants, UCOREC refers applicants to appropriate NRES
 processes. Doctoral proposals are reviewed firstly by UCOREC and then by University of
 Bedfordshire faculty or University REC. Committee work has been strengthened by ethics
 training and participation in inter-institutional University Research Ethics Forum meetings until
 they ceased in 2017.

 3.6 Institutional income: Annual income in 2019-20 was £5.05 million, mainly from student fees
 with some revenue from clinical services. Approximately 35% of patients pay full fees, with 6%
 on reduced community partnership fees to support local keyworkers, but 49% of patients pay
 concessionary fees (older, unemployed, disabled adults, full-time students) to promote wider
 access to osteopathic care. Children and patients with HIV/AIDS 10% receive free treatment
 funded by the UCO or charitable foundations (10%; clinic data March-April 2021). The UCO
 gains some revenue from CPD courses, fundraising and marketing but research income
 represents a small percentage of annual turnover.

 3.7 Research income is modest but aligned with expectations for a small HEI. Total research
 income since HESA reporting started in 2017 was £193K, without significant NIHR or BEIS
 funding. Projects were generally sponsored internally or by professional bodies or charitable
 organisations including UK osteopathic organisations (e.g. GOsC, IO, OF, NCOR); international
 groups (OIA, Australian College of Chiropractic Paediatrics); and charities such as the Alan
 Diamond Foundation. (Table 1). Prior to 2017, funding for research or service evaluation
 projects totalled £403K (Table 2). Studies generating outputs during the REF period include the
 Clinical Risk in Osteopathy and Management study (CROaM; 2009-14), GOsC funding of



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £140K, and the Osteopathy, Mindfulness and Acceptance Programme (OsteoMAP; 2013-16),
 Department of Health funding of £253K.

 Table 1: Research income since 2017
  Funding sources                          2017        2019        2020
  UK organisations & charities             2,000     130,000      40,000
  International organisations                  0       7,000      14,000


 Table 2: Grants awarded before 2017

  Funding sources                 Pre-REF period        2014       2015       2016
  NIHR & BEIS funding                    253,000
  UK organisations & charities           140,000      10,000


 3.8 Funding strategies: Staff previously joined collaborative projects through personal networks
 and relationships with other groups and income was created through serendipitous opportunities
 in projects of shared interest. To increase future income, plans include:

    •   Aligning portfolios with national healthcare priorities (e.g. multimodal care; enhancing
        resilience; self-management)
    •   Topics of interest for collaboration with other groups (e.g. management guidelines;
        adverse events)
    •   Improving care for vulnerable patient groups (e.g. chronic pain patients, infants)
    •   Exploring underlying mechanisms in musculoskeletal conditions (e.g. low back pain) and
        manual intervention effects on these mechanisms.

 3.9 Institutional resources: Following two changes of location due to growth, the UCO moved
 to larger premises in 1997 and invested £5.2m in a separate clinic building in 2006. The teaching
 building is a four-floor office block which occupies 4,060 m2 and the clinic occupies 1,127 m2
 gross internal area on the ground floor of a mixed development, which includes offices,
 residential accommodation, and social housing. There are 34 treatment rooms, a reception area,
 administration offices, study rooms, group teaching rooms and a staff room. The SE1 catchment
 area includes businesses and an inner-city regeneration area, which provides varied patient
 populations for clinical education. The UCO reviewed its’ estates strategy and is exploring
 possible relocation and investment of £24.7m to a purpose-built, long leasehold opportunity in a
 regeneration area in East London. This would merge the teaching and clinic sites into one
 4,235m2 building. Heads of terms have been signed and a sales and purchase agreement are
 being written by professional advisors.

 3.10 Research resources: A research office is used by five Category A staff, two educators and
 an administrator. The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research) has an adjacent office and there is a
 small laboratory on the same floor. In the new building, staff would work in shared offices to
 facilitate integration, with access to a laboratory and rehabilitation gym to facilitate patient
 research and engagement with community groups. Current facilities are adequate for the
 portfolio of practice-based and clinical research, although space and measurement resources
 are limited to basic anthropometric and mechanical measurement equipment. To enhance
 knowledge resources, the UCO joined GuildHE Research in 2018, a collegial network of 30
 small HEIs. Regular participation in face-to-face and virtual meetings supports members’
 initiatives to embed a positive research culture, develop robust research and innovation
 strategies and appropriate infrastructures, and to enact individual strategic plans.

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Other UCO resources include staff expertise and recognition as a leading osteopathic research
 team in the UK and internationally. Patient data is accessible from a busy Outpatient Clinic and
 clinical resources have been made available to researchers from Kings College London and
 Imperial College. Data sharing arrangements have included Imperial College; University College
 London; the European School of Osteopathy, Maidstone; and Anglo European College of
 Chiropractic University College, Bournemouth. Becoming a university college has increased the
 UCO’s potential to bid for funding and strengthen research governance, but we are still in the
 early stages of development.

 3.11 Research impact: Outputs demonstrate cumulative development in expertise and
 impact on professional knowledge, particularly in scope of practice, adverse events, and
 paediatric osteopathy. From 2019-20, DC led a survey and retrospective clinical audit exploring
 scope of practice and osteopathic patient profile, funded for £10,000 by the Osteopathic
 International Alliance. Results are being used to develop snapshot clinical summaries, an AI
 platform disseminating information via social media, and a clinical audit practical e-learning
 module. DC’s frequently cited systematic review of adverse events and risks in manual
 therapy and SV’s national survey of adverse events in osteopathic practice projects were
 funded by the General Osteopathic Council, and led to a national survey of research priorities
 and revised Osteopathic Practice Standards. An online adverse event recording and learning
 platform for practitioners and patients, and DC’s review of insurance complaints also
 supported developments in CPD for adverse events, risk and patient consent. In paediatric
 osteopathy, DC led a systematic review of manual therapy, supported by crowd funding of
 £18,000 from within the profession. A systematic review of the effectiveness of manual therapy
 for distressed, unsettled and crying infants in primary care, was followed by a systematic review
 of the effects of common treatments for infantile colic, positional plagiocephaly and congenital
 muscular torticollis, funded by the Australian Paediatric Chiropractic Association. These
 reviews led to development of the ‘CUTIES’ trial (2019-2022), hosted at the UCO and funded
 for £83K by NCOR and OF.

 3.12 Research integrity: The DVC-Research (SV) is the institutional contact for research
 integrity, supported by the Secretary of UCOREC. A Research Governance and Integrity Policy
 and Research Misconduct Policy are in place, alongside whistleblowing procedures. We do not
 have staff specifically responsible for promoting impact but plans for integrity and FFRRM-
 approved metric training will be supported by current workforce changes. As capacity develops,
 and with support from GuildHE Research membership, long-term plans involve enhancing
 practice to align more closely with the expectations of Concordats to Support Research Integrity,
 Career Development of Researchers, Engaging the Public with Research, Open Research Data,
 and Advancement of Knowledge Exchange in Higher Education in England, all of which will
 support a future application for RDAP.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 Overview: UCO research has been influential in the changing attitudes to evidence
 informed practice within the osteopathic profession, reported recently by the GOsC. Progress
 over the REF census period in developing collaborative networks in osteopathy and other
 physical therapy professions has contributed to safe, effective health education and clinical
 practice. Staff have initiated and participated in large-scale projects with national and
 international governing bodies, professional organisations, and other research and special
 interest groups. Locally, research has promoted changes in osteopathic education and
 innovative healthcare in the UCO and ESO Clinics, with evidence of a sea change in attitudes to
 evidence-informed practice in the wider profession.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UCO contributes to disciplinary knowledge, good practice and innovation through impacts
 on GOsC Standards of Practice and guidance for pre-registration osteopathic education. It also
 hosts a biannual Education Conference to share good practice amongst OEIs and staff
 contribute to the National Council for Osteopathic Research (NCOR), where DC is Director and
 SV is a stakeholder representative and trustee.

 4.2 International contributions: In 2014, DC set up a network of researchers with the
 Osteopathic International Alliance (OIA) to share information and tools to survey scope of
 practice, and DC and OT are current members of the European Forum and Federation of
 Osteopaths Research Working Group. A memorandum of understanding was developed with the
 Collaboration for Osteopathic Medical Excellence (COME), a network of European researchers
 co-ordinated in Italy. Projects include a new model of practice based on Active Inference, with
 publications in Frontiers in Psychology planned for 2021 (HA), and attitudes to evidence based
 practice amongst European osteopaths (OT). The CUTIES trial into paediatric care involves
 partnerships with institutions in the UK, Australia and Sweden. OT and JDR are developing
 capacity-building projects on osteopathic evidence and clinicians’ use of evidence with the
 Australian Leadership Programme. KB has collaborated with French osteopaths to develop the
 Wii balance board for research into falls prevention.

 4.3 Interdisciplinary contributions: Osteopathy was only recognised as an allied healthcare
 profession in England in 2017. Before that, the UK profession developed in Complementary and
 Alternative Medicine, largely separate from mainstream medicine in the NHS. Six of the nine
 GOsC recognised qualification providers run courses validated by other universities, with two
 newer programmes managed by host universities (Swansea and the University of St Mark and
 St John in Plymouth). The UCO is currently the only OEI with independent TDAP and
 institutional designation. Before the UCO achieved professional and academic recognition, there
 were limited opportunities to collaborate outside osteopathy, but personal contacts and
 recognised expertise enabled the creation of networks with other disciplines. Interdisciplinary
 contributions include work on primary care interventions in physiotherapy, chiropractic and
 psychologically informed interventions for musculoskeletal conditions (Section 4.4).

 4.4. Back pain research: SV collaborated on an NIHR programme research award with Keele
 University and the Musculoskeletal Pain Clinical Studies Group, who were charged with setting
 priorities for clinical trials for Versus Arthritis (formerly Arthritis Research UK). Prior to 2014, he
 collaborated with colleagues from Keele, Queen Mary’s, University of London and Royal
 Holloway on other funded awards which investigated care processes for musculoskeletal
 disorders. More recently, SV contributed to the EDISC spinal task force and was a faculty
 member of the EDISC Non-surgical Interprofessional Diploma (Eurospine), The International
 Federation of Orthopaedic Manipulative Physical Therapists’ team developing the International
 Framework for Examination of the Cervical Region for potential of vascular pathologies of the
 neck prior to Orthopaedic Manual Therapy (OMT) Intervention. SV also made expert
 contributions to the Development of an ICF-based assessment schedule for manual medicine,
 and NICE low back pain clinical guideline development. SV and JDR have served on the Society
 for Back Pain Research Executive Committee. As SBPR Secretary, SV was also a member of
 the United Kingdom Spine Societies Board and appointed President Elect of SBPR in April 2021.

 4.5 Contributions to practice and education: The UCO validates courses at Osteopathic
 Centre for Animals, Wantage, UK (since 2016), Accademia Italiana di Medicina Osteopatica
 (AIMO), Saronno, Italy (since 2018), College of World Sport Holdings (CWSH), London, UK
 (since 2019), College of Integrated Chinese Medicine, Reading, UK (since 2019) and Northern

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 College of Acupuncture, York, UK (since 2020). In 2015, DC led a national ‘Patient Reported
 Outcome Data Collection’ project using a web interface and a mobile phone app. PROMS
 provide information about osteopathic care for use by patients, practitioners, the profession and
 the wider healthcare community and the ePROMS project is being used in six European
 countries. A national and international database of PROMS now exists, which provides a set of
 standard outcomes against which osteopaths can assess their performance and monitor patient
 outcomes. JDR is part of a UK research team with the Osteopaths for Progress in Headaches
 and Migraines (OPMH) special interest group who are assessing osteopaths’ competencies in
 assessment of headaches and migraines. An e-learning programme will be developed for their
 RCT to assess the effectiveness of the e-learning in improving osteopaths’ competencies. Staff
 also disseminate research findings to support evidence-informed healthcare education through
 biannual Osteopathic Education Conferences. In 2015, the topic was professionalism and
 professional boundaries; in 2017, strengthening the knowledge base for tomorrow’s osteopaths;
 and in 2019, the focus was on evidence-based education and assessment processes.

 4.6 Disseminating research into practice: Research staff are all involved in the production of
 IJOM, including roles as Editor in Chief (SV), Associate Editor (OT), Statistical Advisor (KB),
 member of the International Advisory Board (DC) and peer reviewers (HA, JDR). Staff are
 actively engaged in research dissemination in publications, conferences and CPD courses. In the
 UK, staff have delivered keynote lectures, presentations and workshops on evidence-based
 practice at: the annual Institute of Osteopathy Conventions (2014-2020), NCOR conferences on
 chronic pain and on applying research in practice :annual SBPR meetings in Dublin (2014),
 Bournemouth (2015), Preston (2016), Northampton (2017) and Sheffield (2019); and the World
 Congress of Biomechanics in Dublin in 2018. Internationally, UCO research staff have delivered
 presentations and workshops to a range of healthcare conferences including: IdHEO in Nantes
 (France) in 2017 and 2019; OSEAN in Barcelona (2014), Vienna (2016), Lyon (2018); COME in
 Barcelona (2017), Dubai (2018, 2019), Sicily (2019), Paris (2020); SBPR in Groningen (2018);
 and the European Society for Philosophy in Medicine and Healthcare in Ghent (2015) and
 Zagreb (2016). Evidence-based CPD courses at the UCO have included: communication and
 consent, cervical artery dysfunction and spinal manipulation and psychologically informed
 practice (SV); biopsychosocial frameworks for musculoskeletal healthcare (JDR); and persistent
 pain management (HA).

 4.7 New dissemination methods: Staff have been proactive in developing flexible methods of
 reaching audiences less likely to engage with formal research including webinars, online
 resources, and podcasts. Webinars to enable osteopaths to maintain up-to-date knowledge and
 fulfil CPD requirements during pandemic limitations on face-to-face consultations included:
 appraising research literature, and remote consultations (JDR); facilitating self-management in
 remote consultations (DC); COVID-19 and Infection Prevention and Control Guidance in practice
 (DC); ‘best evidence’ summaries (DC); reviews of treatments for infantile colic, plagiocephaly
 and congenital muscular torticollis (DC). To promote wider engagement with research and
 evidence-informed practice, staff also created new accessible online resources including: open
 access resources for remote consultations (JDR); webinar on finding and making sense of
 research literature (JDR); webinar on the state of affairs in osteopathy; and OsteoMAP
 resources available at ACBS .

 4.8 Impact beyond osteopathy: The ‘Words Matter’ podcast series, developed as a personal
 project by OT, showcased sessions with UCO colleagues SV and JDR. OT also created 16
 podcast interviews with authors of each chapter of a new healthcare philosophy book by the
 CauseHealth network, a critical analysis of concepts of causation in person-centred care that


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has demonstrated its’ relevance and popularity for a wide range of healthcare practitioners.
 Professor Stephen Tyreman, a key member of the UCO research team until his death in 2018,
 was a significant force in the CauseHealth network and the book is dedicated to his memory.
 Tyreman was also instrumental in generating links with Professor Bill Fulford at the Collaborating
 Centre for Values Based Healthcare at St Catherine’s in Oxford, and the UCO is an institutional
 member. Tyreman and Fulford were influential in developing concepts of Values Based Practice
 and regulation in collaboration with the GOsC to guide Osteopathic Practice Standards revision.

 4.9 Contributions to society and the economy: Impact has been through SV’s work on NICE
 back pain guidelines and the National Back Pain Pathway, which influenced national care
 pathways. However, as a small healthcare education charity, the UCO has not yet made major
 contributions to the wider economy but are committed to creating sustainable research
 environments to help the profession mature and contribute effectively to wider healthcare.
 During the REF census period, outputs and dissemination activities strengthened the UCO’s
 status as a centre of expertise for osteopathic healthcare, education and research. Future plans
 include strengthening our collaborative approach and participation in interdisciplinary networks,
 embedding data collection and impact assessments into institutional processes, and increasing
 research capacity and expertise in preparation for REF2028 and RDAP.

 4.10 Summary: This environment statement has presented both the context of the UCO as a
 small, specialist, allied healthcare HEI and the scope and reach of its’ research activities. This
 submission to REF illustrates development in our capacity to generate and disseminate research
 to improve musculoskeletal healthcare practice. From 2014-2020, we gained institutional
 designation, TDAP, University College status and a silver TEF award. Change management
 processes are creating a sustainable base for growth and future plans include:
     • Developing KEF policies and joining AdvanceHE as an associate member
     • Recruiting research-active staff to extend expertise and build critical mass for RDAP
     • Delivering a PhD programme with international relevance and value
     • Strengthening infrastructures to support equality, diversity and inclusivity; a thriving
         research environment; and aligning with concordat principles for impact and reach
     • Strengthening evidence-informed practice through research courses, publications,
         presentations, with blogs and webinars to wider audiences
     • Developing further inter-institutional and interdisciplinary collaborations and opportunities
         to contribute to policy advisory committees and guideline panels
     • Developing routine feedback collection using patient reported outcome measures, with
         public and other stakeholder experiences to guide future research
     • Implementing systems to record impact metrics, in line with FFRRM guidelines.




                                                                                            Page 13
