Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    Institution: University of Oxford

    Unit of Assessment: 11 – Computer Science and Informatics

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

    1.1. Overview and unit structure
    This Unit of Assessment (UoA) comprises the University of Oxford’s Department of Computer
    Science (CS), together with two staff from the Oxford Internet Institute, a multidisciplinary unit
    focussed on the societal impact of information technology. Oxford CS includes 69 academic
    faculty, over 100 research staff, and over 250 doctoral students, organised into ten research
    themes. Our mission is to be an internationally leading centre of research, training,
    dissemination, and impact facilitation across a broad spectrum of Computer Science, ranging
    from foundations to challenge-led and interdisciplinary work. In pursuit of this objective, we seek
    to provide facilities and support that enable world-leading research, attract talented staff and
    students from around the world, and foster engagement with a diverse range of collaborators
    and external beneficiaries. Our research environment is highly interdisciplinary, enjoying close
    collaborative links with Engineering, Mathematics, Physics, and the life sciences. Many of our
    academic staff are recognised as international leaders, and we play a leading role in national
    research initiatives, such as the Alan Turing Institute. Our ethos of academic excellence is
    underpinned by a commitment to supporting all our staff and students to achieve their full
    potential. The following are key indicators of progress over the period:

    Strengthening our research capability. We have established three new research themes –
    Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning, Cyber-Physical Systems, and Human-Centred
    Computing – and made 16 permanent appointments across the Department, including seven
    early career researchers (ECRs1). Compared to REF2014, the number of staff returned here
    who are on permanent contracts has increased significantly, from 48 to 62.

    Expanding our research pipeline. Over the period, we generated over £74m of external
    research income. We further received £17m in philanthropic donations, including £10m towards
    a new building, and £4m for studentships and for a new chair in Artificial Intelligence (AI). Our
    staff were PI on four Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs), two programme grants, and 21
    personal research fellowships (predominantly ERC, EPSRC, and Royal Society). Applications to
    the doctoral programme grew by 22% a year on average, and we awarded 242 doctoral
    degrees, compared to 124 for the REF2014 period.

    Facilitating and realising impact. The period has seen a high volume of translational activity,
    often emerging from large, multi-stakeholder research grants, collaborations with industry, and
    engagement with policy-makers. Our staff filed 27 priority patents and undertook 122 personal
    consultancy agreements with 59 different companies. 21 commercial licence deals were agreed
    with companies in diverse sectors including pharmaceuticals, healthcare, electronics, and
    manufacturing. Our spinouts raised over US$70m in investment, and several were acquired by
    major international companies including GitHub, Meltwater, and Waymo.

    1.2. Research theme development
    We have undertaken a major reorganisation of our research themes in pursuit of the research
    strategy described in REF2014. A key development has been the establishment of three new

1
    REF2021 definition here and throughout.

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 themes: Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning (AI&ML), Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS), and
 Human-Centred Computing (HCC). Here we give an overview of each theme, highlighting
 advances since REF2014:

 Algorithms and Complexity (Head: L. Goldberg; 8 faculty). This theme was created in the
 previous REF period with the hiring of L. Goldberg, P. Goldberg, Koutsoupias, and Živný to join
 with Jeavons. Over the current period, the theme has been strengthened with the hiring of
 Galanis (an ECR) and Santhanam. Research focusses on computational economics, game
 theory, constraint satisfaction, computational counting, circuit complexity, and randomised
 algorithms.

 Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (Head: Wooldridge; 8 faculty). AI&ML is a new,
 distinct theme combining Blunsom, Calinescu, Elkind, Lukasiewicz, and Wooldridge with new
 hires Gal (ECR), Kanade, and Whiteson. The theme benefits from expertise across a broad
 spectrum of AI methodologies, including symbolic AI, multi-agent systems, game theory,
 Bayesian reasoning, reinforcement learning, and deep learning.

 Automated Verification (Head: Kwiatkowska; 9 faculty). This theme is one of the world’s largest
 centres for automated verification and has benefitted from Cardelli moving to a 100% FTE post.
 Members investigate the theory and practice of automated formal verification and correct-by-
 construction synthesis for software and hardware systems in diverse settings, as required by
 modern ubiquitous computing systems. The theme is also pioneering applications of verification
 to systems biology, machine learning, and dynamical systems.

 Computational Biology and Health Informatics (Head: Rodriguez; 9 faculty). The theme engages
 in computational approaches to biomedical and healthcare research, including multiscale
 modelling and simulation, image and signal analysis, and semantics-driven technologies.
 Research aims at improving the efficacy of clinical diagnosis and therapy for cardiovascular,
 lung, bone, and cancer diseases, and builds on strong collaborations with clinicians, industry,
 and regulators. The theme supplies the PIs for two CDTs: Health Data Science (Davies), offered
 in conjunction with Oxford’s Big Data Institute, and Sustainable Approaches to Biomedical
 Sciences: Responsible and Reproducible Research (SABS:R3) (Gavaghan). With the hiring of
 Bueno-Orovio (ECR), the theme has enhanced its expertise in data-driven cardiac modelling and
 simulation.

 Cyber-Physical Systems (Head: Trigoni; 4 faculty). CPS is a new theme built up through the
 hiring of Rogers and Vu to join Trigoni and Markham. Research focusses on intelligent and
 autonomous sensor systems, with applications in positioning, healthcare, the smart grid,
 environmental monitoring, citizen science platforms, and smart cities. The theme enjoys strong
 links with the Department of Engineering Science, including a jointly offered CDT in Autonomous
 Intelligent Machines and Systems (awarded to Trigoni as PI).

 Data and Knowledge (Head: Horrocks; 8 faculty). This theme, formerly Information Systems,
 encompasses research in databases and knowledge representation, including query languages,
 information exchange, data wrangling, factorised and probabilistic databases, in-database
 machine learning, ontology languages, and reasoning systems.

 Foundations, Structures, and Quantum (Heads: Abramsky, Coecke; 4 faculty). The theme
 encompasses interdisciplinary research into conceptual and structural foundations across a




                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 range of disciplines, including computer science, physics, pure mathematics, and linguistics. It
 has been strengthened with the hiring of Kissinger (ECR).

 Human-Centred Computing (Head: Shadbolt; 5 faculty). The theme was founded following the
 appointment of Shadbolt in 2014 and Berners-Lee (part-time) in 2016 to join Jirotka; and has
 been expanded with the hiring of Binns and Van Kleek (ECRs). Research encompasses
 responsible research and innovation, fairness, transparency, and accountability in data-driven
 algorithmic systems, and empowering individuals to take better control of privacy and personal
 data.

 Programming Languages (Head: Ong; 5 faculty). The theme has evolved significantly, with the
 addition of Ong (from Foundations, Structures, and Quantum) and new hires Staton and
 Murawski (ECR). The theme continues to pioneer the development of algorithmic and algebraic
 approaches to programming-language semantics, program transformation, and program
 analysis, with a particular focus on higher-order, probabilistic, and quantum programming.

 Security (Head: Martinovic; 9 faculty). This theme has been strengthened with the permanent
 appointment of Rasmussen. Research encompasses cybersecurity, protocol analysis, wireless
 security, systems security, trusted computing, human-centred security, and steganography. The
 theme hosts the interdisciplinary Global Cyber Security Capacity Centre, in conjunction with the
 Oxford Martin School and several other Oxford departments, and a CDT in Cyber Security. It
 also provides the nexus for the Oxford EPSRC–NCSC Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber
 Security Research (from 2012, renewed 2017–22), a vehicle for collaboration across the
 University.

 This UoA additionally includes Krafft and Wright from the Oxford Internet Institute, with research
 interests respectively in beliefs and ideology in the information society, and privacy and
 censorship on the web. Wright is co-director of the Cyber Security CDT.

 1.3. Research Strategy
 Our core objective is to sustain world-leading research across a broad spectrum of computer
 science, running from foundational work to applied and interdisciplinary research that directly
 addresses societal challenges. Strategy is formulated in consultation with faculty members
 during our termly faculty meetings and annual strategic planning away day. Based on this
 consultation, the Department produces a five-year plan that is reviewed by the MPLS
 (Mathematical, Physical, and Life Sciences) Division of the University for incorporation into its
 own strategic plan. Implementation and oversight of research strategy is achieved through the
 Department’s senior management team (including the Head of Department, Deputy Heads of
 Department for Research and for Teaching, directors of taught programmes, Director of
 Environment – a new post created in 2019 – and the senior administrative officer), in
 combination with the Research Committee, whose membership includes, ex officio, the heads of
 each research theme, along with key support staff. Through this process, we have identified five
 key objectives over the next five years. Here we outline these objectives in relation to progress
 achieved against the strategic goals we described in REF2014.

 (I) Broadening and renewing our research themes. Our thematic structure is a key
 mechanism for managing our research portfolio and ensuring sustainability. While staff freely
 pursue their own research agendas, themes provide the critical mass and leadership that is
 required to attract high-quality staff and students, maintain significant networks of collaborators,
 lead national and international research initiatives, and secure long-term funding at scale. Plans


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for developing themes are guided by our long-term objective of building capacity around cross-
 cutting challenge areas. These include algorithms in the large; autonomous and intelligent
 systems; computational healthcare and medicine; dependable and secure computing; data
 integration and knowledge representation; and human-centred computing. In particular, the
 establishment of new themes in Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning (AI&ML), Cyber-
 Physical Systems (CPS), and Human-Centred Computing (HCC) has expanded capacity around
 autonomous systems, big data, and machine learning – areas we highlighted in REF2014 as
 having strong potential for impact generation. Planned growth over the next five years focusses
 on these new themes. We aim to expand AI&ML and HCC with further appointments, and to
 grow and broaden CPS with hires in the general area of Systems (for example, distributed
 systems, networks, etc.). In AI&ML, we will appoint a new chair endowed by a substantial
 donation from Google DeepMind. We will use replacement hires to maintain and refresh those
 themes that are not marked for expansion.

 (II) Ensuring the quality and diversity of research income. To enable highly collaborative and
 path-breaking work, our research facilitation strategy targets long-term, large-scale grants and
 research contracts. Over the period, our staff have been PI on four CDTs, two programme
 grants, and 21 major fellowships (mainly ERC, EPSRC, and Royal Society), as well as several
 substantial (>£500k) industrial research contracts. Over the coming period the Department’s
 Research Committee will coordinate programme grant applications in response to a new
 institutional initiative to pump-prime such applications with internal funds.

 In REF2014, broadening our funding base to ensure a sustainable funding stream was identified
 as the single most important component of research strategy. Section 3 demonstrates strong
 progress made against this goal since 2014.

 (III) Exploiting new opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration. Over the coming
 period, we aim to capitalise on opportunities for interdisciplinary collaboration in AI and machine
 learning. Within Oxford, The Big Data Institute, Engineering Science, Mathematics, and
 Statistics all have significant activity in machine learning. Shadbolt, who leads our HCC theme,
 is Chair of the Steering Committee for the new Oxford Centre for Ethics in AI, a principal
 beneficiary of a record-breaking £150m donation for a new centre for the humanities that will
 generate significant opportunities for cross-disciplinary work. We aim to use new appointments
 to build collaboration here. Another major focus will be the University’s plans for a new building
 for Oxford’s Information Sciences, co-locating CS alongside relevant faculty from Engineering
 Science. This will provide high quality, purpose-designed space, strengthen existing
 interdisciplinary links (for example between our CPS and AI&ML themes and the vision and
 robotics groups in Engineering), and create opportunities to develop new areas of collaboration.
 Further exciting opportunities for interdisciplinary work will arise from the creation of Reuben
 College, a new graduate college of the University that has AI&ML as one of its three primary
 research themes and will admit its first cohort of graduate students in Autumn 2021. These
 opportunities at the institutional level complement our strategy of supporting interdisciplinary
 collaboration nationally and internationally through participation in programme grants and large-
 scale initiatives.

 (IV) Expanding recruitment and funding of research students. Through both RAE2008 and
 REF2014, increasing the number of doctoral students has been a core strategic objective. We
 currently graduate an average of 34 students per annum: a 39% increase over the REF2014
 period. Key future objectives are (i) to secure more funding for doctoral training from research
 councils, industry, and through fundraising in partnership with colleges; (ii) to further improve the


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pipeline of excellent students through outreach, by updating our MSc and arrangements for
 research internships, and through formal international collaborations. An example of the latter is
 a forthcoming joint doctoral programme between the Department and the Max Planck Institute
 for Software Systems, due to start in 2021.

 (V) Developing strategic collaboration. An overarching priority for the coming period will be to
 develop long-term partnerships that contribute to scientific quality, impact, and research income.
 This goal builds on existing collaborations at national and international levels, including our
 ongoing leadership role within the Alan Turing Institute, new strategic industrial collaborations
 (see Sections 1.4, 3.1, and 4.1), and new formal collaboration agreements with universities in
 Hong Kong and Japan, encompassing exchange research visits, joint participation in grant
 applications, and joint PhD supervision (Section 4.1). New collaborations will be assessed in
 terms of risk and potential contributions to other strategic priorities.

 1.4. Impact Strategy
 The impact strategy presented in REF2014 has led to a transformation in the significance and
 reach of the impact arising from our research. Below we review this strategy and describe how it
 is being updated over the next five years.
 (I) Developing impactful research themes. Following through one of the two overarching
 principles of the impact strategy we identified in REF2014, we have (i) expanded research
 capability in areas with strong potential for impact (see above), and (ii) ensured that we can
 exploit the resulting opportunities by establishing effective structures for realising impact.

 i) For example, in REF2014, we identified particular opportunities in autonomous systems. Here,
 patented indoor positioning technology developed by the new CPS theme has been deployed by
 the spinout company Navenio to improve the productivity of hospital support services (Impact
 Case Study [5]). Simulation of human behaviour using deep reinforcement learning, developed
 by the new AI&ML theme, is being used by Waymo in its development of self-driving cars.
 Interdisciplinary research of our new HCC theme, meanwhile, has had substantial impacts on
 public policy (Section 4.1).

 ii) Key means of supporting impact realisation have been our flexible policies on reduced FTE
 (see below), and our engagement with Oxford Sciences Innovation (OSI), an independent
 investment fund founded to commercialise the University’s science and engineering research.
 OSI has raised £14.6m over the period to support spinouts from CS. These activities have had a
 transformative effect on our Automated Verification, Data and Knowledge, and Programming
 Languages themes, allowing them to apply their tool-building expertise to commercial software
 engineering and data management. Tools supporting test generation and variant analysis for
 large codebases have been marketed by the spinout companies DiffBlue and Semmle (Impact
 Case Study [4]). Three spinouts – Wrapidity, DeepReason.ai, and Oxford Semantic
 Technologies – have been built around tools that automatically extract and convert raw data
 from the web and other diverse sources into structured, machine-readable knowledge (Impact
 Case Studies [1] and [2]).

 (II) Impact through interdisciplinarity. This was the second key principle of our REF2014
 impact strategy. We support interdisciplinary research by developing and maintaining research
 themes – such as Security, Computational Biology and Health Informatics, and Human-Centred
 Computing – which are explicitly interdisciplinary in outlook. As described in Section 4.1, this
 strategy has allowed us to expand the reach of our impacts over the period to encompass: the
 developing world (through the work of the Global Cyber Security Capacity Centre, led by the

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Security theme in collaboration with the Blavatnik School of Government, Oxford Internet
 Institute, Saïd Business School, and Department of Sociology); regulatory thinking and industry
 practice in the biomedical sector (through interdisciplinary work by our Computational Biology
 theme); and public policy in the UK and EU (through interdisciplinary work in our HCC theme).

 (III) Engaging with beneficiaries. Fulfilling plans announced in REF2014, we employ a full-time
 industrial liaison administrator responsible for managing relationships with industrial partners
 (e.g., consultancy, research funding, student sponsorship, secondments, Department open
 days). Engagement also happens at the thematic level; for example, in 2017 the Computational
 Biology theme organised a two-day symposium in Oxford on “In Silico Drug Safety and Efficacy”,
 which brought together over 100 participants from academia, industry, and regulatory agencies.
 We also participate in institutional-level outreach, such as the 2019 AI@Oxford conference, a
 two-day event that included over 500 delegates from the University and from industry, in which
 our AI&ML, CPS, and HCC themes were extensively involved.

 As described in Sections 3 and 4, a wide variety of companies, charities, and government
 agencies participate in our research projects, both as partners in competitively-awarded grants
 and through direct funding. At the census date, the value of active directly-contracted research
 projects was over £4.5m. We also host long-term visits from industry; for example, Ziyad Hanna,
 Vice-President of R&D at Cadence Design Systems, was awarded a three-year Visiting
 Professorship that led, among other things, to collaboration on Kroening’s and Melham’s CREST
 Impact Acceleration Project.

 Developing relationships with industry, government, and the third sector will be a central
 strategic aim over the next five years. We plan to expand our liaison activities, and foresee new
 opportunities arising from the activity of our spinout companies, such as the formal collaboration
 with Samsung that emerged out of Samsung’s investment in Oxford Semantic Technologies. A
 further key instrument has been our flexible policy for staff leave and secondments. Over the
 period, Blunsom, Kroening, Lane, Trigoni, and Whiteson all had temporary reductions in FTE,
 either to develop spinouts or for secondments to industry. We have recently consulted on and
 updated our policies on reduced FTE in order to better support individuals to balance their
 departmental responsibilities with external commitments.

 (IV) Incentivising and supporting impact generation. Impact generation is a contributory
 factor in departmental hiring and promotion decisions. We support impact realisation through the
 provision of training and internal funding, and by incentivising and rewarding staff. We promote
 courses run by the MPLS Division on topics such as protecting intellectual property and scientific
 entrepreneurship; these have been well used by both staff and doctoral students (over 90
 participants from CS recorded over the period). The University manages competitively-awarded
 internal funding sources, such as EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) funds, to support
 engagement between researchers and end-users and to develop new technologies to the point
 that they are ready for commercial exploitation. Our Research Support team has facilitated
 broad participation by CS staff in these schemes: since 2014, over 30 projects have received
 IAA awards, worth over £1.5m in total, with PIs from nine of our ten research themes. Several
 have led directly to impacts beyond academia, such as the commercialisation of Rogers’s work
 on acoustic devices for conservation professionals, facilitated by an IAA Technology Award for
 2017–20. The Department has created a similar local fund, with two calls during the period
 allocating around £200k in impact seed grants. One award was instrumental in the development
 of Impact Case Study [3]. Since 2014, six CS staff have been recognised by Impact Awards as
 part of a scheme run by MPLS, evidencing the success of these initiatives. We will continue to


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pursue this strategy in the coming period, with new calls for IAA and further rounds of
 departmental impact funding.

 Relationship with case studies. Four of our Impact Case Studies involve spinout companies.
 These have all benefitted from our flexible reduced FTE policy, allowing the founding academics
 to provide initial leadership and management. Three of the companies received investment
 capital from OSI. Martinovic’s work on aviation security was supported by £30k of Departmental
 funding for impact realisation. Our strategic focus on obtaining large grants has been
 instrumental in enabling the transformative research that underpins the case studies. The
 spinout Wrapidity is based on technology to automate data extraction originally developed in
 Gottlob’s ERC DIADEM grant. The DeepReason.ai spinout is based on the Vadalog system
 developed in research funded by Gottlob’s VADA EPSRC programme grant. The Oxford
 Semantic Technologies spinout exploits the RDFox technology developed by Cuenca Grau,
 Horrocks, and Motik in research funded by Horrocks’s DBOnto EPSRC platform grant, and
 Motik’s MaSI3 and AnaLOG EPSRC fellowships. Rasmussen’s work on Bluetooth arises from
 his Royal Society fellowship.

 1.5. Research Culture
 Responsible research. We aim to lead within the University and nationally in developing new
 standards in research ethics in ICT, particularly through the work of our HCC theme. In 2018, the
 Department established its own local Ethics Committee, with significant input from the HCC
 theme and under the guidance of the central University research ethics team. The aims were to
 raise the profile of research ethics, particularly in response to the emergence of new ethical
 challenges (for example, connected with AI and algorithmic fairness), and to improve the quality
 of the ethics clearance process. By 2019, the scheme had already seen more than 60
 applications. Beyond the University, the Department plays a leading role within the EPSRC’s
 strategy for promoting ethical research in ICT, through Jirotka’s Observatory for Responsible
 Research and Innovation (ORBIT) centre, launched in 2018 (see Section 4). Shadbolt and
 Berners-Lee are co-founders and Board members of the Open Data Institute, a non-profit
 working with companies and governments to build an open, trustworthy data ecosystem that
 supports better data-driven decision making. With around 60 employees, the Institute has
 established a world-leading position in open data research and technology, making significant
 contributions to UK and other governments’ open data policies. Rodriguez is a Board member of
 the National Centre for the Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of Animals in Research
 (NC3Rs); her group’s work on in silico modelling has twice been recognised by the NC3R’s top
 international prize for its potential to reduce in vivo testing.

 Open research. In addition to the culture of open research and open data within the discipline –
 for example, from 2014–20 our staff uploaded over 1,400 research papers to the open
 distribution service arXiv – the Department actively promotes Oxford’s open access policies,
 which aim to ensure the widest possible access to its research. There is an academic advocate
 for Open Access (Živný), and two CS librarians act as Open Access contacts. Gavaghan is on
 the Steering Group for Reproducible Research Oxford, the local node of the UK Reproducibility
 Network, which promotes a coordinated approach to open scholarship and research
 reproducibility across disciplines. The Department has implemented several initiatives to
 promote the University’s commitment to “Green” Open Access via its open repository, the Oxford
 Research Archive (ORA). We deploy bespoke software that crawls internet databases and
 issues monthly reminders to researchers to “act on acceptance” by immediately depositing
 accepted publications in ORA. A research administrator monitors deposits.


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 The aims of our people strategy are to recruit personnel with either a record of or the clear
 potential for outstanding, agenda-setting, and transformational research and innovation; and to
 support and incentivise their career development. As described below, we do this through
 mechanisms for mentoring, training, appraisal, promotion, financial support, and teaching relief.

 2.1. Staff
 Our return includes 69 academic faculty from Oxford CS and ten research staff (four from Oxford
 CS, two from Oxford Internet Institute, and four from Oxford’s constituent colleges). Figure 1
 illustrates growth in the Department since REF2014. The 69 faculty comprise 38 Professors, 23
 Associate Processors (APs), and eight Departmental Lecturers (DLs). Five DLs are on fixed-
 term positions funded by salary buyouts accruing from research fellowships. The role gives
 ECRs an ideal opportunity to engage with the full range of academic duties (including research),
 comparable to a starting AP, and is an important vehicle for career development.

              300
                                                                                    256



              200                                                             183



                                                                     109
                                                               99
              100
                              62
                        48

                                            8      7
               0
                    Permanent faculty Fixed-term faculty    Research staff   PhD students

                                                REF2014    REF2021

                      Figure 1: Departmental headcounts REF2014 vs REF2021

 Recruitment. The expansion in our research capability has been underpinned by 13 new hires
 across our research portfolio at AP level, and three hires at Professor level. Our recruitment
 strategy prioritises research quality and impact creation, within the context of our strategic plans
 for developing the Department’s research portfolio and the need to maintain a balanced profile of
 experience within themes. Seven of our 13 new hires at AP level are ECRs; overall, 62% of staff
 returned here are under 50, and 23% are under 40. Only three of our research themes have an
 average age over 50, and none of these over 51. We recruit from an international talent pool:
 more than half of our staff come from outside the UK. In order to identify the best possible
 candidates, we use search panels to identify and approach potential applicants. We will continue
 to pursue a range of avenues to further broaden the field of applicants, including hiring in
 batches, open hires across our research themes, and synchronising with the international
 recruitment cycle.

 Mentoring and career development. As evidenced in Section 3, we have a strong record of
 supporting staff, particularly early career staff, to build up their funded research programmes and
 academic careers. New staff receive start-up funding for travel, students, and equipment, with


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 junior staff having a reduced teaching and administrative load. All new staff receive a training
 plan that includes courses in doctoral supervision, being a PI, equality and diversity, and
 unconscious bias. Newly appointed APs have a five-year probationary period and receive
 formative advice and guidance as part of a formal review after three years in post. There is a
 further review after five years, when a decision is made on reappointment to retirement based on
 a rigorous assessment of research, teaching, and citizenship, supported by external references.
 All academic staff are assigned a mentor to provide support, guidance, and advice relative to
 their level of experience. Staff also complete an annual workload survey, which is used as a
 basis for balancing the assignment of teaching, management, and administration duties. Staff
 can request feedback or an appraisal. We aim to retain talent, but our effectiveness in
 supporting staff to develop their research profiles means that when faculty do leave it is
 generally to take up prestigious senior positions in academia or in industry. Olteanu, for
 example, joined as an early-career researcher in 2005, was promoted to Professor in 2016, and
 left in 2020 to head the Data Systems and Theory Group at Zurich; De Freitas left in 2017 to
 become a lead scientist at DeepMind following DeepMind’s acquisition of his spinout company
 Dark Blue Labs.

 Reward and recognition. We hold annual promotion rounds, based on merit and without
 quotas. Staff in Grades 9-10 – typically senior researchers and Departmental Lecturers – are
 eligible to apply for the title Associate Professor through an annual scheme. Since 2014, there
 have been ten successful applications. If already in an AP or other eligible role, staff can apply
 for Professor title through an annual Recognition of Distinction scheme. Since 2014, there have
 been twelve successful promotions from AP to Professor (including four women). The post of
 Departmental Lecturer has three grades and several of our permanent DL team have been
 regraded after assuming greater responsibilities. The Department encourages PIs to consider
 regrading ECRs who demonstrate independent research and take up greater responsibilities.
 Since 2014, eight fixed-term researchers have been promoted from Grade 7 (junior researcher)
 to Grade 8 (senior researcher). The University runs an annual merit-based award scheme that
 gives a salary uplift to employees with the Professor title, based on an assessment of their
 contributions in research, leadership, and teaching. Impact generation is taken into account as a
 contributory factor in Departmental hiring and promotion decisions. It is also recognised by
 Impact (and associated pay) Awards from a scheme run by MPLS: six CS staff have won Impact
 Awards in the period.

 Supporting research. The Department is committed to protecting the time available for
 research as well as supporting applications for fellowships and sabbatical leave. All academic
 staff are entitled to one term of sabbatical leave for every six terms worked. Staff are fully funded
 during sabbatical leave.

 Supporting engagement and impact. Academic and research staff have a contractual
 entitlement of up to 30 days per annum when they can be paid for outside work. This is usually
 personal consultancy but can include other work: examples in this period include an extended
 sabbatical to work with the House of Lords (see Section 4.1 for evidence of engagement with
 policymakers) and reduction of duties to sit on national REF panels. Over the period, 54 CS staff
 have undertaken 122 personal consultancy agreements through Oxford University Innovation
 (OUI), the University’s technology transfer office. Doctoral students are also encouraged to
 undertake commercial internships, with the senior administrator providing contractual support for
 this process to ensure that students can achieve commercial experience alongside their studies.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 1.4, above, contains further evidence of how we enable engagement with beneficiaries,
 including our flexible policy for reduced FTE.

 Early career researchers. The Department has fully implemented the revised Concordat on
 ECRs. The role of ECR Coordinator was constituted in 2019 to work with the Director of
 Environment to support ECR development, integration, and networking. The ECR Coordinator
 has organised a series of training and social events, such as seminars in partnership with our
 Research Support team on applying for grant funding. Compulsory annual Career Development
 Reviews were implemented in 2016 to provide a structured opportunity for PIs and ECRs to
 reflect and plan for career development in the current role and beyond, and to discuss
 opportunities that would enable staff to meet their career aspirations. This scheme has been
 very successful. From 2018, research staff have been supported to take a minimum of ten days
 per annum for professional development and training. ECRs are encouraged to attend MPLS
 training, identified through their Career Development Reviews, in subjects such as
 entrepreneurship, good practice in research, thinking about impact, being a PI, public
 engagement, and applying for funding. Over the period, ECRs have attended over 120 such
 courses. Within the Department, ECRs are encouraged to organise seminar series. The
 Department and colleges also provide extensive opportunities for teaching assistantships and ad
 hoc lecturing, thereby providing essential experience for a future academic career.

 A measure of our effectiveness in nurturing academic careers is provided by the list of
 institutions at which PhD students and Research Assistants within the Department over the
 period have subsequently obtained permanent faculty positions. These include Birmingham,
 Bristol, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Imperial College, Kent, Liverpool, Newcastle, Manchester,
 Oxford, Royal Holloway, Southampton, UCL, York, and, overseas, at Australian National
 University, Cape Town, CNRS (France), Dresden, Monash, National University of Singapore,
 Technion, Toronto, TU Delft, U Illinois, U Colorado, ULB Brussels, Warsaw, and Vienna.

 2.2. Doctoral Students
 Recruitment. The Department receives around 400 applications annually for its doctoral
 programme; around 50 students are recruited. To promote our programmes, we hold graduate
 open days, with dedicated taster days for CDTs. The baseline expectation for admission is a
 first-class degree in a 4-year programme in computer science or a cognate discipline. Suitably
 qualified applicants are interviewed by at least two academics and considered for funding by the
 Scholarship Committee. We track the number of female applicants and these data have been
 used to make a case for targeted scholarships in our fundraising (see below).




                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                        CS PhD application and acceptance rates 2014–19
                  500                                                                            25.00%




                                                                                                          Acceptance rate
          Total




                  250                                                                            12.50%




                   0                                                                             0.00%
                        2014-15   2015-16         2016-17       2017-18   2018-19      2019-20

                                   Applications             Accepted      Acceptance rate %



                                            Figure 2:
     Average annual growth in applications since 2014-15 is 22% overall, and 25% for female
                            candidates. Entry is highly competitive.

 Funding. The large increase in doctoral students over the period has been underpinned by our
 participation in, and leadership of, centres for doctoral training (CDTs), in partnership with
 Engineering Science, the life sciences, and Oxford’s Big Data Institute. Over the period, doctoral
 students in CS have received funding from six EPSRC centres for doctoral training (CDTs), of
 which four are or have been led by PIs from CS. The Department participated in two CDTs
 awarded in 2012 and 2013 EPSRC funding rounds: Cyber Security (2012) and Autonomous
 Intelligent Machines and Systems (2013). The former, led by A. Martin in the Security theme,
 was awarded second-phase funding of £3.5m in 2016. Our staff were PI for three CDTs awarded
 in the EPSRC’s 2018 round: Health Data Science (Davies, £6.6m), SABS:R3 (Gavaghan,
 £5.3m), and Autonomous Intelligent Machines and Systems (awarded to Trigoni, £5.2m).
 Students have also received funding through the EPSRC CDTs Life Sciences Interface and
 Systems Biology. Other collaborative doctoral training programmes in which we participate
 include the BBSRC Doctoral Training Partnership, the Wellcome Trust OXION programme, and
 the BHF Cardiovascular Sciences programme. Further substantial funding for doctoral students
 comes from scholarships administered by the Department and central University. A donation of
 £2.7m from DeepMind in 2014 was used to support scholarships, including two doctoral
 studentships endowed in perpetuity. Overall, 75% of doctoral students are fully funded, with
 EPSRC funds accounting for just under half the total number of studentships. The Department
 gives all doctoral students a baseline travel budget of £2k. This is complemented by further
 travel funding from colleges (up to £1.5k over the course of the degree).




                                                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                          Funding sources for PhD students 2014–19
                                                    0                50           100

                            EPSRC (incl. CDTs)                                   90
                University of Oxford or own funds                     48
                                Overseas - other                14
                           Overseas government                  13
                             Rhodes scholarship             7
                                         Industry           6
                                UK public sector        4
                                 EU government          3



      Figure 3: Funding for doctoral students is drawn from various sources, with a majority
         supported by research council funding and competitively-awarded scholarships.

 Monitoring and appraisal. Every doctoral student is a member of a college, with a personal
 advisor and access to welfare support and hardship funds. Within the Department, each student
 has at least one primary supervisor, as well as a secondary advisor who can provide extra
 support. Pastoral care for graduate students is overseen by the Director of Graduate Studies
 and the Graduate Studies Administrator. There is a termly supervision framework, involving
 submission of progress reports from both student and supervisor(s). The reports are evaluated
 by the Director of Graduate Studies and college advisors. They allow students and supervisors
 to monitor progress and review training needs. Doctoral students are initially admitted under
 probationary status and are required, after the first year, to pass a transfer examination involving
 the submission of assessed work, a qualifying dissertation, an oral exam, and a record of
 transferable skills training, all considered by two examiners. In the third year, and before being
 allowed to submit a thesis, students undertake a second formal evaluation involving both a viva
 and written component. The effectiveness of the structures for monitoring progression is
 reflected in low attrition rates: of doctoral students due to submit within the assessment period,
 7.5% have withdrawn, while the remaining 92.5% have successfully passed the degree.

 Skills, training, mentoring, and career development. In partnership with the MPLS Division,
 we provide training and advice for all doctoral students in research practices, transferable skills,
 and career development, including academic writing, grant applications, presentations,
 entrepreneurship, and completing a doctorate. In particular, through MPLS’s Graduate Academic
 Programme, our doctoral students have access to over 300 courses run by departments within
 MPLS and have altogether attended over 800 such courses since 2014. CDT students
 additionally have their own dedicated skills training programmes. The Department’s Oxford
 Computer Science Conference and the annual Oxbridge Women in Computer Science
 Conference also provide opportunities for students and researchers to develop presentation
 skills and receive feedback from peers. Female graduate students are encouraged to enrol on
 the Springboard course, which enables students to discuss career paths with female peers and
 researchers. The Department hosts a weekly lunchtime “tech talk” seminar series for doctoral
 students, providing a forum for companies to talk about both product development and career
 opportunities. Recent participants include Omnitek, Apple, Morgan Stanley, and Netcraft. As well
 as successful careers in academia (Section 2.1, above), PhD students in the period have



                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 progressed to a range of high-profile careers in industry: examples include at Google Research,
 Zurich; DeepMind; Drive.ai; Facebook; and Bloomberg.

 2.3. Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
 Departmental structures and working practices. We aim to integrate equality and diversity
 throughout our recruitment and staffing policies, and to prioritise inclusivity and wellbeing across
 our working practices. We believe this is the best way to pursue our mission of academic
 excellence and to enable all our staff and students to achieve their full potential.

 Our Equality and Diversity Committee meets termly, and includes the Head of Department, ECR
 Coordinator, senior administrative staff, and, since 2019, the Director of Environment – a post
 created specifically to champion EDI. We are a Stonewall employer, and benefit from diverse
 representation in highly visible leadership roles: for example, female professors lead four of our
 ten research themes; Trigoni, who leads the CPS theme and founded the spinout Navenio in
 2015, won CTO-of-the-year at the 2020 Women in IT awards. We successfully retained our
 Bronze Athena SWAN award in 2018. The Director of Environment spearheads implementation
 of our current Athena SWAN action plan: initiatives already implemented include outreach
 activities and studentships to encourage applications from females to our doctoral programme.

 As described above, we seek to recruit from the widest possible international talent pool and use
 search panels to help ensure that we can identify the best possible candidates, including among
 under-represented groups. We offer support towards the cost of caring commitments to those
 invited for interview for a faculty position. Since 2017, PIs have been encouraged to advertise
 research positions on both a full-time or part-time/job share basis, where possible, in order to
 reduce barriers for potential applicants.

 The University has a well-established flexible working policy, which allows for various options
 including part-time working, working from home, job-sharing, and compressed hours. During the
 period, six CS staff have moved formally to flexible working arrangements. We encourage
 returning staff to apply to the University’s Returning Carers Fund, a small grants scheme to
 support the return to research of individuals who have taken a break for maternity or other caring
 responsibilities. One applicant was awarded nearly £5k, enabling her to attend relevant
 workshops and conferences on return to work.

 The Department prioritises wellbeing and maintains a team of approximately 15 Mental Health
 First Aiders, drawn from all categories of staff and students, which meets termly to organise
 event programmes focussed on mental health and wellbeing. We also use an Employee
 Assistance Programme (Validium) to provide advice and counselling to staff and students.

 Funding and access. EDI is a standing item at the Department’s Research Committee, and the
 committee scrutinises the diversity profile of staff being supported in funding applications. CS
 staff are currently participating in a project, Improving Researcher Diversity in Research Funding
 Success, which aims to identify systemic barriers for BAME, LGBT+, and disabled researchers,
 and to work with key funders to improve the funding system and create targeted support. The
 project is supported by £25k from the University’s central Diversity Fund. We have sought to
 engage industrial sponsors to offer financial support for students from traditionally under-
 represented groups. In 2018-19, the Department awarded two fully-funded doctoral scholarships
 for female students, funded by DeepMind. We have also provided support for students on our
 MSc degree, which has a significant research component and is an important pathway to
 doctoral study. Booking.com gave six MSc studentships in 2018-19 for women studying for an


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MSc in CS. DeepMind funded four MSc studentships in 2019-20 and again in 2020-21 for
 females, BAME students, or students from households with traditionally low progression to
 higher education. The Department also participates in the University’s UNIQ+ graduate access
 internship programme. This programme, which provides a six-week supervised research project,
 is aimed at talented undergraduates at UK universities who would find progression to graduate
 study a challenge for non-academic reasons.

 Promoting diversity. The Department has supported numerous initiatives that have helped to
 raise the profile of EDI issues and to encourage greater diversity within the discipline. In 2019,
 Jirotka’s ORBIT centre organised and hosted the first “100+ Brilliant Women in AI & Ethics”
 conference, supported by the Alan Turing Institute, Microsoft, and PWC alongside the
 Department. Within CS, the Oxford Women in Computer Science Society (OxWoCS) was
 founded in 2013 to support and promote women in computer science, including faculty, staff,
 and students. We provide OxWoCS with £4k in annual direct support for seminar speakers and
 travel funding to the annual Grace Hopper Celebration, the world’s largest gathering of women in
 technology. We also provide indirect support, such as mentoring and administrative assistance.
 OxWoCS won the inaugural Equality and Diversity Award from the MPLS Division, and has
 received industrial sponsorship from Google, Bloomberg, Facebook, J.P. Morgan, GSK, and
 VISA. Among the sponsored events is an annual conference, Oxbridge Women in Computer
 Science. The sixth iteration was held in 2019, with over 70 participants (over 90% of whom were
 female) and featuring Dame Stephanie Shirley as invited speaker. OxWoCS also hosts a
 Distinguished Speaker Seminar for female academic and industry leaders. Selected speakers
 over the period include Shafi Goldwasser (MIT, Turing Award winner), Claire Vishik (Intel, FRS),
 Xin Luna Dong (Amazon, ACM Distinguished Member), Tova Milo (ACM Fellow), and Natasha
 Noy (Stanford, Google).

 EDI and REF. Many actions were taken at the level of the UoA to ensure the operation of a fair
 and transparent process in the construction of the unit-level REF submission. These included
 REF-directed unconscious bias training for staff with decision-making roles, and the formation of
 an advisory REF committee with broad representation from across the UoA in terms of career
 stage, gender, and disciplinary focus. To ensure rigorous, transparent, and fair selection of
 outputs, we first scored and ranked outputs based only on reviews and panel moderation. We
 then analysed the results against diversity criteria to check for systematic bias. Although for
 most known groups the numbers were too small to be statistically significant, our analysis
 showed that the average number of outputs attributed to female staff was greater than the
 overall average. ECRs (who comprise 20% of staff returned here) are also well represented in
 our output selection.

 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 3.1. Research Income
 We report total external research income (expenditure) of over £74m for the assessment period.
 This continues a steady upward trend in both total average annual income and average annual
 income per FTE, evidencing progress made in consolidating the broad and sustainable research
 base built up since RAE2008. Over the current period, we have continued to pursue our aims to
 diversify our funding portfolio and to secure large, long-term grants that allow our staff to focus
 on fundamental and agenda-setting research, and to collaborate with a wide range of partners in
 academia, industry, charities, and the public sector. As Figure 4 shows, we have drawn income
 from a diverse mix of sources, with UKRI funding representing less than half of total income –
 39%, down from 55% over the previous period. Funding from charities has grown significantly (a

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sevenfold increase in terms of value, from around £650k in REF2014 to over £4.5m), while
 funding from industry has doubled in value to over £6m. As detailed below, we have also
 achieved increased success in winning large, longer-term grants during the current period (24
 grants of five years’ duration or longer, 20 at £1m+), with PIs from the Department leading two
 EPSRC programme grants. This success reflects both our investment in research support
 capacity and a culture in which staff are encouraged and supported to develop ambitious
 research goals that will underpin their long-term career development. At the census date, 49
 staff in the UoA (out of 79 returned here) held grants – including 41 as PI – with a total value
 over £36m, and an average value per grant of c. £370k. Our staff have already secured future
 grant income worth over £21.5m up to 2025.




                   Figure 4: Sources of research income: REF2014 vs REF2021

 Large grants and fellowships. Across all its research themes, the Department has been
 successful at winning long-term, large-scale funding, including programme grants and
 fellowships. Our staff have established strong strategic partnerships with industry and public
 sector stakeholders, and numerous emerging collaborations will help to ensure the future
 sustainability of this wider engagement. Our success in these areas reflects and underwrites
 our strategic goals to foster national and international collaboration, expand our support for
 doctoral training, and nurture our staff in developing their careers and assuming leadership
 roles in their fields.

 Large collaborative grants led by our staff include:

    •   Shadbolt’s £6.2m SOCIAM EPSRC programme grant (£1.2m for Oxford), with
        Southampton, Edinburgh, Northwestern, and Tsinghua, and many industry and public
        sector partners. Along with the EPSRC-funded PETRAS (Privacy, Ethics, Trust,
        Reliability Accessibility and Security) and PETRAS2 Hubs, in which our HCC theme has
        collaborated alongside members of our Security theme, SOCIAM has supported
        research into tools and systems designed to improve end-users’ ability to conceptualise
        and control their privacy online. Outcomes include a series of studies relating to privacy
        in the context of smartphones and smart home devices, including analysis of 1 million

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         apps, resulting in best paper awards at leading venues such as ACM CHI and ACM
         WebSci’18, and in engagement with policy-makers (see Section 4.1).

     •   Gottlob’s £4.5m VADA EPSRC programme grant (£1.88m for Oxford), with Edinburgh
         and Manchester, and industry partners including Facebook and Microsoft. Together
         with Gottlob’s DIADEM ERC grant, this has led to significant theoretical and practical
         advances in Datalog-based logical reasoning systems, directly generating two spinout
         companies within the REF period (Wrapidity and DeepReason.ai).

     •   Horrocks’ DBOnto EPSRC platform grant (£1.26m). Along with Motik’s MaSI3 EPSRC
         fellowship, this has supported work on consequence-based reasoning, the theory and
         practice of Datalog, and combinations of logic and arithmetic functions. New theoretical
         and practical insights achieved in this research have led to best-paper awards,
         publications in top AI venues, and significant real-world impacts through the
         development of both open source and commercially marketed reasoning systems
         (Impact Case Study [2]).

 In addition:

     •   Kwiatkowska and Trigoni are Co-Investigators on the £5m EPSRC programme grant
         Mobile Robotics, led by Oxford’s Engineering Science department, with partners
         including Berkeley, McGill, the Department for Transport, UK Atomic Energy Authority,
         and UK Space Agency.

     •   Horrocks is Co-Investigator on the £5.1m EPSRC programme grant UK FIRES led by
         Cambridge, with collaborators at Bath, Imperial, Nottingham, and Strathclyde, alongside
         many industry partners.

 Substantial direct support for research includes funding from Amazon Web Services (Jirotka
 and Trigoni, £2m); DeepMind (endowing a new Chair in AI); AXIS UK Services (Creese, £1m);
 Samsung UK (Horrocks, £500k); and FCDO (Foreign, Commonwealth and Development
 Office) (Creese, £350k). FCDO funding supports the work of the Global Cybersecurity Centre
 as part of a programme to help partner countries develop cybersecurity capacity in line with the
 UK’s Aid Strategy. Funding from Amazon is part of a long-term research collaboration with CS
 and Engineering Science at Oxford, announced in 2020 and backed by a £7m gift, and is
 supporting the establishment of an Institute in Responsible Innovation by Jirotka. DeepMind’s
 donation followed their acquisition of our Dark Blue Labs spinout in 2014. Funding from
 Samsung is part of a new formal collaboration with members of our Data and Knowledge
 theme, aimed at developing knowledge representation techniques to build user-oriented AI.
 The relationship builds on the role of Samsung Ventures in raising £3m for the spinout Oxford
 Semantic Technologies, and bolsters the theme’s strong links with industry, which include, for
 example, a long-standing collaboration with Siemens that has resulted in substantial doctoral
 studentship funding and contributions to major UKRI-funded projects.

 We have a strong track record in supporting staff to apply successfully for competitively-
 awarded research fellowships. We provide mentoring and guidance to help staff develop
 proposals, and mock interviews for all shortlisted applicants, with tailored guidance for ECRs
 (see section 2.1 above). These structures are an important part of our strategy to support staff
 in developing their research profiles: among ECRs who have obtained prestigious fellowships
 in this UoA since 2014, Bueno-Orovio, Haase, Heunen, Rasmussen, and Vicary have all gone
 on to permanent academic jobs. Building on our success in the REF2014 period, CS staff have

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been awarded many substantial research fellowships within the current period, including: six
 ERC Starting grants (Elkind, Haase, Lane, Lin, Whiteson, Živný); two EPSRC Early Career
 Fellowships (Blunsom, Heunen); three ERC Consolidator grants (Ouaknine, Olteanu,
 Santhanam); one ERC Advanced grant (Kwiatkowska); five EPSRC Established Career
 Fellowships (Benedikt, Jirotka, U. Martin, Motik, Worrell); three Royal Society University
 Research Fellowships (Rasmussen, Staton, Vicary); one Royal Society Research
 Professorship (Gottlob), in addition to the Royal Society Research Professorship already held
 by Cardelli; an AXA Chair in Explainable AI for Healthcare (Lukasiewicz); and others including
 Wellcome Trust and British Heart Foundation fellowships (Rodriguez, Bueno-Orovio).

 The success of our staff in winning substantial grant funding and fellowships enables them to
 pursue ambitious research agendas that give rise to research of world-leading quality, generate
 significant impacts beyond academia, and stimulate and nurture fruitful collaborations.

 By way of illustration, four of the eight members of our Algorithms and Complexity theme have
 been supported by ERC projects in work that has led to fundamental contributions in algorithmic
 game theory (Koutsoupias), the complexity of computational problems from statistical physics
 (Goldberg, together with Galanis), connections between algorithmic analysis and computational
 lower bounds (Santhanam), and the applicability of classical optimisation techniques such as
 linear and semidefinite programming to Constraint Satisfaction Problems (Živný). In our
 Automated Verification theme, large fellowships (ERC, EPSRC, and Royal Society) have
 supported work by Kiefer, Ouaknine, and Worrell on algorithmic properties of dynamical and
 stochastic systems that has led to the resolution of longstanding open problems, and ongoing
 work by Kwiatkowska and Haase on novel techniques for the verification of deep neural nets and
 decision procedures for arithmetical theories. In the AI&ML theme, ERC and EPSRC fellowships
 have supported Wooldridge’s work on the verification of Nash equilibrium properties of multi-
 agent systems, Elkind’s work on novel algorithms for collective decision-making and group
 formation, Whiteson’s work on novel cooperative multi-agent reinforcement learning algorithms,
 and Blunsom’s work on deep learning techniques for natural language applications. In Data and
 Knowledge, Benedikt has pushed forward understanding of nested data in work supported by his
 EPSRC fellowship, including new results on the expressiveness of nested query languages and
 their connections with functional languages. In the Programming Languages theme, work on
 probabilistic programming supported by Staton’s Royal Society URF has led to best paper
 awards and invited talks and will be built on in an ERC Consolidator project that aims to develop
 new languages for statistics and probabilistic programming. Murawski has developed the first
 fully abstract denotational model of an object-oriented language, in work recently published at
 JACM. In the Foundations, Structures, and Quantum theme, research supported by the EPSRC-
 funded Centre for Quantum Mathematics and Computation has led to new developments of
 game semantics by Abramsky, whose contribution in this area was recognised by the joint award
 of the 2017 Alonzo Church prize (with Ong, Nickau, and others). Recent work on new
 connections between semantics and structural and descriptive complexity, including a
 pioneering programme at the Simons Institute in 2016 connecting the communities, has led to a
 four-year EPSRC standard grant with the University of Cambridge and several partners in the
 US and Europe.

 Substantial grants and fellowships have also played an important role in supporting significant
 impacts beyond academia and collaborations that continue to drive innovative research. For
 example, the CPS theme has strong links both with Engineering in Oxford (with numerous large
 joint grants), and with applied machine learning (e.g., in 2018, Lane was awarded a three-year
 EPSRC-UKRI Fellowship aiming to apply recent transformational developments in deep learning

                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with Nokia and Samsung). Fundamental and applied research in the theme focussing on
 intelligent and autonomous sensor systems has led to outcomes that include best paper prizes
 at leading conferences, significant further funding (e.g., the £5m Mobile Robotics EPSRC
 programme grant, on which Kwiatkowska and Trigoni are Co-Investigators), and three spinout
 companies formed within the current period (Joulo, Open Conservation, Navenio). As described
 below (Section 4.1), members of the Computational Biology theme have been supported by
 fellowships from the Wellcome Trust, the British Heart Foundation, and the NC3Rs, and
 participate in several large EU and EPSRC-funded collaborative projects. These have enabled
 significant collaborations with both European and US regulators (EMA and FDA) and with
 pharmaceutical companies, with outcomes including the development of ground-breaking in
 silico modelling software that predicts clinical risk with greater accuracy than animal testing, and
 is already in use within the pharmaceutical industry. Further evidence of the wider impact of our
 research is contained in our Impact Case Studies and below in Section 4.

 Philanthropy and college support. Philanthropic donations make an important contribution to
 our research environment. Over the period, the Department received more than £17m in
 donations, including £10m towards the planned new Information Sciences building, funds for the
 DeepMind chair, and £2.7m for graduate scholarships. We will further benefit from a recently
 announced £7m gift from Amazon Web Services, to be shared between CS and Engineering
 Science. A donation of £53k by Oxford Asset Management has supported our flagship
 Departmental seminar, the termly Strachey Lecture, with speakers since 2014 including five
 Turing Award winners – Vint Cerf, Shaffi Goldwasser, Barbara Liskov, Adi Shamir, and Leslie
 Valiant – among many other notable computer scientists, including Demis Hassabis, Stuart
 Russell, Bjarne Stroustrup, and Eva Tardos.

 Investment by Oxford’s constituent colleges has provided valuable support for graduate
 studentships and junior research fellowships (competitively-awarded, fully-funded fellowships for
 junior researchers, typically of 2–3 years’ duration). CS has hosted 11 junior research fellows
 over the REF period. Two colleges have focused philanthropic activities on raising significant
 funds for junior research fellows, graduate studentships, and academic posts in Computer
 Science.

 3.2. Research Support
 CS research support is structured into pre-award and post-award teams. The former (three FTE
 positions) provides tailored support across all stages of the application process. The team runs
 twice-termly seminars on topics such as writing grant proposals, preparing a budget, intellectual
 property, and academic consultancy; arranges face-to-face meetings between representatives of
 funders and potential applicants; and provides support for applications, including feedback and
 guidance on draft applications and mock interviews. Our success in winning fellowships and
 grants is evidence of the team’s effectiveness. The post-award team (five FTE positions)
 manages the financial and reporting aspects of grants held within CS. We also maintain a team
 of six full-time research software engineers, who have supported research projects both within
 CS and in other University departments.

 3.3. Buildings and Facilities
 Developing estates and facilities has been a central component of Departmental strategy across
 RAE2008 and REF2014. The main development over the previous period was the acquisition of
 the Robert Hooke Building close to our main site, which was formally opened in 2014. Over the
 current period, we have expanded floor space by 10%, and invested substantially (c. £660k) in


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    refurbishment and improvements. As detailed in Section 1, a current priority concerns plans for a
    new Information Sciences building that will co-locate CS staff alongside relevant faculty from
    Engineering Science. We are now defining requirements for the building and engaging with
    donors, with £10m already received, and a target date of 2025 for beginning construction.

    IT Support comprises three different sub-teams totalling ten staff: Service Desk, Infrastructure,
    and Software Development. In 2015 we commenced a three-year investment programme
    (>£250k) to ensure that the Department operates a low-latency, high-bandwidth, and resilient
    data network to support research activities. We maintain over 150 research servers, mostly
    related to GPU-accelerated computing, with additional support from cloud resources, Oxford
    University’s Advanced Research Computing (ARC) service, and national-level infrastructures
    such as JADE and ARCHER. We also maintain various specialised equipment: the Security
    theme uses an aviation lab with realistic cockpit simulator; the CPS theme uses a specialist on-
    site electronics lab and an associated positioning lab equipped with a state-of-the-art Vicon
    motion capture for prototype sensor development.

    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

    4.1. Collaboration
    Our research is by its nature highly collaborative. Of around 2,500 Oxford CS research outputs
    published between January 2014 and July 2020, over 50% have an international co-author and
    over 10% a co-author with an industrial affiliation.2 We collaborate extensively with academic
    partners in Oxford, the UK, and overseas, and with beneficiaries and end-users spanning
    industry, charities, government, and social enterprises. Our research contributes to the economy
    both through industrial collaboration and through commercialisation activities.

    Academic collaboration. The Department leads and participates in several national research
    projects and priorities. Oxford was one of five founding partners of the Alan Turing Institute in
    2015, and Oxford CS has many links to the institute. Wooldridge is programme Co-Director for
    AI. Melham is a non-executive Director and Trustee. Over the period, Abate, Benedikt, Gal,
    Kanade, Olteanu, Horrocks, Lukasiewicz, and Whiteson (CS), and Wright of the OII, have held
    Turing Fellowships. Gal was one of the five inaugural Turing AI Acceleration Fellows. The
    Institute has also funded doctoral students and postdoctoral researchers in the Department.

    Members of the Foundations, Structures, and Quantum Theme participated in the EPSRC’s
    £38m NQIT Hub (part of the UK National Quantum Technology Programme), led by Oxford and
    involving 29 globally leading quantum centres and major companies. Abramsky, Barrett, and
    Jirotka respectively led three out of eleven work packages on the research and development
    programme of this grant. The Computational Biology theme is involved in numerous significant
    cross-disciplinary collaborations. Gavaghan’s project A new approach to Science at the Life
    Sciences Interface is a £4m cross-disciplinary research landscape grant from the EPSRC that
    includes, among many others, investigators from the School of Psychology at Nottingham and
    the school of Genetics, Evolution, and Environment at UCL. Rodriguez and her team participate
    in the TransQST project on adverse drug reaction research, funded with EUR14m by the
    European Innovative Medicines Initiative, and in the CompBioMed1&2 project to advance the
    role of computational modelling and simulation within biomedicine, funded with EUR13m under
    Horizon 2020. The Security and HCC themes participate in the PETRAS National Centre of


2
    Data source: Scopus.

                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Excellence for IoT Systems and Cybersecurity, a collaborative project involving 12 partner
 universities, with £23m total funding.

 Our CDT programmes involve collaborations (through joint supervision and joint publications)
 with a number of other Oxford Departments, including Engineering Science, Statistics, the
 Oxford Big Data Institute, and the Nuffield Department of Medicine.

 International collaboration. Academic partners on other large projects include the Perimeter
 Institute, University of Vienna, UC Berkeley, McGill, University of Pennsylvania, and the
 University of Virginia. There are established and ongoing collaborations with international
 research centres such as the Max Planck Institute, where Ouaknine is Scientific Director, and
 the Sirius SFI (Centre for Research-based Innovation) at the University of Oslo, where Horrocks
 is Scientific Coordinator. As well as providing links to a network of industry collaborators in the
 oil and gas sector, Sirius funds several PhD students and a PDRA at Oxford. Our staff contribute
 actively to international academic networks, such as the European Laboratory for Learning and
 Intelligent Systems (ELLIS), for which Wooldridge is a Unit Director for Oxford. The assessment
 period has also seen the emergence of new international collaborations beyond Europe and
 North America. For example, KAIST (South Korea) and Tsinghua (China) collaborated with the
 HCC theme on Shadbolt’s SOCIAM programme grant. The Global Cyber Security Capacity
 Centre, hosted in CS and led by Creese and Goldsmith, has received government funding in
 Australia (to help establish and build links with a new Oceania Cyber Security Centre), South
 Africa (to establish a new cybersecurity centre at the University of Cape Town), and Norway. In
 2020, the Department signed a memorandum of understanding with the Quantum Information,
 Foundations, and Technologies Group at Hong Kong University to establish an HKU-Oxford joint
 lab for Quantum Information and Computation, encompassing exchange research visits, joint
 participation in grant applications, and joint PhD supervision. A similar MOU to support the
 exchange of graduate students and staff has been signed between the Departments of
 Computer Science, Mathematics, and Physics at Oxford and Waseda University in Tokyo.

 Collaboration with industry and regulators. The Department has extensive collaborations
 with major software companies. Our programme grants include as partners BT, Facebook,
 Google, Huawei, IBM, and Microsoft. As an example of collaboration with the broader
 manufacturing and infrastructure sectors, the CPS theme collaborates with Nissan, the UK
 Space Agency, BP, Network Rail, and the UK Atomic Energy Authority through the Mobile
 Robotics programme grant. Trigoni’s £1.2m EPSRC project ACE-OPS also involves
 collaboration with emergency services, such as the National Fire Chiefs Council. Our
 Computational Biology and Health Informatics theme develops the simulation frameworks
 Chaste and Virtual Assay for modelling cardiac and respiratory physiology, with applications to
 cancer modelling and drug testing. Chaste has been downloaded by research groups at 1,000
 unique locations, including at NASA, GSK, and AstraZeneca; while Virtual Assay is commercially
 licensed to pharmaceutical companies Amgen, Janssen, UCB, and Servier, and is under
 evaluation by eight further companies. The theme also works closely with regulatory
 collaborators, including the FDA and the EMA, and with hospital partners including the John
 Radcliffe in Oxford and the Heart Hospital in London. In addition to industrial collaboration
 through research grants and direct industrial funding, our staff have received research awards
 through industry-led schemes for facilitating engagement with academia, e.g., Google Faculty
 Research Awards (Lin, Kroening, Olteanu, Whiteson), J.P. Morgan Faculty Awards (Calinescu,
 Wooldridge, Whiteson), and Amazon (Olteanu).




                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Collaborations with the third sector. Other collaborators have included charities and social
 enterprises. Our HCC theme has extensive links with the Open Data Institute, a non-profit whose
 mission is to work with companies and governments to build a trustworthy data ecosystem in
 order to realise the latent value in open data. Shadbolt and Berners-Lee are co-founders and sit
 on the Board, while Van Kleek delivers training in AI, visualisations and web technologies at the
 Institute. The Institute has an annual turnover of around £5m and maintains a network of 28
 franchised ODI nodes across 18 countries. Meanwhile, The Mental Health Trust and the think
 tank doteveryone are partners on Jirotka’s collaborative £1m EPSRC grant ReEnTrust:
 Rebuilding and Enhancing Trust in Algorithms (along with Co-Investigators from Edinburgh and
 Nottingham universities, and from Amazon and Samsung).

 Economic contribution. Our research has generated significant wider economic impact
 through spinouts, collaborations, and licence deals. CS spinouts attracted over $70m in
 commercial funding over the period, and, at the time of Semmle’s purchase by GitHub in
 September 2019, employed over 225 people. Diffblue, a company founded by Kroening and
 Schrammel to automate the creation of software unit tests, raised $22m in Series A funding in
 2017, and has deployed its technology at Goldman Sachs and other multinational companies to
 improve software quality assurance. TheySay, a company formed by Pulman based on
 innovative Oxford research in computational linguistics, was acquired by the global software
 company Aptean in 2017. DeepMind acquired the AI spinout Dark Blue Labs in 2014. Waymo
 recently acquired the spinout Latent Logic as part of a plan to base its first European
 engineering hub in Oxford. Research in Foundations, Structures, and Quantum is having
 industrial impact through a collaboration with Cambridge Quantum Computing (CQC), with the
 ZX-calculus introduced by Coecke with Duncan of the CQC now a key enabling technology for
 CQC’s quantum compiler, t|ket. New hire Kissinger has also worked on applications of ZX-
 calculus, and the collaboration will be encouraged by the establishment of CQC offices in
 Oxford. The Virtual Assay modelling and simulation software developed by the Computational
 Biology theme is commercially licensed to major pharmaceutical companies and is already
 having impacts on process and production.

 Contribution to governance and public policy. The Global Cyber Security Capacity Centre,
 led by the Security theme, has developed a Capacity Maturity Model in partnership with the
 World Bank that has been used by more than 80 countries in over 110 reviews during the period
 to benchmark cybersecurity capacity and inform national cybersecurity strategy. Members of our
 HCC theme have had significant impact in advancing the open data agenda in government,
 providing leadership in developing the potential of the web, and informing AI and data protection
 policy. Shadbolt has advised government on open data throughout the period, for example in his
 roles on the Public Sector Transparency Board (now Data Steering Group) and on the
 Government’s Digital Advisory Board, as well as through the work of the Open Data Institute.
 Jirotka’s ESRC-funded project Digital Wildfires led directly to her appointment as a specialist
 advisor to the House of Lords (HoL) Select Committee on Communications, helping to produce
 its report on Growing up with the Internet (2017). She is also on the Steering Committee of the
 All-Party Parliamentary Group (APPG) on Data Analytics; and gave evidence to the APPG on AI
 and to the HoL Select Committee on AI (October 2017). Wooldridge also gave evidence to the
 HoL committee. Binns, Flechais, and Van Kleek have been funded by the Information
 Commissioner’s Office (ICO) to undertake work on the future of data privacy in smart homes. In
 2018, Binns became the first Postdoctoral Fellow in AI at the ICO, taking up a two-year
 fellowship before re-joining the Department in 2020. In July 2019, he gave evidence to the Joint
 Committee on Human Rights for its report on the Right to Privacy (Article 8) and the Digital
 Revolution. Research relating to privacy in the context of mobile and smart devices (Binns,

                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Shadbolt, Van Kleek) has informed UK and EU regulator and policy reports.

 Public engagement with research. Our academics regularly disseminate their research and
 address topical themes for public audiences, for example at festivals such as Hay, Cheltenham
 Science Festival, Edinburgh International Book Festival, and others. Over 2,500 festival-goers
 attended events run by Oxford CS academics at Hay in 2017 and 2018. Wooldridge and
 Shadbolt have spoken frequently in connection with their popular general-audience books,
 Artificial Intelligence: A Ladybird Expert Book, and The Digital Ape. Shadbolt chaired the 2019
 Royal Society Book Prize panel. Our academics regularly contribute to high-profile radio and
 television programmes, such as Today and In Our Time.3 Our staff benefit from support and
 training for public engagement provided by MPLS, and we employ a communications officer who
 produces our bi-annual newsletter, Inspired Research, and provides content for our website,
 highlighting and explaining our research.

 4.2. Contribution to the Research Base
 Our staff have contributed actively to interdisciplinary research, sustaining the discipline and
 influencing working practices in the wider research base. For example, the HCC theme provides
 leadership of the EPSRC-commissioned and funded Observatory for Responsible Research and
 Innovation in ICT, which provides training and tools for improving understanding around the
 responsible development and implementation of technology. It has already trained over 500 staff
 and students and is expanding operations to spin out soon as a not-for-profit social enterprise.
 Shadbolt undertook an independent review of Computer Sciences degree accreditation in 2015–
 16, commissioned by the Minister of State for Universities, Science, Research, and Innovation.
 Beyond the discipline, our Computational Biology and Health Informatics theme is working with
 partners in the pharmaceutical industry (see above), pioneering applications of in silico
 modelling which are influencing medical research practices. Rodriguez’s group has twice been
 recognised for this work, in 2014 and 2017, by the award of the top international prize of the
 NC3Rs. As documented below, staff across all our themes have also been active in supporting
 the research infrastructure.

 Working with funders. Our staff have helped sustain the discipline through the provision of
 peer review and strategic advice to funders. Examples include: Gavaghan (Chair, EPSRC
 Research Software Engineering Fellowship Panel, 2018; BBSRC Training and Fellowships
 Committee, 2013–16); L. Goldberg (ERC Consolidator Grant panel PE6 CS and Informatics,
 2015, 2017); Jirotka (RCUK Digital Economy Programme Advisory Board, 2017–20);
 Kwiatkowska (REF2021 Subpanel 11 CS and Informatics; Chair, ERC Starting Grants Panel
 PE6, 2012–16; Royal Society URF Panel; Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowships Panel,
 2012–18); Melham (EPSRC Cross-SAT/SAN Working Group for Quantum Technologies, 2017–
 present; Strategic Advisory Network, 2011–17); Rodriguez (Wellcome Trust Basic Science
 Interview Committee, 2015–20).

 External advice. Another significant contribution by members of this UoA involves the provision
 of external advice to other scientific organisations, and regulators. Examples include: Gavaghan
 (Chair, External Advisory Board, Software Sustainability Institute, 2013–17); Jirotka (Steering
 Committee, APPG on Data Analytics, 2018–present); Kwiatkowska (Scientific Steering
 Committee, Isaac Newton Institute, 2015–17); Melham (Non-executive Director, Alan Turing
 Institute, 2018–present; Review Panel for Dagstuhl, 2016–17); Ong (Academic Research

3 P vs NP, in which L. Goldberg participated, was voted one of the top ten editions of In Our Time by BBC

Radio 4 listeners.

                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Council, Ministry of Education, Singapore, 2013–present); Rodriguez (Advisor, In silico cardiac
 modelling working group, USA Food and Drug Administration, 2013–present).

 Our staff contribute to the scientific direction of the discipline in numerous ways. Examples
 include:

 Chairing scientific associations. L. Goldberg (Vice-President, EATCS, 2016–20); Ong (Vice-
 Chair, ACM SIGLOG, 2014–18); Gibbons (Vice-Chair, ACM SIGPLAN 2012–15).

 Editors-in-Chief. Gibbons (J. of Functional Programming); L. Goldberg (J. of Discrete
 Algorithms, 2014–17); Gottlob (Logic Journal of the IGPL); Horrocks (J. of Web Semantics);
 Kroening (Formal Methods in System Design); Kwiatkowska (Joint Editor-in-Chief, ACM Books
 series).

 Journal editorial boards: ACM Trans. Comp. Log.; ACM Trans. Economics and Computation;
 ACM Trans. on the Web; Artificial Intelligence; Automatica; Formal Asp. Comp. J.; Formal Meth.
 in Sys. Design; Inf. and Comp.; IEEE Trans. on Soft. Eng; Inf. and Comp.; J. of AI Research; J.
 of Autonomous Agents and Multi-Agent Systems; J. of Comp. and Sys. Sci.; J. of Log. and
 Comp.; J. Symb. Log.; J. of the ACM; Pharmacology and Therapeutics; Phil. Trans. of the Royal
 Soc. A; PLoS ONE; Royal Soc. Open Sci. J.; Sci. of Comp. Prog.; SIAM J. on Comp.; SIAM J.
 on Disc. Math.

 Conference steering committees. Benedikt (ICDT); Gibbons (ICFP 2012–19, POPL 2016–19);
 L. Goldberg (ICALP); Kroening (CAV, FLoC); Kwiatkowska (FLoC); Ong (FoSSaCS 2009–18,
 ICALP 2018–22, LICS 2015–17); Ouaknine (LICS); Santhanam (CCC, 2017–20); Staton (LICS);
 Wooldridge (President, IJCAI Board of Trustees 2015–17).

 Conference chairing. Benedikt (ICDT’17); Elkind (AAMAS’19, ACM EC'18); Gibbons (ICFP’17);
 Kroening (CAV’15); A. Martin and Martinovic (General Chairs, ACM WiSEC’14 and
 RFIDSec’14); Murawski (FoSSaCS’17); Olteanu (Vice-Chair, ACM SIGMOD’17); Ouaknine
 (LICS’17); Wooldridge (IJCAI’15); Worrell (MFCS’18).

 Conferences hosted by the Department include FLoC’2018 (2,000 attendees) and ICFP’15 (600
 attendees).

 4.3. Indicators of Esteem
 The following external rankings, fellowships, prizes, and speaking invitations provide evidence of
 the quality of, and recognition for, our research.

 External rankings. In the Times Higher Education World University Subject Rankings, the
 University of Oxford placed 1st, 4th, and 1st for Computer Science in 2018, 2019, and 2020
 respectively. In the QS World University Subject Rankings, Oxford placed 7th in the world for
 Computer Science and Information Systems in both 2017 and 2018, 6th in 2019, and 5th in 2020.

 Fellowships. FRS (Kwiatkowska, 2019; Shadbolt, 2017); Fellow of the ACM (Abramsky, 2014;
 Kwiatkowska, 2019; Wooldridge, 2015); Academia Europaea (L. Goldberg, 2014; Ouaknine,
 2020; Wooldridge, 2015); Royal Society of Edinburgh and Royal Academy of Engineering (U.
 Martin, 2017).

 Awards. ACM Alonzo Church Award (Abramsky et al., 2017); ACM SIGPLAN Achievement
 Award (Cardelli, 2015); BCS Lovelace Medal (Abramsky, 2014; Gottlob, 2017; Kwiatkowska,

                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2019); CAV Award (Kroening, 2018; Yang, 2016); NC3Rs International Prize (Rodriguez, 2014,
 2017); Royal Society Milner Award (Kwiatkowska, 2018); Turing Award (Berners-Lee, 2016).

 Best-paper awards. Abate (QEST’16); Abramsky (LICS’18, test of time); Benedikt (ICALP’17),
 (ACM PODS’15, test of time); Ceylan (ICDT’20); Cremers (ESORICS’17); De Freitas (ICLR’16);
 L. Goldberg (IPEC’17); Galanis+ (ICALP’16); Gottlob+ (ACM PODS’19 test of time); Grigore+
 (PLDI’14); Kaminski+ (IJCAI’17); Kaminski+ (ICDT’16); Koutsoupias (ICALP’15); Kroening
 (CONCUR’15); Olteanu (ICDT’19); Staton+ (POPL’19, Facebook award); Ouaknine+
 (ICALP’14); Pouly (ICALP’16); Rasmussen+ (NDSS’14); Santhanam (LATIN’18); Staton
 (ETAPS’17); Whiteson (AAAI’18); Wooldridge (IFAAMAS influential paper, 2018); Zhang+
 (AAMAS’20).

 Doctoral thesis awards. BCS/CHPC (D’Osualdo, 2016); EurAI (Peters, 2019); NC3Rs (Britton,
 2014); Victor Lesser (Peters, 2019).

 Plenary invited talks. Benedikt (DL’14, PODS’18); Coecke (CSL’18); Elkind (CIAC’19,
 FSTTCS’17, SAGT’18); L. Goldberg (ISAAC’19, LATIN’18, MFCS’18, STACS’19); Gottlob
 (IJCAI’17); Jirotka (CQIS’18); Kiefer (ICALP’20); Kwiatkowska (CAV’17, CONCUR’19,
 ICALP’16); Olteanu (ICDT’19); Ong (LICS’15, LICS’17, SAS’14); Ouaknine (CCA’19,
 CONCUR’19, FoSSaCS’17); Staton (ICALP’18, MFPS’15); Worrell (CONCUR’15, FSTTCS’15,
 ISSAC’17, LICS’19).




                                                                                     Page 24
