Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: Middlesex University


 Unit of Assessment: UoA17 Business & Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview and mission

 Middlesex University Business School research makes a distinctive and significant contribution to
 the field, by placing businesses firmly in their societal context at global, national, and local levels.
 Although our University status dates from 1992, the Business School is one of the oldest in the
 UK. Across its history, its mission has been to foster business and management activity that pro-
 motes a better society. Our impactful research and knowledge exchange consistently addresses
 issues of social justice, equality, diversity and inclusion, sustainability, and prosperity through ac-
 tive engagement with business and a range of private, public and voluntary organisations.

 Our REF2014 submission ranked us 38th, comfortably in the top half of Research Fortnight’s Re-
 search Power League. 65% of our submission was rated 4*/3*, up from 30% in RAE 2008; 92%
 of our impact was rated 4*/3*; our research environment ranked in the top-30, with 75% rated
 4*/3*. Our REF2021 submission improves further on this strong growth trajectory. It reflects our
 vibrant and sustainable research culture that is explicitly inclusive, supportive and collaborative,
 combining high academic achievement with passion for societally impactful research. Across the
 current REF period, we have strengthened research leadership, recruited new research-active
 staff at all levels, and invested strongly in staff development and research infrastructures/facilities,
 leading to significant improvements.

 We have more than doubled staff submitted (39.95 to 85.75FTE), representing 96 individuals with
 an increased proportion of female (46%FTE) and BAME academics (51%FTE). Sustainability has
 been solidified by embedding research leadership throughout the School. Yearly doctoral comple-
 tions have increased by more than 40%. Our strong level of external research income has been
 maintained in this REF period, with the May 2020 Chartered ABS (CABS) analysis ranking us #29
 for UK Business Schools (https://charteredabs.org/researchincomereport2020/). Publications are
 in journals rated more highly in the ABS list; 8% of our submission was published in ABS elite
 Journals of Distinction (up from 3.5% in 2014) and half in JoD/ABS 4-rated journals (up from one-
 third in 2014). Our improved research performance is reflected in a very strong rise in the four
 major international research rankings, culminating in a 2020 world top-200 position in Business
 & Economics.

 1.2 Research structure

 Our research governance and leadership structure reflect the strategic importance of research,
 promote research-led teaching, build capacity, and enhance research leadership and manage-
 ment. It is led by the School’s Research, Knowledge Exchange and Ethics Committee (RKE) which
 comprises the School Director of Research, Dean, Heads of Department (HoDs) and Depart-
 mental Research Leaders alongside the Directors for CEEDR (Centre for Enterprise and Econo-
 mic Development Research), Doctoral Students, Staff Development, Corporate Engagement, and
 Ethics. This committee forms a key part of the School’s Leadership Team, with a core remit to
 integrate research with the wider School strategy; ensuring that mutually interdependent links to
 teaching, knowledge exchange and impact are fully realised and underpin the sustainability of our
 entire provision. Progress towards targets is monitored by this widely-understood, robust research
 management structure, informed by income and student data supplied by the University’s Re-
 search and Knowledge Transfer Office and by detailed annual Research Plans completed by all
 academic staff (see 2.1).



                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research endeavours are organised around seven themes (see 4.1) which have developed
 historically. Five of these featured in 2014:
 (1) labour, human capital and employee voice
 (2) organisation studies, especially gender, diversity & inclusion, and leadership
 (3) enterprise, entrepreneurship and innovation
 (4) international business
 (5) corporate governance and financial management

 Two new thematic areas targeted for development in 2014 have grown into fully-fledged areas of
 expertise:
 (6) tourism and place branding
 (7) experimental/behavioural economics

 These seven themes provided the focus for our people and research strategy (see 2.1). However,
 interdisciplinary approaches are central to the way we conceptualise research (see 4.1) and are,
 together with an international comparative approach (see 4.2), a hallmark of our outputs. This is
 apparent in the longstanding work of CEEDR and has been actively advanced in this REF period
 through new interdisciplinary research clusters and internal seedcorn funding support (see 3.2).
 Our commitment to business and social engagement means that there is a wide range of non-
 academic beneficiaries and audiences involved in the production and use of our research output
 (see 4.6).

 1.3 Research strategy

 a. Realising our 2014 strategic aims

 In 2012, Croucher, then Director of Research, implemented a research strategy to increase the
 scale and quality of our research activity across identified thematic areas. This strategy was sub-
 sequently developed by Syrett, Director of Research from 2016. Alongside a focus upon retaining,
 attracting and developing ambitious researchers, particular emphasis was placed upon enhancing
 our leadership capacity through a multi-layered, distributed governance system. This comprised a
 new leadership role for staff development (Harzing), new mid-late career Departmental research
 leads (Dennis, Freeman, Lodh, Vecchi) providing dedicated support for our seven research
 themes, and ten early-to-mid-career academics providing ground-up leadership for their new, self-
 initiated, collaborative, interdisciplinary, and societally relevant research clusters (see 3.2).

 Our REF2014 strategy identified six aims which we have actively pursued:

 (i) broadening the base of research strengths; alongside consolidating our five traditional strengths
 with increased staff numbers (16-22 academics), we have broadened our base with new strengths
 in Tourism and Place Branding (19 academics) and Experimental/Behavioural Economics (13 ac-
 ademics). This was achieved through strategic recruitment (see 2.1) and repositioning Tourism
 (previously in Economics) within the Marketing department to capitalise on synergies with (place)
 branding. Restructuring of Economics led by Kujal enabled the development of a cohesive group
 of experimental/behavioural economists, with an emerging strength in development economics.

 (ii) improving the balance of our staff profile: careful recruitment of key senior and early-career
 staff, combined with systematic staff development and research mentoring of junior staff, has fa-
 cilitated doubling the number of staff submitted whilst increasing the proportion of female
 (46%FTE) and BAME academics (51%FTE).

 (iii) further internationalising research and impact activity: through mobilising our highly interna-
 tional staff composition (see 2.3), we have increased both international collaborations (from 77 to
 115 in our submitted outputs) and international content (from 118 to 143 in our submitted outputs),
 with over 70 countries represented. Impact Case Studies (ICSs) similarly demonstrate our inter-
 national scope (see 1.4).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (iv) diversifying income streams and increasing research funding; within an increasingly competi-
 tive funding environment, our research income now comes from more diverse sources and funds
 a wider range of projects. We have maintained our strong level of research income over the current
 period, placing us #29 in the May 2020 CABS rating for UK Business Schools.

 (v) enhancing non-academic impact of our research; the development of systematic support for
 increasing non-academic impact (see 1.4) has resulted in seven ICSs and is evidenced in in-
 creased social media engagement and media coverage.

 (vi) augmenting the number of PhD students and professional doctorates and improving timely
 completions. Doctoral intake has grown by 10%, focusing on quality applications. Yearly comple-
 tions increased by 43%, with an average 10.3 PhD graduates/year and 6.4 DProfs.

 This sustained strategy has significantly increased the quality and quantity of our research outputs.
 Our current submission is 26% larger than 2014 in outputs, with 8% of articles published in Jour-
 nals of Distinction (3.5% in 2014), and half in JoD/ABS4-rated journals (up from one-third in 2014),
 with three quarters of the remaining publications in ABS3-rated journals or journals of similar
 standing. Overall, we nearly tripled our publications in JoD journals, nearly doubled our publica-
 tions in ABS-4/JoD journals and nearly quadrupled our articles in Web of Science listed journals.

 Our improved research performance is reflected in a marked improvement in all international re-
 search rankings since 2018, including in the THE ranking where we have improved our position
 within our bracket. Notably, we perform even better on rankings that are fully (ARWU) or largely
 (US News; 75%) based on metrics such as publications, citations and international collaboration,
 compared to rankings partly (THE; 33%) or largely (QS; 80%) based on “peer review” (reputation
 surveys). In 2020, Middlesex University was the only modern UK university to be ranked in Busi-
 ness & Economics on the US News ranking (#32). On the ARWU/Shanghai ranking, Tourism was
 ranked #27 worldwide and #4 in the UK, demonstrating this major new area of strength.

 World-wide position in international research rankings (Business & Economics)
   Year          THE            QS           ARWU          US News
   2018        251-300          NR            238            NR
   2019        251-300        401-450         196            218
   2020        251-300        351-400         203            198

 Note: Our ARWU ranking above is based on the average of five BS sub-disciplines. The slight
 2020 decline was caused by a changing operationalisation for one of the criteria; our performance
 on the other criteria increased.

 b. Advancing our research strategy

 The strong leadership and dynamism of our research activities demonstrated since 2014 ensures
 we are now well-placed to take a leading role within the University’s ambitious 2031 strategy cur-
 rently being finalised. Under leadership of our new Vice-Chancellor and British Academy of Mana-
 gement President, Nic Beech, a new vision (Middlesex University: innovative and inclusive, united
 by a shared purpose we will shape a better world) and a new mission (To shape a better world
 through practice-led, transformative education, high-quality, impactful research and innovative en-
 gagement), have been put in place. Through interdisciplinary and cross-functional communities of
 practice, the University intends to become world-leading in diversity and inclusion, social justice,
 innovation, health, sustainability and prosperity. Active in all of these areas, the BS is excellently
 positioned to advance interdisciplinary university-wide collaborations.

 The School will continue to build on recent strong achievements and current dynamism. Located
 firmly in the top-third of institutions in the UK on many metrics, the School’s reference group is
 now composed of research-intensive universities. Our current strategy is to sustain performance

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on existing strategic aims (publications, staff development, internationalisation, impact, doctoral
 students), ensuring growth, but to expand breadth and depth of these activities. Key strategic aims
 comprise:

 1. Consolidate our seven current research strengths (see 4.1) and develop emerging strengths
    in development economics, innovation, disruptive technologies, and large-scale organizational
    transformation, leveraging eight post REF2021 appointments with expertise in heuristic deci-
    sion-making, decision science, OR/IS, big data/datafication, and organizational change.
 2. Further increase interdisciplinary research through development of existing research clusters
    (see 3.2) and aligned with priorities in our new University strategy, notably related to environ-
    mental sustainability, gender and diversity, business ethics and well-being.
 3. Increase levels and diversity of funding across our research, using growth areas, such as ex-
    perimental/behavioural economics, tourism and innovation and increased interdisciplinary
    research, to generate new funding streams.
 4. Expand the extent and scope of our KE and impact activities through working with external
    partners to embed further non-academic impact within all areas of academic strength (see 1.4).
 5. Invest further in the development of our professional doctorates to increase numbers and ex-
    tend business engagement, improve synergies with our PhD training programme, and become
    sector-leading in what we consider to be the major growth area in Business & Management
    doctoral provision.
 6. Improve our reputation to fully reflect our objective research performance through improved
    communication, effective use of social media, and wider engagement with (inter)national pro-
    fessional organisations.

 We will achieve this by further developing our transformative staff development and mentoring
 programme (see 2.1/2.3/3.2) to become a sector-leading model for developing supportive, collab-
 orative, and inclusive research cultures.

 1.4 Achieving impact from our research

 We have sustained our strong emphasis on research impact apparent in REF2014, where 92% of
 our impact was rated as 4*/3*. Our approach to impact is integral to, and embedded in, each of
 the six key strategic aims above, informed by three objectives: (i) produce research relevant to
 business, policy makers and wider society which; (ii) defines and responds to both practical issues
 and debates driven by academic concerns and; (iii) routinely involves stakeholders. It demon-
 strates strong orientation towards issues of social justice, diversity, inclusion, and sustainability;
 an approach which requires engagement with constituencies often marginalised in business re-
 search, such as unemployed people, the low paid, minority ethnic and migrant workers, trade
 unions and social enterprises.

 a. Realising research impact

 Engagement with businesses, public sector organisations and diverse communities of practice is
 integrated into our working culture, cutting across areas of research, teaching and learning. Real-
 ising impact is supported through our staff development programme (see 2.1) and infrastructure
 (see 3.2) and integrated into our research governance; the remit of formally designated Depart-
 mental Research Leaders includes supporting staff to develop the impact of their research activity.

 Building active relationships with users nationally, internationally and locally is pursued through a
 number of mechanisms and supported financially through our seedcorn funding scheme:
 • Participating in and hosting user events. These are crucial to promoting user dialogue, through
     us communicating our research expertise and our staff gaining better understanding of users’
     research needs (see 4.3).
 • Participation in users’ steering groups/advisory panels, routinely using these in our research.


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Running specialist training/CPD events making research findings available in a user-friendly
     form e.g., the successful development of Massive Open Online Courses on social enterprise
     (ICS5); and training on whistleblowing provided to the NHS (ICS3).
 •   Active BS engagement in communities of practice networks including the UNPRME (United
     Nations Principles for Responsible Management Education); Business Fights Poverty, Busi-
     ness Call to Action Network, and Digital Leaders Network.
 •   Staff secondments encouraging staff to develop links through working in other organisations,
     and users themselves working within the BS (see 2.1)
 •   Developing our professional doctorate and MBA programmes, through which students provide
     us with strong industry links, including MBAs meeting the needs of specific business sectors,
     such as Poulis’ work with the shipping industry.

 b. Impact Case Study selection

 Our ICSs demonstrate our approach to impact, the different types of users and beneficiaries of
 our research, and our continued emphasis upon social purpose in business through our focus
 upon equity, social justice and sustainability. We have built upon three major areas of research
 impact developed over the last 20 years:

 (1) supporting, valuing and protecting workers: impact is evident regarding improvements in tack-
 ling race equality within the NHS (ICS1); increased protection for whistleblowers across private
 corporations and public organisations (ICS3); better detection and improved recovery of unpaid
 wages (ICS4); raising awareness of the workforce benefits of improved maternity protection
 (ICS7); and paying employees a living wage (ICS6).

 (2) improving the social and environmental sustainability of business: impact has arisen from pro-
 moting business activity with social purpose, creating and growing social enterprises (ICS5),
 developing green finance to support business development (ICS2), and encouraging business
 social responsibility through payment of the Living Wage (ICS6).

 (3) supporting Small and Medium Size Enterprise (SME) development: impact builds upon past
 work on improved support for SME growth, demonstrated through advancing change in the financ-
 ing and support for early stage, innovative SMEs (ICS2), and working with SMEs to demonstrate
 advantages of paying employees a living wage (ICS6) and improving maternity protection (ICS7).

 The ICSs reflect close engagement with end users over extended periods of time to build trust
 and mutual understanding, e.g., with the NHS (ICS1); the Living Wage Foundation (ICS6); British
 Business Bank (ICS2); and SEUK and the Department for Digital, Culture Media and Sport (ICS5).
 The impact of our research is evident in shaping and design of policy as well as its implementation,
 practice and evaluation. This is exemplified through impact via the Director of Labour Market En-
 forcement (ICS4) upon the non-payment of holiday pay, and with BEIS, DCMS and other national
 government departments in the development of policy on mutuals (ICS5) and venture capital fi-
 nancing (ICS2). In all of these ICSs, our results have led to demonstrable changes in business
 and organisational practice and government policy, both in the UK and internationally, whether in
 relation to protecting whistleblowers (ICS3), developing effective race equality standards in the
 workplace (ICS1), or adopting payment of the Living Wage (ICS6).

 c. Sustaining future impact

 Impact will continue to be embedded within our research, teaching and knowledge exchange ac-
 tivities. Our experience has demonstrated how research and impact go hand-in-hand, both contri-
 buting centrally to the overall success of our work. The ICSs presented are on-going and provide
 a strong basis for future impact. However, across this REF period, we have actively invested in
 broadening impact to new and developing areas of research expertise, particularly experi-
 mental/behavioural economics, tourism and innovation. It is expected that these areas, focused
 on core themes of sustainability, innovation and social justice, will contribute future ICSs.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our Tourism research has begun to generate impact regarding sustainable tourism approaches
 involving local populations in the tourist experience (Stylidis). Our behavioural and development
 economics research is creating impact through observational and experimental approaches. This
 includes Ramirez’s field interventions encouraging behavioural change in relation to educational
 outcomes in Nigeria (working with the World Bank) and democratic participation in Tunisia (work-
 ing with USAID), and O’Garra’s development of a tool to support community-based co-manage-
 ment on social and ecological outcomes in Fiji. COVID-19 related research has also generated a
 new stream of impact (see 4.6), notably Capraro’s research on gendered mask-wearing during
 the pandemic which has generated considerable international interest from the media (>150 sto-
 ries) and policy-makers.

 1.5. Open Science and research integrity

 We have strongly supported initiatives related to Open Science including ORCID registration, with
 all submitted staff having registered, and jave actively supported gold open access publication for
 3*/4* journal publications between 2012-2016.This OA scheme contributes to our strong citation
 performance (see 4.1), but was discontinued on the basis of cost, given the rising level of 3*/4*
 outputs and refusal of co-authors from other universities to contribute to the cost.

 The University Figshare Repository (https://mdx.figshare.com/) for research data is increasingly
 used by Business School researchers, e.g. an ethical and practical framework for COVID-19 test-
 ing of NHS workers (https://doi.org/10.22023/mdx.12721505.v1) (referenced by the UK Scientific
 Advisory Group for Emergencies panel); reports on racial inequality in NHS leadership
 (https://doi.org/10.22023/mdx.12640421.v1; https://doi.org/10.22023/mdx.12721493.v1); and on
 student working conditions and employment rights (https://doi.org/10.22023/mdx.12937253.v1).

 Academics in Economics have participated in a high-profile pre-registered international replication
 study on cooperative behaviour, combining 21 labs in 12 countries. In addition, the majority of
 recent studies in our Behavioural Economics group are pre-registered. CEEDR staff collaborated
 with government departments and NGOs to promote the use of administrative data for evaluating
 outcomes (https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/1356389015577507). The resulting publica-
 tion “Opening access to administrative data for evaluating public services: The case of the Justice
 Data Lab”, demonstrates how government-owned data can be made available to organisations to
 evaluate the impact of their interventions and has been influential internationally, with several
 countries seeking to replicate the UK experience.

 The University has a well-established, comprehensive Code of Practice for Research, enshrining
 the highest standards of research conduct and integrity. Its principles and practices are based on
 the Research Councils’ Statement on Safeguarding Good Scientific Practice (2000) and the Con-
 cordat to Support Research Integrity (2012). The independent University-level Research Ethics
 Committee (RKEC) ensures high standards of integrity are upheld through well-established ap-
 proval processes and has oversight of our School-based research ethics committees. The School
 actively reflects on comments and cases reported at RKEC from the Annual Review and has made
 key contributions to reforms and refinements of approaches to ethics approval.

 Within the School, research integrity is overseen by the RKE committee and governed through a
 departmental Research Ethics Committee (REC) structure. REC approvals are audited on an an-
 nual basis and Chairs report to the central University REC which is itself chaired by a Deputy
 Dean. All research projects conducted by students and staff must attain approval from a local REC
 before commencement of work. All applications are reviewed by at least one reviewer, and up to
 three reviewers by those deemed as “high risk”. Students must provide evidence of REC approval
 in order for their work to be marked. The governance function of the RECs is underpinned by a
 secondary educative function to support integrity in research practice. Applications requiring re-
 submission receive detailed written feedback from reviewers to support the reapplication process
 and develop applicants’ understanding of requirements of ethical research practice.


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development

 a. Staffing strategy

 Central to realising our potential in research, teaching, and knowledge exchange, is prioritising the
 best use of our staff’s expertise and resourcefulness. The key objectives of our staffing strategy
 since 2012 have been to strengthen research leadership and develop junior researchers to ensure
 a well-balanced staff profile, reinforce current research groupings, and lay foundations for new
 areas. This has been pursued through external recruitment, including a major recruitment drive
 between 2012-2015, and strong emphasis upon staff development, particularly for junior and mid-
 career staff. Our staffing strategy is informed by the basic principles of the Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers: to promote an inclusive approach to staff development
 which enhances individual and collective research capacities; to attract and retain research lead-
 ers and junior staff with high potential; and to promote equality and diversity.

 The appointment of twelve new professors to enhance research leadership (Andriotis, Brañas-
 Garza, Dennis, Fiordelisi, Gooderham, James, Harrison, Harzing, Kujal, Lange, Lehner,
 Melewar) has ensured that our seven thematic areas have substantive research leadership. De-
 velopment of new thematic areas (Experimental/Behavioural Economics and Tourism and Place
 Branding) was advanced via six new professorial appointments, six talented mid-career research-
 ers (Capraro, Cerrone, Ductor-Gomez, Jimenez, Rodriguez-Lara, Terzidou, Stylidis), and a
 post REF2021 appointment of Werner Guth as Visiting Research Professor.

 Our current submission includes 17% Lecturers, 61% Senior Lecturers, 11% Associate Profes-
 sors, and 11% Professors (FTE), who all have permanent contracts; 12% of our academics are
 ECRs. The School’s rising reputation has attracted a high calibre of applicants, providing oppor-
 tunities for raising overall achievement. Nearly half of the academics in our current submission
 were recruited since REF2014.

 b. Staff development

 Middlesex University’s people mission is transforming potential into success for both students
 and staff. From 2014, the University undertook an institution-wide staff mapping exercise to ensure
 staff were correctly placed in terms of level and development pathway. These pathways comprise
 either “teaching & research”, for those with a significant responsibility for research (returned in our
 REF submission), or “teaching & professional practice”, for those with a key focus on engagement
 with practice. All are part of our inclusive research culture; we do not have teaching-only contracts.

 The School has a structured, inclusive approach to supporting colleagues’ development, ensuring
 both vitality and sustainability. It focuses on:
  • Constellations rather than individual stars: using mutual support, collaboration, and deve-
     lopment – instead of competition and financial incentives – as the route to building confidence
     and improving research performance.
  • Walking the talk: an emerging, incremental, and iterative strategy – rather than a “grand
     design” – with practical, day-to-day, on-the-ground support.
  • Means rather than ends: inclusive research processes in which developmental research
     collaborations and external engagement matter as much as publications.

 In 2014 the School created a new role dedicated to research mentoring and career development
 for junior academics, appointing Harzing (https://www.mdx.ac.uk/about-us/what-we-do/faculty-of-
 professional-and-social-sciences/business-school/features/raising-middlesexs-research-profile).
 This resulted in a comprehensive staff development programme, recognised by Harzing’s election

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by Women of the Future as one of 50 Leading Lights in the 2019 Kindness & Leadership Awards.
 It includes monthly research lunches and research training cafes, ad-hoc research jam sessions,
 research cluster meetings, research seminars, individual career development meetings, as well
 as longer, more intensive development activities such as 3-day writing boot-camps, workshops on
 funding applications, and specialised half/one day bootcamps on topics such as journal targeting,
 literature review, research design, and social media engagement (see also 3.2). The programme
 is available to staff at all levels of research activity, including those on the “professional practice”
 pathway, with research students welcome at many activities as well. In 2020 the programme was
 taken online (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tNf3LkZiu9k&t=76s), thus enabling integration of
 academics from Middlesex Dubai and Mauritius.

 Staff also receive support for external engagement, through a dedicated Director of Corporate and
 Partner Engagement (McGowan). Support included over a dozen stakeholder engagement events
 in the 2014-20 period with practitioners and policy makers from industry, not for profits, fun-
 ders, and foundations. McGowan works with colleagues in developing external links, for instance
 to All Party Parliamentary Groups synergistic with our research focus (e.g., APPGs on Human
 Trafficking & Slavery, Race & Community, and Social Mobility), to companies, building dissemi-
 nation channels for relevant academic research, and via networks, such as UNPRME. Staff are
 also supported in development of research impact through mentorship and advice from CEEDR
 (see 3.2), alongside specific training and support from external consultants working with members
 of staff with research impact potential. This combined support enabled staff to extend research
 impact and supported the development of our ICSs.

 Staff development needs are formally explored annually in appraisals. Staff complete a Research
 Plan, reporting on outputs, research income, engagement with practice, and other research activ-
 ities and plans to build upon them. Individuals are offered development packages to meet identified
 needs. Support emphasises high levels of assistance rather than monitoring. Staff can apply for
 time relief in the form of research and practice allowances – which, unusually for post-92 univer-
 sities, can amount to up to 40% FTE workload remission – and buy-outs to cover third-party
 research projects, plus generous conference funding (£1200/year) and seed-corn funding for re-
 search, impact and knowledge exchange activities (see 3.2). Allowances are more generous for
 new researchers, supporting their career development. Each new colleague also has a dedicated
 research (as well as teaching) mentor.

 Most staff’s class contact is limited to half a calendar year, HoDs configure teaching commitments
 appropriately to create concentrated research time, and postgraduate and doctoral supervision is
 accounted for in workload planning. Staff can apply for sabbaticals and research leave; these have
 included prestigious secondments, e.g., Daguerre’s Fulbright Scholarship to George Mason Uni-
 versity (2016-17), producing a book on Obama’s Welfare Legacy; Gottschalk to the UN (2012-
 14) and Bournakis to the Bank of Egypt (2019).

 Effectiveness of our staff development is reflected in strong staff advancement. Since 2014 eight
 long-standing colleagues – including five women and six BAME – were promoted to Associate
 Professor (Haddock-Millar, Kyriacou, McPherson, Owen, Parsa, Sepulveda, Vecchi, Woo),
 and 26 to Senior Lecturer, most within 5 years. Strong support to junior staff is also reflected in
 quality outputs, with nearly 60% of the JoD/ABS4-rated publications in our submission by (Senior)
 Lecturers. Likewise, four out of our seven ICCs are led by Senior Lecturers/Research Fellows.
 These results demonstrate ongoing effectiveness of our staff development programme, and real-
 isation of our mission of being a leading university for transforming potential into success.

 2.2 Research students

 Doctoral research is integral to our research strategy and culture. Research students are a key
 element in our inclusive and diverse research community, with 72.6% from BAME ethnic group-
 ings, the largest Asian (44.2%). Just over half is female, and 57% of the students are aged 30 and
 over, with 32.6% between 25 and 29, and only 10.5% between 21 and 24.


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PhD and professional doctorate student numbers remained largely stable across the REF period,
 increasing from 96 (2013/14) to 104 (2019/20). This stability in enrolments resulted from a 2015
 decision to revise the recruitment process so as to enhance the quality of the student intake; a
 shift that led to dropping of the previous plan to significantly expand recruitment. Controlled quality
 recruitment, investment in both research student and supervisor training, and improving the stu-
 dent experience produced a notable improvement in the number of completions. Double the
 number – 117 – of doctoral students graduated over the current REF period (previous 58.5), a
 43% increase on a yearly basis (16.7/year vs. 11.7/year).
                                                Awards by year and type
                              2013 -   2014 -    2015 -   2016 -   2017 -   2018 - 2019 - Total
  Type
                              2014     2015      2016     2017     2018     2019   2020
  Professional Doctorates       13       0         9        7        6        5      5     45
  PhD                           10        9        12        7        9        12       13      72
  Total                         23        9        21       14       15        17       18      117

 Enhancements in student experience quality, in monitoring of student supervision and in supervi-
 sor selection and training, have been overseen through the appointment of James as the new
 Director of Doctoral Programmes in 2016. Expectations of PhD students to participate fully in the
 School’s research culture have also been extended as has support for this. PhD students are
 supervised by a panel consisting of a Director of Studies and one or two co-supervisors, working
 alongside departmental Research Degrees Co-ordinators (RDCs), to promote research student
 participation in seminars/workshops and facilitate them to organise events. With the Programme
 Director, RDCs monitor students’ progress, including through six-monthly formal doctoral student
 progression boards, and reviewing supervisory teams. Over 85 colleagues have acted as super-
 visors during the REF period. Before joining supervisory teams, staff must attend university-level
 training; at least one supervisory team member must have previously supervised to completion.

 Feedback from research students on their experiences, concerns about their studies and well-
 being is actively sought and channelled through supervisors and RDCs. In addition, monitoring
 procedures and student participation in Boards of Study provide formal mechanisms to address
 any concerns. The effectiveness of these enhanced arrangements was evident in the results of
 the 2020 national PRES survey, showing that 72% of BS research degree students agreed that
 their feedback was valued and responded to, significantly above the national average of 61%.

 Our PhD training is designed to create an inclusive community of junior researchers. Research
 students receive comprehensive research training through a three-year course, drawing on aca-
 demics from across the School. It prepares students for the milestones in their progression: regis-
 tration, transfer and viva. Core elements of the first year are research design, research strategies,
 and search and review of the literature; in the second year, methodologies for data collection and
 analysis; in the third year, writing workshops, publication and dissemination strategies, social me-
 dia engagement to maximise research impact. Training is aligned to the Vitae research framework,
 preparing students for both the academic and professional world and providing them the tools to
 think beyond disciplinary boundaries and professional siloes. Finally, the University provides ge-
 neric skills training: A Researcher Development programme with nearly 30 workshops throughout
 the academic year, including employability skills, dealing with the media, academic writing, and
 accessing and disseminating research results.

 PhD training promotes an inclusive community of researchers who can find support and motivation
 in each other (see also 2.3). Since the COVID-19 crisis a virtual Research Training Café was
 established that meets regularly to ensure that supervisors and students, wherever located, can
 meet to discuss emerging issues affecting their research. Participation in the annual University-
 wide doctoral conference celebrates our research student community and promotes researcher
 development and interdisciplinary engagement. Research students present at least two papers or
 posters at this event across their programme of study.

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Doctoral student office space was expanded in 2015 with high quality, dedicated accommodation
 shared on a hot-desking basis, with good computing facilities. Research students have full access
 to the well-resourced Sheppard Library on campus, including access to dedicated databases (e.g.,
 Bloomberg), and major London libraries, e.g., British Library and the British Library of Political and
 Economic Science. During the pandemic free STATA software was provided to PhD and MSc
 research students and the Business School paid for access to Thomson Reuters and Bloomberg
 from home. PhD students may apply for up to £500 support for conference attendance.

 Alongside PhDs, we have augmented our Professional Doctorate provision, building on the world-
 leading expertise of Middlesex University’s Institute for Work Based Learning (IWBL), a recog-
 nised international leader in the field of Professional Doctorates since 2007. Following introduction
 of the DBA by Shepherd in 2011, integrating the IWBL into the Faculty in 2017 provided additional
 expertise (Pizzolato) on professional doctorates into the BS. Further strengthening of our training
 and provision in this area is a key objective of our current research strategy (see 1.3).

 2.3 Equality & Diversity

 a. Equality, diversity and inclusion in research support

 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) are core Middlesex values, both in the University and Busi-
 ness School, and considered central to creating productive research communities. We were the
 first UK university to receive Corporate Gold/Embedded Charter Mark from UK Investor in Equality
 & Diversity. All researchers have permanent contracts, offering security and career development
 to staff and sustainability to the School. The only exception is a very small group of Associate
 Lecturers – normally those yet-to-be-awarded their PhD – who usually successfully apply for Lec-
 turer vacancies after 2 years. Many colleagues have part-time appointments at their request.

 Robust arrangements exist for ensuring equality of opportunity. The University aims for provision
 above statutory levels and ahead of the sector. Along with the provision of opportunities for less-
 experienced researchers, parental leave, a university nursery, flexible working to accommodate
 family, health or other circumstances, and reintegrating staff on their return to work, are all sup-
 ported by clear policies. Twelve BS academics have been on parental leave in the REF period,
 half of which twice. Family-friendly policies are reflected in our staff development programme,
 where scheduling accommodates those with parental responsibilities.

 The School has a fully open, transparent processes for application for research funding, access
 to internal funds, conference attendance, sabbaticals and training. The School advertises and
 interviews for all key leadership roles to ensure equality of treatment and key positions being allo-
 cated based on ability and motivation. Recruitment panels are diverse, fully reflecting our staff
 demographics. Departments operate with standard workload models with research and practice
 allowances allocated transparently on a yearly basis, based on past performance and credible
 work plans.

 For research students, University procedures are in place to avoid students being disadvantaged
 as a result of ill health or other circumstances disruptive of their studies, including the COVID-19
 pandemic. Students can apply for extensions to their studies of up to 12 months beyond the max-
 imum permitted registration periods on the grounds of significant disruption outside their control.
 They can also request an interruption to their studies of up to 12 months. More than one such
 request can be made, subject to a maximum total period of interruption (24 months for a full-time
 student).

 Diversity is in the School’s DNA. Its Executive Dean Anna Kyprianou leads on diversity on the
 University Executive and chairs the University’s REF Equality and Diversity Panel; from 2021 she
 occupies the position of Pro Vice-Chancellor Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. All four of the
 School’s HoDs are non-British born – three with a BAME background – and half are female. Of
 the fifteen departmental research leads/research cluster leads, half are female and all but four are

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 non-British born. BS academics participate in Staff Equalities Networks which provide an inte-
 grated and supportive environment which embraces the rich diversity of our community. These
 are currently constituted as Equalities and Diversity Networks, including Anti-Racism, Interfaith,
 LGBT+, Gender, Disability, and Parents & Carers.

 Many staff are engaged in diversity & inclusion research, which is applied for external engagement
 and advocacy as demonstrated in the submitted ICSs on race inequality in the NHS (ICS1) and
 maternity protection (ICS7). Harzing’s research on gender/international diversity in academia in-
 formed the 2014 establishment of CYGNA, a network for female academics, 95% of which are
 non-British born (see 4.5). She is also working with the British Academy of Management to inves-
 tigate diversity and inclusion in its journals. Wilson has both led the University-wide programme of
 engagement and demonstration projects, including bespoke diversity awareness introductory ex-
 ercises, and diversity health-check initiatives, and designed a best practice diversity toolkit for the
 Metropolitan Police in partnership with Stephen Lawrence’s brother Stuart Lawrence.

 At the heart of dynamic research communities is an inclusive, supportive, and collaborative re-
 search culture in which staff and research students readily help their colleagues in various staff
 development activities and feel free to share successes, fears, and failures. Although “professional
 practice” staff are not returned in our REF submission, their invaluable work in non-academic im-
 pact, facilitated by Practice workload allowances (new in this REF period), contributes significantly
 to our inclusive research environment. Its creation (see 2.1 and 3.2) involved actively building
 researcher confidence and collegiality, whether through thriving Departmental newsletters or the
 fully-funded yearly residential writing bootcamp at Cumberland Lodge in Windsor Great Park.
 Such events not only demonstrate to staff the School’s desire to invest in their career development,
 but also create a climate that contributes to staff well-being; one particularly appreciated by female
 academics, younger researchers and those new to the UK and academia.

 b. Equality, diversity and inclusion in the REF submission

 Our commitment to EDI is reflected in our REF submission. An identical proportion of our male
 and female academics are on a teaching & research pathway (57%) and thus included in our
 submission. Gender distribution in the outputs (42.5% female) is broadly representative of the
 proportion of women within our submission (43.8%). In contrast to national-level findings about
 underrepresentation of women in ICSs (Kellard & Śliwa, 2016) three of our seven ICSs are led by
 women. A larger proportion of BAME academics are on a teaching & research pathway - 61% vs.
 54% for white academics - and thus included in our submission. The distribution of ethnicities in
 the output pool shows a slight under-representation of BAME staff (39.9% vs 45.8%), with white
 European (40.5% vs 36.5%) and white British staff (19.6% vs 17.7%) overrepresented; a discrep-
 ancy explained by the inclusion of many junior BAME academics who have published only one
 significant paper to date.

 The selection of publication outputs was conducted by an UoA Panel of five members. Chaired by
 the Director of Research, it included two further professors, one mid-career and one early-career
 researcher. Two members were female, three were BAME/white European. The selection process
 for outputs was fully transparent; staff were asked to nominate their top-5 publications based on
 REF quality criteria. As the CABS list is used as a guide in performance appraisals and research
 time allocations within the BS – in line with practice across UK Business Schools – it was used as
 part of our REF selection criteria, so as to ensure equity and continuity with our existing practice.
 Selection was not constrained to this ranking, however; staff could draw on other criteria to evi-
 dence the quality of their outputs and were encouraged to do so.

 The selection process followed three steps: (1) Inclusion of all staff’s first nominated publication;
 (2) Inclusion of all publications published in JoD/4* journals on the CABS ranking, or equivalent if
 the journal was not ABS-ranked. These two steps accounted for nearly 90% of our submission;
 (3) Selection from outputs published in journals ranked 3* on the CABS ranking or equivalent.
 Given the large number of outputs in this category, selections were made on the following criteria:
 (a) outputs demonstrating particular significance as evidenced in citation levels and/or societal

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact; (b) outputs linked to funded projects and/or ICSs; (c) outputs in highly-ranked journals in
 other journal rankings (e.g. Australian ABDC ranking).

 We avoided engaging in internal peer-review as we strongly feel that the judgement of quality of
 outputs through peer-review by 3-4 expert journal reviewers/editors is more accurate and equita-
 ble than any internal process. Collegial peer-review is also well-known to be biased against those
 very categories of staff that we aim to protect and often has detrimental impacts upon organisa-
 tional climate and staff morale. ICSs were chosen based on the strength of their documented
 impact and underlying research base.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Our strategy is to attract income from a range of funders to cover our diverse range of interests,
 from the more theoretical through to policy evaluation and user engagement. Accessing funding
 is overseen by the School’s Research, KT and Ethics Committee. The University’s Research and
 Knowledge Transfer Office assists in identifying funding opportunities and provides support to the
 Committee and individual researchers. Given the increasing importance of collaboration in bids,
 the RKTO and CEEDR help seeking partners beyond colleagues’ networks. Combinations of sen-
 ior and junior researchers are built to provide juniors with opportunities to participate in funded
 projects. Internal quality control is built into our systems. Funding applications are internally re-
 viewed and must be discussed with senior colleagues, Research Leads, and the School Director
 of Research, before submission.

 We maintained our level of research income at an average of £426K per year between 2014-20,
 thus placing us within the top-30 of UK Business Schools in the May 2020 CABS rankings (see
 https://charteredabs.org/researchincomereport2020/). Although our research income did not in-
 crease as planned, the wider context was one of a 15% decline in research funding for Business
 between 2013/2014 and 2018/2019, compared to funding for all disciplines. We increased the
 number of funded projects and the diversity of our funding sources between 2014-20; however,
 intense competition for larger bids led to a lower average level of funding per project (£30,000).

 Notwithstanding, we secured nearly £1million of RCUK income, a third of our total income, even
 though sector-wide income from UK research councils was 11% lower in 2018-2019 than in 2008-
 2009. The policy-oriented nature of our research was reflected in UK government bodies being
 our second major funding source (27%), generating £805k of income. A growing amount of income
 (11.4%; £339k) was from UK-based charities, alongside £317K (10.4%) from EU sources and
 £284k (8%) from industry. Whilst many research projects were themselves international in scope
 (e.g., ESRC-funded bi-lateral projects with Hong Kong; Roper on the professionalisation of HRM,
 Chatrakul on workplace age diversity), there was too a notable rise in funding from international
 sources, accounting for 8% (£229k) of total income over the 2014-20 period. These diverse fund-
 ing sources clearly evidence the interdisciplinarity of our research, high levels of collaboration with
 academic and non-academic stakeholders, and commitment to social engagement across inter-
 national, national and local societal contexts.

 Success in raising research council grants was rooted in our consistent focus on research with
 social impact. This is exemplified by CEEDR’s involvement in the ESRC-funded Centre for Under-
 standing Sustainable Prosperity (CUSP) generating over £466k of income between 2016-2020,
 the AHRC-funded (£86K) Rethinking Fashion Design Entrepreneurship: Fostering Sustainable
 Practices (2018-2021) led by Werner, ESRC-funded projects on welfare reform in the UK and US
 (£78K Daguerre), and the role of mutual organisations in delivering public services (Lyon, £58K).
 To achieve our aim to build on areas of existing research strength while opening up new avenues,
 we made extensive use of ESRC funding to develop debate and international networks, including
 funding for six ESRC seminar series: Frynas on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and small


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 business in emerging/developing countries; Syrett on entrepreneurship in homes and neighbour-
 hoods; Lewis on work-life balance in the recession; Adams on new ways of exploring gendered
 inclusion; Brañas-Garza on behavioural economic experiments relating to incentive schemes for
 policy; and Mabey on developing ethical leaders. Although involving modest levels of income,
 these seminar series produced significant collaborations, conference events and publications. For
 example, the network on home-based entrepreneurship developed through six conference events,
 three led by the BS, included active collaboration with the Department for Business, Energy &
 Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and the ONS, leading to a new microbusiness website, two edited
 books, and a forthcoming Futures special issue on small business digital entrepreneurship.

 Funding from government departments and agencies has been important in enabling the de-
 velopment of research with a strong policy and industry focus. Throughout this REF period, the
 School has been a recognised supplier to the Business Innovation and Skills (BIS) Research and
 Evaluation Framework, also widely used by other government departments, and since 2019 to the
 Human Social Science Research Capability Framework (HSSRC). The BS has received funding
 for multiple projects from BEIS and other government departments including the Department of
 Digital, Culture, Media & Sport (DCMS), Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) and Ministry
 of Defence, worked closely with industry through the development of Knowledge Transfer Part-
 nerships, and with users ranging from the British Business Bank to Social Enterprise UK.

 Given our focus upon social justice, inclusion, sustainability and prosperity, NGOs and charities
 are an important and growing source of research funding providing an important route to impact.
 Funders included the Joseph Rowntree Foundation (Vickers on the role of the social economy in
 city growth), Power to Change (Stumbitz on community businesses providing health and well-
 being services), Trust for London (Clark on unpaid wages), Barrow Cadbury Trust (Werner on
 living wage payment in SMEs), Youth Business International (CEEDR’s global evaluation of vol-
 unteer mentoring for youth entrepreneurship) and Médecins Sans Frontières (Haddock-Millar on
 creating a mentoring and coaching hub).

 Developing the international dimension of our research was supported by an increasingly diverse
 range of funding sources. EU funding has been significant, notably in developing research rela-
 tionships with Latin America through the BS’s involvement (led by Sepulveda) in the €2.4 million
 Horizon 2020 INCASI project (2016-20) on social inequalities in Europe and Latin America. The
 School hosted twenty Latin American scholars and ten of our staff and research students under-
 took periods of research in Latin America. Important also was Shepherd’s role as deputy coor-
 dinator of the MU-led €13m multidisciplinary VALCRI project (2014-18), involving 17 universities,
 SMEs and end users in eight countries to develop a criminal intelligence analysis system for Eu-
 ropean law enforcement agencies.

 Research income was also generated from a range of international organisations including the
 ILO (Lyon for work on maternity protection in Ghana); WHO (Stumbitz on breastfeeding in the
 workplace), UN (Miles, women’s access to reproductive and health protection in Malaysia), and
 the US Institute for Peace (CEEDR work on the role of small businesses in post-conflict resolution
 for minorities in Pakistan). British Academy funded Newton partnerships for innovation became
 an important source in funding a range of diverse, international, interdisciplinary projects, including
 knowledge sharing in Turkish health forums (Soylu), open social innovation platform design for
 science teaching in Turkey (Soylu); development of maternity protection and sexual and repro-
 ductive health strategies in Malaysia (Miles, Freeman); grass roots social innovation in Colombia
 (Calvo); restoring natural capital in Latin America (Calvo), microfinance loans in Vietnam (Ngu-
 yen), the co-production of coastal environmental strategies in Fiji (O’Garra), and work on unfree
 labour in the global economy (Pizzolato). Research has also been funded by organisations based
 in other countries/regions, e.g., Brañas-Garza’s research in Peru on nudging the unbanked into
 the banking system, Park’s research in Korea in developing the capabilities of Korean SMEs in
 the transport industry, and Cai’s work on developing European-Asia integration funded by the One
 Asia Foundation.



                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3.2 Infrastructures

 Research infrastructure at the University level is provided through the well-established Research
 and Knowledge Transfer Office (RKTO), which provides support to our research and knowledge
 exchange work including doctoral teaching. Led by University Director of Research (Comley) and
 Director of Knowledge Exchange (Gray), RKTO provides a ‘one-stop shop’ delivering highly visi-
 ble, supportive and authoritative resources for research-active staff in relation to research funding,
 delivering impact, managing research projects, knowledge exchange activities and doctoral stu-
 dent support.

 Within the School, CEEDR plays a key role in promoting research impact, engagement and dis-
 semination. CEEDR’s longevity, deep roots in policy communities, depth of experience, and its
 tradition of interdisciplinary working are major assets to the School’s researchers both as a model
 and resource for developing research impact. CEEDR’s members advice and mentor colleagues
 in the BS, promoting involvement in knowledge exchange activities, reflection on pathways to im-
 pact, and working relationships with policy makers, practitioners and academics.

 Since 2014 the School has made significant investments to improve further its research infrastruc-
 ture. A comprehensive programme of research and research impact support for staff (see 2.1)
 started in 2014 with investment in a major leadership role dedicated to developing research sup-
 port and mentoring, filled by Harzing. This resulted in extensive improvements in the range and
 depth of support, including bi-weekly resource emails, monthly research lunches, research training
 cafes, and six-weekly staff development groups. Since 2018, paper writing for top journals is sup-
 ported through the School paying full residential costs for 3-day writing bootcamps held once a
 year (https://harzing.com/blog/2020/09/middlesex-university-2020-virtual-writing-boot-camp), with
 50+ different academics participating to date. Similar events are planned for developing funding
 applications and enhancing research impact. Further support is provided via the CYGNA female
 academics network (see 4.5) and through Harzing’s blog (https://harzing.com/blog/.toc). Online
 since 2016, it has 250+ postings on academic research life, and is used widely across the aca-
 demic community worldwide, with 110,000+ page views in 2020. In August 2020, an Academic
 Resources YouTube Channel (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC7Ect88m1qIbeo7d0cVdiaQ)
 was launched, currently featuring 60+ videos with 13,000+ views.

 Further strengthening of the School’s research infrastructure was achieved through two new initi-
 atives in 2016. First, an internal seedcorn funding scheme was created, entitled Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Facilitation Funding. Academics can apply for funding (up to £2,500) for
 developing impact, small research projects, knowledge exchange, and larger funding proposals,
 as well as feeding research into teaching; junior academics are prioritised. It has funded 90+ pro-
 jects to support our diverse and dynamic research base (see 4.1). Second, the School sponsored
 the formation of interdisciplinary research clusters, encouraging junior colleagues to identify topics
 with growth potential that would facilitate collaboration in funding applications, research networks,
 impact, knowledge exchange and publications. These outward-facing clusters have members from
 multiple departments and schools within the University, as well as external members. Currently,
 there are eight active research clusters:

 (1) Sustainable Development (O’Garra)
 (2) Gender and Diversity (Stumbitz)
 (3) Business Ethics, CSR and Governance (includes “Working Group on Modern Slavery”)
     (Stephens/Werner)
 (4) Alternative Organisations and Transformative Practices (Ozarow/Dashtipour)
 (5) Transnational Labour and Social Movements (Morrison)
 (6) Connected Places, Communities and Identity (Stylidis)
 (7) Consumer Research for Individual and Collective Well-being (Dilmperi)
 (8) Science and Technology Communication (Soylu)



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The first five relate to traditional research strengths at Middlesex (see 4.1) and allow broadening
 these interests to encompass related disciplines and to apply for larger-scale research projects.
 The Connected Places, Communities and Identity cluster represents our developing research
 strength in Tourism; the final two smaller clusters relate to emerging areas of research. All are led
 by one or more SLs; six out of the ten cluster leads are women and all but two of the cluster leads
 are international. Cluster leaders receive a substantive workload allocation to develop cluster ac-
 tivities and access to seedcorn funding to develop their activities.

 Support for research impact for these clusters is also provided by our membership of key networks.
 The School was the first (2008) non-business member of the UK branch of the UN Global Compact
 network and a dynamic partner in the UN Principles for Responsible Management Education (UN-
 PRME) network. We participate pro-actively in a wide range of communities of practice networks
 (e.g. Business Fights Poverty, Business Call to Action Network, and Digital Leaders Network),
 work with the National Centre for Business and Universities and the UK Digital Catapult, and reg-
 ularly organise stakeholder engagement events.

 3.3. Facilities
 Since the mid-2000s, the University has invested over £250M in the Hendon campus where the
 BS is located, providing an environment highly conducive to research and teaching. This included
 a major £2.1M refurbishment of the School’s building in 2018-2019, which improved the colocation
 of research colleagues and increased spaces for both formal and informal research meetings.
 Over this REF period, the University has invested £12.6M in facilities and equipment to support
 research. The campus provides attractive venues for our growing programme of events (see 4.3),
 with the research-dedicated Farmhouse offering well-appointed seminar rooms for small confer-
 ences. Facilities for bigger conferences and appropriate break-out rooms are available across the
 campus.

 The state-of-the-art Sheppard Library provides access to 150,000+ serial titles via Library Search,
 in addition to 250,000+ print and 50,000 e-books, and offers a free service to source other mate-
 rials. Librarians provide expert subject support and training sessions on citation searching and
 RefWorks. The Library’s Research Support Services Team manages the Figshare Data and the
 Eprints Research Repository and provides support around the REF, Open Access publishing, and
 research data. Middlesex University was one of the first to institute an e-repository for published
 outputs, now holding >20,000 items. For the current REF period there were 1570 deposits from
 BS staff, evidencing the breath of scholarship beyond publications included in our output pool.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our multi-layered and distributed governance structure (see 1.3) ensures extensive collaboration
 and a strong contribution to the research base, summarised below:

  Research culture             Esteem indicators                Impact & internationalization
  MDX-hosted conferences Editorial Board memberships Normalised citation impact: #47
  /workshop series: 18   of academic journals: 90+   world-wide, #6 UK (US News 2020
                                                     Global Universities Eco/Bus)
  Seminars: 450+               Keynotes at major events: 24     61% international collaboration
  PhD examinations: 120+       Conf/best paper awards: 18       75% international content
                               Fellowships/major awards: 5

 4.1 Contribution to the discipline

 Our disciplinary contribution is evidenced across seven thematic groups, with staff increasingly
 working across themes in interdisciplinary research (see 3.2).


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Labour, human capital and employee voice (Clark, Cotton, Croucher, Danilovich, Dashtipour,
 James, Lange, Lup, Morrison, Ozarow, Pizzolato, Sargeant, Schulte, Upchurch, Vecchi, Yusuf).
 Drawing on sociology, history, econometrics and economics, researchers study internal and ex-
 ternal labour markets in national (ICS4/ICS6) and internationally comparative perspectives,
 including inter alia research in Latin America, USA, Western Europe and former Soviet States.
 Outputs show the significance of social institutions, belief systems and gendered behaviours as
 opposed to “rational choice” in varied international contexts. Significant contributions relate to mi-
 gration and solidarity, formal and informal employment relations, labour productivity, and the role
 of affect in work and professional socialisation. Since REF2014, we increased output in 4* HRM/-
 IR/Work Sociology journals (British Journal of Industrial Relations, Human Resource Management
 (Journal), Work Employment & Society) from 15 to 17.

 Organisation Studies: Gender, diversity and leadership (Adamson, Beauregard, Boulter,
 Chatrakul, Harzing, Kline, Lewis S., Lup, Martins, Mabey, Miles, Muller-Camen, Ozturk, Rumens,
 Soylu, Stumbitz, Tomkins, Woo). Combining psychological and sociological perspectives re-
 searchers demonstrate how organisational outcomes are impacted by leadership behaviours and
 workgroup cultures and practices. Research is embedded in the UK context (ICS1/ICS3), studying
 the impact of neoliberalism and austerity, but international studies in Western Europe, Africa and
 South East Asia (ICS7) are also evident. Significant contributions relate to gender equity, work-
 life balance, maternity protection, ageing and sexual identity at work, ethical and caring leadership,
 and working life in diverse national, ethnic, and linguistic contexts. Since REF2014, we increased
 output in 4* Organization Studies/Leadership journals (British Journal of Management, Human
 Relations, Leadership Quarterly, Organization Studies) from 11 to 21.

 Enterprise, Entrepreneurship and Innovation (Aklaghpour, Bournakis, Brennan, Calvo, Derby-
 shire, Dodourova, Ekanem, Elf, Etherington, Lee, Lodato, Lyon, Navare, Owen, Park JW, Sepul-
 veda, Slavova, Syrett, Vickers, Weidenfeld, Zhang). Researchers apply economic, political, soci-
 ological and geographical perspectives to issues of SME development, local/regional economic
 development, and innovation. A strong applied policy studies approach investigates barriers and
 opportunities to SME growth including finance (ICS2), innovation, diversity, and urban/regional
 development, social enterprises (ICS5), explanations of social value and the innovatory impact of
 social enterprises and alternative organisational forms. The growing theme of innovation has fo-
 cused upon social, financial, organisational and technological innovation. Since REF2014, we
 tripled output in JoD Innovation journals (Organization Science, Research Policy) to 6.

 International Business (Altman, Cai, Gooderham, Harzing, Jackson, Jiang Y., Jin, Kim, Li,
 Mathew, McPherson, van Meurs, Navare, Osabutey, Papanastassiou, Poulis E., Poulis K., Soli-
 man, Ueno, Yu, Zhao). Combining economics, sociology, psychology, and geography, resear-
 chers use their extensive international contacts to do research world-wide, perform large-scale
 comparative studies (one-third of outputs includes 5+ countries), and engage in conceptual and
 review work challenging key IB assumptions on distance and predominant ontologies. Significant
 contributions are made to understanding internal functioning of MNCs regarding HQ-subsidiary
 relationships, international teams, knowledge and technology transfer, supply chains, international
 HRM, and management of R&D and innovation. Since REF2014, we have increased output in 4*
 IB journals (Journal of International Busines Studies, Journal of World Business) from 3 to 13.

 Corporate Governance and Financial Management (Azzizadeh, Clark, Deshmukh, Fiordelisi,
 Freeman, Frynas, Gottschalk, Grechyna, Jiang C., Kolev, Kyriacou, Lehner, Lodh, Nguyen, Parsa,
 Radic, Shukla, Stephens, Werner). Drawing on Business Ethics, Classical Economics, Fi-
 nance/Accounting and Public Sector Management, researchers consider classical market
 efficiency, simultaneously reflecting our wider concern with ethical dimensions of corporate con-
 duct, focusing on non-market strategies and corporate governance, as well as CSR
 responsibilities and reporting. Research embedded in the UK context focuses on the living wage
 (ICS6) and green finance (ICS2) for SMEs, but research is also conducted in Western Europe,
 China, South Asia and Tanzania. Significant contributions include sustainable practices in fashion
 design, transparency and disclosure in supply chains, rights of women migrant workers, and gov-
 ernance of patient safety.

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Tourism and Place Branding (Andriotis, Battor, Cherifi, Dennis, Dilmperi, Dinnie, Eisenschitz,
 Foroudi, Harrison, Kornilaki, Manyiwa, Melewar, Paris, Park HY, Priporas, Stylidis, Su, Terzidou,
 Waligo). Researchers have increased the recognition and status of place branding as an academic
 discipline, making extensive theoretical and empirical contributions in geography, tourism, envi-
 ronmental psychology, marketing, and sociology, especially related to wellbeing, social inclusion
 and exclusion of residents and tourists in tourism, place and branding contexts. The group has
 conducted research around the world including Korea, Greece, Serbia, Austria, Spain, UK, US,
 Israel and Vietnam. Middlesex is ranked #27 in the world in the QS Tourism rankings and since
 REF2014 we have increased output in 4* Tourism journals (Tourism Management, Annals of Tour-
 ism Research, Journal of Travel Research) from 13 to 24.

 Behavioural/Experimental Economics (Angelovski, Brañas-Garza, Capraro, Cerrone, Ductor
 Gomez, Gillet, Jimenez Jimenez, Khachatryan, Kujal, Nguyen, O’Garra, Rascon-Ramirez, Rodri-
 guez-Lara) Researchers use lab, online and field experiments, researching topics such as bubbles
 in asset markets, cognition in decision making, norms and cooperation, organisational economics
 and wage formation institutions, trust, morality, and parental influence on adolescent sexual be-
 haviour and education. Recent research has looked at attitudes towards prevention, trust, and
 cooperation in relation to COVID-19. Researchers collaborate with world-leading researchers such
 as Vernon Smith (Nobel Economics 2002) and publish in 4* Psychology/Economics/Finance jour-
 nals and highly-rated experimental economics journals. The group ranks in the top-10% (RePec:
 https://ideas.repec.org/top/top.exp.html) worldwide for outputs in experimental economics.

 The vitality of our disciplinary contribution is also evident in the dramatic improvement of our
 citation impact. We rank #47 world-wide and #6 UK-wide on normalised citation impact in the 2020
 US News Global Universities Business & Economics ranking. Eighteen papers achieved Web of
 Science highly-cited paper status (top-1% most cited); eleven were authored by SLs, evidencing
 successful development of junior researchers. Some highly-cited articles relate to issues of signif-
 icant societal/policy impact, e.g., three of Frynas’ articles on CSR and non-market strategies,
 Lyon’s 2014 article on Social Enterprises as Hybrid Organizations, and Brennan’s 2017 piece on
 the circular economy.

 Further major contributions resulted from Harzing’s research demonstrating how bibliometrics can
 be used effectively by the Social Sciences in metric-based research evaluation, and the continued
 provision of the free Publish-or-Perish software (https://harzing.com/resources/publish-or-perish).
 With one million users worldwide, many in less-developed countries, this software has been used
 extensively in research studies (over 5,000), job/tenure/promotion applications, and by students,
 librarians, government officials, and grant agencies.

 4.2 National and international academic collaborations

 Our research is characterised strongly by collaboration with academics and non-academics from
 other institutions, reflected in the quality of our published outputs, dissemination activity and user
 engagement. Outputs co-authored with international colleagues increased by 50% to 115. Of our
 co-authored papers, 61% are with international co-authors, 31.5% with UK co-authors, and 7.5%
 with MDX co-authors.

 National and international research collaboration is evident across all seven research themes. We
 collaborate with prestigious national (e.g., Birmingham, Cambridge, Cardiff, Cass BS, Cranfield,
 Imperial, KCL, LSE, Leeds, Manchester, Oxford, UCL, Surrey, Warwick) and international (e.g.,
 Berkeley, Berlin, Bocconi, Caltech, Chicago, Copenhagen, Cornell, CNRS, Erasmus, Harvard,
 Leiden, Melbourne, Stanford, Vienna, Yale, Wharton, Zurich) institutions. However, we also work
 closely with academics in emerging research contexts such as South-East Asia, Sub-Saharan
 Africa, former Soviet states and Latin America, contributing significantly to research capability-
 building through research collaboration, in line with our mission of realising potential.



                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 143 outputs in our submission contain international subject matter (REF 2014:118; RAE 2008:58);
 75+% of our empirical articles contain international subject matter; a further 11% drawn on inter-
 national samples. Some 70 countries from all world regions are present in our output pool: 23 EU
 countries, Norway, Switzerland, Turkey, Eastern Europe (Armenia, Belarus, Moldova, Montene-
 gro, Serbia, Russia), North America (USA, Canada, Mexico), Latin America (Argentina, Brazil,
 Chile, Colombia, Ecuador), Oceania (Australia, New Zealand), East Asia (China, Hong Kong, Ja-
 pan, South Korea, Taiwan), South Asia (Bangladesh, India, Pakistan), South East Asia (Indonesia,
 Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam), Middle East (Egypt, Israel, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia,
 UAE), and sub-Saharan Africa (Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, South Africa, Tanzania).

 Many projects take an explicit comparative approach with 18% of our outputs including 5+ coun-
 tries. Some longstanding, large-scale research networks include the 40-country CRANET Interna-
 tional Network on HRM Policies (previously co-ordinated by Croucher). Gooderham’s article
 (https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/00208825.2019.1646486) with an anatomy of this
 30-year project received 10,000+ views in its first year. The influential International Whistleblowing
 Research Network developed by Lewis has been actively supported by the University through the
 creation of the annual whistleblowing awards (see ICS3).

 The key role of (inter)national collaboration in our policy-related research is exemplified in major
 RCUK-funded work on social and sustainable enterprise. During the REF period, CEEDR com-
 pleted the six-year ESRC-funded Third Sector Research Centre (£10m), collaborating with the
 Universities of Birmingham and Southampton, with Lyon of CEEDR as Associate Director.
 CEEDR are now a key partner in the 5-year ESRC-funded Centre for the Understanding of Sus-
 tainable Prosperity (CUSP) (2016-21) with the universities of Surrey, Goldsmiths, Glasgow, Leeds,
 Keele, Anglia Ruskin, York (Canada) and Christchurch (New Zealand). Lyon is Deputy Director
 of CUSP, supported by Vickers, Owen, Elf, and Brennan, leading international collaborations
 with researchers in Nigeria, Ghana, Bhutan, Bangladesh, India, Australia, Brazil and Colombia,
 and reflected across project outputs and publications.

 In collaborative arrangements for postgraduate training, we have pursued our commitment to pro-
 fessional doctorates through collaborations with Hult Ashridge Executive Education and KMU
 Akademie in Linz, Austria. The latter has been particularly successful, with 400 students now en-
 rolled and 26 graduated students by 2020.

 4.3 Research seminar series, workshops and conferences

 Research seminars are the lifeblood of academic exchange and an integral part of our research
 culture. Each department runs its own seminar series; over 450 research seminars with external
 and internal speakers have taken place in 2014-2020. Establishment of the research clusters (see
 3.3) has seen more joint interdisciplinary seminars, focused on innovative areas. The BS also
 holds a well-established Distinguished Lecture Series (3-4 events per year) with high profile aca-
 demics, practitioners, politicians and thought leaders.

 The School regularly hosts major conferences and high-profile workshops. The six funded ESRC
 seminar series (see 3.1) sponsored staff to organise over 25 events at Middlesex and elsewhere
 nationally and internationally. A team led by Roper organised the 68th BUIRA annual conference
 (2018); Dennis/Melewar/Foroudi organised the 21st International Conference on Corporate and
 Marketing Communications (2016); Cai the 16th East Asian Economic and Cultural Forum (2020).
 Numerous 1-day conferences/workshops included: the 5th international conference on precarious
 work and vulnerable workers (Sargeant/James); two SME Finance conferences (Owen); two cor-
 porate branding/identity conferences (Foroudi); workshops on Banking and Financial Interme-
 diation (Fiordelisi); two workshops on alternative organisations and social inequalities (Ozarow);
 and a workshop on nationalistic conflicts and labour in Eastern Europe (Morrison/Upchurch).




                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 More than 40 of our academics have been involved in conference organisation, both nationally
 and internationally, organizing – often repeatedly – conferences or workshops, special tracks, or
 panels/symposia/professional development workshops at major international conferences such as
 the Academy of International Business, the Academy of Management, and the Royal Economic
 Society. The Tourism and Place Branding group (Andriotis/Foroudi/Priporas/Stylidis) has or-
 ganized the annual International Conference on Tourism every year between 2014-2020; Clark
 has co-chaired the Financial Management Conference every year since 2014.

 Our academics all regularly present at events in the UK and internationally, winning 18 conference
 or journal best paper awards, e.g., Lehner (ONE division Academy of Management best paper),
 Zhao (best paper Euro-Asia Management Studies Association); Harzing (decade award Academy
 of Management Learning & Education). Staff made 24 keynote speeches at major events, includ-
 ing: Clark at multiple international Finance conferences; Kline at the NHS Providers conference;
 Lewis at two European Commission events; Lyon at the International Social Innovation Research
 Conference; Stumbitz at the ILO Maternity Protection Centenary Celebration; and Werner at var-
 ious Living Wage events.

 4.4 Journal Editorships

 Staff are involved in 90+ journals as (associate) editors, and editorial board members (e.g., British
 Journal of Management, Journal of World Business, Journal of International Business Studies).
 Our expertise in the subject area of the Sociology of work led to a successful tender for the 2018-
 2020 editorial team for the prestigious British Sociological Association’s journal Work, Employment
 and Society, initially comprising Adamson, Beauregard, Chatrakul, Clark, Cotton, Daguerre,
 Keles (UoA20), Kofman (UoA20), Lewis, Lup, and Roper.

 Other examples of editorships include: Andriotis resource editor Annals of Tourism Research;
 Altman editor-in-chief of European Management Review; Brañas-Garza AE Journal of Behavioral
 & Experimental Economics; Capraro AE Scientific Reports, Judgment & Decision-making, Journal
 of Behavioral and Experimental Economics, Dennis AE European Journal of Marketing, Journal
 of Business Research; Fiordelisi AE European Journal of Finance, Journal of Banking & Finance,
 Frynas AE communications British Journal of Management, International Journal of Management
 Reviews. Staff have also edited special issues, e.g., Annals of Operations Research (Clark); Brit-
 ish Journal of Management (Croucher); Critical Perspectives on Accounting (Kyriacou); Equality
 Diversity & Inclusion (Adamson, Beauregard, Miles, Roper); Frontiers in Behavioural Neurosci-
 ence (Kujal); International Journal of Entrepreneurship & Innovation (Owen); Journal of Business
 Research (Dennis, Foroudi, Jin).

 4.5 Contribution to professional associations/other bodies and major awards

 Given the centrality of user engagement in our research, involvement in professional associations
 and related bodies is actively encouraged. Staff were involved in dozens of committees as exem-
 plified by: Altman Chair of the International Association of Management, Spirituality and Religion;
 Brañas-Garza President of the Society for the Advancement of Behavioral Economics; Fiordelisi
 President of the Financial Intermediation Network of European Studies; the School’s Dean, Kyp-
 rianou, elected Vice President of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development and on
 the CIPD Board; Lewis Vice President of the US based Work-Family Researchers Network
 (WFRN); Ozarow chair of the Argentina Research Network and Chair of British NGO Jubilee Debt
 Campaign’s Academic Advisory Network.

 Contributors to this UoA also served a host of bodies, such as: Brañas-Garza, Clark and Lyon
 on ESRC Peer review committees; Freeman, National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Heath
 Services and Delivery Research (HS&DR); Kline member of five NHS/Health trusts/expert bodies
 and Chair of the Lewisham and Greenwich NHS Trust Respect and Compassion Scrutiny; Lyon
 advisor to the European Commission and on the Research Board of Power to Change Trust; and
 Lewis chair Richard Benjamin Trust.


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School is a strong supporter of CYGNA, established in 2014 by Harzing as a forum for learn-
 ing, support, and networking for female academics. The network has grown to 300 members in
 30+ countries, representing 100+ universities. Half of the organizing team are at Middlesex, they
 organised 30 physical and 6 virtual meetings, including a 1-day writing bootcamp at Middlesex.

 Our staff’s engagement and expertise were recognised in major awards and esteem indicators.
 Kline received an OBE for services to race equality (see ICS1). Fellowships of major professional
 associations included Harrison Fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute (2014), Melewar
 Honorary Fellow and Life Member of the Academy of Marketing (2016), and Harzing Fellow of the
 Academy of International Business (2019). Harzing was awarded a JIBS silver medal for having
 published 5+ articles in JIBS and ranked 7th in the UK for Scopus citations in Business & Manage-
 ment. Melewar was listed as one of the most influential academics in branding research. Foroudi
 was listed in SciVal as top author by scholarly output in Marketing. Lewis had a best paper award
 instituted in her name for her leadership and contribution in work/family research. Staff expertise
 is also recognised through their widespread engagement in academic reviewing, including review-
 ing grant proposals (e.g., RCUK), journal refereeing, and as external PhD examiners, examining
 125 PhDs world-wide between 2014-20.

 4.6 Staff engagement with key research users and diverse communities

 Central to our research is a strong engagement with external research users to provide wider
 societal benefits (see 1.4). Widespread dissemination of research activities to users is achieved
 through regular high-profile media appearances and extensive coverage across traditional and
 social media. For example, Kline’s 100+ blogposts on the NHS included a high-profile series in
 BMJ Leader. Other staff have blogged in the Conversation (Cotton, Jackson, Lodh, Ozarow,
 Upchurch), LSE blogs (Beauregard, Cotton, Croucher, Daguerre, Harzing, Kline, Lup, Vec-
 chi) and MDX Minds (many staff, with over 50 postings since 2015).

 Our engagement with external users was readily apparent during the COVID-19 crisis. Academics
 responded with ten new research projects in collaboration with external partners (funded to a total
 of 450k) investigating the various health, economic, financial, educational, environmental, and
 work-related challenges of COVID-19. These included projects on sustaining pro-social and envi-
 ronmental behaviours (O’Garra); scenario planning and risk analysis (Derbyshire); gendered
 mask wearing behaviours (Capraro); and trust in the government (Kujal). These have already
 produced more than a dozen published papers including a review on using social and behavioural
 science to support COVID-19 response in Nature Human Behaviour, which to date has well over
 400 Web of Science and more than 1,300 Google Scholar citations. BS academics have presented
 findings to a UK Parliament Committee on developing a coronavirus recovery model for small
 business (Lodh), created a risk assessment framework for NHS South East (Kline), contributed
 as experts to the House of Lords COVID-19 Committee inquiry on Life beyond COVID (Bace,
 O’Garra, Werner), and authored over a dozen blogposts on COVID-19 related topics.

 Engagement with key research users had multiple dimensions:

 Governmental bodies and institutions at supra-national, national and sub-national levels
 to inform policy formation, development, delivery and evaluation. Examples include work
 with the International Labour Organisation on labour management practices and SME productivity
 internationally (Croucher), health and safety barriers within food global value chains (James),
 and maternity protection (Lewis, Stumbitz, Miles, ICS7). At European level, Fiordelisi’s research
 was used extensively by the European Central Bank, James’ by the European Agency for Safety
 and Health on supply chains, and Lyon’s by the European Commission on policy support for social
 business. The ICSs demonstrate multiple examples of how UK policy makers (e.g., BEIS, DCMS;
 DLME) and regulators used our research (see ICS2/3/4/5), as have sub-regional and local policy
 makers, for example Syrett’s research informing the LB of Barnet’s local economic strategy and
 Owen’s informing business finance provision of the GLA.



                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Large multinationals and organisations, SMEs, and voluntary bodies to inform business
 strategy, capacity and performance development. Cases included Gooderham’s collaborative
 research on strategy development with large businesses in Norway; Lewis’ work with major em-
 ployers in relation to improving work-life balance; Shepherd collaborating with three European
 police forces to develop the next generation criminal intelligence analysis system through the EU-
 supported VALCRI project; and Haddock-Millar’s work with Youth Business International; Mé-
 decins Sans Frontières and the Royal New Zealand Airforce, improving the quality and evaluation
 of their mentorship programmes.

 Communities of practice, organisations and practitioner groups to inform the development
 of professional practice. Examples include: the Coalition of Care and Support Providers Scot-
 land drawing upon James’ work improving practice in the Scottish social care sector; the European
 Mentoring and Coaching Council (EMCC) using Haddock-Millar’s research to develop and im-
 plement new global standards in mentoring and coaching; and the NHS’s use of Kline and Lewis’
 work on race equality and bullying (see ICS1/3). Impact on professional practice was also evident
 through the close relationship between research and teaching evident in our Professional Doctor-
 ates and specialised MBAs, including with a number of large businesses, e.g., Lloyds Maritime,
 ITV and Hewlett Packard.

 Worker and grassroots organisations in the UK and internationally to reach the low-paid,
 marginalised groups and diverse communities. Trade Unions continued to be important users
 of our research, notably in relation to improving workers health and safety (James, Cotton, Miles);
 employment rights (Upchurch, Lewis) and pay (Croucher, Clark) (see ICS3/4). Research co-
 collaboration with grassroots bodies to reach marginalised groups includes O’Garra’s research
 into developing community-based resource co-management in Fiji; Syrett’s/Keles’ research into
 ethnic and diaspora entrepreneurial practice working with local Kurdish and Sri Lankan Tamil
 groups; and work by Stumbitz, Calvo and Lyon with VCS bodies supporting community business
 start-up and development in the UK and internationally (Bhutan, Ecuador) (see ICS5).

 To conclude
 The distinctive and growing contribution of our Business & Management research activity detailed
 above provides powerful evidence of the vitality and sustainability of our research environment.
 We have made excellent progress since REF2014, maintaining our strong upward trajectory since
 RAE2008. Substantive investments in staff and infrastructure across this current REF period, clear
 strategic choices for the next REF period, as well as ongoing staff development support will enable
 us to build substantially on these achievements in the future.




                                                                                            Page 21
