Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: The University of Manchester
 Unit of assessment: 19 (Politics and International Studies)
Section 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 1. Overview

 Politics at Manchester is a large, dynamic, and inclusive department. At the heart of our
 research is a commitment to social and global responsibility and to ensuring that our
 research makes a difference. In line with one of the University of Manchester’s five
 research beacons, we undertake interdisciplinary work that addresses global inequalities.
 Our research expertise addresses some of the key normative challenges of the 21st
 century, from the redistribution of wealth, the challenges posed by intervention before,
 during, and after conflict, to ensuring environmental sustainability and sustaining the health
 of democracy, as well as understanding how states can be more responsive to all citizens.

 In investigating these areas, we strive for methodological pluralism, exploring and
 defending different modes of enquiry. In keeping with the proud traditions of Manchester,
 we often take a critical stance, challenging existing orthodoxies and articulating new ways
 of understanding political problems and issues from the local to the global. We aim for
 theoretical and empirical excellence drawing on the rich, innovative methodological
 heritage of Social Sciences at Manchester. We build on the opportunities our location in
 the School, Faculty, and the University more broadly offers to conduct cross and inter-
 disciplinary enquiry that truly makes a difference.

 As scholars we are committed to collegiality and transparency in our organisation and to
 ensuring equality and diversity in the way we work with each other and our students. We
 constantly strive to enhance our research environment, so that our students and staff are
 treated fairly and equally as part of an ambitious, inclusive, supportive, and thriving
 research culture.

 These values and structures (and the ambitious strategy outlined in the next section) have
 led to significant research successes in this REF period and a major strengthening of the
 Department.

 Key achievements since 2014 include:
 • Highly influential scholarly publications, including 37 research monographs, almost
    double the number in the previous REF period, and more than 300 articles in highly
    rated peer-reviewed journals.
 • A step-change (95% increase) in grant income capture. The receipt of £8m external
    grant income, up from £4.1m in the last REF cycle, and diversifying our funding to more
    than 16 sources.
 • Embedding and strengthening the British Election Study (BES).
 • Increasing the vitality, sustainability, and diversity of the Department, growing from 48.6
    FTE to 51.7 category A staff, with strategic strengthening of the Department with 24
    new permanent appointments (including 15 outstanding ECRs).
 • Transforming the size, diversity, and achievements of our PGR community with
    significant growth (62%) in completions (from 59 to 97), high-quality award-winning
    work (e.g. PSA Arthur MacDougall thesis prize 2017; BJPIR Best Article prize 2019),
    and publications in top-rated journals (e.g. EJIR, IPS, Electoral Studies), and
    successful careers (e.g. Warwick, Kings, UNWomen).
 • External recognition for the positive benefits of our impact and knowledge exchange


                                                                                        Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    (e.g. prizes from the Royal Society of Television 2017; Research Communicator of the
    Year award from the PSA 2014 and 2015).

 1.1 Unit Context, Structure, and Research Strategy

 Politics is one of eight departments in the School of Social Sciences (SOSS), located in the
 Faculty of Humanities. Our research is organised into five research clusters which reflect
 our core strengths: Comparative Politics (CP), Critical Global Politics (CGP), Democracy
 and Elections (D&E), Global Political Economy (GPE), and the Manchester Centre for
 Political Theory (MANCEPT). Every member of staff is part of at least one cluster. We also
 play a central role in eight interdisciplinary research centres which transcend single
 departments: the Cathie Marsh Institute (CMI), the Centre on the Dynamics of Ethnicity
 (CODE), the Humanitarian and Conflict Response Institute (HCRI), the Manchester China
 Institute (MCI), the Manchester Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence (JMCE), the
 Manchester Urban Institute (MUI), the Political Economy Centre (PEC), and the
 Sustainable Consumption Institute (SCI). As part of our impact and knowledge exchange
 strategy, we play a key role in the University’s Policy@Manchester platform which
 channels research findings to shape policy debates and influence policy making, including
 through the Co-Director leadership by a member of Politics.

 In 2015, we conducted strategic external reviews of both Politics and SOSS, which, in
 consultation with the Department as a whole, informed our current research strategy. This
 builds on the key areas identified in REF2014, including to strategically develop our
 research clusters, improve the reach of the impact of our work, embed BES, increase and
 diversify our external research funding, and strengthen the Research Leadership Team (to
 develop new posts of Impact and Funding Directors).

 1.2 The Development and Refocusing of our Research Clusters

 Our five research clusters address the key normative questions outlined above and provide
 the central fora around which we organise our research. All staff and research students are
 members of at least one cluster. Clusters organise events and develop individual and
 collaborative research agendas. They host weekly or bi-weekly seminars, many with high-
 profile speakers, leading to typically 3-4 research seminars per week in the Department.
 Clusters also share publications in progress, review funding bids, and organise
 conferences and workshops. In this REF cycle, a central part of our research strategy has
 been to develop the clusters further and, where needed, to refocus them, in line with
 members’ intellectual development, the Department’s strategic goals in subfields, and,
 centrally, to ensure inclusivity.

 Comparative Politics (CP). (Gains, Gorlizki, Gries, Martin, Morgan, Onuch,
 Papadimitriou, Richards, Richardson, Thompson, Turnbull, P. Tobin, Shorrocks,
 Stroup, Waylen, A. Wilson). CP has evolved from Comparative Public Policy (CPP) to
 encompass members’ increased emphasis on the broader themes of comparative politics
 around institutions and governance. Shared themes include devolution, European politics,
 and shifts in state responsiveness to citizens, including protest movements, strengthened
 by three appointments (Onuch, P. Tobin, Thompson). Major highlights include P. Tobin’s
 ESRC New Investigator grant on climate change policy and Onuch’s ESRC award on
 mass protest and immigration, Richardson’s ESRC-funded work on co-production,
 organisation of the PSA Annual Conference by cluster members, major events such as
 ‘Inclusive Devolved Futures’, hosting of the high profile JMCE Annual Lectures, and A.
 Wilson’s election as Chair of PSA.

 Critical Global Politics (CGP). (Barabantseva, Bhagat, Coward, Death, Edkins, Gifkins,

                                                                                      Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Gilmore, Gries, McLeod, Ní Mhurchú, Pattison, Pin-Fat, Richmond, Pogodda, Stroup,
 Suzuki, D. Tobin, Zehfuss, Zevnik). CGP has evolved from the Post-Structuralism and
 Critical Thought cluster to reflect the broadening of the interests of its members and its
 intellectual inclusivity. Enhanced by 10 appointments, the shared themes of CGP include:
 critical theories of international politics; gender and security; war, intervention and the
 responsibility to protect; identity, racialisation, and migration; and China. Highlights include
 Gifkins prize-winning research on norms in the UN Security Council, hosting the Review of
 International Studies, Gries’ work in helping to secure a £5m donation to support the
 Manchester China Institute, Barabantseva’s ESRC award on Immigration and Chinese
 society, hosting the annual conference in Critical Peace and Conflict Studies, and several
 joint CGP/GPE events with the University of Copenhagen.

 Democracy and Elections (D&E). (Cantijoch, Fieldhouse, Ford, Gibson, Martin, Mellon,
 Onuch, Shorrocks, Sobolewska). This has evolved from Electoral Politics, to reflect its
 increased focus on the declining trust in democratic institutions, the weakening of
 established parties, increasing electoral volatility, and the rise of populism and identity
 politics. Central to this is an expertise in elections and mass political behaviour, as
 demonstrated by its leadership of the BES (Fieldhouse, Green, Mellon, Prosser), but also
 its wider concern with the multiple political challenges facing democracies today, such as
 electoral fraud (Sobolewska), gender and devolution (Gains), the impact of digital
 technologies on election campaigning in democracies (Cantijoch, Gibson), and
 immigration and right-wing populism (Ford). Strategic appointments in this area have
 particularly enhanced its growing work on the political dynamics of race and gender
 inequalities (Martin, Shorrocks) and electoral volatility (Mellon).

 Global Political Economy (GPE). (Bhagat, Bruff, Charnock, Death, MacGregor,
 Paterson, Roberts, S. Shields, Trommer, Waylen, J. Wilson). Members have shared
 interests in critical IPE, capitalism, and neo-liberalism, with particular strengths in global
 inequalities, including gender inequalities in global economic governance, finance and
 trade, and the environment and sustainability (strengthened by the appointment of
 MacGregor and Paterson). Highlights include Trommer’s Canadian SSHRC grant on
 global trade governance, MacGregor’s Leverhulme award, Death’s prize-winning work on
 the Green State in Africa, hosting three visiting Hallsworth Senior Professors (Cornelissen,
 Gill, and VanDeveer), a two-day joint conference with the University of Kassel on Global
 Challenges to Labour in 2017, and joint events with IPE scholars in Copenhagen.

 MANCEPT (the Manchester Centre for Political Theory). (Child, De Wijze, L. Shields,
 Pattison, Ronzoni, Schemmel, Viehoff). Members have a strong interest in analytical
 political theory, with shared themes of global justice and equality, Just War Theory,
 republicanism, and European policy (the latter strengthened with the appointment of
 Viehoff). Major highlights include: Ronzoni’s Leverhulme Research Fellowship on
 constructing justice, Pattison’s AHRC-funded work on the ethics of the alternatives to war,
 L. Shields’ research on sufficiency and family justice, the annual Manchester Workshops
 in Political Theory – one of the largest political theory conferences in the world which
 brings in additional income to the cluster to fund events – and the annual Brave New World
 Postgraduate conference.

 We have maintained and enhanced our commitment to Manchester’s tradition of
 methodological and theoretical pluralism that cuts across clusters. We work on a broad
 spectrum that spans positivist, experimental, Gramscian, historical, normative, post-
 structuralist, and post-colonial approaches. Our work on gender, for example, exemplifies
 this methodological range, employing quantitative (Shorrocks), qualitative (MacGregor;
 McLeod; Roberts; Waylen), analytic (Ronzoni), and mixed methods (Gains), as well as
 using different theoretical approaches, such as Marxist feminism (Roberts), feminist post-
 structuralism (McLeod), and feminist institutionalism (Waylen).

                                                                                         Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The clusters have also been central to our internationalisation strategy, as part of the
 University’s broader goals, which has focused on partnerships with world-leading
 universities such as Copenhagen (CGP, GPE), and Toronto (MANCEPT, GPE). Indeed,
 Politics’ leadership roles in internationalisation in the School (Gorlizki, A. Wilson) and
 Faculty (Richmond) have helped develop the University’s internationalisation agenda.

 1.3 Embedding the British Election Study (BES) in Politics

 A central objective in this REF cycle has been to successfully embed the influential British
 Election Study (BES), the longest running social science survey in the UK and central to
 British election studies, into the Department and in particular into the D&E research cluster.
 As lead institution (in partnership with Nuffield College, Oxford), Manchester provides the
 strategic leadership (Fieldhouse) and has hosted the BES three times in this REF period
 (2015, 2017, 2019). Supported by a large investment from the University of approximately
 £1.5m, and two new appointments (Mellon and Prosser), three further rounds of funding
 from the ESRC were secured (£4.74m). Manchester will now host the BES until at least
 2023. The presence of BES has provided several PhD students and enabled fruitful
 interchange and unparalleled access to the election data for our colleagues in D&E leading
 to significant impact (including one of our impact case studies) and several outstanding
 outputs (e.g. Fieldhouse et al., Electoral Shocks, OUP 2019).

 1.4 The Increase and Diversification of External Research Income

 Over this REF cycle we have substantially increased and diversified our research funding.
 All members of staff, from all our sub-disciplines, are encouraged to apply for research
 funding, with significantly increased applications for funding from both UKRI and non-UKRI
 sources, such as charities, business, government, and the public sector. Our research
 funding has increased to £9.9m award value from 44 awards in the REF period and 32
 colleagues in Politics have held one or more external research grants in this REF period.
 Furthermore, our ability to attract large-scale research grants (including Gibson (ERC),
 Onuch (ESRC), Richards (Nuffield), Richmond (AHRC), and P. Tobin (ESRC)) has
 significantly increased.

 Central to this success has been the creation of a new position of Funding Director (as
 recommended by external reviews of Politics), who is a core member of the Department’s
 Research Leadership Team and works closely with colleagues, particularly at the early
 stages of funding proposals. The Funding Director also encourages, where appropriate,
 staff to apply for particular schemes, targeting both staff with a strong track record in
 winning funding and those with less experience. We have made effective use of internal
 seed funding, e.g. for pilot projects and to develop proposals, often using the School’s
 grant writer.

 1.5 Impact

 In line with our 2014 impact strategy, impact is now embedded in the research practices of
 colleagues across the five research clusters, from MANCEPT’s work on analytic political
 philosophy (e.g. L. Shields on private schools) to Critical Global Politics (e.g. Ní Mhurchú
 with community groups in Moss Side), to D&E (e.g. Ford on immigration politics and
 Sobolewska on electoral fraud) and GPE (e.g. Paterson with the Intergovernmental Panel
 on Climate Change and MacGregor with the Feminist Green New Deal). Our five impact
 case studies come from three different clusters – D&E (BES/Prosser; Sobolewska), CP
 (Gains; Richardson), and CGP (Zevnik).
 Central to our successful impact strategy has been the creation of an Impact Director (as
 recommended by the Department’s external review), who, like the Funding Director, is a

                                                                                        Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 core member of the Department’s Research Leadership Team and works with staff to
 achieve high-quality impact that advances the key research challenges elaborated on page
 one, striving to ensure that states are responsive to citizens and ensuring the health of
 democracies.

 We have also effectively drawn on the significantly increased support from the School,
 Faculty, and University (detailed in sections 2.4 and 3.3), which has hugely benefitted our
 impact case studies and our broader impact. The School has funded eight impact-related
 projects, including on gender and trade (Roberts and Trommer), ethnic minority voting
 (Martin), and Manchester’s Somali residents’ engagement with sustainability
 (MacGregor). The Faculty’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IAA) of over £2m has
 fostered collaborative activities between UoM staff and non-academic partners, and
 Politics has been a leading recipient (eight projects), including projects on knowledge gaps
 about fake news (Cantijoch), Westminster’s post-Brexit dilemma (Richards), the Devo
 Manc Hub on devolution (Gains), Citizen Engagement and the Co-Production of
 Knowledge (Richardson), and Roma Councillors in Slovenia (Zevnik) (the latter three
 went on to form impact case studies).

 The majority of colleagues disseminate their research to the wider public. We have
 received significant recognition for this excellent work, for example from the PSA for the
 2017 Exit Poll (Mellon and Ford), from the ESRC for impact on society (the BES team
 were finalists in 2017), from the Royal Society of Television for the most dramatic news
 story in 2017 (Mellon), and for Ford and Green as PSA Research Communicators of the
 Year in 2014 and 2015.

 We focus particularly on high-quality communication and engagement, with the careful
 selection of outputs and audiences, assisted by our newly created academic role of
 External Relations and Media Officer, and drawing on the advice and support offered by
 the University-wide initiative Policy@Manchester. We also provide University-wide
 leadership in impact (Gains co-directs Policy@Manchester) and our work features
 regularly in University initiatives on impact and user engagement.

 1.6 Enhancement of Interdisciplinary Links

 Since 2014, Politics has built on the excellent opportunities for interdisciplinary exchange,
 not only across SOSS, but within the wider Faculty of Humanities and University. This
 starts at the Department level, where overlapping membership of clusters and collaboration
 between clusters is explicitly encouraged. Co-produced events include events on Just War
 and the alternatives to war (CGP and MANCEPT), and a series of high-profile joint events
 between CGP and GPE around leading feminist IR/IPE scholar Spike Peterson’s
 Leverhulme Visiting Professorship in 2016. This interdisciplinary environment has
 stimulated collaborative grant applications, with successful bids such as Richmond’s
 AHRC-funded project on community devised arts-based peacebuilding with colleagues
 from the Humanitarian and Conflict Response Institute (HCRI).

 Politics staff are also encouraged to participate in research centres in SOSS, the Faculty
 and University, and take on major leadership roles, putting Politics at the centre of the
 University’s interdisciplinary research. For instance, CP members play key roles in the
 leadership of the Jean Monnet Centre (Papadimitriou directs), and the Manchester Urban
 Institute (Richardson is on the leadership team). Members of CGP and CP run the
 Manchester China Institute (Gries directs; Barabantseva, Stroup, Suzuki, and D. Tobin
 are central members). Members of D&E help lead the ESRC-funded Centre on the
 Dynamics of Ethnicity (Martin; Sobolewska) and the Cathie Marsh Institute (Gibson;
 Sobolewska). Colleagues in GPE play key roles in the Political Economy Centre (S.
 Shields is on the steering committee and all cluster members are associates), and in SCI

                                                                                      Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (MacGregor; Paterson is research director).

 1.7 Nurturing High-Quality Research and Outputs

 We have transformed our research outputs whilst also maintaining our productivity. In this
 REF period, we have published 37 monographs (compared to 20 in 2008-14), including 16
 with leading university presses such as Oxford, Cambridge, and Yale. 55% of staff have
 written a research monograph for this REF. To achieve this, we offered significant support
 for the development of book proposals, drawing on expertise and guidance from
 colleagues who have published extensively with leading university presses. In addition,
 colleagues have been awarded additional sabbaticals to complete monographs and major
 research articles (this has been focused on ECRs in particular).

 The impact and reach of our journal articles have also significantly increased. Our focus on
 targeting top journals (judged not just by their impact factors but also their recognition as
 leading outlets for cutting-edge research) has resulted in articles published in prestigious
 disciplinary journals such as British Journal of Political Science, European Journal of
 International Relations, International Studies Quarterly, Political Studies, and Journal of
 Politics. In addition, in this REF cycle, we edited 24 journal special issues in 22 journals.
 Many of them, such as Ethics & International Affairs (Pattison), Journal of Ethnic and
 Migration Studies (Ford), and Politics & Gender (Waylen) lead their subfields. Reflecting
 the diversity and inter-disciplinarity of our research, special issues include Journal of
 Applied Philosophy (Schemmel), Law and Critique (Zevnik), Critical Sociology (Bruff),
 Contemporary British History (Morgan), Geopolitics (Barabantseva, Ní Mhurchú), as well
 as those squarely within the discipline such as Cooperation and Conflict (Pattison), Party
 Politics (Gibson), and Public Policy and Administration (Turnbull).

 The quality of our research has also been recognised in other ways. We have received 25
 prizes since 2014. These include four article prizes: European Journal of International
 Relations (Gifkins 2017), Public Administration Review (Mellon 2018), BJPIR (Shorrocks
 and Sanders 2019), and Political Quarterly (Richards 2016), and two paper prizes (P.
 Tobin, INOGOV 2015; Bhagat, ISA 2019). ECRs Trommer and P. Tobin received prizes
 for their doctoral research and colleagues have also received book prizes (Death, ISA
 Environmental Studies Section 2018; Ford, Paddy Power/Lord Ashcroft 2015), as well as
 an ‘honourable mention’ for Zehfuss in the BISA Susan Strange Prize. Three colleagues
 received eminent scholar awards (Richmond, ISA Peace Section Distinguished Scholar
 Award 2019; Ford, PSA Richard Rose Prize 2015; and Paterson, ISA Environment
 Section Eminent Scholar Award 2020).

 The outstanding work of our doctoral students has also been recognised with ten prizes.
 These include one thesis prize (McKee, PSA Arthur MacDougall Thesis Prize 2017) and
 seven paper prizes. These were awarded to Bailey (PSA ECN best paper prize 2018),
 Eseonu (Richard Chapman Public Administration Paper Prize, 2019), Arboleda
 (Manchester Doctoral College Excellence Award in 2015), Tavares Furtado (ISA Theory
 Section Pre PhD paper award 2014), Tavares Furtado (Best Postgraduate Paper, BISA
 Critical Terrorism Studies Working Group 2015), Adediran (Best ECR paper, BISA
 Intervention and R2P Working Group), and Bailey (Victor D’Hondt Paper Prize, Leuven
 Winter School, 2019). Benson was awarded the Humanities Distinguished Achievement
 Award 2019 and, in 2020, Buarque received the Luxembourg Peace Prize, a major
 international award for outstanding work in the field of peace.




                                                                                       Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.8 Politics Future Research Strategy 2021 Onwards

 Politics’ research strategy beyond 2021 is to build on this vibrant and thriving research
 culture, continuing with pluralistic and interdisciplinary approaches and methods, and
 maintaining a commitment to socially responsible research that addresses global
 inequalities. The following over-arching priorities are central to this strategy:

 1.8.1 Further Enhancing our Research

 We will sustain our methodological pluralism, often adopting a critical stance in the
 Manchester tradition, and in doing so will develop further our five research clusters. In the
 shorter term, this includes staffing investments in MANCEPT and CP, with posts already in
 position after the REF census date (Sandelind and Silver). Despite the financial
 implications of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have already secured one further new post (in
 GPE) to be appointed soon. We have also won £2m from the ESRC for a project on
 ‘Institutions, Government, and Policy’ (Richards) as part of the new Productivity Institute
 (Aug 20-) and £249,000 from the ESRC for an Ethnic Minority British Election Study pilot
 (Sobolewska et al) (Nov 20-). Politics will lead the delivering of the University's new
 initiative, through policy@manchester (Gains, Westwood) to bring a Greater Manchester
 focus to the Global Inequalities beacon.

 In the longer term, we plan to continue investing in three overarching themes — (1)
 environment, (2) inequalities, and (3) China — that cut across the clusters and enhance
 our interdisciplinarity. These themes have been developing since 2014, as part of both a
 bottom-up process of evolving staff interests and strategic decision-making by the Politics
 Leadership Team in consultation with the Department, reinforced by targeted
 appointments.


 1.8.2 Producing Impactful, Socially Responsible Research

 In line with the University’s social responsibility agenda, our research will focus on high-
 quality impact, locally and globally. We will continue to encourage and value all forms of
 impact (not just for impact case studies) reaching an even wider range of audiences, from
 local community groups within Manchester to international organisations such as the UN.
 Our impact and public engagement activities will continue to be channelled through our
 clusters and our overarching themes.

 1.9 Support for Open and Ethical Research
 Politics is strongly committed to open access and has made significant progress towards
 an open research environment. All staff must submit their outputs to the Open Access (OA)
 Gateway run by the University Library Services (Section 2.5 REF5a). Politics staff also can
 use ‘Open Access+’. This enables customised reports listing social media that regularly
 links to papers in the subfield, and to tools for reaching broader audiences such as Kudos
 and Altmetric Explorer, as well as offering one-to-one support with OA staff.

 Politics has used the University’s generous institutional Open Access Fund (OA Fund) to
 supplement the resources provided by UKRI and other funders. These have been used to
 make the flagship output from BES, Electoral Shocks (OUP 2019), Gold Open Access, as
 well as to publish the outputs of ECRs and other non-professorial staff to boost their
 visibility (e.g. McLeod’s paper in ISQ and Coward’s paper in EJIR are Gold Open Access).
 We have also supported staff on temporary contracts with Gold Open Access (e.g. Bailey’s
 piece in NPE).


                                                                                        Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Politics staff co-edit two important open access journals: Journal of Narrative Politics
 (Edkins is associate editor; Zevnik is on the editorial board) and Global Justice Theory,
 Practice and Rhetoric (Ronzoni co-edits). Politics staff have also contributed to key open
 access reference works, such as the Stanford Encyclopaedia of Philosophy (L. Shields;
 Viehoff).

 Politics cultivates a culture of research integrity and openness, and promotes high ethical
 standards. All Politics staff and PhD students receive mandatory training in good practice
 for research integrity and ethics and follow the University’s robust ethics procedures and
 Code of Good Research Conduct. During this REF period, three Politics staff (Coward,
 Pogodda, and A. Wilson) have served on the University-level Ethics Committee as School
 representatives.


Section 2. People
 2.1 Overall Staffing Strategy and Development

 We have made substantial and carefully managed changes in our staff profile since 2014,
 with the overarching aim of our research strategy to invest in outstanding ECRs, to
 reinvigorate our established strengths and drive into new research areas within our
 clusters. This change in personnel is a result of the strategic recruitment of new staff
 facilitated by the large-scale investment of resources by the University in our subject
 area, and some turnover as staff retired or departed for new challenges elsewhere. We
 now have 51.7FTE Category A staff, an increase of 3.04 FTEs on REF 2014. The 15 staff
 members who left between 2014 and 2020 included nine professors, four of whom retired
 (Hamlin, Humphries, Lawler, and Schmitt). Five professors moved to new challenges:
 Green went to a chair at Nuffield College Oxford, where she continues to work with us on
 BES; Annesley and Wilkinson to the University of Sussex; Russell to Liverpool University
 as Head of Department (remaining an honorary professor) and Mac Ginty to a chair at
 Durham.

 Since 2014, 23 permanent category A staff joined the Department, including 15 new
 ECRs, which have bolstered and broadened our existing areas of strength and enhanced
 the development of our extant areas of expertise. For example, the transformation of
 CGP was aided by 10 new staff whose research specialisms deepened our existing
 strengths e.g. in post-structuralism (Edkins, McLeod) and developed new ones, such as
 practice theory (Gifkins) and racialisation and migration (Bhagat). The appointment of
 Mellon as Hallsworth Fellow and Prosser as Presidential Fellow further strengthened
 BES and its contribution to D&E. We have been successful in retaining our excellent
 ECRs/non-professorial staff, which we attribute to our collegial and stimulating research
 culture, supportive mentoring and promotions practices, and family-friendly policies.

 The three overarching strategic themes that have emerged since 2014 – environment,
 inequalities, and China – have been nurtured with strategic appointments. The arrival of
 MacGregor, Paterson and P. Tobin have significantly deepened our expertise in the
 environment and strengthened our connections to the interdisciplinary Sustainable
 Consumption Institute (SCI). Recently appointed ECRs, Shorrocks (gender), Martin
 (race), and Bhagat (sexuality, race) have greatly enhanced our intersectional research,
 deepening and transforming our work on inequalities. Our research on China has been
 further strengthened by the professorial appointment of Gries to head the newly created
 (2018) multidisciplinary Manchester China Institute (MCI). Together with the hiring of
 Stroup and a Hallsworth Fellow (D. Tobin), Gries’ appointment now means that we have
 one of the largest concentrations of experts in Chinese politics in Europe and the US, and


                                                                                      Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 have enhanced our existing strengths on China, particularly in the area of Chinese
 identities (Gries; D. Tobin; Stroup).

 Politics is a much more diverse Department in 2020 than it was in 2014, as the result of a
 conscious re-orientating of our recruitment and promotions strategy to fit with our
 commitments to equal opportunities and the better representation of women and minority
 groups within our ranks. We have made significant strides in improving gender equality
 within the Department. We are now gender balanced with women comprising 44% of our
 staff, up from 39% in 2014. This, combined with internal promotions, means that women
 are now much better represented at all levels of the Department, forming 47% of our
 professoriat (up from 39% in 2014) and 35% of senior lecturers (up from 30% in 2014).
 Politics now has a much broader and more evenly balanced age and seniority profile, led
 by our recruitment of outstanding ECRs. It includes 19 professors (36%), two readers
 (4%), 17 senior lecturers (32%), 13 lecturers (25%), and two research fellows (2%).

 We have members of staff with disabilities and, together with the University disability
 service, offer them considerable support. We also pride ourselves on an environment that
 is inclusive and supportive for our LGBTQ, BAME and disabled academics and
 postgraduates and their research agendas. Politics has more BAME academics than in
 2014 but is still underrepresented in this area (3). We are committed to redressing this
 and to improve BAME access to the Politics profession. We have launched a BAME
 network, comprising staff and students, that raises awareness of BAME issues in the
 Department, to promote the interests of BAME staff and students in the Department, and
 to share best practice beyond Politics and Manchester. This also includes further
 developing our work on decolonising the academy, with clusters and teaching pillars
 reassessing their approaches to research and teaching, and ensuring that all colleagues
 complete compulsory training on unconscious bias (see section 2.5).

 2.2 Mentoring and Research Support

 Staff at every career stage are provided with comprehensive research mentoring and
 support which has been substantially enhanced since 2014.

 Early Career Research Support: All new ECRs, including postdoctoral researchers,
 receive probation targets from their line manager (HoD or PI), and a mentor, who meets
 them regularly to discuss progress and career development. New permanent staff
 members complete the Humanities New Academics Programme (HNAP) and have a
 significant teaching and administration reduction in the first two years (50% in year 1;
 25% in year 2). Permanent staff on probation are reviewed annually by the School
 Promotions Committee with written feedback provided on their progress.

 We have significantly improved our support for fixed-term research staff (18 over the REF
 period), as a key part of our equality and diversity agenda. In 2017, SOSS established a
 Research Contract Staff Working Group to improve the management and career
 development opportunities for fixed-term research staff, which has developed several
 policies and procedures to enhance the employment and career progression for research
 staff. These include improvements in our induction mentoring procedures and annual
 performance and development reviews, and the successful integration of research staff
 into Politics. Developed by a Politics academic (Gibson), Principal Investigators are
 provided with a ‘PI Handbook’ detailing their responsibilities and providing guidance on
 good practice. In 2018, we created a Research Contract Staff Network Coordinator role
 for an academic member of the School Research Committee. The Coordinator runs
 training, information, and networking events for fixed-term research staff, including an
 induction event at the start of each semester, and ensures that fixed-term research staff


                                                                                      Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 are aware of training, staff development, and funding opportunities. Fixed-term research
 staff also now have a Career Development Allowance of £1,000 p.a, to spend on career
 development activities such as attending conferences, organising workshops, networking
 meetings, undertaking research training, and developing their own research agendas.

 Research Support for All Staff: All staff – fixed-term and permanent – participate in the
 University’s annual Performance and Development Review (PDR) and Personal
 Research Expectations Plans (PREP). These meetings serve as a personal stocktake
 and enable colleagues to develop their research priorities and impact goals with a senior
 colleague as mentor.

 Permanent staff benefit from an institutional leave policy of one semester after six
 semesters (see Institutional Statement). All REF eligible staff receive a substantial
 Research Support Allowance of £2,000 p.a. This has doubled since 2014. Staff can
 spend this on research-related activities, including travel to overseas conferences or
 longer research visits at other universities. Staff often use their allowance to hire RAs or
 run workshops and other activities in Manchester, and can request additional
 departmental or research cluster funds to supplement their Research Support Allowance
 for such activities.

 As part of its commitment to equality and diversity, the Department seeks to ensure that
 no staff are prevented from attending research-related events. We have introduced a
 ‘caring costs fund’ that enables all academic staff (including fixed-term staff) and PGRs to
 receive funding for care for children and other dependents whilst away from home outside
 working hours (e.g. attending a conference). The School also looks favourably on
 requests for additional travel costs for staff with disabilities and long-term health
 conditions (e.g. subsidising the cost of upgrades for long-haul flights to facilitate
 international conference attendance).

 Supporting staff’s research when they return from periods of maternity or parental leave is
 a key element of our research and equality and diversity strategies. As a gender-
 balanced department with many young staff, our parental and post-parental leave
 arrangements play a key part in ensuring that parents can maintain world-class research.
 Since 2014, 16 staff (13 women and three men) comprising research associates,
 lecturers, senior lecturers, and readers, have taken maternity or shared parental leave.
 Within the University, Politics pioneered an accelerated study-leave scheme for parents
 returning to work, which entitles returning parents to a sabbatical when they are due to
 return to work, to ensure that their research is not adversely affected by their extended
 parental leave. We also now benefit from a new faculty-wide return to work scheme. As
 part of a policy that was also pioneered by Politics, three staff (two women and one man)
 now work flexibly (compressing five days into four), enabling them to maintain a
 sustainable work/life balance and remain in full-time employment.

 2.3 Career Development

 Early career support: Politics has been home to 7 fixed-term, post-doctoral research
 fellows since 2014. These include fellows supported by the University’s Hallsworth
 Political Economy Fund (Mellon, D. Tobin, and Turner), Political Economy Centre
 (Bailey), a University Presidential Fellow (Prosser), Leverhulme ECF (Leveringhaus), and
 a BA Newton International Fellow (Whyte). During this REF cycle we have also had 18
 postdoctoral RAs working on larger research grants including Richmond’s AHRC award,
 Waylen’s ERC Advanced Grant, Richards’ Nuffield award, and Onuch’s ESRC award.
 Facilitated by the opportunities and support available to fixed-term research staff already
 detailed, many of our post-doctoral fellows and RAs have progressed to permanent


                                                                                       Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 lectureships (e.g. Leveringhaus, Surrey; Johnson, Durham; McLeod, Manchester; and
 Turner, Edinburgh).

 Career support for all staff: We have worked hard to encourage all colleagues to apply for
 promotion and reduce any barriers to progression for particular demographics. The Head
 of School now runs a popular ‘promotion workshop’ each year, to ensure that staff
 understand the promotion criteria, how to provide evidence that they have been met, and
 how the promotion process works. The School Promotions Committee (SPC) operates a
 ‘dry run’ each year to consider draft applications (including CVs and supporting
 statements from senior colleagues) and provides feedback. All staff sitting on the SPC
 undertake unconscious bias training (as do the majority of permanent staff in the School),
 and the Chair of the School’s EDI Committee sits on SPC. Colleagues also are supported
 by their mentors in preparing their case for promotion, including up to professorial level.

 Our strategy, given the staff profile outlined above, has brought significant benefits and a
 sizeable number of Politics staff have been promoted since 2014 (19 people in total and
 22 promotions). During the current REF cycle, six staff in Politics were promoted to
 professor, two to reader, and fourteen to senior lecturer. The gender balance of these
 promotions was roughly even, comprising six women and eight men to SL, two women to
 Reader, and three men and three women to Professor.

 2.4 Impact and Knowledge Exchange Support

 Colleagues’ impact work and knowledge exchange are highly valued, recognised, and
 supported. At the Departmental level, impact and outreach activities are a fundamental
 part of colleagues’ mentoring and annual PREP research meetings, and a significant part
 of all five research clusters’ activities.

 As part of our impact strategy, since the last REF we have appointed an Impact Director
 (a senior colleague with significant impact experience) who works closely with colleagues
 on how to target particular users with their knowledge exchange and impact activities
 (see section 1.5). As a result, most colleagues in Politics are engaged in significant
 impact on knowledge exchange activities. Newer initiatives are encouraged to begin with
 public engagement and outreach activities, which can then develop into the sustained
 relationships with non-academic partners enjoyed by our more established research
 groups.

 At the School level, training, advice, and support for impact and knowledge exchange is
 overseen by the School Research Director. Since 2014, the School appointed a Deputy
 School Research Director with a particular focus on impact activities (a position held by a
 member of Politics). This is supplemented with significant support from the professional
 services team at the School and Faculty levels, that includes colleagues with focuses on
 Business Engagement, Knowledge Exchange and Impact, and Media Relations. At the
 University level, the Policy@Manchester team provide expert support for policy
 engagement and influence, complementing the support provided by Research Institutes
 (such as the Manchester China Institute and Manchester Urban Institute) for their specific
 stakeholders.

 There are significant tranches of funding available to support colleagues’ impact activities,
 including the Faculty of Humanities ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IAA) of over £2m
 (of which Politics is a major recipient) and the School’s investment in eight Politics impact
 projects (see section 1.5). Knowledge exchange and impact is highly valued. Colleagues
 can apply for institutional research leave for impact projects and the University regards
 impact as one of the central criteria for assessing the ‘University Researcher of the Year’


                                                                                      Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 and ‘Humanities Research of the Year’ awards. Knowledge exchange and impact is one
 of the four domains considered in the University’s promotions policy (alongside research,
 teaching, and service) and several colleagues in Politics have been rewarded for their
 impact and knowledge exchange activities in this regard.

 2.5 Support for Equality and Diversity

 The University is a bronze award holder of both the Athena SWAN Charter and the Race
 Equality Charter, is in Stonewall’s top ten list as a trans employer in the UK (see the
 Institutional Statement), and was recently ranked 16th in Stonewall’s Employer Index for
 Workplace Equality 2018. Since 2014, in Politics we have significantly increased our EDI
 support and developed a new EDI strategy. We are currently progressing implementation
 of our EDI Strategy towards gaining an Athena SWAN Silver Award. At the Department
 Level, support comes first from the Politics EDI lead, which is a post established in 2016
 and is held by a senior member of the Department, who, in this role, is a central member
 of the Politics Leadership Team. The EDI lead also meets with colleagues, offer support
 on a one-to-one basis, and aims to be at the forefront of EDI initiatives within the
 Department. At the School level, the School’s Director of Social Responsibility (currently
 held by a member of Politics), is assisted by the EDI Committee on the School Equality
 and Diversity Committee, also newly established, which meets twice a semester and
 includes representatives from every department and research centre in the School as well
 as PGR and ECR representatives.

 Our EDI lead acts as the first port of call for staff and postgraduate students facing EDI
 issues. They also oversee additional local activities and initiatives to address discipline
 and department-specific challenges, such as decolonising the Politics curriculum,
 narrowing the BAME student achievement gap, and recruiting more BAME staff and PhD
 students. This is facilitated by our new BAME staff/student network (see section 2.1).

 The Politics Leadership Team has been gender balanced since 2014. We have ensured
 that groups currently under-represented in academia are well represented amongst our
 conference and seminar speakers (and chairs) and introduced a publicly advertised
 events policy stating that harassment and discriminatory behaviour are not tolerated.
 From 2018, Politics have a had a University-trained Harassment Support Advisor who
 can offer confidential information on issues related to harassment, bullying, and equality,
 without offering judgements on what is being said, and helping to explore sources of
 support and explain and understand the University’s Dignity at Work and Study Policy.

 Politics has also embedded equality and diversity issues in the construction of its REF
 submission at all stages of the REF cycle, including the selection of outputs and impact
 case studies in our final submission. As part of the output and impact case selection
 processes, all those involved in REF2021 have had EDI training (see Institutional
 Statement), our REF team was gender-balanced, and all outputs were double-read
 internally. The REF team systematically reviewed and monitored the developing and final
 profiles (i) to ensure that there were not any systemic grading biases across protected
 characteristics and (ii) to ensure that our submission (particularly outputs, including
 double-weighting decisions) is representative of the department’s diversity. For instance,
 women comprise 44% of Cat A staff, with 47% of the outputs and 42% of double-
 weighted books from women; ECRs comprise 17% of Cat A staff and 18% of our outputs
 are from ECRs.




                                                                                      Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.6. Research Students

 Doctoral research is thriving in Politics at Manchester, with over 60 registered PhD
 students (an increase of more than 50% since the last REF cycle).

 2.6.1 Research Culture

 PhD students are fully integrated into the Department’s thriving research culture. Each
 PGR is a member of one (and sometimes two) research clusters where they receive
 much of their specialised sub-disciplinary research training and support (in line with our
 best practice guidelines produced in 2016). PGR students attend and participate fully in
 research cluster seminars, e.g. by the expectation that they will give papers in their
 second year (as well as the informal activities afterwards). The clusters also arrange
 specific events for ECR researchers, such as the joint CP and D&E ECR conference on
 ‘Identity, Values and Elections across Europe’.

 Since 2013, we have facilitated a significant increase in PGR student-led events,
 including workshops and seminars, mini-conferences, and master classes, fully supported
 by the Department. Two important PGR groups have been created in this REF period: the
 PGR Women’s Collective and the Social and Political Research Cluster (SPRC). The
 Women’s Collective hosts monthly networking meetings and runs events during
 International Women’s Week. SPRC organised two PGR conferences in 2016 and 2017,
 with PGR participants from across the UK. This is in addition to our flagship annual Brave
 New World PGR-organised political theory conference, featuring world-renowned
 scholars (e.g. Annabelle Lever (SciencesPo) and Quentin Skinner (QMUL) were plenary
 speakers in 2020). PGR students decide each year which plenary speakers they would
 like to invite (with a significant budget provided by the Department to support the
 associated costs).

 Funding for such PGR initiatives is a key part of our support structures. Politics students
 utilise the School’s PGR Student Enhancement of Research Budget (SERB) of £50k in
 2019-20 (up from £8.5K in 2014/15). PGRs also successfully apply for external funding.
 For example, SPRC’s conferences were funded by the ESRC/North West Social Science
 Doctoral Training Partnership (NWSSDTP) and the ESRC funded the Women’s Collective
 2019 International Women’s Day conference ‘Studying Gender in the Wake of #MeToo’.
 Through these activities PGRs develop essential organisational, budgeting, and funding
 application skills, as well as gaining further opportunities to present their work to a wider
 audience.

 2.6.2 Recruitment

 We are the largest partner in the North West Social Science Doctoral Training
 Partnership (NWSSDTP). Measures introduced since 2013 to increase our recruitment of
 high-quality PhD students, such as interviewing all suitable candidates, have been
 extremely effective. Our PhD candidates compete exceptionally well for funding from both
 University and external sources. From 2014-2020, we won 37 SOSS Studentships, three
 prestigious University President’s Doctoral Scholar Awards, and 24 Studentships from the
 NWSSDTP. We also secured funding for excellent candidates from other sources, such
 as the Wellcome Trust, and attaching PhD studentships to grant applications (such as
 ERC Advanced Grants).

 Our PhD body is now gender balanced for the first time since 2014, but we are very
 aware that more work is needed to recruit high quality BAME students; in June 2020, we
 initiated ‘an open consultation on race, inequality, and diversity’, with the remit of


                                                                                        Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 advancing racial justice in the Department, headed by our EDI lead.

 2.6.3 Monitoring and Progression

 Progress is reviewed at mid- and end of year reviews (conducted by an independent
 reviewer) which consider submitted chapters, a thesis plan, and completion timetable. To
 help our students complete in a timely fashion, in 2016 we introduced a completion
 support policy, providing additional support, including 1-2-1 mentoring, to any PhD
 student who requests it. Our support measures were commended in the SOSS 2018
 PGR review. In this REF period, 97 students successfully completed their doctorates
 (compared to 59 in the previous REF period).

 2.6.4 Training, Career Development, and Employability

 All students, whatever their source of funding, undertake rigorous research training
 provided by the Department, School, and Faculty. Our students can access a vast range
 of highly specialist training delivered across the University by Methods@manchester
 which also hosts an annual summer school for PGRs. School-funded students have a
 Research Training Support Grant, which has increased from £500 to £1,000/year, for
 academic conferences and career development events. The School also provides £3,000
 fieldwork bursaries for non-RCUK students.

 From the outset, Politics PGRs are encouraged to embed themselves into wider national
 and international research cultures. Students attend external conferences and present
 papers both domestically and internationally (e.g. PSA, APSA, BISA, ISA, and ECPR)
 funded by the University or their research projects (e.g. BES). As part of our EDI strategy,
 students with disabilities and caring responsibilities can access additional support to
 facilitate attendance (see section 2.2).

 The Politics PhD cohort also takes advantage of exchange programmes and internships
 to forge national and international links that improve their doctoral research and maximise
 post-PhD career opportunities (e.g. with the British Library (Hill) and the House of
 Commons (Sanders), and many PGRs spend significant time abroad (e.g. Bailey (Texas),
 Loynes (NYU), English (Sciences Po)).

 Research students can work as GTAs. They receive training, including in EDI, and are
 represented on relevant School committees. Their teaching is evaluated in student
 questionnaires and teaching observations by module leaders. In 2015, Politics created a
 dedicated GTA officer to provide additional training and support.

 The measures put in place to recruit and nurture high quality PhD students have both
 improved the calibre of students and the successful completion of 97 PhDs, as well as
 facilitating the publications and prizes noted in section 1.7. Our strong graduate
 employability is also evident. Many PGRs are appointed to academic posts both in the UK
 and internationally: of the 90% (87) we have data for, 75% secured academic
 employment – 44% in permanent and temporary lecturing posts in the UK (e.g. Exeter
 (English); Kings (Maltby); Sheffield (Jakinow); Warwick (Welland)), and internationally
 (e.g. Diego Portales (Arboleda); Universidad de Pais Vasco (Las Heras)). Another fifth
 (21%) took up postdoctoral fellowships. Our PhD students also gain high-level
 professional employment in government and international organisations (e.g. MoD
 (Crow), Houses of Parliament (Harvey), and the Foreign Agricultural Service (White)).




                                                                                      Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Section 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities
 3.1 Research Funding and Strategies for Generating Research Income

 Politics has been awarded more than £9.9m in research grants since 2014. This is a
 huge increase on the funding (£4.1m) secured in the previous REF period and is in line
 with the Departmental and School research strategy developed in 2015. More than thirty
 staff received external funding, ranging from seed corn awards to large national and
 international collaborative grants, and both senior and early career colleagues secured
 external funding. Notable new awards, many of whose linked outputs are already well
 represented in REF2, include:

 •   £1.8m from the ESRC for Voters and the Political System in the Context of Brexit,
     Fieldhouse and the BES team (2018-23), as well as additional funding of £2.93m.
 •   £1.15m Advanced Grant from the ERC on digital campaigning and electoral
     democracy, Gibson (2020-2025).
 •   £739k from the AHRC for community-devised arts-based peacebuilding, Richmond
     (2018-2021).
 •   £480k from the ESRC for the micro-foundations of mass protest and immigration,
     Onuch (2019-2021).
 •   £400k from the ESRC for immigration and the transformation of Chinese society,
     Barabantseva (2015-2018).
 •   £330k from Leverhulme for environmental sustainability in immigrant households,
     MacGregor (2020-2023)
 •   £320k from the ESRC on explaining variations in governance models and their impact
     on local climate change policy in Germany, Sweden, and the UK, P. Tobin (2020-).

 ECRs have had some notable external funding successes. These include Trommer
 ($67k from SSHRC), P. Tobin’s (£239k ESRC New Investigator’s grant), Gifkins (for a
 project on Global Britain in the United Nations post-Brexit funded by the ESRC),
 Cantijoch (£21k for a project on the BBC and Fake news by the ESRC), and McLeod
 (£10k from the British Academy for her research on gender and peacebuilding).

 Our efforts to diversify our sources of research income have been highly effective. This
 cycle has seen an increase in non RCUK/UKRI sources including the ERC, the European
 Commission, Leverhulme Trust, Nuffield Foundation, British Academy, and SSHRC, as
 well as smaller third-sector organisations such as Global Justice Now and MIND. At the
 same time, we continue to have significant success with RCUK/UKRI awards.

 These research projects have had an enormously positive impact on the Department
 through their enthusiastic and active engagement in Departmental life, the large number
 of postdoctoral researchers, and their numerous project-related workshops, conferences,
 and other activities (e.g. the final international conference for Waylen’s ERC Advanced
 Grant attracted more than 150 researchers). Other staff members and PGRs often
 participate in project-related events as speakers, as part of a reading group, and as
 seminar members.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 Support for research is provided at Departmental, School, and Faculty/University levels.

 3.2.1 Departmental

 Politics’ Research Director oversees the Departmental research strategy and sits on the
 Politics Leadership Team and School Research Committee. The Research Director

                                                                                    Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 chairs the Departmental Research Committee, which comprises the Research
 Leadership Team of the Funding, Impact, and PhD Directors, and the cluster convenors.

 Our five clusters form the bedrock of our research. Each cluster has a budget of at least
 £2,000 p.a. to host events (they can also bid for additional funds, such as for high-profile
 events). Clusters are led by a convenor, responsible for the cluster’s events and strategy.
 This post rotates on a three-yearly basis to diversify leadership opportunities (particularly
 for ECRs) and promote inclusivity in the development of the cluster’s intellectual agenda.
 Clusters are encouraged to develop their own best practices (e.g. MANCEPT hosts a
 research away weekend in Yorkshire with PhDs).

 In consultation with the five research clusters, the core Departmental Research
 Leadership Team (Research, Impact, and Funding Directors) co-ordinates the support for
 funding bids, research mentoring, internal Departmental peer review of grants and
 publications, and the Department and clusters’ seminars/research events and networks.
 Cluster leads and the Research Leadership Team provide ECRs (and other colleagues
 that request it) with additional support for papers in progress, including helping with
 responses to R&Rs, targeting particular journals, and writing book proposals targeted at
 major university presses, which we credit with significantly helping to increase our output
 profile.

 We host high-profile Departmental events, such as the Annual Peace Lecture, Annual
 John Bercow Parliament Lecture, and the Sammy Finer Lecture. We also hold special
 events where members of the Department can learn about each other’s work, such as
 brown bag lunches prior to Departmental meetings. The Department also supports
 several vibrant reading groups, which involve a significant PGR presence.

 3.2.2 School of Social Sciences (SOSS)

 The academic management of SOSS’s research strategy is led by the School Research
 Director and is supported by the School PGR and Social Responsibility Directors, as well
 as the newly created roles of Internationalisation and Business Engagement and
 Research Contract Staff Network Coordinator. Politics has had significant input into
 SOSS research strategy through these roles (in this REF cycle, S. Shields, A. Wilson,
 and Papadimitriou have held research-related senior leadership roles) as well as
 through the Politics Research Director and Head of Department.

 SOSS has invested significantly in research structures and support in this REF period.
 These include a new Grant Management and Administration Team (GMAT) that provides
 post-award support for externally funded grants, a Research Promotion Manager for
 media and policy and public engagement, and a Grant Writer who worked with Politics’
 applicants to help develop high quality research applications, focusing on large bids and
 applications by ECRs. This has contributed to positive funding outcomes (see section
 3.1). The School Research Support Hub provides strategic and operational support,
 including a dedicated Research Support Officer for Politics to help prepare grant
 applications and a Knowledge Exchange and Impact Officer to provide expert advice on
 maximising research impact.

 The School Research Budget has increased substantially from £25,000 per annum in
 2014 to £105,000 in 2019/2020. Since 2015, SOSS has run a competitive bi-annual
 competition for small grants (of up to £2,000) for grant preparation, impact and
 engagement, networks and collaboration and internationalisation. Politics staff have
 received 29 of these awards since 2014, with 13 awarded for grant preparation (e.g. to
 Onuch on social movements and protest and Richmond on peace interventions). This


                                                                                       Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 has been of particular benefit for ECRs, such as Bhagat’s research for global
 displacement in smart cities.

 SOSS hosts several Faculty and School Centres and Institutes in which Politics plays
 significant leadership roles (e.g. SCI, HCRI, CMI, and MCI, JMCE, and
 Policy@Manchester). These Centres and Institutes add a further layer of research
 support and funding activities, extending Politics’ staff opportunities for engaging in
 established and well-resourced interdisciplinary opportunities, with very frequent cross-
 discipline events and seminars as well as further methods training, mentoring, grant
 writing support and seedcorn funding for ECRs and RAs (focused largely on impact and
 piloting new research).

 3.2.3 Faculty/University

 The Faculty of Humanities provides further research support funds, including the
 Humanities Strategic Investment Fund (HSIF), which supports activities related to the
 University’s research goals and internationalisation agenda (Politics has received three
 HSIF grants (Coward £2k; Pattison £2k; Trommer £10k)). The Faculty of Humanities
 also hosts the (very sizable) Simon and Hallsworth endowment funds and Politics has
 successfully competed for several awards. In the current REF cycle, these have
 supported the appointment of three prestigious three-year post-doctoral fellows (Turner,
 D. Tobin, Mellon), one Simon Industrial Fellow (Wright, BBC), and funded international
 conferences (e.g. China and the Changing Global Order in 2017 organised by Suzuki).
 Funds from this endowment have also been secured by Politics to host six Hallsworth
 Eminent Visiting Professors (Cornellissen, Gill, VanDeveer, Wald, Ware, and Wong). We
 ensured that these six professors were fully integrated into our research environment,
 with them giving seminars with Politics staff and students, presenting public lectures,
 offering master classes and workshops, and holding both group and one-to-one meetings
 with PGRs and post-doctoral researchers.

 These funding opportunities from the Faculty have enabled Politics to develop and
 embed research links with international institutions such as Copenhagen, Renmin,
 Toronto, Columbia, Melbourne and ANU, and research partners in China and Ecuador.

 3.3 Research Impact Infrastructure

 We have developed significantly our impact infrastructure. Politics now has an Impact
 Director and a dedicated External Relations and Media Officer, who oversees Politics’
 social media, conducts outreach, and publicises Departmental events (detailed in
 sections 1.5 and 2.4).

 We have worked with the School’s new dedicated Knowledge Exchange and Impact
 officer, post-award team, and external relations team (see section 3.2.2) to develop
 impact and our profile. We have made extensive use of the internal and external impact
 funds, such as the Faculty-administered ESRC Impact Acceleration Accounts (IAAs). The
 School ring-fences funds to support impact work (£20k in 2018-19; £30k in 2019-2020),
 which we have accessed (see section 1.5 and 2.4), as well as the School and Faculty’s
 flagship Social Responsibility funds. Colleagues have been awarded eight ESRC IAAs
 (over £100,000) for their impact-related work (e.g. to Richardson (£12k) and Zevnik
 (£15k) to contribute to their impact case-studies). At the University level,
 Policy@Manchester facilitates our impact and engagement work, as part of its wider
 social responsibility mission. For example, MacGregor’s work on the environment in
 Manchester was supported by the University’s ‘Engaging Our Communities’ Initiative.
 The School leads on the Manchester ESRC Social Science Festival, run annually since


                                                                                     Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2015 (with MMU and Salford) with a budget of £20,000, which has raised the profile of
 Social Science research in the city and region, through over 90 funded events for a range
 of audiences. Politics colleagues have organised diverse events such as with women
 activists and policymakers ‘Getting Women’s Voices into Policy Making’ (Gains, Sanders,
 Eseonu, and Culhane) with local sixth form/college students on ‘What does Brexit mean
 for you?’ (Wylie, Ford), and with the wider public about the experiences of Chinese
 migrants in the UK (Barabantseva).

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society
 4.1 Effectiveness of Research Collaborations, Networks, and Partnerships

 Members of the Department have substantially increased their involvement in a large and
 extensive range of research academic collaborations, networks, and partnerships, locally,
 nationally, and globally.

 This is reflected in our outputs, with extensive collaboration occurring in all our five
 research clusters. For instance, BES (in D&E) has a major collaboration with Nuffield
 College Oxford (and, until recently, the University of Nottingham). In CGP, Gifkins has
 collaborated successfully with Ralph (Leeds) for an award-winning article in EJIR and an
 ESRC grant on the implications of Brexit for the UK’s international presence, and a report
 for the United Nations Association of the UK which received significant media attention. In
 Mancept, Viehoff has co-authored with colleagues at the EUI (Sangiovanni) as part of an
 ERC-funded project on social justice and solidarity for the EU (Stanford Encyclopedia
 article, plus two books, and two special issues). In CP, Waylen’s ERC Advanced Grant
 worked closely with the Feminism and Institutionalism International Network (with
 colleagues from Rutgers, Edinburgh, and UNSW), to organise workshops and conferences
 that have made important interventions in the development of Feminist Institutionalism.
 Indeed, such is the extent of Politics’ collaboration that four of our five impact case studies
 involve collaboration with colleagues from outside of Manchester (Richardson, Zevnik,
 Sobolewska, and BES).

 Significant Departmental, School, and Faculty/University support is provided for staff to
 collaborate (see section 3.2). This has helped Manchester staff to establish and build upon
 both collective links at the Departmental and cluster levels as well as at the individual level.
 For instance, as part of the University’s strategic global partnerships, GCP and GPE are
 now collaborating extensively with the Political Science Department in Copenhagen,
 holding reciprocal workshops in 2018 (Manchester) and 2020 (Copenhagen) and
 developing a joint research agenda on practice theory, involving both ECRs and senior
 scholars.

 4.2 Relationships with Key Research Users and Beneficiaries

 We have extensive partnerships and collaborations with non-academic users, facilitated by
 the extensive resources for engagement detailed in section 3. This work underpins Politics’
 commitment to addressing the key normative challenges at the local, national, and
 international levels, identified in our overarching research agenda (see section 1).

 First, in contribution to debates about the distribution and redistribution of wealth, we have
 worked with research users and stakeholders such as the Women’s Budget Group
 (Roberts and Trommer; MacGregor) and the German Development Institute on TTIP
 (Ronzoni) and Center for Sustainable Prosperity (Ronzoni), and given evidence to
 Parliamentary Committees on gender and trade.
 Second, in addressing the challenges posed by intervention before, during and after


                                                                                        Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 conflict, our collaborations include: Onuch (the British Council, USAID, and the Ukrainian
 Government), Richmond and Pogodda (UNDP, FCO), the International Dialogue on
 Peace Building and State Building (Richmond), and Gilmore (City of Sanctuaries).

 Third, in addressing the need to ensure wider political participation and state
 responsiveness to citizens, we have worked with organisations in the UK such as the BBC
 (Gibson and Cantijoch) and ITV (BES); British Council, Committee for Standards in Public
 Life, Fawcett Society and the Greater Manchester Combined Authority (GMCA) (Gains);
 the Hansard Society and Electoral Reform Society (Sobolewska and Ford); EHRC
 (Sobolewska); Institute of Government (Richards); and the National Council for Civic
 Societies (Richardson). We have also engaged with numerous institutions outside the UK,
 for example the Slovenian National Assembly (Zevnik) and UNWomen (Waylen).

 4.3 Wider Contributions to the Economy and Society

 Impact is entrenched in the Department’s research and all five research clusters engage in
 extensive impact activities, ensuring that all our research (in addition to that detailed in our
 five impact case studies) truly makes a difference to policymakers and wider publics at all
 levels: locally, nationally, and globally. Our efforts have been supported by the
 Departmental and School Impact Officers (see sections 1.5 and 2.4) as well as other
 measures such as our eight ESRC IAA grants.

 Impact through dissemination is highly valued, with colleagues contributing to
 interdisciplinary thought-leadership publications curated by Policy@Manchester, such as
 ‘On Devo’ (Gains, Richards), ‘On Brexit’ (Ford, Papadimitriou) ‘On Cohesion’ (following
 the Manchester arena bombing) (Coward), ‘On Digital Trust’ (Gibson), and ‘On Gender’
 (Gains).

 The Department has a significant presence in the local, national, and international media,
 supported by the University’s media office. This ranges from regular appearances on the
 BBC, Sky News, and ITV, to the Washington Post, The Guardian, and The Observer (Ford
 has a regular column) and major online politics blogs. Onuch, Papadimitriou and A.
 Wilson are frequent commentators for the BBC on Ukrainian, European, and US politics
 respectively. The BES team provides material for ITV’s award-winning electoral coverage
 and Ford and Mellon are members of the BBC election night research team working on
 the exit polls at national elections. The BES team was runner up in the ESRC’s award for
 ‘Outstanding Impact in Society’ (forming one of our impact case studies).

 Our research has a significant impact on policymakers locally, nationally, and
 internationally. We have had considerable influence on DevoManc, the Greater
 Manchester Devolved Authority, and the Northern Powerhouse (including with Gains and
 Richardson’s impact case studies), as well as nationally on government (e.g. through
 Sobolewska’s appointment as Special Adviser to the House of Lords Committee Enquiry
 on the Electoral Registration and Administration Act 2013), together with numerous select
 committee appearances by other staff. At the global level we have worked with
 international organisations. For example, Gifkins led the University’s successful
 application to become a member of the UN Academic Engagement Network and Paterson
 worked with the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change for their Fifth and Sixth
 Assessment Reports (2014; 2022). In collaboration with European policy makers, Ronzoni
 and Viehoff participated in the 12 stars project on EU reform before the 2019 European
 elections.

 As researchers, we also have significant interaction with communities and community
 organisations in Manchester and the North West. We are particularly proud of our local


                                                                                         Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 footprint and engagement with the city. We hold regular public events at the University and
 various other locations within Greater Manchester. These include with the Working Class
 Movement Library, Salford (where Morgan is also secretary of the Board of Trustees), and
 community groups in Moss Side (Ni Mhurchu), the British Muslim Heritage Centre
 (Pattison), the People History’s Museum (Onuch, Gibson), GM4Women2028 (Gains), and
 the Greater Manchester Centre for Voluntary Organisations (Richardson). MacGregor’s
 highly successful event, ‘A Rubbish Night at the Museum’, held with local residents,
 researchers, organisations, and social enterprises aimed to build the intellectual and
 practical capacity to deal more effectively with the litter in deprived areas of Manchester.
 This was shortlisted for a Manchester Culture Award in 2019.

 4.4 Sustainability of the Discipline

 As a large and well-resourced Department, we are committed to playing an important role
 in sustaining and promoting the Discipline. Politics at Manchester prides itself on the
 significantly increased contribution it has made in this regard since 2014, including in the
 following ways.

 4.4.1 Editorial Positions and Reviewing

 In the current REF cycle a total of 20 journals have been edited from Manchester (up from
 11 in REF 2014). Like the Review of International Studies (edited by Coward, Zevnik,
 Zehfuss, and Paterson), these are key journals in their fields, including African Affairs
 (Death), Environmental Politics (MacGregor), Journal of Elections, Public Opinion and
 Parties (Fieldhouse and Gibson), Journal of Narrative Politics (Edkins), New Political
 Economy (Roberts), and Politics (Coward).

 Seven book series are edited in Politics including: Interventions (Routledge, Edkins),
 Global Political Economy (Routledge, Bruff), and Global Political Economies of Gender
 and Sexuality (Rowman and Littlefield, Roberts), and Politics staff are on the editorial
 boards of more than 50 academic journals (up from 31) and 10 book series. Zehfuss
 chairs the Manchester University Press Editorial Board (Ford, MacGregor, and Roberts
 are also members).

 We have reviewed for more than 30 publishers, 150 journals, and more than 25 research
 funders, including research councils in more than 19 countries (13 in Europe, three in
 North America and four in other parts of the world), as well as other funders such as
 Nuffield, Guggenheim, British Academy, Carnegie, and Leverhulme.

 4.4.2 Membership of Research Councils and Funding Bodies

 As part of our contribution to the research base, Politics participates in many research
 council panels and grant awarding committees. Since 2014 we have provided five
 members of the ESRC peer review college, several ESRC panel members (e.g. Ford on
 the Fellowships Panel; Fieldhouse and Gibson on the Governance after Brexit panel;
 Fieldhouse on the NCRM panel), and a committee member (Fieldhouse, who has also
 served in numerous other ESRC roles including vice chair of the Capability Committee and
 chair of the Infrastructure Working Group). Roles played in other research councils include
 as panel members, such as by Paterson (on SSHRC Political Science Committee),
 Waylen (on Irish Research Council Advanced Laureate panel, on ERC COG panel, and on
 several British Academy panels), Richmond (on ESF panel), and Papadimitriou on (on
 Greek Research Council Social Sciences panel) and as members of peer review colleges
 (e.g. Pattison and Richards for the Australian Research Council; Fieldhouse for the
 Research Grants Council of Hongkong).


                                                                                      Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.4.3 Learned Societies

 We take leadership roles in many learned societies, again at national, European, and
 international levels. These include executive positions in the PSA as PSA Chair (A.
 Wilson) and PSA Honorary Treasurer (P. Tobin), as well as on the APSA Executive
 Council (A. Wilson), and ISA Governing Council (Pattison).

 Many of our staff, including a large number of our ECRs, have convened learned societies
 Specialist Groups during this REF cycle. These include three BISA Working Groups
 (Gendering IR, McLeod; Intervention and R2P, Gifkins, Gilmore, Pattison; and
 Contemporary Research in International Political Theory (CRIPT), Zevnik), five PSA
 specialist groups (Parliaments, Thompson; Environmental Politics, P. Tobin; Interpretive
 Political Science, Turnbull; Political Methodology, Shorrocks; and Race, Migration and
 Intersectionality, Martin), and four ECPR standing groups (Critical Peace and Conflict,
 Pogodda; South Eastern European Politics, Papadimitriou; Environment, MacGregor;
 and International Political Theory, Pattison).

 We have played an active role in conference organisation for learned societies.
 Manchester hosted the PSA Annual Conference in 2014 (Academic Convenor, A. Wilson)
 and we have acted as chairs, section chairs, and programme organisers for major
 European and international organisations (e.g. ISA International Political Sociology
 Section, Zevnik; ISA Peace Studies Section, Richmond; European International Studies
 Association (EISA) Overall Programme Chair, Bruff; and EISA Section Chairs, Gilmore
 and Gifkins).

 4.4.4 External PhD training and Examining

 Politics at Manchester makes a significant contribution to co-operation and collaboration
 with external bodies for PhD training. In addition to extensive external examining (for more
 than 50 PhDs all over the world), Politics staff hosted and supervised a large number of
 visiting PhD students from across the world, as well as co-supervising with other
 institutions. Staff have also been involved in ESRC training partnerships (e.g. Zehfuss was
 on the management committee of the NWSSDTP for 5 years) and participated in
 numerous ESRC, Royal Geographical Society and PSA ECR national training events (A.
 Wilson, Richards, MacGregor, and D. Tobin). Our PhD students have also participated
 in the many secondments detailed in section 2.6.4.

 4.4.5 Fellowships

 Several colleagues have been recognised through election to fellowships of prestigious
 scholarly societies. Waylen is a Fellow of the British Academy and Gains, Gibson,
 Waylen and A. Wilson are Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences. Ford, Richmond
 and Sobolewska are Fellows of the Royal Society of Arts.

 Since 2014 colleagues have also been awarded a range of competitive visiting and other
 fellowships, with 27 colleagues having 35 fellowships including at Harvard (Onuch,
 Waylen), Yale (Death), the New School (Zevnik), Frankfurt (Ronzoni), Zurich (Ronzoni),
 Berlin (Schemmel), Munich (MacGregor), and ANU (Richmond).

 We have given more than 75 invited keynotes and plenary lectures all over the world,
 many at top research universities, such as LSE, Oxford, Toronto, Harvard, ANU, UC Irvine,
 and Sciences Po.




                                                                                    Page 21
