Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Worcester

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language & Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 The English Studies team at the University of Worcester (UW) has created a diverse and
 interdisciplinary research culture in which a strong base in literary scholarship is
 complemented by contemporary media and cultural studies, Creative Writing, and language
 studies. The team remains relatively small, but has expanded significantly (from 8.0 FTE)
 since REF 2014, reflecting institutional confidence and investment. There are 16 (14.9 FTE)
 Category A researchers plus one leaver in this submission. Of these, ten members of staff work
 in English Literature (9.2 FTE), three in Media & Cultural Studies (3.0 FTE), two in Creative
 Writing (1.7 FTE), and one in English Language (1.0 FTE). Staff contributing research on
 historical and modern literature are: D. Arnold, L. Arnold, Bradshaw, Cinpoeş, McGowan,
 Standlee, Young, and Webb, as well as the leaver Mueller. Devine and Hardy produce research
 on literary themes in relation to social and religious history. Staff contributing practice-based
 research in Creative Writing are Stacey and Wareham Morris. Staff contributing research in
 media and cultural studies are Mitra, Parham, and Wolfe. Kailoglou is unique in contributing
 sociolinguistic research.

 The English research team is located in the School of Humanities, which also supports
 submissions to units 28 History and 33 Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen
 Studies. The subject teams have complementary research interests, and there has been
 considerable potential for interdisciplinary collaboration, for example in early modern culture,
 Gothic, and gender studies. This reflects a commitment to inter- and multi-disciplinary research
 activity among the English team, which is also seen in its range of PGR supervision.

 At the time of our last REF submission in 2014, the English unit was part of the Institute of
 Humanities and Creative Arts. This Institute was restructured in 2017 into two schools - the
 School of Arts, and School of Humanities. This restructuring created new opportunities, as
 research groups were consolidated and new groupings emerged. The School of Humanities now
 sits within the College of Arts, Humanities and Education. The new College structure was
 implemented in 2018/19 to ensure greater support for Research and Knowledge Exchange and
 Learning and Teaching in Schools, more consistency of practice and wider sharing of good
 practice, and increased opportunity for cross and inter-disciplinary activities. College Directors of
 Research and Knowledge Exchange and of Learning & Teaching were appointed to meet these
 objectives (REF5a 1.5).

 The English unit at UW seeks to learn from past evaluations, to consolidate and build on notable
 strengths, and to initiate new activities which will further diversify the subject and build
 international reputations. Our research ranges from original poems and performances, to literary
 criticism and cultural theory, to ethnographic language studies and computer-assisted linguistic
 analysis. Striving for excellence in all areas therefore entails the celebration of diversity in
 ‘English Studies’, and a commitment not only to pure subject specialisation, but also to the
 interdisciplinary work which challenges traditional boundaries.

 Belief in diversity and innovation will lead English at UW to seek international recognition, and to
 further engage public awareness. Education and communication are also essential to our vision
 for English research: continuously refreshing the research-informed curricula of all our UG and
 PG degree programmes and engaging public audiences for the exchange of new knowledge.

 There are several recognisable areas of strength within the English team, and three Research
 Groups are currently active, which serve as a focus for the external promotion of current
 research.

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Early Modern Research Group (EMRG) is coordinated by Cinpoeş. The EMRG was
 established during the REF 2014 review period, and it continues to coordinate research activity
 in all aspects of early modern European culture, history, and literature. The current active
 membership comprises Cinpoeş and Young, as well as McNally, Oldridge, and Schwarz (UoA
 28), and PGR students Lucy Cooper and Guillaume Foulquie. Since 2014, the EMRG has
 organised several conferences and symposia (listed in section 4 below). Other recent events
 include the Theatre and Performance Research Association conference (September 2015,
 Cochrane UoA 33); ‘Corruption in the Early Modern World’ (May 2017, MRes. students); an
 exhibition on Early Modern Women Poets, Icon Gallery, Birmingham (2019, Young); the Polish
 Association for the Study of English keynote, reviewing workshops at Notre Dame U. London
 Campus (2019, Cinpoeş); and frequent public-facing talks and events at historical locations in
 the city. The group has supported the recruitment and supervision of the following PhD students:
 Erin Peters (UW funded studentship, completed); Young (completed); Frauke Jung (UW funded
 studentship); Guillaume Foulquie (UW funded studentship, due to complete 2020); Lucy Cooper
 (UW funded studentship, due to complete 2021). Five students have also completed the MRes.
 Early Modern Studies between 2016 and 2017. In 2018, the School of Humanities created the
 EMRG Prize for Interdisciplinary Research, awarded annually to the author of the most
 innovative PG or UG project in the field. Work by EMRG members has an ongoing impact on the
 research-informed curricula in English and History programmes, in areas such as: local heritage
 and literature; site-specific research; Digital Humanities methods (UP and PG); and Medical
 Humanities themes (PG).

 The International Forum for Research in Children’s Literature (IFRCL) is an interdisciplinary
 group which comes together around specific projects which are suggested to or by the Director,
 Webb. This flexible approach has led to research and publications in, for example, children’s
 literature and health. The forum was established in 2014 and has been active throughout the
 current review period. The principal active researchers are Webb and Mitra; however, the forum
 has a large network of affiliates, including Fateha Aziz (International Islamic University
 Malaysia); Dr Branwen Bingle (University College Birmingham); Dr Robyn Cox (Australian
 Catholic University, Sydney); Julia Eccleshare MBE (The Guardian Children’s Books editor); Dr
 Fawzia Gilani Williams (Cluster Lead Librarian, Charter Schools United Arab Emirates); Prof.
 Maria Nikolajeva (Professor Emerita, University of Cambridge); Prof. Michael Rosen (poet,
 broadcaster, and academic; contributor to the Beeline Storytelling Festival; former UK Children’s
 Laureate). Since 2014, the IFRCL has organised several conferences and symposia, including:
 Postgraduate Research Conference (UW 2014); International Research Society of Children’s
 Literature (IRSCL) 22nd Biennial Congress (2015). International Research Society for Children’s
 Literature Congress (UW 2015): Creating Childhoods: Creation and (Re)-Interpretation through
 the Body, Histories and the Arts. Most members of the forum have contributed to the Beeline
 Storytelling Festival over its 14-year duration, either in an organisational role, or running
 workshops for children involving UW students. The involvement of Bingle led to storytelling being
 incorporated into the curriculum for ITE students with professional storytellers who had worked
 at Beeline giving masterclasses. (See Impact case study for further information). The IFRCL has
 supported the recruitment and supervision of the following PhD students: Jane Kubiesa (UW
 PhD on Gothic YA fiction; due to complete in 2021); Dominic Becher (University of Leipzig PhD
 on magic in CL; awarded 2015); Rosemarie Miller (UW PhD on Australian Gothic, awarded
 2019); Bingle (UW PhD on the representation of teachers in CL, awarded 2017); Fawzia Gilani
 Williams (UW PhD on Islamic CL in UK and USA, awarded 2015).

 The Green Voices Research Group (GVRG), coordinated by Parham, serves as a focus for all
 research in the University which comes under the general umbrella of the Environmental
 Humanities; its work is mainly concentrated in the Schools of Arts and Humanities. The
 establishment of a group focusing on ecocritical research was a stated strategy in the 2014 REF
 submission (REF5b, p. 4): this was fulfilled by Parham, D. Arnold, and other former colleagues
 at UW. Since 2014, the GVRG has supported the recruitment and supervision of the following
 PhD students working on environmental / ecocritical themes: Anna Stenning (UW funded
 studentship, PhD awarded in 2015); Pippa Marland (UW funded studentship, PhD awarded in

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2016); Miller (self-funded, awarded 2019); Wareham Morris (PT registration, subsidised by the
 School of Humanities, due to complete 2023); Oliver Case (UW fee-waiver studentship, due to
 complete in 2024). The field-leading journal Green Letters: Studies in Ecocriticism (Routledge)
 has been edited from UW by Parham throughout the REF review period. The journal has just
 published its 24th issue, with seven issues being produced under Parham’s editorship since
 2014. Parham has also co-edited a special issue of its European equivalent Ecozon@:
 European Journal of Literature, Culture and Environment on ‘Green Computer and Video
 Games’ (2017). As part of the studentship contract (i.e. to support the work of the research
 group), research student Marland was editorial assistant from 2012-17, producing 16 issues and
 guest editing one. The current editorial assistant, Abbey Ballard, is also a PhD student working
 on an ecocritical theme, studying on a full UW studentship. In 2019-20, the GVRG hosted a
 Visiting Professor, Mayako Murai (Kanagawa University). Prof. Murai’s research on folklore and
 fairytales was conducive to organising the ‘Enchanted Environments’ symposium; she has since
 secured funding to host a matched event in Japan. ‘Enchanted Environments’ (UW, 2020)
 attracted 100 delegates, with keynotes from the writer Patrick Curry and the artist Clive Hicks-
 Jenkins. A special issue of issue of Green Letters drawing on the proceedings is scheduled for
 April 2021. Public-facing events have included: ‘The Road to Seven Years’ a talk at the Hive by
 the wildlife photographer David Plummer; and a reading / conversation with two nature writers,
 Caspar Henderson and Richard Kerridge at The Chapter House, Worcester Cathedral (2014).
 Parham has spoken twice at the Ledbury Poetry Festival, once at the Cheltenham Poetry
 Festival, and twice at Worcester Science Night. D. Arnold spoke at the Ledbury Festival in 2015.

 Research and impact strategy

 Unit’s strategic research objectives during the assessment period

 The unit’s research strategy was reviewed following REF 2014, and two broad priorities
 emerged: these were to increase the quality and volume of research outputs, and to develop and
 deepen the research culture of the unit by exercising external networks in selected areas of
 research strength, especially regarding historical literature, and contemporary writing and
 publishing. The School of Humanities aims to consolidate and grow a culture that supports
 research activity across language and linguistics, literary and cultural study, and creative writing.
 It also seeks to strengthen the relationship between research activity and the quality of teaching
 in order to sustain research-informed curricula at all levels. Members of the English team are
 expected to be active on a wide range of fronts – to generate peer-reviewed publications in all
 recognised media, to organise and participate in international-standard conferences and cultural
 events such as literary competitions, and other forms of public engagement such as talks at
 cultural venues, radio and television broadcasts. To put this strategy into effect we have
 reviewed our appointments procedure to make sure that research activity or potential are high
 priorities for the filling of vacant or new posts.

 Impact strategy

 The unit team is fully committed to UW’s institutional mission, which regards research as
 fundamental to positive societal change (REF5a 2.3), and is well equipped to apply these values
 to specific projects. Impact-building is one of the key criteria of the School’s Research
 Investment Fund (see section 3), which dispenses funding to facilitate practical dissemination
 projects. The unit has adopted several approaches to enabling the impact of its research,
 including providing training and development in developing impact which complements the
 University’s researcher development offer in this area.

 The two impact case studies in this submission clearly reflect this mission to collaborate,
 disseminate, and apply academic research to the benefit of non-academic communities and
 end-users.

 The Hive, the University and Public Library, is a key component of the unit’s impact strategy.
 The Hive offers an opportunity for the integration of academic and public life in the city of

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Worcester, providing both an ideal physical location, with its exhibition and conference facilities
 and extensive local archives, and a philosophical space for the meeting of two “worlds”. It has
 then been a focal point for public engagement activity since its opening in 2012, and staff in the
 unit have been involved in a wide range of exhibitions, public lectures, conferences and other
 events held at the Hive.

    •   ICS1: Enhancing literacy and creativity amongst primary aged schoolchildren through a
        children’s literature and storytelling festival

 With the widely lauded Beeline Storytelling Festival, Webb has used her scholarly research on
 children’s literature to inspire and catalyse creative curricula for teachers and an empowering
 love of narrative for children in the region (cf. ‘children and young people’ Area of Distinction,
 REF5a 2.1.2).

    •   ICS2: Shakespeare Connected – Page, Stage, Classroom

 With her international network of Shakespeare festivals, Cinpoeş has helped to create new
 audiences for translated early modern drama, which articulates the ethical and political
 dilemmas of contemporary Europe (cf. ‘arts, culture, and heritage’ Area of Distinction, REF5a
 2.1.2).

 Open research

 The University is committed to an Open Research Environment evidenced by its resourcing of
 this important area (dedicated Open Access Advocacy and Support Officer; Open Access
 Funding) and its policy development (on Open Access and Open Data) (REF5a 2.6). This
 commitment is further reflected in its new Research and KE Strategy which identifies developing
 its Open Research environment as one of 5 underpinning principles of the strategy (REF5a
 2.3.4). The unit echoes this commitment. It has worked closely with the Open Access Advocacy
 and Support Officer to raise awareness of the Open Access agenda, for example, through
 running dedicated training events as part of School Away Days.

 Research integrity

 At University level, the University’s Research Integrity and Governance Committee has oversight
 of policies and procedures to support research integrity and its Chair is the University’s
 Research Integrity Champion. The Champion is expected to embed a culture of integrity across
 the University through developing training and support for staff but also raising its profile.

 At College level, Research Ethics Panels are responsible for the review of all staff and research
 student projects to ensure they are conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks, obligations and standards. Panel Chairs and Vice Chairs are
 experienced researchers, whilst panel reviewers are drawn from across the College; lay
 reviewers are also recruited to the panel. Training is provided to all reviewers before they
 engage in the role. There is an annual audit of reviews to ensure the Panels are fulfilling their
 role.

 Future Strategic Aims

 The unit has identified strategic objectives for the next five-year period, which flow from the
 University’s new RKE Strategy (REF5a 2.3): the publication of outputs which are rigorous,
 original, and significant; the generation of impact from public-facing projects of both reach and
 significance; and all this to be underpinned by a vital and sustainable environment which
 promotes innovation and reinforces ambition. The principal objectives in terms of outputs are to
 increase the quantity and quality of individuals’ publications; for example, increasing the
 number and proportion of full monographs in the next REF submission, and aiming to submit
 only outputs for which peer review estimates a 3* score or better. In terms of impact strategy,

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the unit aims to improve the public and community engagement value of projects and to be less
 reliant on single-authored case studies, increasing the number and proportion of Impact-building
 projects which are underpinned by collaborative work from the team. With the introduction of
 institutional KEF, the unit team will be able to draw on College and University-level support for a
 wider range of external-facing and partnership activity.

 Key aspects of developing the research environment will include:
    • Increasing the volume of bids submitted to research councils, and increase rates of
       success and thus annual income totals; expand the diversity of funding bodies applied to,
       including charitable and third sector bodies, international library fellowships, etc.
    • Increasing the number of PhD registrations and completions; grow staff capacity to
       support doctoral research through a team-based approach to supervision, and by
       directing ECRs to the supervisor training provided by the Supervisor Development
       Programme in the Research School; and compete for more fully-funded studentships.
    • Retaining ECRs and support their research career progression, encouraging and
       facilitating ECRs’ involvement in PGR supervision and PGT teaching.
    • Consolidating and expanding the research culture with a diverse range of events
       including conferences, symposia, workshops, and readings.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Recruitment strategy

 There has been positive progress in developing the number of research active staff across the
 team, evident in the expanded volume of the present submission compared to the previous REF:
 in REF 2014, eight (8.0 FTE) staff were returned; in REF 2021, 16 staff (14.9 FTE). The
 outcome of the 2014 submission, although showing considerable progress since RAE 2008,
 indicated a need for further expansion and improvement. Research capacity has duly increased
 since REF 2014: there has been a substantial turnover of staff, and an all-round expansion of
 the research-active team. Of the 16 researchers presented in this submission, L. Arnold (ECR),
 Bradshaw (professor), McGowan (senior lecturer), Stacey (ECR), Standlee (senior lecturer),
 Wareham Morris (ECR), and Young (ECR) have all joined the University since January 2014.
 Film Studies research (included in the English submission to REF 2014) has been relocated to
 UoA 33; were it not for this, the English submission would have increased even more. The range
 of work submitted by staff for REF 2021 is consequently broader and more diverse, with notably
 increased strength in historical literature and creative practice.

 Table 1 shows the balance between contract levels in the unit for both Category A Eligible and
 Submitted staff (see REF5a 3.1.6 for institutional comparison).

                                             % Category A           % Category A
                                             Eligible               Submitted
  Lecturer/Research Fellow (K0)              24                     25
  Senior Lecturer/Senior Research            40                     37
  Fellow (J0)
  Principal Lecturer/Principal Research 12                           13
  Fellow/Head of School (I0)
  Professor (F1)                            24                       25
                          Table 1: Proportion of staff by contract level

 There are currently four professors among the extended English unit team (Bradshaw, Cinpoeş,
 Parham, and Webb). Parham and Cinpoeş were promoted through the annual promotion round
 in 2018 and 2019 respectively. Several members of the team occupy managerial roles:
 Bradshaw is permanent Head of School; Cinpoeş, Hardy, and McGowan have all occupied the
 role of Head of Department in the review period; Parham is a former Associate Head of Institute
 for Research. Kailoglou, McGowan, and Young all occupy the senior administrative role of
 Course Leader. Of Category A staff returned in this submission, researchers L. Arnold, Devine,
 McGowan, Stacey, Wareham Morris, and Young qualify as Early Career Researchers (ECRs),
 having all been appointed to their first substantive academic role since 2017.

 Staff development

 The University was granted the HR Excellence in Research award in 2016, and is a signatory to
 the new Researcher Development Concordat, reflecting its commitment to researcher
 development.

 All research-active staff complete an individual research plan as part of the annual Appraisal
 process, with short- and long-term objectives: progress against these objectives is monitored
 with line managers. Each member of staff has an opportunity to discuss the support for their
 research, including the resources required, and to agree their personal development needs and
 objectives. There is also a research mentoring database where individuals can search for
 experienced researchers with relevant expertise to help them with their projects and personal



                                                                                           Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development. This mentoring is initiated by the researcher and focuses on specific issues
 related to a research project from initial proposal to publication.

 Development needs can often be met through the University’s Researcher Development
 Programme, which is designed to support staff at all career stages (REF5a 3.2). Staff in the unit
 have consistently engaged with the University’s Research Leadership Programme, its Research
 Supervisor Development Programme, Bid Development training and Impact and Engagement
 training. Staff in the unit have also been active contributors to this programme. This is
 complemented by development events run by the School, including research away days at
 departmental level and writing retreats.

 Staff can also access the University’s Research Mentoring Programme (REF5a 3.2.4). They can
 do so at any point from appointment onwards and at any career stage. This programme has also
 offered an opportunity for mentors to develop their skills, with all mentors receiving dedicated
 training for the role. More subject-focused mentoring is provided at School-level. Mentoring is a
 key part of academic career progression at UW. Cinpoeş and Hardy are examples of staff who
 joined UW as ECRs (pre-RAE 2008) and who have since been promoted, progressing to a
 personal chair and a Principal Lectureship respectively.

 Staff in the unit can access the University’s research leave programme (see REF5a 3.2.3). Four
 staff have been awarded leave in the assessment period (Cinpoeş, Mitra, Mueller, Parham),
 enabling them to develop their research, publish and extend the impact of their research.
 Further, all Category A staff have 20 days research and scholarly activity leave. This is
 complemented by individualised allocation of workloads, for example: ECRs are given reduced
 administrative and teaching loads in the first year and are given priority with internal research
 support funds.

 Research students

 The School offers both a PhD programme and, since 2015, Masters by Research (MRes)
 programmes in English and Media & Culture. The PG community of the School was further
 expanded in 2019, with the launch of the new MA in English.

 There are currently 5 students on the PhD programme, two of whom are funded by University
 studentships, and 4 on the MRes. 12 PGR students (7 PhD, 1 MPhil, 4 MRes) successfully
 completed their doctorates over the assessment period. Two of these students were funded by
 University doctoral studentships.

 Recruitment to doctoral programmes is overseen by School-level Course Leaders (PhD and
 MRes) who work closely with the central Research School (REF5a 3.3.2-3). Course Leaders
 also play a core role in the oversight of research student progress. They sit on the University’s
 Research Degree Board and are responsible for annual monitoring of student progress within
 the School.

 The University has a well-established graduate school (branded as the Research School) which
 is responsible for the management of all Research Degree Programmes (RDPs) from
 recruitment to examination, in partnership with the academic schools (REF5a 3.3.2-3). The
 Research School is also responsible for research student life, i.e. for the wider development and
 wellbeing of research students.

 The University has expanded the Research School team to reflect the growth in student
 numbers over the current REF period. It provides a dedicated work and social space for
 students. The Research School team, co-located in the student space, provides advice and
 guidance for students on their programmes, and, working closely with other student-facing
 departments such as the Disability & Dyslexia Service, the student mental health team, careers
 service, also offers pastoral and wider support. A comprehensive programme of support and


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 guidance has been developed for PGR students and supervisors around mental health and
 wellbeing.

 All students on research degree programmes are required to undertake an associated training
 programme, run by the Research School (REF5a 3.3.4-5). The programme has been mapped
 against Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. The programme offers a suite of modules,
 short courses and workshops, delivered face-to-face or online, some of which are compulsory
 for all doctoral students, focused on the following core areas: planning and managing research;
 academic writing; research methods; data analysis; research integrity and ethics; dissemination,
 engagement and impact; careers and employability. This is complimented by the School with
 PGRs able to access subject-level methodology modules, studying alongside PGT students. The
 University also supports students to engage with external training where this is specialist and not
 available through the University’s programmes. Students are also able to access training offered
 through the GuildHE Research network.

 Beyond the programme, the Research School offers additional development opportunities.
 Research Students have opportunities to teach and can access modules and workshops to
 develop their skills in this area, with the opportunity to gain associate or full fellowship of the
 Higher Education Academy. The University offers research student-specific dissemination
 opportunities including an annual ‘Images of Research’ exhibition and student-led PGR
 Conference. The University provides funding opportunities for students to attend and speak at
 external conferences and events and separate funds to support students to develop inter- and
 cross-disciplinary networks, seminar series, conferences and events. The University is a
 member of the Brilliant Club, a charity focused on improving access to University, which
 provides opportunities for doctoral students to go into schools and deliver tutorials in their areas
 of expertise.

 Feedback is sought from doctoral students via the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
 (PRES) every 2 years (see REF5a 3.3.6) and feedback has been utilised over this period to
 encourage doctoral students to feel more embedded within the culture of the School. For
 example:
    • The School’s Research Seminar series encourages participation from doctoral students.
    • Where appropriate students are located in research groups.
    • There is research student representation on the College RKE Subcommittee which
       ensures the student voice is fed into the development of research strategy at College level.

 Supervisors are supported in their role through the Research Supervisor Development
 programme. This programme has been in place for 20 years but was redesigned and relaunched
 in 2018/19. The programme offers a wide range of support for supervisors at various career
 stages on themes such as: introduction to supervision, supervisory styles, regulations and
 processes, supervising international students, PGR mental health and wellbeing, supporting
 student progress. New supervisors must complete the whole programme, but more experienced
 supervisors must also engage with core elements, and all supervisors are required to engage in
 regular refresher training (every 3 years). The programme is complemented by supervisor
 lunches that bring together supervisors to discuss key topics and challenges in supervision. Staff
 in the School have also benefitted from the experience of supervising MRes students before
 moving to doctoral supervision.

 All supervisors are encouraged to engage with the UKCGE Good Supervisor Practice
 Framework and Accreditation programme, with workshops currently underway to support
 supervisors to apply for recognition.

 Equality and Diversity

 The University has a fundamental commitment to equality and diversity (REF5a 3.4). It seeks to
 consider and apply equality and diversity principles in all that it does. Its policies and processes


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are designed to disadvantage no-one and are subject to ongoing equality impact assessment to
 ensure this is the case.

 The unit’s approach flows from this, with the Head of School ensuring that the University’s
 principles and policies are fully enacted. Line managers ensure staff are aware of and are
 supported to engage with, for example, the University’s flexible working policy, its parental leave
 policies, its policies supporting carers (such as its Critical Illness Policy) and its staff wellbeing
 initiatives (see REF5a 3.1.8).

 Several staff in the unit have benefitted from the University’s flexible working policy (REF5a
 3.1.8) with a move to part-time or compressed hours. There is no evidence that this has
 impacted on research productivity, access to funding or progression. It is notable that both at
 institutional (REF5a table 2) and unit level, part-time staff are as well-represented in the
 Category A submitted as eligible category. The School has a fair and flexible approach to
 working, particularly during the 2020-21 lockdown period in recognition of the challenges of
 home schooling.

 Staff in the unit are committed to equality and diversity. Staff were members of the University’s
 Athena SWAN self-assessment team; the University received its institutional Bronze Award in
 April 2018 and is committed to making departmental applications in the next 2 years. Staff are
 also engaged with various staff networks focused on protected characteristics and with the
 LGBTQ+ Allies scheme.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The unit is supported in its income generation by the central Research Office and primarily,
 since the academic restructure, by a College Director of RKE and RKE Facilitator. The Director’s
 role is to provide leadership and guidance for Schools in developing their research and KE
 strategy, whilst the Facilitator works with Research Group leads and individuals to provide
 administrative assistance and to develop a bespoke funding opportunities service.

 Within the School, external bids are supported by informal mentoring, whilst academic appraisal
 and staff development continue to prioritise external grant applications. Some progress has been
 made since the REF 2014, and further increases are expected beyond 2021. A total of
 £11,692.00 in external income has been captured during the present reporting period from small
 grant schemes run by the British Academy. A further total of £27,500.00 has been won by L.
 Arnold, for various collaborative projects with the Huntington Library in California (£2,500, 2018
 Helen L. Bing Fellowship; £2,500, 2020 Helen L. Bing Fellowship; £22,500, 2020 Huntington
 Conference Grant: £22,500). Due to the nature of the Huntington’s funding model, this income is
 paid directly to the researcher rather than being handled centrally by UW. The library fellowships
 relate to primary archival work for L. Arnold’s research on Hilary Mantel. The conference grant, a
 collaboration with Dr Eileen Pollard (University of Chester), will come to fruition shortly after the
 current REF period, facilitating an exciting new international network around the achievement
 and influence of Mantel as one of the anglophone world’s greatest living writers.

 Infrastructure

 The University has significantly expanded its institutional infrastructure for supporting research
 and impact over the current assessment period, establishing a RKE Directorate consisting of a
 Research Office, Research School and College RKE infrastructure (REF5a 4.1). It has also
 expanded support for researchers offered by Library Services.

 Its RKE Directorate provides wide-ranging support and guidance for researchers around
 identifying funding (including access to funding databases, such as Research Professional), bid
 development, KE and impact generation (including use of Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker),

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project delivery (including contract negotiation, liaison with partners, financial and other
 reporting) and research governance (including data management, data sharing, protecting and
 exploiting IP).

 The University has established robust Pre- and Post-Award processes for externally funded
 projects (approved in 2018/19 and subject to evaluation and review in 2020/21). These
 processes scaffold the Research Office support systems set out above and ensure good
 governance for bids and for projects.

 The University also provides access for researchers to a current research information system
 (PURE), a publication repository (WRAP – Worcester Research and Publications), major citation
 databases (Scopus and Web of Science), and subject-specific databases.

 The University offers a range of research support schemes designed to support researchers at
 all career stages and, variously, to pump prime projects, develop international collaborations,
 advance existing areas of work (REF5a 4.1.6).

 Staff in the unit have been successful in gaining funding from these schemes:
 • PhD studentships: four staff have been awarded fully-funded PhD studentships (Arnold,
     Cinpoeş, Mueller, Parham).
 • Vacation Research Assistantships (VRAs): four staff have been awarded VRAs (Chalari,
     Cinpoeş, Mueller, Parham). Notably Parham’s funding supported the development of his work
     on green social media.

 The School also supports staff through its Research Investment Fund (RIF). The RIF awards
 sums of up to £1,000 for the development and realisation of specific projects, and does not fund
 remission from teaching, aiming for agility and responsiveness to need. It is open to all research-
 active colleagues in the School of Humanities and accepts applications on a rolling basis
 throughout the financial year. Applications are evaluated by two professors in the School, who
 make a recommendation to the Head of School for approval. The RIF advertises criteria which
 are explicitly aligned with School and UW research strategy, especially the development of
 public-facing projects and evidence of Impact beyond the academy. Recent activities funded by
 the RIF include: Cinpoeş’s trip to Romania (2019) to liaise with translators, publishers, and
 festival-organisers, and other stakeholders in her European Shakespeare network; L. Arnold’s
 purchase of reading materials for the ‘What’s Your Story?’ Homelessness Reading Group
 (2019); and Parham’s indexing of A Global History of Literature and the Environment (2020).

 In addition, the School supports conference activity and has invested a total of £32,556 over the
 assessment period supporting staff to engage with international subject communities, and to
 develop their work in progress in light of peer feedback.

 Facilities

 The research environment at all levels is enriched by the Hive, a unique collaboration between
 the University and the City Council which houses the University Library as well as an extensive
 collection of archives. The Hive is the first joint academic/public library in Europe, which houses
 over 12 miles of archival material, and more than 250,000 books. The Hive has provided a
 natural venue for public engagement events that contribute to the impact of the team’s research
 (REF5a 4.2.3).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations

 The unit research team continues to actively engage with and build research networks. Four
 researchers have edited collections of essays in the review period through international
 collaboration, bringing together a diverse team of experts from nations such as Australia,

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Canada, Germany, Iceland, the Republic of Ireland, Japan, Moldova, the Netherlands, New
 Zealand, Romania, Spain, Sweden, and the USA: A Global History of Literature and the
 Environment (ed. Parham 2016); Disabling Romanticism; Body, Mind, and Text (ed. Bradshaw
 2016); Doing Kyd: Essays on the Spanish Tragedy (ed. Cinpoeş 2016); Irish Women's Writing,
 1878–1922: Advancing the Cause of Liberty (ed. Standlee 2018).

 The largest academic event hosted by the team during this review period was the International
 Research Society for Children’s Literature (IRSCL) annual congress, organised by Webb in
 2015. The IRSCL is a global association of interdisciplinary researchers; 280 delegates from 44
 separate countries attended the Worcester congress. The academic programme, including
 keynotes, constituted an influential turning-point for the association, bringing scholars together
 around distinctive new priority themes such as: the (human) body, child health and well-being;
 and the child in history and historical discourses.

 Within the UK, and specifically the West Midlands region, some of the most active research
 networks have been in the Creative Writing subject area. McGowan, Stacey, and Wareham
 Morris have developed contacts with independent publishers, literary festivals, and organisers of
 live events around Worcestershire and Herefordshire. Creative Writing staff, and student writers
 under their mentorship, have presented their work at Worcestershire Litfest, Unislam, and the
 Verve poetry festival in Birmingham, where the School of Humanities has been a sponsor of
 headline events in 2019 and 2020. The School also sponsors annual literary prizes with V Press
 (poetry) and Black Pear Press (prose fiction), whereby an outstanding student writer has the
 opportunity to publish their first collection / story in paperback format; the poets Margaret Adkins
 and Kelly Ann Williams, and the story-writers Michael Wheatley and Olivia Camozzi-Jones
 began their publishing careers through this route. The School of Humanities at UW is also a
 recognised sponsor of Ledbury Poetry Festival, not only contributing regularly to the artistic and
 academic programme, but also donating funds to facilitate prestigious international
 appearances, such as that of Margaret Atwood in 2019. The team curates an annual series of
 public readings hosted at the Hive; featured writers during the present review period have
 included: Deborah Alma, Mona Arshi, Carol Ann Duffy, Martin Figura, Helen Ivory, Carolyn Jess-
 Cooke, Kamil Mahmood, Roy McFarlane, Fiona Sampson, Jamie Thrasivoulou, and Claire
 Trevien.

 In 2016 the Chinese scholar Zhou Kun was a visiting researcher for six months, coming to UW
 to work on poetry with Kailoglou.

 Contributions to the research base

 Conference organisation

 English Studies researchers at UW have organised and hosted the following conferences and
 symposia at the University during the review period:

 L. Arnold and Miller (ICRCL, recent PhD graduate): ‘Lost Futures: Representing the Displaced
 Child’ (2020, re-scheduled to 2021 due to COVID-19); ‘An Overflow of Meaning: Reading and
 Re:Reading Hilary Mantel’, the first international Mantel conference, will take place in October
 2021 at the Huntington Library.

 Cinpoeş: Shakespeare’s Europe / Europe’s Shakespeare(s): European Shakespeare Research
 Association Congress (EMRG, UW 2015); ‘Corruption in the Early Modern World’, a conference
 of PG research (UW 2017).

 Devine: chair and organiser, ‘Freud, Psychoanalysis and Culture Lockdown Lecture Series’ (UW
 2020) – planned as a conference, but moved online due to Covid-19 restrictions.

 Kailoglou: Regional Dialect Symposium (2018) – collaboration with colleagues at universities of
 Essex, Wolverhampton, and Gloucestershire; Drs Asprey, Jeffries, and Kailoglou presented their

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 findings then in the International Conference on Language Variation in Europe (ICLAVE)
 conference in Leeuwarden (2019), and submitted a paper to Dialectologia (2020).

 Wareham Morris: ‘Social Media: Identities, Spaces, and Research’ (UW symposium, 2019);
 ‘Natural Bodies’, a conference of PG research (UW 2020), showcasing new research in the
 interdisciplinary Humanities by MA, MRes., and PhD students from UW and external institutions
 (c. 50 delegates).

 Webb: ‘Creating Childhoods’: International Research Society for Children’s Literature (IRSCL)
 22nd Biennial Congress (UW 2015): 280 delegates from 44 countries.

 Young: ‘Siblings on Stage and Screen’ (UW / University of Chester, 2018); a follow-up event is
 scheduled to take place in Chester in 2021, to consolidate the emerging network and develop
 publication plans.

 The English team also co-convenes (L Arnold) the Humanities research seminar series which
 hosts a combination of UW, external, and international speakers for the local dissemination of
 international-standard research. Since 2018, the series has hosted visiting speakers from
 institutions such as: Birmingham, Birmingham City, Kings College London, Kanagawa (Japan),
 Leeds, Kingston, Oxford, Palacký University (Czech Rep.), and Swansea.

 Keynote talks and invited lectures

 Bradshaw: ‘Disabling Romanticism’, Associazione Italiana di Anglistica (Viareggio 2018); ‘Water
 Snakes and Empathy? Making a Blue Romanticism’, Centro Interuniversitario dello Studio del
 Romanticismo (Lerici 2019).

 Cinpoeş: ‘The part and the parcel: Hamlet on the New Millennium Stage’, NT Sofia and
 University of Sofia Year of Shakespeare (Sofia 2014); ‘Hamlet and Romania – the Prince from
 the Bloc’, Shakespeare in Romania – Shakespeare in the World international symposium (The
 Romanian Academy, Bucharest 2016), ‘Live and let … die? – Shakespeare and/in Romanian
 Reviewing, European Shakespeare Research Association (Gdansk 2017); ‘Ambition’s debt’ –
 Julius Caesar in Recent European Stage Productions, Intercultural/Intermedial Shakespeare
 (SSRI, Roma Tre 2018); ‘The traffic of Romeo & Juliet's stage and page – The East Side Story’ ,
 The Circulation of Shakespeare’s Plays in Europe’s Borderland (Bucharest University 2019),
 ‘Adapter versus Adapted: The Case of Romeo and Juliet, Shakespeare in Culture Colloquy
 (University of Warsaw 2019); ‘When in Rome…’ PASE: Polish Association of English Studies
 Conference (University of Poznan, 2019), “As a stranger give it welcome”: Shylock 2017,
 Shakespeare’s Strangers: Othello and Shylock (ASA: Armenian Shakespeare Association,
 Venice 2019).

 Parham: ‘A Transnational Romance: Eco-Cosmopolitanism, Japanese Anime, Romantic
 Narratives’, Rethinking Environmental Consciousness: An International Research Symposium of
 the Environmental Humanities (Mid-Sweden University 2014); ‘Engels and Material Ecocriticism’,
 Environmental Humanities on the Ground (Shanghai Normal University 2015); ‘Poetry,
 Creativity, and Environment’ (Leeds 2016); ‘Biggish Data: Friedrich Engels, Material Ecology,
 and the Victorian Origins of Information Management’ (National Chung Hsing University, Taiwan
 2017); ‘“Are we Dumb”? Science, Space, and Mediating the Anthropocene, ‘Narratives of the
 Anthropocene in Science and Literature’ (Vechta 2019); ‘Anthropocene Stories: Literature,
 Culture, and a ‘world (not) without us’?’ (Academia Sinica, Taiwan 2018).

 Standlee: ‘The Consequences of “Being Herself”: Ibsen and Irish Women’s Writing at the Fin de
 Siècle’, American Conference for Irish Studies, University College Dublin (2014); ‘Fictional
 Trafficking and Trafficking Fiction Across the Irish Sea’. Atlantic Archipelago Research
 Consortium Colloquium, University of Liverpool (2015); ‘“Emigrants-Beware!”: M.E. Francis’s
 The Story of Mary Dunne and the White Slave Bill’, Irish Women’s Writing Network Symposium,
 Mary Immaculate College, Limerick (2016); ‘“Girls with Go”: Female Homosociality in L.T.

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Meade’s Schoolgirl Novels’, International Association for the Study of Irish Literature Conference
 (IASIL), University College Cork (2016); ‘“In fractions”: George Egerton’s Portrayal of Mindscape
 and Landscape in the Norwegian Context’, George Egerton and the fin de siècle conference,
 Loughborough University (2017).

 Webb: ‘Sickness in Media for Children and Young Adults’ (Frankfurt 2014); ‘Cognitive Theory
 Symposium’ (Cambridge 2014); ‘The Wind in the Willows: Threat and Resistance’ (Reading
 2015); keynote lecture: ‘Fantasy, Fear and Reality: tracing pathways between Carroll, Kingsley,
 and MacDonald leading to the lnklings’, at ‘Informing the Inklings: the Victorian Roots of Modern
 Fantasy’ (Magdalen College, Oxford, 2014).

 External editorial roles, editing, reviewing, and refereeing

 In line with institutional and School strategy, members of the extended English team have
 continued to expand their external academic contributions, facilitating publication activities
 external to UW, and building a profile of good academic citizenship.

 D. Arnold is a referee for the Humanities journal. L. Arnold is co-editor of ‘Women Write Now’,
 special issue of Moving Worlds: A Journal of Transcultural Writing, 1:18 (2018); referee for
 Humanities journal. Bradshaw is referee for: Ashgate Publishing; Concentric: Literary & Cultural
 Studies; European Romantic Review; Fairleigh Dickinson University Press; Liverpool University
 Press; Literature Compass; Nineteenth-Century Contexts; Layman Poupard Publishing. Cinpoeş
 is co-editor, ‘Shakespeare’s Europe – Europe’s Shakespeare(s)’, special issue of Cahiers
 Élisabéthains 96:1 (2018); referee for: Manchester University Press, John Benjamin
 (Shakespeare and European Culture series), Legenda (MHRA Press); Cahiers Élisabéthains,
 SEDERI, Shakespeare (the Journals of the British Shakespeare Association), Borrowers and
 Lenders: Journal of Shakespeare and Appropriation, META: Translators’ Journal, Université de
 Montréal, Cultural Intertext. Devine is referee for: Association for Jewish Studies Review;
 Women’s Writing; Women in Judaism; Journal of Jewish Identities. Hardy is referee for
 Routledge (2019); Porn Studies; Sexualities; Sociological Theory. Parham edits Brill / Rodopi,
 ‘Nature, Culture, and Literature’ book series (2017-); Swamphen: A Journal of Cultural Ecology
 (2017-); is co-editor of Green Letters: Studies of Ecocriticism (Routledge), journal of ASLE-UKI
 (2006-); referee for British Academy Mid-career Fellowship (2019); referee for Social Sciences
 and Humanities Research Council of Canada Insight Grants (2015); referee for Swiss National
 Science Foundation Sinergia Grants (2019-20); Advisory Board member of EurAmerica
 (Taiwan); Expert Panel Member for the National Science Centre in Poland (assessing research
 grant applications). Stacey is a reviewer for Bloomsbury Publishing (2019). Standlee is a reader
 for International Yeats Studies (2017-21); reader for University College Dublin Press (2018-21);
 peer reviewer for special edition of Women's History, ‘Women and the Family in Ireland', ed. by
 Dr Leanne Calvert (U. Hertfordshire) and Dr Maeve O’Riordan (UC Cork) (2020). Webb is on the
 editorial Board, Journal of Child and Adolescent Mental Health (2018-); and is referee for
 Leverhulme Trust (2016).

 Research degree programmes

 Members of the team engage in PG examination activities. For example, Bradshaw was an
 external panel member for validation of PhD programme, City University, London (2018);
 Advisory Board member, EHU Nineteen / Centre for Nineteenth-century Studies, Edge Hill
 University (2020 onwards). Cinpoeş was external examiner for PhD in English Literature
 (University of York 2020). McGowan was external examiner for PhD in Film & Creative Writing
 (University of Birmingham 2020). Webb was external examiner for PhDs: Queen Mary College,
 London (2014); Macquarie U., Sydney (2014 twice; 2017); Brunel University (2014); Newcastle
 University (2014); Roehampton University (2014); Oxford Brookes University (2016);
 Roehampton University (2016); Queensland University of Technology (2016); Royal Holloway,
 London (2017); Queensland University of Technology (2017); University of Glasgow (2018,
 2020).


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contribution to economy and society

 All researchers in the unit are encouraged by leaders and managers in the School to identify and
 exploit opportunities within their disciplinary practices to collaborate with external agents to
 produce socially beneficial outcomes. Research produced by the unit team engages directly with
 issues of social benefit and inclusion, in alignment with UW mission and strategies (REF5a 1.6,
 2.14, 2.16); this is true across the full spectrum of English Studies, from professional journalism,
 to literary scholarship, to Creative Writing.

 Wolfe is an Expert Fellow on Sprite+, a national body which shapes research activity/funding
 and impact regarding security, privacy, identity and trust in the digital economy, led by a
 consortium of five universities and funded by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research
 Council (EPSRC). Wolfe’s consultative role will contribute to key goals in engaging stakeholder
 communities and determining research priorities; partners include sectors of industry, the police,
 government and civic society. Stacey and Wareham Morris continue to engage regional
 communities through their creative work: Stacey organised a public reading of fifteen women
 writers to launch an anthology of new poetry from the #MeToo movement at the Hive (2018);
 while Wareham Morris’s latest volume, with its use of experimental verse techniques to
 represent the fracture and transformation of working-class heritage, has become a focus for
 debate about writing and class in the West Midlands and Black Country region.

 L. Arnold established the ‘What's Your Story?’ Homelessness Reading Group in 2018, in
 collaboration with Magg’s Day Centre, a charity working with homeless people and people with
 experience of precarious housing in Worcester. Open to all Magg’s service-users, each session
 uses adapted seminar techniques to promote access to and enjoyment of literature, confidence
 in literacy skills, and fluency in discussion and debating skills. The literary content was
 generated by L. Arnold’s research on the representation of marginalised and excluded cohorts,
 such as those experiencing homelessness, as spectral presences in contemporary culture. In
 addition to the funding associated with the UW Students as Academic Partners scheme, the
 project received funding from the School of Humanities Research Investment Fund totalling
 £500, for primary materials. Ethical approval was granted by UW in 2020 for a short research
 project and subsequent journal article evaluating the impacts of the group and opportunities for
 the formation of new branches of the project with charities in the greater Worcestershire area.

 Standlee shared information with a representative of the National Trust (NT) property Gunby
 Hall, when they were preparing an exhibition on Emily Massingberd. This included sharing
 extended research notes about Massingberd which Standlee had collated while researching a
 novel by LT Meade (The Cleverest Woman in England) based on the life of Massingberd. The
 colleague at Gunby Hall had found an allusion to Massingberd in Standlee’s monograph: the two
 undertook collaborative research on Massingberd between June 2017 and April 2018, when an
 exhibition was launched. The resulting exhibition consisted of transforming three rooms of
 Gunby Hall, Massingberd's home, to accurately reflect her life and work; one of the rooms was
 redecorated as the sitting room of the Pioneer Club (a radical women's rights / Suffragist
 organisation); reconstruction was informed by Standlee’s research. This is also an example of
 how researchers in the unit team try to go beyond the basic requirements of Open Access (OA)
 publishing where possible, in the spirit of sharing new findings with relevant agents, when they
 can have a positive impact.

 The Creative Writing (CW) team has a wider impact on the reading public, as well as
 contributing to the academic discipline. McGowan, Stacey, and Wareham-Morris maintain a
 strong regional network of partners in independent publishing, literary festivals, and live poetry
 events, including regular sponsorship and contributions to the Ledbury Poetry Festival, the
 Verve Poetry Festival in Birmingham, Uni-Slam, Worcester Lit Fest, and Writing West Midlands.
 The CW team is currently working with the Hive Library (a partnership between the City of
 Worcester, Worcestershire County Records Office, and UW) to create the Hive Poetry Library:
 this will be a resource for all readers and writers of poetry, as well as stakeholders such as
 designers, illustrators, printers, and publishers; incorporating a generous donation of archive

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 material from the Ledbury Festival, the Hive Poetry Library aims to become a hub for all poetry-
 related activities in the region, and will continue to host regular live readings and performances
 in the Hive Studio.

 Staff in the unit also regularly engage with public, cultural and media bodies, for example:

 L. Arnold: ‘If the Dead Need Translators’: The Mirror and the Light launch event’, University
 Centre Shrewsbury in association with Waterstones (2020); ‘Spectrality and Failures of Care-
 Giving in the Work of Hilary Mantel’, Derby Institute for Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy (2014);
 ‘Wolf Hall in Worcester: A Local Look at Hilary Mantel’s Tudor Novels’, Worcester Cathedral
 (2020); ‘Shrinking in Terror: Gothic and the Dolls’ House’, Small Worlds: Doll’s House
 Symposium, Bath Preservation Trust (2015); guest on Radio 3's Free Thinking, 'Piranesi and the
 Architecture of a Disturbed Mind', 15th September 2020.

 Cinpoeş: ‘Shakespeare, with director Jan Klata’ (International Shakespeare Festival, Gdansk
 2017); ‘When the critics get it wrong’ (International Shakespeare Festival, Craiova 2018).
 McGowan: ‘Poetry as Alchemy: The Extended Metaphor’ (Nottingham Poetry Festival 2020)
 Parham: ‘“Dappled and Discordant”: On Poetry and our “Off-beat” Relationship with Nature’
 (Ledbury Poetry Festival 2017); ; ‘Heathcote Williams’s Whale Nation’, Ledbury Poetry Festival
 (2018); ‘Let the Sunshine In: Photosynthesis and Poetry in Gerard Manley Hopkins and Dylan
 Thomas’ (Cheltenham Poetry Festival 2019); ‘Rock of Ages and Ages: Past, Present, and Future
 Geologies in The Stones of Venice’, ‘John Ruskin Science and the Environment, University of
 Oxford Museum of Natural History (2019).

 Standlee: ‘W.B. Yeats and Belief’ (Ledbury Poetry Festival 2015).

 Wareham-Morris: ‘Creative conversations with Female Poets’, Ikon Gallery, Birmingham (2018).

 Webb: ‘AA Milne’s Poetic World of Childhood in When We Were Very Young and Now We Are
 Six’ (Ledbury Poetry Festival 2014).




                                                                                                Page 15
