Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Liverpool


 Unit of Assessment: 15 Archaeology


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 1.1 Overview
 The University of Liverpool pioneered integrated research into the ancient world with the creation
 of the Institute of Archaeology in the early 20th century. Today, the Department of Archaeology,
 Classics and Egyptology (ACE) embodies that interdisciplinary tradition in a single integrated
 submission with 35.6 FTEs (contrasting with 2014’s return of two units, Classics and
 Archaeology). With regional interests across Eurasia and Africa, our researchers address the
 fundamental question of what it means to be human, provide deep-time contexts for our impact
 and contribute to contemporary global issues exemplified by the UN Sustainable Development
 Goals (SDGs).


 Through 8 Research Groups (Section 1.2), we investigate key developments in the history of
 humanity and fundamental aspects of social life over the long term, making major contributions
 to understandings of: human evolution and the coevolution of plants and animals; human-
 environment interactions; the transition to sedentism and agriculture; inter-related developments
 of households and communities; understanding and experiences of the body; ancient world
 literary traditions; histories of language development and subsequent receptions of ancient
 worlds in later periods. These research foci benefit from the integration of work on ancient
 languages and texts alongside archaeological approaches to western Eurasia’s ancient
 civilisations. The scale, integration and objectives of our Research Groups will ensure they
 remain key vehicles for delivering our strategies into the next REF cycle.


 ACE’s physical unification into one building (2015) and the resulting intensification of interactions
 between staff has realised our longstanding objective to capitalise on our diversity. Alignment
 heightened our collective awareness of gender and BAME disparities, leading to a sustained
 joint effort to address these issues. A new Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) strategy
 (Section 2.1.3) is now embedded in our research and impact structures and forms a key
 component of our longer-term sustainability strategy, recognising the importance of staff well-
 being to our continued success, leading to new approaches for staff recruitment. These ED
 concerns also inform our interactions with non-academic partners and beneficiaries (Section 4),
 ensuring a strong platform for development beyond the current REF cycle.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Departmental integration enabled the re-development of a Research Committee with a broader
 vision. The Committee plans strategic changes to Research Groups, oversees the Research
 Conversations cycle (Section 2) and promotes our Open Research strategy (Section 1.3). The
 Committee has a balanced female/male membership and includes subject leads, PGR director,
 ED lead, Impact lead, and ECR and PGR representatives. Its Director brings forward institutional
 policies and agendas, particularly from our parent School of Histories, Language and Cultures.
 The School offers financial support for individual and group initiatives, notably research and
 impact themes reaching across Departments and Faculties (Section 2). The Committee’s remit,
 composition and capacity for strategic development will continue to enhance delivery of our
 income generation and research collaboration aims from 2021 onwards.


 Working with international collaborators, we also translate our research into contributions to
 society. Participation in and leadership of the University Heritage theme (see REF5a; 2.3)
 promotes interdisciplinary collaboration, aiming to realise tangible impacts for the benefit of non-
 academic partners and stakeholders (Sections 3-4). Within this broader framework our strategy
 focuses on:


     (1) The preservation and enhancement of UK and international museums and heritage sites
     (2) Enriching educational provision in schools in the UK and internationally
     (3) Preserving heritage under threat in areas impacted by conflict and related social
     disruption
     (4) Informing local communities, public discourse and global audiences.


 Collectively our strategy addresses SDGs 1, 3, 4, 5, 11, 12, 16 and 17: No Poverty; Good
 Health and Well-Being; Quality Education; Gender Equality; Sustainable Cities and
 Communities; Responsible Consumption and Production; Peace, Justice and Strong
 Institutions; and Partnerships for the Goals. Research Groups (Section 1.2) and Research
 Conversations (Section 2.1.1) provide contexts for pursuing our goal of contributing to SDGs as
 part of a broad impact portfolio.


 In summary, our research aims to:
    •   deliver multi-dimensional research and impact addressing global issues (Sections 1.2 &
        4.1, 4.4)
    •   transcend disciplinary and national boundaries (Sections 1.2, 4)
    •   engage with wider societal issues (Sections 1.2, 4).


 Our research strategy has enabled us to:
    •   expand our research base, underwriting long-term sustainability and vitality (Section 2)

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   increase research and impact income (Section 3)
    •   encourage and support interdisciplinary collaborations nationally and globally (Section 4).


 Notable milestones resulting from implementation of our strategy include:
    •   University investment in 4 new permanent posts (Dobney, Foxhall, Nugent, Perale)
    •   research grants bringing 3 additional T&R staff (Escolano-Poveda, Hommel, French from
        Sept 2020) (Sections 1.2, 3.1.1)
    •   recruitment of 8 prestigious ECR awards, 5 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships (ECF),
        2 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships, and 1 UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (Section
        2.2)
    •   recruitment of 5 PDRAs (Sections 2-3)
    •   University investment of £2m in dedicated archaeological laboratories and support staff
        (Section 3.2)
    •   108% increase in grant income between REF2014 and REF2021 from £1.58m to
        £3.29m, with a total award value of £5.35m (Section 3.1)
    •   45% increase in PGRs completed from 52 to 77 with an additional 70 PGRs starting
        doctoral research during the census period (Section 2.2).


 1.2 Research Groups
 Our Research Groups integrate staff and PGR research across ACE, providing lively,
 intellectually stimulating settings for cooperative development of projects, funding bids, outputs,
 inter-disciplinary activity, and collaboration with non-academic beneficiaries. They are: Human
 Origins, Human Palaeoecology; Egyptology, Households and Communities, Ancient
 Economies, Literary Cultures of the Ancient World, Receptions, and The Body. With 33%
 of staff involved in more than one Research Group, the productivity and vitality of this strategy is
 well-evidenced in all areas of activity, outlined here and in later sections. Supporting PGR and
 ECR development is a key Research Group function, enabled by collaboration and networking
 among group members, resulting in co-authored outputs, e.g. the Human Palaeoecology Group
 landmark study of the impact of climate change on agricultural origins in the Aegean (Asouti et
 al. 2018) with substantial input in analysis design and multivariate methods by ECR Kabukcu).


 PGRs and ECRs are encouraged to present their research, initially in Research Groups, as
 results emerge, as seminar presentations, e.g. Human Origins holds a dedicated staff research
 day, with feedback provided to all presenters. Colloquia and conferences arise from Groups, e.g.
 in the Literary Cultures Group the colloquium ‘Middle Platonism and its Literary Reflections’ (co-
 organised by ECR Cartlidge with Zadorozhny, 2020, University of Freiburg) and PGR-run
 colloquium ‘The Uncanny in the Ancient World’ (PGRs Sanderson, Clare and Poole, 2018,


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported by AHRC-funded Northwest Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership (NWCDTP)
 with the proceedings to be published in 2021).


 Human Origins (Barham, Gowlett, Grove, Sinclair; 14 PGRs).
 Themes of technology, mobility, social learning and symbol-use exemplify a distinctive Liverpool
 perspective on humanity’s evolution as a gradual, cumulative process. Our approach is based
 on collaborative research (e.g. Barham and Gowlett’s ‘Deep Roots’ project, Zambia, AHRC,
 £340k) and interdisciplinary research and impact projects in Africa and Arabia (e.g. Gowlett’s
 Leverhulme-funded Kilombe project; Grove’s NERC-funded Chew Bahir project with important
 palaeoenvironmental components). High-profile publications reflect a long-term perspective on
 humanity including the evolution of a sense of aesthetics (Gowlett 2020); demographic
 processes affecting social learning (Grove 2015); the origin of language (Barham with ethno-
 linguist Everett 2020). Impact is delivered in Kenya and Zambia in partnership with national and
 local museums and educational facilities in rural areas linked to national curricula on history and
 archaeology contributing to SDGs 1, 3, 4, 17. In Ghana, impact is delivered via the Global
 Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) supported ‘International Slavery Knowledge Network’ using
 community-led heritage-based interventions to raise awareness of the socioeconomic triggers of
 enslavement in the Global South, contributing to SDG16. This Group provided a supportive
 environment for Plomp’s Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship on evolution of the human back
 and attendant pathologies. Post-census date, this Group has been enhanced by the addition of
 French to its T&R staff enabled by Sinclair’s Major Leverhulme Fellowship (2020) to expand his
 scientometric research on Archaeology as a discipline.


 Human Palaeoecology (Asouti, Baird, Dobney, Hommel, Hulme-Beaman, Kabukcu, Pearson;
 15 PGRs). This Group focuses on human-environment interactions, especially major
 developments in human relationships with plants and animals. This Group developed from Early
 Village Societies returned in REF2014, with appointments of Dobney, Hommel and Leverhulme
 ECFs Hulme-Beaman and Kabukcu. High levels of integration underwrite the Group’s success,
 evident in grants, publications, and impact. Asouti, Baird, Kabukcu and Pearson all work closely
 on major field projects in Turkey with international collaborators. Boncuklu related funding was
 £607k in the census period, including Asouti (Leverhulme), Pearson (AHRC), Baird (with various
 funding sources alongside Australian Research Council for which Baird was formal Partner
 Investigator) and in Iraq (Eastern Fertile Crescent project, EFEC), seed-funded by Wenner-Gren
 (and various other sources) investigating agricultural origins and late Pleistocene adaptations in
 central Anatolia and the Zagros respectively. Pearson’s (2018) research on biocultural factors
 affecting breastfeeding practices spans the Eurasian Holocene. This Group has produced a
 stream of publications in wide-reaching multi-disciplinary journals.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Dobney (2017) and Hulme-Beaman’s (2019) research is also strongly interdisciplinary, including
 Geometric Morphometrics and DNA approaches on animal management, domestication and
 commensalism generating important outputs alongside major interdisciplinary funded projects
 such as the GCRF Horn project with its impact through SDG3 (Good Health and Well-Being)
 and SDG12 (Responsible Consumption and Production).


 The Human Palaeoecology Group has effectively translated its research into impact (Section
 4.4.), e.g. contribution of EFEC to development of the Sulaymaniyah Museum prehistory gallery,
 implications for contemporary livestock management in East Africa via the Horn project and the
 Boncuklu case study with impact on museums and education in Konya province, Turkey
 addressing SDGs 1, 3, 4, 11, 17.


 Egyptology (Chauvet, Collier, Enmarch, Escolano-Poveda, Eyre; 40 PGRs).
 Liverpool is one of a limited number of Egyptology research groups in the UK and one of the
 largest with an exceptional concentration of researchers specialising in the material culture,
 language, literary and social histories of ancient Egypt. These complementary interests fuel
 innovative research, typified by Chauvet’s analysis of elite tomb construction (2015) and Eyre’s
 3-year Leverhulme funding aimed at creating an ethnography of ancient Egypt. Research by
 Collier (2016) and Enmarch (2020) on grammar and textual signs reveals significant subtleties in
 Egyptian writing. Major collaborative fieldwork projects include the Mut Temple Precinct
 excavation co-directed by Chauvet with Betsy Bryan (Johns Hopkins), investigating the urban
 development of Thebes in the New Kingdom. Inter-group collaborative research creates
 innovative interdisciplinary PGR projects, incorporating science-based archaeology (supervised
 by Ponting) and linguistics (supervised by Collier, Enmarch) funded by the NWCDTP. Research
 by Escolano-Poveda on Graeco-Roman Egyptian priesthood (2020) and Eyre on ancient
 Egyptian economy and society (2016, 2017) dovetails with major research projects on
 Achaemenid and Roman Egypt typified by Tuplin’s Arsama project (2020) and Adams’ research
 on Roman imperial administration and corruption (2017), both cross-cutting with the Ancient
 Economies Group.


 Staff and PGR research regularly features in exhibitions and curatorial activity in relation to
 Egyptological museum holdings in NW England (e.g. AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards
 involving Southport [Atkinson], Bolton, Manchester, National Museums Liverpool [NML]). Formal
 University links with the NML have created new opportunities for public engagement involving
 staff, PDRAs and PGRs, raising public awareness of Egyptological research at Liverpool.


 Households and Communities (Archibald, Baird, Chauvet, Fitzjohn, Foxhall, Mytum, Pearson,
 Pope, Routledge; 27 PGRs).


                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A focus on the interplay between households and communities in prehistory and the ancient
 world, through the study of material and textual sources, is enriched by cross-departmental
 cooperation. It also produces fruitful engagement with non-academic beneficiaries, exemplified
 by Foxhall’s research on Greek rural settlements (2020) and Baird’s research on central
 Anatolian Neolithic households and communities (2017). Pearson’s collaboration with Baird on
 households, mobility, mortuary practice and community construction resulting in her (£145k)
 AHRC grant is reflected in the Boncuklu impact case study and underpinned a British Academy
 Newton Advanced Fellowship held jointly with Koç University/Istanbul (Haddow). Archibald’s and
 Fitzjohn’s research on Greek houses, including Archibald’s major Pistiros and Olynthus field
 projects, generated significant research and related impact (see Fitzjohn’s impact case study).


 Research on Iron Age hillforts and the Celts by Pope (2020/1) contributes to better
 understandings of Iron Age cultures across Britain and Europe. Mytum’s research on Iron Age
 houses and communities contributes directly to our engagement with partners such as
 Pembrokeshire Coast National Park through his experimental work at Castell Henllys and
 consequent expansion of heritage provision there (see Mytum’s impact case study). Baird has
 also incorporated a programme of experimental house construction at Boncuklu enhancing
 Konya museums and local schools’ capacity (see Baird et al., impact case study), contributing to
 SDGs 4, 11, 17: Quality Education; Sustainable Cities and Communities; Partnerships for
 the Goals.


 Routledge’s research on Iron Age Jordan (2016) successfully translates interrogation of the role
 of households in constructing and reproducing communities into impact with social and
 economic benefits. The Dhiban project (AHRC GCRF Newton Fund £220k and Leverhulme
 Trust) uses the site’s architectural heritage to create positive identities in an area that recently
 experienced economically driven civil unrest. Transformation of the site into a tourist destination
 helps alleviate local poverty (SDG1: No Poverty). A school-based public history programme
 involving teachers includes capacity building with trainee researchers from Mutah University
 (SDG4: Quality Education). Both contribute to SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and
 Communities.


 Ancient Economies (Adams, Archibald, Eyre, Freeman, Foxhall, Hirt, Hommel, Ponting, Tuplin,
 Widell; 29 PGRs) brings together a unique combination of perspectives across ancient
 economies including Ancient Egypt, Near East and the Classical world, combining texts and
 archaeology. Distinctive foci are Greek and Roman trade (Adams 2017; Archibald 2019),
 resource procurement and coinage (Ponting 2014, 2015; Hommel 2015), and Mediterranean
 and Near Eastern administration/management of economic activity (Hirt 2018; Widell 2020). The
 work of this Group across ACE underpins a distinctive Liverpool approach to ancient economies


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and their administration, continually attracting PGRs and ECFs (e.g. Van Regenmortel,
 Leverhulme ECF, working with Archibald and Foxhall post-REF2021 census date). This Group
 has been an ideal context for generating major grants and outputs (e.g. Ponting’s AHRC
 [£300k], ERC [£880k] awards researching Roman silver coinage and 2014 monograph).


 Literary Cultures of the Ancient World (Cartlidge, Enmarch, Escolano-Poveda, Gibson,
 Greaves, Hobden, Jones, Perale, Petridou, Tuplin, Zadorozhny; 4 PGRs) and Receptions
 (Freeman, Gibson, Hobden, Jones, Zadorozhny; 8 PGRs) represent two closely inter-related
 Groups with overlapping interests and staff.


 Literary Cultures has seen growth in staff with Perale’s post and Cartlidge’s Leverhulme ECF.
 Close links with Enmarch and Escolano-Poveda (Egyptology) provided the ideal setting for
 Perale’s completion of volume one of Hexameters of Unknown or Uncertain Authorship from
 Graeco-Roman Egypt (2020), with more to follow in the next period. The Group provided a
 supportive environment for research over a wide range of literary cultures, with Gibson’s
 research on ancient praise in Polybius and Latin panegyric (2018, part of an ongoing
 collaboration with St Andrews) intersecting with strength in imperial Greek literature (e.g.
 Escolano-Poveda 2020, Petridou 2016, Zadorozhny 2018). This fertile context has led to a
 creative interdisciplinary collaboration with Politics at Liverpool in the Network for the Interface
 between Classics and Politics (NICP, Section 4.2), alongside a Receptions research stream
 related to deployment of rhetorical traditions in contemporary politics.


 Highly distinctive approaches to Receptions typify Liverpool research in relation to audio-visual
 media, art and literature, exemplifying how our Research Groups provide stimulating
 environments for cross-disciplinary research. Receptions members populate the interface
 between Classics and other subject areas. Hobden's research on Classics in TV and film has led
 to close cooperation with media studies researchers (A. Wrigley, Reading) and film makers (D.
 Wilson, independent). She has supervised AHRC NWCDTP student (Clare) on research in the
 gaming industry. Zadorozhny’s research on the influence of ancient heroism on Tolstoy (2018)
 contributed to a prestigious two-year fellowship at the multi-disciplinary Helsinki Collegium for
 Advanced Studies.


 The Body (Hobden, Fitzjohn, Jones, Matczak, Nugent, Petridou, Pearson, 4 PGRs) represents
 a Research Cluster developed in the current REF cycle, typifying our active fostering of
 interdisciplinary synergies. The networking project ‘(De)Constructing the Body: Ancient and
 Modern Dynamics’ (Petridou, 2019-20, Welcome Trust, £23k) consolidates an agenda around
 cross-cultural practices regarding illness, ageing, death and burial. It builds upon initial
 collaborations formed during the 2018 School-funded (£2k) workshop ‘Subversive Suffering:


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pain and Patient Identity in Ancient and Modern biographies’ (also including members of the
 cross-Faculty Centre for the Humanities and Social Sciences of Health, Medicine and
 Technology), and through departmental research seminars (with participation of network Co-I
 Eidinow, Bristol). The Body combines expertise in Classics (Hobden, Jones, Petridou),
 Archaeology (Fitzjohn, Matczak, Nugent, Pearson, Plomp), Social Anthropology, Law, English,
 History of Medicine, Clinical Ethics, medical practitioners and patients. Contributors from
 Germany, Spain, UK and US extend the interdisciplinary and international reach of The Body
 and its future impact.


 ECRs Matczak and Plomp joined the Group, both on Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships. The
 Body provided an excellent context for Nugent’s UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (FLF)
 research on mortuary science, leading to a permanent appointment, underwriting the future
 sustainability of this Group (SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being).


 1.3 Open research
 Green OA is encouraged across the board for all academic and research staff for dissemination
 of journal articles, conference proceedings and book chapters. Author-accepted versions are
 hosted in the Liverpool Elements institutional repository. We encourage staff, in Research
 Conversations, to seek Gold OA opportunities through external grants linked to specific projects
 or via the institutional Open Access Fund (£6k used by staff) supporting publications by staff and
 PGRs, e.g. EFEC project excavations at Palegawra cave, Iraqi Kurdistan, which includes all
 project datasets and a comprehensive archive of original images and digital maps (Asouti et al.
 2020).


 Staff are encouraged to deposit data with research recognised repositories (e.g. the
 Archaeology Data Service, York for Ponting’s analytical results for ‘The Metallurgy of Roman
 Silver Coinage’), and with Liverpool’s research data repository (DataCat). Nugent’s FLF ‘Digital
 Library of British Mortuary Science’ will create an open access library of texts, images, and
 records of human remains in formats for Natural Language Processing, Corpus Linguistics, and
 3D visualisation (OA depositories: Church Heritage Record and Archaeological Data Service).
 Visualisation features in a new regional initiative led by the Garstang Museum to create digital
 archives of museum collections for collaborative research and knowledge exchange (Section
 4.4.4).




                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.4 Beyond REF2021
 We have built upon and reconfigured existing strengths to meet our aims of being a global,
 interdisciplinary, socially engaged unit (Section 1.1). Our future strategy will sharpen that focus,
 addressing important long-term issues for humanity through continuing to:


    •   support existing Research Groups and consolidate newer groups
    •   develop existing and new partnerships and impact
    •   enhance and embed equality and diversity


 Long-standing successful Research Groups such as Human Origins, Egyptology, Ancient
 Economies, Literary Cultures/Receptions have demonstrated their effectiveness in project
 development and delivery with major continuing projects, e.g. Eyre’s Leverhulme Fellowship,
 Ponting’s ERC project. Reconfigured Groups (Human Palaeoecology Households and
 Communities) and emergent group, The Body, are starting to realise the potential of new
 collaborations and will be key vehicles of broad-based interdisciplinary research over the next 5
 years. Future sustainability of these Groups has been reinforced by 7 appointments during and
 after the current REF period (Section 1.2).


 Digital-based approaches in humanities and science-based archaeology (Section 3.2) will
 continue developing as core strengths and will remain complemented by our growing expertise
 in digital and medical humanities. We are currently expanding our experimental and
 photogrammetry facilities and capacities, partly supported by developing skill-sets of our in-
 house technicians, with wide applicability across our research and impact areas (Section 4.4).
 Our digital humanities approach is being expanded through the 7 years of Nugent’s UKRI FLF
 with ongoing recruitment of PDRAs and PGRs to The Body Research Group.


 Partnerships across disciplines and outside academia are central to delivering our goals of
 addressing key issues for contemporary societies. The developing University Heritage theme
 offers increased interdisciplinary collaborative opportunities, and links to wider non-academic
 networks including projects that will run through the next REF cycle (Section 4.4), e.g.
 Routledge’s work at Dhiban, Jordan; Baird’s ongoing collaborations attested in the Boncuklu
 case study and his follow-up work with Yazidi communities on their heritage; Mytum’s
 engagement with Castell Henllys’ visitor centre team; Fitzjohn’s work with schools; Gowlett and
 Barham’s work with Kenya and Zambia museums; Dobney’s Horn project in East Africa.
 Nugent’s research on exhumation will benefit UK church organisations and related public
 societies over the next 7 years. These ongoing activities offer important vehicles for embedding
 impact approaches in our PGR and ECR projects.



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 An integrated ACE gives us a collective awareness of gender and BAME disparities in our staff
 profile and an effective strategy to address these inequalities over the short- and medium-term
 (Section 2.1.3).



 2. People


 2.1 Fostering an Open and Inclusive Department
 ACE aims to retain and recruit the very best researchers to build on our international reputation
 for research and impact excellence. A nurturing research environment is essential for achieving
 that aim by enabling staff to fulfil their potential and deliver globally significant research and
 impact. Our environment recognises and fosters individual diversity and provides flexible
 structures to ensure inclusion. Within this environment, each colleague is:


    •     supported in setting and achieving goals
    •     encouraged to explore new ideas and collaborations.


 2.1.1. Setting and achieving goals


 Our two main support structures, Professional Development Reviews (PDRs) and Research
 Conversations, prioritise face-to-face interactions, in person or online, as the primary means of
 enabling staff to stay motivated and progress academically. PDRs are also a safe place for
 discussing and acting on institutional and departmental EDI policies (e.g. bullying) (Section
 2.1.3). Research Conversations enable the unit to maintain its sustainability and adaptability to
 emergent research trends through supporting individual staff priorities over a three-year planning
 cycle.


 Annual PDRs provide a key forum for identifying issues affecting staff well-being and career
 progression. Meetings are one-to-one, led by a senior staff member who facilitates reflection on,
 and agreement of practical outcomes. Anyone with significant managerial responsibilities
 (including leading funded research projects) may train as a PDR mentor, ensuring a plurality of
 experiences feed into the process. In addition to a PDR mentor each member of staff is
 assigned a research mentor to advise on research and impact development and provide
 feedback on grant applications.


 Biannual Research Conversations provide similar opportunities for staff to discuss their
 research and impact plans over a rolling 3-year horizon. They take place in a supportive,


                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 informal context involving relevant members of our Research Committee with expertise in grant
 generation, project management, impact development, open research initiatives and knowledge
 of training and funding sources at institutional, national and international level (e.g. ECR
 Escolano-Poveda: committee feedback contributed to a successful Humboldt Research
 Fellowship in 2019). Ongoing and future research activities are reviewed, and potential impact
 identified and supported through leave arrangements, as with Fitzjohn (below). Emerging
 synergies with other staff interests are identified in this format.


 Providing staff time for research and impact development is critical to generating high quality
 outputs, which are in turn rewarded by promotion and peer esteem. All staff have a research
 leave entitlement of every 6th semester (each academic year at Liverpool has 2 semesters). ACE
 also offers extended leave of up to 12 months to support large-scale research and impact (e.g.
 Fitzjohn ‘Grand Designs in Ancient Greece’). Faculty funding for impact data-gathering further
 eases time pressures on staff (e.g. travel and PDRA support for Baird, Fitzjohn and Mytum).
 One day per week during term time (Research Day) is allocated to all staff for research/impact
 activities and blocked from teaching and administrative duties. Sabbatical leave has often been
 enhanced by linking the leave cycle to external-funded leave (e.g. both Eyre and Sinclair’s
 Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships (2018; 2020) are linked to institutional leave, extending
 the project preparation phases and enabling appointments of Escolano-Poveda and French).


 2.1.2 Encouraging new ideas and collaborations


 Financial support is instrumental for pump-priming new research and impact projects. The
 School offers researchers an annual allowance of £600 to facilitate research trips, conference
 attendance and publication preparation. Grove’s participation in the international Chew Bahir
 research project arose from participation in a 2017 Society of American Archaeology meeting on
 climate change, resulting in two publications (Grove 2018, Grove et al. 2018) and a NERC-
 funded PDRA (Blinkhorn). School funding (up to £3k) for pilot studies underpinning grant
 applications enabled Asouti and Baird’s EFEC project (2014-2017) to secure several grants
 (Wenner-Gren, BISI, Wainwright Fund) that facilitated the completion of its pilot phase with
 publication of her Palegawra excavations in Iraqi Kurdistan (Asouti et al. 2020). Barham’s initial
 Ghana fieldwork, afforded by £1.5k from the School, led to a BA grant (£10k) and importantly to
 University of Ghana contacts essential to the success of a major cross-institutional AHRC
 GCRF-funded ‘Anti-slavery knowledge network’ (£1.7m).


 Constructive feedback on grant applications is offered informally and via the grant approval
 process requiring ACE Research Committee feedback on larger applications (>£20k).
 Departmental advice was instrumental in Pearson’s successful projects (BA/Newton £73k;

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 AHRC £90k), contributing to her promotion to Reader. Faculty grant-writing workshops and peer
 review processes, linked to specific funding calls, led to 8 successful applications including 2
 GCRF awards (Barham, Routledge), and 5 Leverhulme ECFs (Cartlidge, Hulme-Beaman,
 Kabukcu, Van Regenmortel and Parkhouse starting 2021).


 2.1.3 Embedding equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI)


 Enhancing staff diversity is central to our recruitment strategy, building on existing research
 strengths and capacities whilst responding flexibly to changing subject-led priorities. Post
 REF2014, contributions by ACE staff (Asouti, Foxhall, Kabukcu, Pope) led to the development of
 EDI School policy and a successful School Athena SWAN application (Bronze Award, 2018).
 Our co-Chair of the Faculty Athena Swan Team, (Godenho, T&S), laid the groundwork for a new
 departmental EDI Committee (2019). This Committee’s role is to initiate change at the local
 level, reflecting the range of protected characteristics in the Equality Act 2010, and to implement
 wider institutional policy (see REF5a, 3.1). Comprising UG, PGT, PGR, ECR and academic staff
 representatives, plus members from other committees, the Committee identified gender disparity
 in our staff profile (68/32% M/F), especially at professorial/reader level (79/21% M/F) which falls
 below the subject average. As of 2018, ACE is above national average in its proportion of
 staff identifying as LGBTQ+ and disabled (3% per category; nationally 2.2% LGBTQ+ and
 2.1% disabled: Office for National Statistics 2019) and on par with the subject-wide lack of ethnic
 diversity (0.7%, Landward 2014). We aim to limit use of fixed-term contracts (FTC) to cases
 where staff have been awarded fellowships requiring teaching replacement. FTC-staff participate
 in Research Groups adding to the vitality of the environment and receive career-enhancing
 support through PDRs and Research Conversations.


 Our EDI committee developed and implemented and implemented an ACE-specific policy on
 recognising and reporting harassment in fieldwork and across the breadth of our activities. This
 links directly to institutional policies on harassment and bullying (see REF5a, 3.2) and apply to
 staff and students.


 To redress imbalances in gender and diversity we have enacted a four-part plan with immediate
 effect alongside a longer-term recruitment strategy:


    (i) fixed-term senior departmental administrative roles are open to all promoted staff to
 increase role turnover and opportunities for career development
    (ii) appointment of female PDR mentors; refresher EDI training for all PDR mentors to create
 a positive promotion culture
    (iii) initiation of a recruitment policy of ‘positive action’ (below)

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (iv) developing a more flexible work environment (below).


 All research staff involved as PDR reviewers, REF2021 output/impact assessors and on
 recruitment panels undergo EDI training (Advance HE).
 Initial results include appointment of three new female PDR reviewers for a total of four (Asouti,
 Hobden, Nugent, Foxhall) and rotation of the Chair of the Research Committee (Asouti).
 Beyond ACE, Foxhall holds senior roles as School Dean and University Lead of the Institutional
 Heritage theme.


 A proactive recruitment policy of ‘positive action’ (Equality Act 2010) addresses gender and
 BAME imbalances on a case-by-case basis where two candidates are equally qualified, but one
 has an under-represented protected characteristic. The policy will apply to planned hires over
 the medium-to-long term with staff retirements.


 2.1.4 Enabling and encouraging inclusivity


 Flexible hours, tailored teaching timetables and remote working enable staff with care-giving
 commitments to organise their working day, e.g. confining teaching commitments within school
 days allowing for childcare. A shift towards online research seminars was underway pre-COVID-
 19 with Research Group activities scheduled for lunchtimes to maximise access. Family-friendly
 scheduling of activities to 10am-4pm extends to the Flagship Seminar series (uniting all our
 research areas around a common theme/topic), Staff Away Days, all meetings and recruitment
 events allowing staff and PGRs to plan around caring responsibilities. All on-campus events
 (pre-COVID) take place in recently upgraded refurbished wheelchair-accessible rooms with
 hearing-loops and video conferencing facilities to enable remote participation following upgrades
 of access and AVI facilities by the University.


 We encourage staff to take active roles in raising awareness of EDI issues through academic
 research and public engagement. Our research brings a distinctive deep-time perspective to
 LGBTQ+ History through OUTing the Past Festival (“Same sex desire in Ancient Egypt”,
 Enmarch, 2017; Egyptology). The ACE Flagship Seminar interrogated the colonialist history of
 archaeology with Liverpool historian Effros (‘Colonial encounters in Roman Lambaesis (Algeria)
 in the nineteenth century’, 2019). Our staff contribute to University EDI initiatives (e.g. Greaves’
 involvement in the University’s LGBTQ+ network and in online EDI training for all staff).




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2 Training and Supporting the Next Generation
 We take seriously our responsibilities for training the next generation of researchers and for
 raising their awareness of the wider societal value of their work. Since REF2014, our PGR
 completions have increased from 52.5 combined for Classics and Archaeology to 77.13 by the
 census date (45% increase). PGRs play a central role, contributing to and maintaining the vitality
 of our research environment through their projects, active participation in Research Groups and
 manifold contributions to impact (e.g. as part of the Liverpool Schools Classics Project, PGR
 Coe deployed his research on evolutionary anatomy to teach the subject to pupils from under-
 represented state-school backgrounds through the ‘Brilliant Club' charity).


 Since REF2014 we have actively sought and increased enrolment of funded PGRs (in full or
 part). ACE secured 21 PhD studentships via the AHRC NWCDTP through the Heritage (formerly
 Archaeology), Classics and Linguistics pathways. That success reflects the work of our PGR
 academic admissions team (Asouti, Hirt, Hobden, Grove, Collier) who developed an integrated
 application process involving peer review and close mentoring of prospective applicants to
 convert their research ideas into compelling funding applications.


 ACE actively welcomes UK and international PGRs through other (non-UKRI) sources of
 competitive funding including ACE’s Elizabeth Slater Fund which has supported 5 PGR
 Graduate Teaching Fellows since 2016 (3 Archaeology, 1 Classics, 1 Egyptology). As of 2020, a
 School-wide scholarship scheme is in place to support PhD applicants in addition to existing
 competitive University studentships (Duncan Norman, Joseph Rotblat, John Lennon schemes,
 recruiting 13 PGRs over the census period). Our reputation for research excellence also attracts
 overseas students with home-nation funding (Egypt, Turkey, China, Saudi Arabia, Brazil).


 2.2.1 Integrated Training Support for PGRs and ECRs


 Departmental mechanisms for supporting PGR development link directly to the Liverpool
 Doctoral College (LDC) which provides a framework for monitoring progression and delivering
 central skills-training identified via an annual Development Needs Analysis (see REF 5a, 3.5).
 Monthly supervisory meetings underpin this institutional framework and provide a context for
 identifying more immediate training needs.


 Research Groups offer a collegial setting for PGRs to develop research presentation skills and
 receive feedback as part of subject-based seminar series. PGRs furthermore shape the content
 of departmental seminar series by proposing themes and inviting speakers, e.g. in Human
 Origins, 2 PGRs share organisational responsibilities for a seminar series in each academic


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 year, gaining practical experience in research event organisation. As part of the departmental
 response to COVID-19, the organisers moved the Human Origins research seminar series
 online, thus attracting wider international interest. PGRs also organise weekly “Work in
 Progress” seminars, run in parallel to events hosted by ACE’s Research Groups. These are
 cross-disciplinary in scope, with PGRs presenting their research to a non-specialist audience.


 Our PGRs have organised 7 international research events involving PGR networks outside
 Liverpool, Liverpool staff and speakers from elsewhere including the above workshop and
 “Unravelling the Palaeolithic” (2017), “Exploring Textiles and Textile Working from Prehistory to
 AD 500” (2018), the Annual Meeting of the British Association for Near Eastern Archaeology
 (2019) and the Annual Meeting of Postgraduates in Ancient Literature (2017), plus 2
 conferences on the theme of “Networking in the Ancient World” (Tracing Trade and Social
 Networks” 2016; “Tracing, Understanding and Interpreting Trade and Social Connections” 2018).
 The experience gained from organising these events contributes to PGR professional
 development and the building of research networks.


 Additional training is provided by externally funded events led by PGR demand. PGRs (Timbrell,
 Scott) organised a NWCDTP-funded training session on “Geometric Morphometrics for
 Archaeologists” (2020), while ECF Kabukcu (with contributions by Hulme-Beaman) led a
 quantitative skills workshop supported by the Faculty for ACE PGRs (2018). ACE expertise in
 Reflectance Transformation Imaging (RTI) featured in an engage@liverpool training event
 “Cross-disciplinary Applications of RTI” (2018) delivered by Greaves (Liverpool) and Duffy
 (York). Further bespoke training in digital visualisation techniques (photography,
 photogrammetry, RTI) is delivered in ACE by the Photogrammetry Team led by ECF Hulme-
 Beaman. The University’s Garstang Museum, located within ACE, with its extensive digital
 archives (Section 3.2) featured in methods-training session “Transformative Research Legacy
 Series” 2015 as part of the engage@liverpool programme (see REF5a; 3.5). Our PGR student
 impact featured at the AHRC NWCDTP conference (2018), “Human Technologies, Digital
 Humanities”.


 2.2.2 Career mentoring and destinations


 Our strategy to develop and retain the talent we attract begins with supporting PGRs in
 generating publications from their research for securing post-doctoral funding (e.g. Leverhulme
 ECF, British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowships, UKRI FLF). ACE’s Research Committee
 provides detailed feedback on post-doctoral research and publication plans and gives advice on
 impact arising from research.



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For PGRs, the LDC provides training to equip students with relevant skills and experience for
 careers outside academe. PGR supervisors are a key part of the process, ensuring training
 needs identified by students are met, and giving practical advice on job opportunities locally in
 the institution and with heritage-based institutions, e.g. Nolan-Webster, employability officer in
 the Faculty of Science and Engineering, Liverpool (2016), and Brown, forensic officer with
 Merseyside Police (2018). Longstanding links with the museums sector as a destination for
 graduate employment (with Liverpool PGRs taking prestigious curatorships at the Liverpool
 National Museum (Cooke 2004 PhD), International Slavery Museum (Benjamin 2006) and
 Manchester Museum (Price 2011) continued with the appointment of Potter (2016) to Assistant
 Curator at National Museums Scotland.


 Our international reach in research is mirrored in the geographical range of PGR fieldwork and
 its influence on academic career development. Ongoing research in Turkey on the origins of
 agriculture generates PDRA and ECR posts, e.g. Brami (2014, Marie Curie/2018, Mainz);
 Bennison-Chapman (2015, PDRA at Netherlands Institute for the Near East/Leiden); and
 Kabukcu (2015, Leverhulme ECF/2017, Liverpool) who contributes to Faculty ECF workshops.
 PDRAs take part in annual PDRs to identify support needed for progression and are encouraged
 to apply for grants that can be tied to permanent posts. Co-authorship of papers is encouraged
 to enhance PDRA/ECR career prospects (e.g. ECR Hulme-Beaman with Dobney [Hulme-
 Beaman et al. 2020, “GeoOrigins” paper]). Departmental and School support is complemented
 by additional Faculty grant-writing workshops and peer review to enhance applications. ECRs
 take part in biannual Research Conversations as well as PDRs to develop longer-term research
 and impact plans with funding.


 During 2020 our support for PDRAs has been strengthened by the University’s ‘Prosper’
 initiative (see REF 5a; 3.3.2), providing in-depth training and support focused on career
 development, including major partnerships with business and industry. The scheme, the first of
 its kind, was set up with a £3.6 million grant from Research England. Archaeology has been
 active in Prosper’s early stages, with important contributions from ECR Nugent.


 Support of ECF/ECR staff through PDRs, Research Conversations, output co-authorship,
 School funding for conference attendance and pilot research projects all contribute to building
 portfolios of activity critical to securing academic positions. ECR Cartlidge secured a position at
 Oxford (2020); Haddow obtained a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Research Fellowship at the
 University of Copenhagen. Nielson (2016) and Twiston-Davies (2018) are lecturers in
 Egyptology (Manchester) and 3 PhDs from the previous census period have secured
 lectureships since 2014 (Baysal and Twigger, Ankara University; Miller, University of
 Nottingham).


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.1 Income
 Capitalising on our unification, we have significantly enhanced our research income by 108%
 from £1.58m in REF2014 to £3.29m in REF2020. Our annual income increased by 232%
 between 2013-14 (£238,613) and 2019-20 (£793,941). As a result, we have maintained income
 per-eligible-FTE position from 2014, following the merger and expansion in FTEs. The upward
 trajectory in grant spend provides a strong foundation for our financial sustainability beyond
 REF2021. We have established a success rate of 64% on PI-led applications for a total award
 value of £5.3m (total funder contribution) over the period.


 Our research environment attracted 8 prestigious ECR awards (5 Leverhulme ECFs, 2 Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Fellowships, and 1 UKRI FLF). This success reflects our strategy for
 attracting candidates and nurturing their development through tailored support in the
 Department, School and Faculty (Sections 2.1.2, 2.1.3). These awards not only increase
 income, but also expand our expertise base for sustained growth.


 3.1.1. Income generation: support mechanisms


 The substantial increase in income results directly from a key policy decision made post-
 REF2014 by the newly reformed Research Committee to actively support staff in applying for
 large grants (£100k-£1m) and enhanced peer review processes. Staff with interdisciplinary
 research networks were encouraged to consider large-scale projects addressing significant
 global challenges that justified substantial funding. The strategy resulted in a 14.5% increase in
 applications (REF2014=138, REF2021=158) and a 108% increase in research income (above).
 Research Conversations and Research Group feedback have been the vehicle for realising this
 goal through detailed discussion of project proposals, funding sources, and impact plans.


 3.1.2 Research Conversations as income generators


 A direct result of Research Conversations has been success in obtaining 17 large awards
 (>£90k) (total grant value=£4.36m) from a diverse range of sources: AHRC, Leverhulme Trust,
 British Council, European Commission including Marie Skłodowska-Curie, and Newton Fund.
 Highlights by Research Group include:
    •   Human Origins: Barham and Gowlett AHRC ‘Deep Roots Project’ (£340k of £890k
        total); Gowlett Leverhulme ‘Kilombe Caldera project’(£285k of £625k total); and Sinclair,
        Leverhulme ‘Atlas of archaeology, scientometric analysis of discipline growth’ (£158k)

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Human Palaeoecology: 2 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships; Matczak
         (£231k), Plomp (£244k)
     •   Egyptology: Eyre Leverhulme ‘An ethnography of Pharonic Egypt’ (£130k)
     •   Households and Communities: Routledge (PI) and Bandyopadhay (Architecture),
         AHRC-Newton Cultural Heritage and Sustainable Development in Jordan (£220k); Baird
         British Council Cultural Protection Fund ‘Protecting and recording Yazidi heritage’ (£96k)
     •   Ancient Economies: Ponting AHRC Standard Grant ‘Roman coinage’ (£360k) and ERC
         Advanced Grant ‘Roman coinage’ (£880k of £2m total)
     •   The Body: Nugent UKRI FLF, ‘Digital library of British Mortuary Science’ (£1.1m)


 Our involvement in two successful major GCRF grants (Barham, Dobney) reflects a concerted
 effort at Department, School, Faculty and University level:
     (1) The ‘Anti-slavery Knowledge Network’ (total £1.7m, Barham’s involvement £92k) built on
         previous archaeological research in Ghana (Barham, British Academy £9.8k), kick-
         started by School funds supporting initiation of contacts with University of Ghana, a key
         regional link in the GCRF network (SDG16: Peace, Justice, Strong Society). Local
         school workshops, operating under the University’s Heritage theme brought Archaeology
         (Barham) together with Politics (Balch). The Faculty Research Team and University
         Research Support Office contributed feedback and legal and ethics guidance.
         Colleagues from the Universities of Hull and Nottingham complete the UK part of the
         network.
     (2) Dobney’s involvement (£184k) in the £7.7m ‘One Health – Horn of Africa’ project brings
         our expertise in science-based archaeology (dental biomes) to bear on SDG3: Good
         Health and Well-Being.


 Headline large grants are matched by our success in obtaining smaller awards (<£25k, n=69,
 total £598k), critical for supporting:
     •   field research in the UK (Mytum, Isle of Man, Manx National Heritage; Pope, Eddisbury
         Hillfort, Cheshire, English Heritage) and our archives (National Clay Pipe Register,
         Historic England)
     •   diverse research and impact field projects at various stages of development in Greece,
         Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, and Turkey (supported by Wenner-Gren and British Academy-
         sponsored institutes abroad including BIAA, BISI, BSA and BSR).
     •   Research in Egypt (Egyptian Exploration Society)


 Small awards have also led to larger award successes, e.g. a £4.8k Society of Antiquaries
 bursary supported collaborative research at Olynthos by Archibald and Fitzjohn paving the way
 for Fitzjohn’s AHRC Impact award (£78k, ‘Grand Designs in Ancient Greece’, Section 4).

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 A further 18 medium-size (£25k-£90k) competitive grants were secured from a diverse range of
 funders (NERC, Leverhulme, Loeb Foundation, Mercator Fellowship, Past Foundation, British
 Council, Helsinki Collegium Fellowship).


 3.2 Investment in infrastructure and facilities
 University investment in the physical unification of ACE in Abercromby Square (2015) and
 development of the Archaeology laboratories fostered a sense of inclusion, vitality and shared
 purpose in a research environment where all staff have equal access to appropriate facilities and
 infrastructure. The establishment of the Elizabeth Slater Archaeological Research
 Laboratories in 8-14 Abercromby Square, including state-of-the-art facilities and equipment,
 represents strategic investment by the University in the future of archaeological science at
 Liverpool (see REF5a; 4.2). Expenditure of £2m helped establish 6 archaeological science
 laboratories (Archaeobotany, Atomic Spectroscopy, Lithics, Palaeodiet, Sample Preparation,
 Archaeological Projects Laboratory). Additional analytical facilities include: Scanning Electron
 Microscope suite, weighing room, Ancient Technology Workshop, GIS suite, Imaging Suite,
 environmentally controlled archive and bone store, plus 11 storage rooms. A dedicated
 Research Microscopy suite was enhanced in 2020 with an £80k Keyence VX7100 4K ultra-high
 accuracy digital microscope supporting staff and student research in archaeobotany,
 archaeomaterials, zooarchaeology and ancient textiles analysis.


 ACE also houses the Garstang Museum of Archaeology, with important collections and
 archives from historical Liverpool field projects in Egypt, Sudan, and the Near East. Garstang’s
 personal records and photographic collections curated in the archives form a body of material for
 staff research across ACE (Freeman, Greaves, Foxhall) and informing public events (e.g. the
 2018 Meroë Head of Augustus symposium, University of Liverpool Victoria Museum & Gallery)
 (Section 4.4.4). Garstang Museum collections also provide key data for PGR projects relating to
 ancient Mediterranean technologies and materials used for designing innovative approaches to
 imaging research (PGR/Staff Imaging Group). Augmented-reality 3D models of Predynastic
 artefacts from the Garstang collection featured in the 2019 public exhibition ‘Before Egypt: Art,
 Culture and Power’ (Victoria Gallery, Liverpool).


 Ongoing investment in equipment includes acquisition of 9 drones for use in archaeological
 survey and excavation and a structured light-scanner for 3D-printing of artefacts used by primary
 school teachers for delivering Key Stage 2 History as part of the ‘Deep Roots’ pathway to
 impact. In addition, 2 servers provide dedicated data storage maintained by the School’s Senior
 IT Technician. ACE employs 2 senior technicians, with complementary expertise in experimental



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 archaeology and archaeomaterials, who oversee the running of the laboratories and contribute
 to practical training for staff, PDRAs, PGRs, PGTs and UGs.


 PGT use of these facilities in dissertation research fed into 4 NWCDTP awards (2 in Human
 Origins, 2 in Human Palaeoecology-archaeobotany, zooarchaeology), and a Leverhulme-funded
 PGR (Human Origins-Kilombe Project). Our laboratories underpinned 2 successful Leverhulme
 ECF projects (Hulme-Beaman, 3D visualisation; Kabukcu, archaeobotany). Our capacity to
 undertake archaeometallurgical analyses supports research projects on Roman coinage (2014-
 18, AHRC, Ponting; 2019-2024, ERC, Ponting Co-I) and collaborations with museums nationally
 and internationally (e.g. Yale University Museum). Our dietary isotope facility supports PGR
 research and projects such as Pearson’s AHRC- funded research on Neolithic palaeodiets in
 Eurasia (2015-2018).


 The Ancient Technology Workshop enables staff and PGR experimental research on stone,
 bone and wood technologies highlighted in 2 NWCDTP-funded PGR projects, and in the
 AHRC-funded ‘Deep Roots of Humanity’ project. Our capacity for experimental research on
 pyrotechnologies (pottery, metallurgy, geochemistry of hearths) is further enhanced by a
 dedicated facility at Liverpool’s Ness Botanical Gardens with technical support.


 The Archaeobotany Laboratory is unique in the UK for its expertise and microscopy facilities on
 archaeological charcoal science (anthracology) alongside its comprehensive Mediterranean
 and Near Eastern plant reference collection. These facilities make Liverpool an international
 centre of excellence in Mediterranean and Near Eastern palaeoecology and support Asouti’s
 research in the region, alongside hosting 4 NWCDTP-funded PGR projects. Additional strengths
 on seed archaeobotany and plant domestication are contributed by Leverhulme ECF Kabukcu,
 including high-profile projects in southeast Turkey (Göbekli Tepe & Karahan Tepe, co-directed
 by Necmi Karul of Istanbul University and Kabukcu) and in Iraqi Kurdistan (Shanidar).


 Our lab facilities generate research income from consultancy work for the heritage sector
 (e.g. metallurgical analyses for Museum of London Archaeology, Museum of Liverpool, and
 analyses of seed and charcoal remains for Foxhall’s Bova Marina project and the
 Mesolithic/Neolithic site of Llanfaethlu (CR Archaeology, Anglesey).


 Reciprocal arrangements across the University allow use of our facilities in exchange for use of
 facilities in other departments (Chemistry, Engineering, School of Environmental Sciences, Life
 Sciences, Earth, Ocean and Ecological Sciences). This includes the use by Kabukcu of the
 SoES LIFER geochemistry facilities for her carbon isotope analyses of archaeobotanical
 remains from Turkey and Iraq, as part of her Leverhulme ECF. New arrangements made via the


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Liverpool Technical Network enabled 4 PGRs and 1 PDRA (Hoare, Kilombe Project) to
 undertake analyses for their research projects at no extra cost, leading to Hoare’s successful
 British Academy award (£30k).



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 4.1 Global reach through collaborations
 Our strategic vision (Section 1.1) is to produce research which engages with evolutionary and
 historical processes that shaped our world and continue to resonate in contemporary global
 issues and thus with institutions and communities enmeshed in those processes. This ambitious
 vision reflects the broad intellectual base of ACE with its embedded interdisciplinary approach to
 generating accessible (open) research and impact (Sections 1.2, 1.3, 4.4).


 Research Groups enable us to develop collaborations institutionally, nationally and
 internationally, with academic and non-academic partners. School funding for such initiatives (up
 to £1.5k) and institutional support for networking across Faculties on the themes of Heritage,
 Digital Humanities, Medical Humanities and Slavery/Unfree Labour have led to new
 interdisciplinary projects (Section 3.1.2).


 New international partnerships in China are generating staff and PGR research. Funding from
 the School and Peking University resulted in a co-authored publication on agricultural origins in
 Anatolia (Baird et al. 2018) and broadened the international reach of the Human Palaeoecology
 group. In 2019, a MoU was signed with the Institute for the History of Ancient Civilizations
 (IHAC), Northeast Normal University for mutual development of research projects with our
 Ancient Economies Group and established a joint PhD programme along with exchange of
 staff. Two PhD students are now in Liverpool to study Assyriology (Widell supervising) and a
 third started an Egyptology PhD in 2020 (Enmarch supervising). This partnership enhances the
 vitality of our research environment, with students and staff bringing new perspectives to
 established research strengths and contributing to our international reputation.


 Individual initiatives supported by the Research Committee have led to the cementing of existing
 research and impact links with the National Museums of Kenya via a British Academy Links
 Mobility award (Gowlett). This supported exchange of staff between Liverpool and Nairobi,
 leading to refurbishment of Kariandusi Museum to accommodate local school groups, and to
 funding (Leverhulme) of a Kenyan PGR (Komboh) based in Liverpool who participates in the
 Human Origins Group. Research capacity-building in Kenya forms part of our strategy for
 extending the impact of our research internationally and decolonising the research base.



                                                                                                Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The NWCDTC provides a framework for generating collaborative interdisciplinary PGR research
 networks, e.g. Barham (Archaeology, Liverpool), Penkman (York, Chemistry) and White
 (Malacology, Natural History Museum) co-supervise a York chemistry student in developing a
 new dating technique for the Quaternary Sciences; and Petridou (Ancient History, Liverpool) and
 Crossley (Sociology, Manchester) provide bespoke training and co-supervision of a PGR student
 working on Mithraic religion.


 4.2 Research Groups and collaboration
 The broad temporal and geographical reach of our research operates at different levels of
 interdisciplinarity, from local networks to large international teams. We recognise and encourage
 this diversity of scale in relation to subject themes and appropriate research strategies. The
 Network for the Interface between Classics and Politics (NICP) (Literary Cultures) and ‘Anti-
 slavery Knowledge Network’ (Human Origins) both developed through cross-departmental
 collaboration initially with Politics. The latter project expanded nationally and internationally
 through its successful GCRF bid.


 Through our Research Groups we have collaborative projects in 29 countries (Eurasia to
 Australasia=22 countries; Africa=5 countries; USA and Canada). Two case studies illustrate their
 diversity of international and interdisciplinary activity:
     •   Human Palaeoecology works with host governmental institutions in Iraq, Turkey, Kenya,
         and Ethiopia with the Boncuklu (Baird) and EFEC (Asouti) projects involving international
         networks of researchers from 10 universities in the UK and abroad (Exeter, Reading,
         Bournemouth, UCL, Bulent Ecevit, Harvard, METU Ankara, Max Planck, Peking,
         Queensland) offering complementary expertise in plant microfossils, zooarchaeology,
         anthracology, geoarchaeology (micromorphology), phytoliths, micromammals, ground
         stone tool technologies and dietary isotopes. These networks build on interdisciplinary
         interactions within Liverpool’s Department of Geography through the ‘Unfamiliar
         Landscapes’ project, linking directly to a key research aim of the group to investigate the
         origins of the transition to agriculture.

     •   Ancient Economies has a Mediterranean/Middle Eastern base with active research
         featuring in ERC-funded ‘Rome and the Coinages of the Mediterranean, 200 BCE – 64
         CE’ with UK partners (Warwick; Rutherford Appleton Laboratory) and an advisory panel
         drawn from universities and museums in Austria, Belgium and France. The Olynthos
         project (Archibald Co-Director) involves collaborative research with the University of
         Michigan and the Greek Archaeological Service (2014-2019). Staff contribute to other
         European-based projects: ‘Patrimonium: Geography and Economy of Imperial Properties
         in the Roman World (Bordeaux: Adams, Hirt), ‘Production Economy in Roman Greater


                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Syria; Trade and Networks’ (Aarhus: Adams, Hirt), and the AHRC-funded UK-based
         (Warwick) ‘Debasement: Manipulation of Coin Standards in Pre-Modern Monetary
         Systems’. Widell collaborates with researchers at the Oriental Institute, Chicago and
         Hood Museum of Art, Dartmouth, on the textual analysis of Sumerian administrative
         tablets.


 4.3 Academic citizenship
 We take pride in the involvement of our staff in supporting the discipline nationally and
 internationally:
     •   journal editors or members of editorial boards (n=19),
     •   conference organisers (n=16)
     •   members of peer review bodies (n=23, e.g. AHRC peer review college, NWDCTP
         pathway leads, European Research Council, National Science Foundation, Italian
         Research Quality Evaluation, Polish National Science Centre)
     •   external assessors for promotion to professorships (n=13)
     •   external PhD examiners (n=54).


 Staff have presented, on average, 9.3 papers each at conferences over the REF cycle. The
 quality of individual researchers has been recognised with the award of a British Academy
 Fellowship (Gowlett, 2017) and National Science Foundation Cozzavelli Prize (Pearson 2020).
 We encourage all staff and PGRs to engage in public activities including outreach to raise the
 wider profile of the discipline.


 4.4 Investing in social capital and capacity development
 Working with local, national and international beneficiaries, as noted in section 1.1, our research
 contributions address global challenges and SDGs. Within this broader framework, our strategy
 targets:


    1) museums and heritage sites
    2) enriching educational provision in schools
    3) preserving heritage under threat
    4) informing a global public


 Collectively these contribute to SDGs 1, 3, 4, 5, 11, 12, 16 and 17: No Poverty; Health and
 Well Being; Quality Education; Gender Equality; Sustainable Cities and Communities;
 Responsible Consumption and Production; Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions; and
 Partnerships.


                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 4.4.1 Enhancement of UK and international museums and heritage sites


 Our Castell Henllys and Boncuklu impact case studies represent individual components of a
 broader UK and international network of engagement with museums and heritage management
 partners. Additional examples are:
     •   Routledge’s Dhiban project, Jordan: GCRF funding secured Ministry of Tourism approval
         and government funding for construction of a site visitor centre, incorporating
         archaeological results and public history work generated by the project. Local people
         were trained in heritage conservation (SDGs 3, 11, 17).
     •   Gowlett’s partnership with National Museums of Kenya resulted in the re-development of
         the Kariandusi Museum. This initiative arose in response to continued local interest in
         the project by schools and community leaders. Re-development is ongoing with a
         classroom and displays being constructed incorporating project results (SDGs 3, 11, 17).
     •   A new (2020) Art Fund sponsored project hosted by the Garstang Museum offers
         regional museums (Liverpool, Manchester, Southport, Bolton, Carlisle) the benefits of
         our expertise in 3D visual imaging to create digital archives for research and public
         engagement in the interest of open, collaborative research and knowledge exchange
         (Section 1.3). This builds on regular input by our staff into previous exhibitions and
         collections management of these museums.
     •   We regularly enhance curatorial knowledge and skills amongst our partners. The
         Boncuklu impact case study illustrates this, alongside British Council Cultural Protection
         Fund support for Greaves’ ‘Carved in Stone’ RTI training of Turkey’s museum staff for
         recording reliefs and inscriptions; Ponting and his PGRs analytical work on coins from
         the Museum of London (MOLAS) and Huxley Hoard (Museum of London); and Foxhall’s
         PGRs work on Egyptian textiles held by museums in NW England. (SDGs 3, 4, 11, 17).
     •   As an extension of this we contribute to exhibition development as indicated by the
         Boncuklu impact case study, and Asouti and Baird’s contributions to the new
         Sulaymaniyah Museum prehistory gallery featuring their EFEC research. They advised
         on visuals and text as well as suggesting artefact content (SDGs 3, 4, 11, 17).
         Egyptology staff contributed academic content to Tate Liverpool’s exhibition ‘Surrealism
         in Egypt’ (2018) with PGR-led public tours. The Tate exhibition linked directly, via an
         Exchange Residency with the Garstang exhibition on the ‘Book of the Dead,’ showing
         the close connection between our research and Liverpool’s cultural life.




                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.4.2 Enriching educational provision in schools


 Our Grand Designs in Ancient Greece and Boncuklu impact case studies exemplify engagement
 with schools to contribute curriculum delivery in new, stimulating ways. These approaches
 inform other examples:
    •   Teaching and support training for teachers, e.g. 3-day courses on Ancient Greece, Rome
        and Egypt, and internal Postgate fund supported CPD activities for GCSE and A-level
        teachers of Ancient History in Liverpool, London and Cambridge replete with material
        from our research projects.
    •   Routledge’s GCRF-funded Dhiban project has worked with schools in the town, by the
        site, with a public history project relating to the tell in which the children were involved,
        ‘Valuing sites through valuable stories’ (SDGs 1, 3, 4, 11, 17).
    •   Greaves’ British Council-funded Carved in Stone project developed and disseminated a
        series of educational resources incorporating his research, including games that taught
        children about heritage with conservation heritage education training for 200 teachers
        and community volunteers who then engaged with an estimated 3,000 schoolchildren
        within the project’s first year. The games are available to download, freely minimising
        costs for schools (SDGs 1, 3, 4, 5, 11, 17).


 4.4.3 Preserving heritage under threat


    •   Baird’s British Council-funded Cultural Protection Fund Yazidi project grew from research
        into Yazidi shrines. Yazidis are a minority located largely in Iraq subject to genocide by
        Daesh including destruction of their shrines and heritage. The project has recorded
        Yazidi shrines and memories of destroyed shrines, incorporated into 8 documentaries,
        preventing heritage losses and helping displaced Yazidis retain a sense of cultural
        identity. The research has also embedded discourse in the Yazidi leadership as the best
        approach to rebuilding shrines and ensured the reinstatement of Qewwal (travelling
        priests), retaining ritual practices and identity. In addition, 9 displaced young adult
        Yazidis from refugee camps have been trained to make heritage documentaries,
        preserving heritage and providing skills important to their further development,
        contributing to SDGs 4 and 5. This work has raised awareness of Yazidi heritage in
        neighbouring communities, promoting a tolerant north Iraq. The documentaries were
        broadcast to 43,000 viewers on Kurdish TV plus screenings. Feedback indicated that
        60% felt that the documentaries had contributed to preserving Yazidi heritage, and 89%
        had gained a better understanding of Yazidi heritage. Moreover, the research has raised
        awareness of the destroyed shrines amongst local and national policymakers


                                                                                                  Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        contributing to protection of Yazidis and their heritage. This work has contributed to
        SDGs 1, 3, 4, 5, 11, 12, 17.
    •   Greaves’ Carved in Stone project trained 51 representatives from museums, research
        institutes and commercial heritage consultancies in RTI recording of reliefs and
        inscriptions to reduce the risk of damage to monuments, contributing to SDGs 1, 3, 4, 5,
        11, 17.


 4.4.4 Informing media, local and global publics


 A wider aim of our partnership strategy is to engage in public discourse on how the past links to
 contemporary global challenges. This is well represented in our 4 submitted impact case studies.
 Staff actively contribute to building wider societal understanding of the evolutionary and historical
 foundations of humanity. These foundations include:
    •   dependence on technology (Boncuklu Visitor Centre exhibition on origin of farming)
    •   cultural generation of norms, values, and identities (NICP; Gay History Week; minority
        language visibility in Calabria (Foxhall))
    •   de-colonising Archaeology (Freeman, Head of Augustus exhibition 2018)
    •   spread of infectious disease (Horn of Africa Project, The Body Research Group)
    •   adapting to climate change (‘Chew Bahir Project’, Grove).


 Our public outreach events build on the Heritage theme locally and nationally. The Garstang
 Museum features exhibitions of our research and organised the first Garstang Festival (2019),
 with a family-friendly Saturday, showcasing staff/PGR expertise in accessible, engaging formats.
 We participate in the annual national Festival of Archaeology and ‘Being Human Festival’ of the
 Humanities (AHRC-funded). Staff have also contributed to international ‘Pint of Science’ events
 held in Liverpool, while the Garstang Museum’s late opening as part of Liverpool’s ‘Light Night’,
 a free one-night arts festival, attracted more than 700 visitors under the theme ‘The mummy
 returns’ (2017).


 Outreach complements our role as good academic citizens, requiring a commitment of time and
 willingness to engage with the public. Our research role as creators and disseminators of
 knowledge about the past brings a responsibility to look inwards and outwards: to address in-
 house gender disparities and address global issues of sustainability. These are key priorities as
 we move beyond REF2021 as a unified department.




                                                                                              Page 26
