    Institution: University of Edinburgh (UoE)
    Unit of assessment: UoA1 WORD LIMIT 23,200


    Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
    1.1      Vision
    The vision of Edinburgh Medicine is to improve lives through the understanding of human health
    and disease. Our research, within the College of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine (CMVM), spans
    molecular biology to population sciences, bringing together an interactive community of 377 clinician
    scientists and other researchers (representing 47% staff growth over the REF period) who have
    been awarded £540m research income (16% average annual growth rate), and whose work has
    transformed lives globally though discovery, translation and clinical research.
    1.2      Strategy
    To deliver this vision, our strategy is for scientists, clinicians, industrial and NHS colleagues to work
    side by side in interdisciplinary research institutes, bringing together externally-supported and core-
    funded (MRC, BHF, CRUK) Centres to drive our research themes (Figure 1) and respond to global
    needs. Each Institute has state-of-the-art infrastructure and, with over 500 Principal Investigators,
    post-doctoral research assistants and graduate students, has critical mass to drive innovative
    interdisciplinary research and transform the understanding and treatment of disease. Four such
    research institutes form Edinburgh Medicine and are sited on one of our two core campuses
    (Edinburgh BioQuarter and Western General Hospital), each co-locating a major teaching hospital,
    advanced medical education, state-of-the-art preclinical and clinical investigation facilities and
    translational and commercialisation space.




    Figure 1: Our interdisciplinary themes, strategies and infrastructure that together improve lives throughout the world



1
    Our two new Institutes for REF2021 exemplify this approach to deliver world-leading research and
    innovation. The Institute for Regeneration and Repair (IRR) was created in 2019, bringing together
    the existing Centres for Regenerative Medicine (MRC centre status 2008-2020), Inflammation
    Research (MRC centre status 2000-2018) and the MRC Capital Award, “Computational and
    Chemical Biology of the Stem Cell Niche”, to accelerate our research in this field. IRR will coalesce
    its centres in a new building (£90.7m, opening 2022) creating the largest institute for regeneration
    globally, to facilitate translation of discovery to therapy. Adding further strength, our Centre-in-
    development for Infection Medicine will strategically locate to IRR to explore the important links
    between infection and inflammation.
    The Usher Institute was created in 2014 by melding the Centres for Population Health Sciences,
    Global Health Research, Medical Informatics and the Edinburgh Clinical Trials Unit, to create
    synergies in the studies of people, populations and data science. Evidencing success, Usher has
    become a designated Innovation Centre, delivering health & social care data-driven innovation (DDI)
    as part of the £661m Edinburgh City Region Deal (2018) that has created a major new strand in
    medical informatics. The Institute will expand into the new Usher II Institute building (£68m, opening
    2023), co-locating 950 medical data researchers who collaborate with data scientists in the Turing
    Institute (UoA11), social scientists in the Wellcome Trust funded (£1.2m) Centre for Biomedicine,
    Self and Society (returned UoA20), and the £82m national supercomputer ARCHER2, aiming to
    transform health in global societies.
    Once formed, our Institutes remain responsive to global need and our two other Institutes (returned
    in REF2014) have evolved their research strategy to meet key challenges. The MRC Human
    Genetics Unit (MRC HGU), CRUK Edinburgh Cancer Research Centre (ECRC) and the Centre for
    Genomic and Experimental Medicine (CGEM) together form the MRC Institute of Genetics and
    Molecular Medicine (IGMM). A £27.2m investment in infrastructure created a single IGMM building
    with collaboration space to drive interaction. The Queen's Medical Research Institute that houses
    our Centres in cardiometabolic disease and reproductive health will, as detailed in Future Aims,
    evolve by adding our Neuroscience community (returned UoA4) to the BHF Centre for
    Cardiovascular Science, generating the interlinking of brain and body required for 21 st century
    physiology and medicine.
    Since REF2014 this dynamic institute structure has driven a greatly enhanced level of achievement
    and major capital investment. In addition to the growth in research staff and awards above, highlights
    include:
    Infrastructure
          IRR: New Centre for Tissue Repair building constructed, with expansion work approved and
           ongoing (£90.7m opening 2022)
          Anne Rowling Regenerative Neurology Clinic Phase 2 (£15m 2019)
          New Usher Institute Building and supporting infrastructure (£68m, £49m from data-driven
           innovation component of the Edinburgh City Region Deal; opening 2023)
          IGMM New Institute building (£27.2m 2016)
          City Region Deal investment to deliver enabling infrastructure at the Edinburgh BioQuarter
           campus (£13m)
    Major Funding
          MRC HGU core renewal (£53m 2017-2022): largest MRC Unit in the UK
          UKRI HDR-UK (Health Data Research) core (£5.2m, 2018-2023) and BREATHE Hub
           (£6.9m, 2019-2022)
          UKRMP Engineered Cell Environment Hub (£5.1m 2018-2023)
          CRUK Core and Training Centre Award (£7.7m renewed 2017)
          CRUK Training Award joint with Glasgow - TRACC programme (£6m 2019-2024)
          Wellcome Trust Edinburgh Clinical Academic Training Programme (£10.2m 2017-2025)
          Administrative Data Research Centre Scotland (£7.7m ESRC)
          BHF Centre awards (£5.5m 2017-2019)

2
             Scottish Genomes Partnership (£15m 2015-2020)
             Generation Scotland (£15m SFC, CSO, MRC and Wellcome Trust)
             RESPIRE:NIHR Global Health Research Unit on Respiratory Health (£7.7m 2017-2021)
    People
             73 new appointments to Personal or Established Chairs
             32 new tenure-track Chancellor’s Fellows/ESAT
    Fellowships & Awards
             4 Fellows of the Royal Society
             34 Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
             26 Fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences
             30 Clinical Training Fellowships
             10 Intermediate Clinical Fellowships
             11 Senior Fellowships
             Athena Swan (Silver)
             2 Queen’s Anniversary Prizes (2015, 2017)
    Translation
             6 new companies formed attracting £38.7m initial investment
    Impact
             Determining that computer tomography coronary angiography imaging is the most accurate
              and cost-effective way to diagnose ischaemic heart disease, changing guidelines and routine
              practice in the UK, Europe and USA
             Developing an integrated model of delivering palliative care in resource-poor settings which
              has resulted in a 5-fold increase in morphine availability in parts of sub-Saharan Africa since
              2012
             Demonstrating the effectiveness and superiority of ulipristal acetate as emergency
              contraception, leading to its usage in 23 EU countries without prescription, empowering
              women to take charge of their own fertility
    Interdisciplinarity
             PROTEUS (£11.3m EPSRC) bringing together clinician scientists, chemists and optical
              physicists to devise real-time solutions to the diagnosis of lung infection
             The Chemistry and Computational Biology of the Niche facility (£5.1m MRC) exploits the
              interface of stem cell biology, chemical engineering and bioengineering to develop 3D
              models of stem cell microenvironments that enhance regeneration
             Advanced Care Research Centre (£20m Legal & General collaboration 2020) brings together
              clinician scientists working in primary and hospital care with engineers working on
              biosensors, social care researchers and ethicists to develop new models for care of the
              elderly
             The Wellcome Trust Centre for Biomedicine, Self and Society (£1.2m, returned UoA20)
              conducting interdisciplinary humanities and social science research in biomedicine, public
              health and health care, bringing together clinicians and social scientists to address the wider
              social and ethical issues in medicine early on in the research and development trajectory
    1.3       Research Themes
    Genetics: 66 UoA1 Staff Returned
    The MRC Human Genetics Unit (MRC HGU, £53m; Director Bickmore) that nucleates this research
    theme combines the latest computational and experimental technologies to investigate how our
    genomes work to control the function of molecules, cells and tissues in people and populations.
    MRC HGU applies clinical and scientific expertise, harnessing the power of complex data, to improve

3
    health, and the lives of patients and their families. This is facilitated through strong collaboration with
    the NHS: powerful genetic analytical pipelines and subsequent mechanistic research allow
    diagnostics and biological insight to be returned to the clinic. For example, in the Deciphering
    Developmental Disorders study clinical recruitment of >13,000 affected individuals, mostly children
    with severe undiagnosed developmental disorders, was achieved via all 23 of the NHS regional
    genetics services in the UK. This study has reported a confident genetic diagnosis in 35% of the
    research participants and has directly informed clinical practice, by limiting unnecessary invasive
    diagnostic procedures, clarifying reproductive risks and, in some cases, changing therapy. In
    addition to MRC programme grant support to Ponting (£3.5m), senior fellowships awarded within
    this research theme include Kudla who was awarded a Wellcome Trust Senior Research Fellowship
    in Basic Biomedical Science (£1.4m).
    Our genome regulation research addresses the
    mechanisms of genome stability, gene expression and
    relationship to disease: Bickmore and FitzPatrick
    linked gene control and enhancers to rare diseases
    (Nat Genet 2018). A. Wood and Bickmore (Figure 2)
    showed that chromatin decondensation is sufficient to
    alter nuclear organisation in embryonic stem cells
    (Science 2014), while Gilbert delineated new
    mechanisms of chromatin structure and dynamics,
    supported by the Edinburgh Super-Resolution Imaging
    Consortium (Cell 2017).
    Our genome medicine research focuses on the genetic
    analysis of complex traits and monogenic diseases,
    utilising state-of-the-art sequencing and computation
                                                           Figure 2: Understanding chromatin structure:
    analysis of whole genome and epigenome data to
                                                           Chromosome 2 polycomb positive (red) and
    predict, diagnose and treat disease. Lees founded the
                                                           negative (green) oligo paint on WT ES cells
    PREdiCCt longitudinal follow-up study in IBD (Lancet (Bickmore)
    2016), and used capture-recapture methodology to determine a high IBD prevalence in Lothian (Gut
    2019), and genetics to predict IBD treatment responses (Gastroenterology 2020). Our biomedical
    genomics research harnesses multidimensional genome-sized and population-scale data for
    biological learning. Sproul, Marsh and A. Jackson identified a reciprocal relationship between
    epigenetic marks and human embryonic growth (Nat Genet 2019). Kudla used synthetic biology at
    scale to understand genotype to phenotype links (Science 2016). Tenesa and Canela-Xandri
    developed new software to deal with data scale and kinship and produced the largest GWAS for
    quantitative traits in UK Biobank (Nat Genet 2018), and with Haley assessed the contribution of
    genetic and familial-shared environment to common disease using the UK Biobank (Nat Genet
    2016). Ponting discovered the impact of non-coding RNA on mitochondrial function (eLife 2019)
    and Taylor, Reijns (UoA4) and A. Jackson showed how replication processes impact genome
    mutation rates (Nat 2015).
Our medical genetics research is based around single gene disorders, population genetics with a
focus on 'complex’ disorders of the brain, and novel gene therapies for Cystic Fibrosis. A Jackson
has identified gene abnormalities of growth disorders, genome integrity and cell division (Genes &
Dev 2016), inflammation (Nat 2017) and cancer (Nat 2018). Marsh has discovered how protein
complex assembly can inform analysis of disease-related gene variants (Science 2015). Porteous,
Thomson, Nicodemus and Evans have defined the genetic contributions to risk of schizophrenia
and other major mental illness (Nat 2015, Mol Psych 2018, Mol Psych 2020). Porteous co-leads the
UK Cystic Fibrosis (CF) Gene Therapy Consortium delivering pioneering translational and clinical
CF gene therapy research (Lancet Respir Med 2015). Marioni researches the epigenetic changes
of ageing and dementia (Mol Psych 2019).




4
    Cancer: 33 UoA1 Staff Returned
    Our Edinburgh Cancer Research Centre (ECRC) includes the core funded Cancer Research UK
    Edinburgh Centre (CRUK EC £7.7m; Director Tomlinson, Clinical Director Gourley) which brings
    together cancer scientists and clinicians from across the University of Edinburgh. CRUK EC is part
    of the network of CRUK Centres, and a partnership between UoE, CRUK and NHS Lothian. Clinical
    and translational emphasis is on colorectal cancer, women’s cancers (breast, ovarian and
    endometrial) and brain cancer, for which Edinburgh is a CRUK Brain Tumour Centre of Excellence
    (Lead Frame). ECRC places significant value on clinical translational science with tissue
    collection/biobanking and trials activities fully integrated with IGMM research and NHS Lothian
    Cancer Services (Director Hayward*). In addition to CRUK programme grant support to Frame
    (£1.9m) and Tomlinson (£2.2m), senior fellowships awarded within this research theme include
    Wilkinson who was awarded a CRUK Senior Cancer Research Fellowship (£2m).
    Our oncology discovery research focuses on stem cells
    and the cancer niche, signalling and biological
    mechanisms. In cancer biology studies, Frame and
    Brunton (Figure 3) have shown how nuclear adhesion
    network hubs (FAK, Ambra1 and Kindlin) control
    intracellular trafficking and tumour T cell responses
    (Cell 2015, eLife 2017, Science Signalling 2017)
    leading to a clinical trial of FAK inhibition with
    immunotherapy. Acosta described the regulation of
    tumour cell senescence by innate immune sensing via
    Toll-like receptor 2 (Science Advances 2019, Genes
    Dev 2019 (with Bickmore, MRC-HGU), Nat Cell Biol
    2015, J Exp Med 2017, Nat Commun 2018). Wilkinson
    uncovered a new non-canonical autophagy receptor
    required for pancreatic cancer proteostasis (Dev Cell
    2018). Unciti-Broceta has pioneered the application of
    gold and palladium nanoparticles for controlled release    Figure 3: Watching tumour growth in real time:
    of anticancer drugs (Nat Catalysis 2014), applying         In vivo imaging of the tumour and its associated
    innovative chemistry to cancer biology. Boulter has        microenvironment using combined CARS / 2-
    described the role of Wnt signalling in biliary fibrosis   photon microscopy (Serrels, Frame and Brunton)
    and cholangiocarcinoma (Nat Commun 2020, JCI
    2015).
    Our translational oncology research focuses on cancer phenomics drug discovery, and stratification
    for prevention and therapy. In the area of colon cancer genetics, Dunlop, Din, Farrington and
    Tomlinson have advanced the fields of colorectal cancer risk (BMC Med 2018, J Clin Oncol 2015);
    the genetic determinants of colorectal cancer (Nat Commun 2016, 2019; Nat Genet 2016) and
    discovered a link between plasma vitamin D concentration and survival outcomes of colorectal
    cancer patients (Gut 2019). Tomlinson, a new senior recruit (incoming Edinburgh Cancer Research
    Centre and CRUK-Edinburgh Centre Director) has discovered genes that initiate tumorigenesis (Nat
    2017, Nat Gen 2016, Nat Med 2015, Cancer Cell 2016). Bankhead who was recruited to enhance
    digital pathology, developed QuPath, a leading cross-platform open source software for quantitative
    pathology and bioimage analysis (Sci Reports 2017), that enabled key collaborative advances (Nat
    Neurosci 2017, eLife 2018). Carragher plays a key role in the ‘Edinburgh Cancer Translational
    Pathway’, by linking innovations in biomarker and drug development via protein micro-arrays,
    phenotypic-based drug screening and the development of small molecule inhibitor compounds
    (Cancer Cell 2015).
    In our clinical oncology research, Cameron has made key contributions to global breast cancer trials
    including the Herceptin Adjuvant (HERA) trial (Lancet 2017) and UK TACT2 trial (Lancet Oncol
    2017). Gourley has followed work defining risks associated with BRCA1 mutations in ovarian
    cancers (Lancet Oncol 2014) to be UK lead of the pivotal trial that helped Olaparib gain approval as
    maintenance treatment for patients with a newly-diagnosed BRCA-mutated advanced ovarian

5
    cancer (N Engl J Med 2018). Herrington and Gourley have provided improved molecular taxonomy
    of endometrioid ovarian carcinoma (Nat Commun 2020). Fallon and Laird have led key clinical
    studies that influenced palliative and supportive care for advanced cancer patients, including testing
    oral ketamine in neuropathic pain (JAMA Oncol 2018). They also described the ‘Edinburgh pain
    assessment and management tool’ (J Clin Oncol 2018) and a novel mode of assessment of quality
    of life in patients with advanced cancer (J Clin Oncol 2016).
    Data Sciences, Medical Informatics & Population Sciences: 62 UoA1 Staff Returned
    The core vision of this theme, based in the Usher Institute, is to take a multidisciplinary approach to
    information technology development and the increasing use of routine health data to improve
    practise and implement sustainable change in healthcare delivery. The Usher Institute is key in
    delivering Health & Social Care Data-Driven Innovation as part of the £237m awarded to UoE for
    research and development in data-driven innovation within the Edinburgh & South East Scotland
    City Region Deal.
    Respiratory health is a strategic focus, including leadership of the Asthma UK Centre for Applied
    Research (Sheikh £2m) and the HDR-UK BREATHE Hub (Director Sheikh £6.9m). The aim is to
    support the use of respiratory data in high quality research and cutting-edge innovation, enabling
    the development of new treatments and better care to transform respiratory health for people across
    the UK. The NIHR Global Health Research Unit on Respiratory Health (RESPIRE, Director Sheikh
    £7.7m) was funded as part of the NIHR Global Health Research Programme in 2016/17. The
    RESPIRE collaboration spans Asia with organisations in Bangladesh, India, Malaysia and Pakistan
    working in partnership with the University of Edinburgh. Pinnock leads research on supported self-
    management of asthma through the IMP 2ART consortium (NIHR £1m). In addition to these strategic
    initiatives in respiratory medicine, Harrison is a Co-I in the £7m NIHR Global Surgery Research Unit
    (£1m to UoE), Guthrie is lead for the new (2020) Advanced Care Research Centre (Legal & General
    £20m) which, with Mercer and colleagues from Engineering, Art, Informatics and Social Sciences,
    will develop interdisciplinary solutions for care of the elderly, and Sudlow is leading a project to
    understand multi-morbidity using routine healthcare data (HDR-UK £1m).
    Our global health research investigates the epidemiology of infectious disease. Nair and
    Campbell’s work led to an expansion of the estimate of RSV-associated acute lower respiratory
    infection, finding that ~45% of hospital admissions and in-hospital deaths due to RSV-ALRI occur in
    children younger than 6 months, and that an effective maternal vaccine could therefore have a
    substantial effect (Lancet 2017). Nair, Campbell and Rudan analysed the decrease in child
    pneumonia and recommended further intersectoral action improving socioeconomic conditions and
    targetting risk factors to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals for health by 2030 (Lancet
    Glob Health 2018). Atkins investigates HIV-1 acquisition and prevention strategies and has
    developed models that describe epidemics, vaccine impact and the limitations of using population
    data to estimate fatality rates (Science 2020). Rodger leads work understanding the cost-benefit of
    prophylaxis and the risk factors in HIV transmission (Lancet Infectious Diseases 2018, JAMA 2016).
    Our primary care and multimorbidity research exemplifies our data driven innovation strategy by
    using population health sciences data to improve care. Colhoun and Morris helped determine the
    heritability of the glycaemic response to metformin, a first-line treatment of type 2 diabetes, which
    informs mechanistic understanding and may improve predictions for stratified medicine (Lancet
    Diabetes & Endo 2014). Pinnock, McKinstry and Wild showed that supported telemonitoring
    improved clinically important measurement of glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes
    (PLoS Medicine 2016). McKinstry (SHARE Director) led the HITS clinical trial, which demonstrated
    clinically significant improvements in ambulatory blood pressure using telemonitoring-assisted self-
    management despite fewer and shorter GP appointments (PLoS Medicine 2020), a system now
    being rolled out across all 14 NHS Scotland health boards (£2m, Scottish Government) and
    recognised by the Clinical Improvement Award at the UK General Practice Awards in November
    2019. Guthrie researches organisational interventions to improve quality and safety, finding that
    blends of informatics, education and incentives can reduce risk and harm, which has influenced
    prescribing safety and pay-for-performance policy internationally (BMJ 2016, NEJM 2016, NEJM

6
    2018); and with Mercer investigated management of patients with multimorbidity (BMJ 2015, BMC
    Medicine 2017, Lancet 2018), and is working with NICE and SIGN to improve consideration of
    applicability in live guideline development. Shenkin and Maclullich (returned UoA4) developed and
    validated a widely-used tool to diagnose delirium in older people in hospital, enabling rapid
    intervention to treat underlying cause (UoA4 ICS/A) (BMC Medicine 2019).
    Our interdisciplinary medical informatics research focuses on using information technology solutions
    to measure the outcomes of healthcare. Sheikh, following an influential meta-analysis of the effect
    of smoke-free legislation on child health (Lancet 2014), contributed to an evaluation of the impact of
    London’s low emission zone on air quality and children’s respiratory health, finding no evidence for
    a reduction in the proportion of children with lung damage despite small improvements in air quality
    (Lancet Public Health 2019). Sheikh provided the first UK-wide estimates of the considerable
    morbidity, healthcare utilisation and financial cost of asthma (BMC Medicine 2016). Harrison and
    Docherty showed that patients from ethnic minorities hospitalised with COVID-19 were more
    frequently admitted to critical care and require ventilation than white patients with similar disease
    severity, despite being younger (BMJ 2020). Price leads the Cochrane Vascular review group
    contributing to advances in the management of type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease and stroke,
    such as the effect of aspirin on risks of vascular events (Lancet 2018).
    Usher hosts the Edinburgh Clinical Trials Unit (ECTU) leading research in novel trial design and
    methodology. Lewis developed world class trials guidance in data sharing and statistical analysis
    plans (JAMA 2017), and Weir and Parker reported the benefits of adaptive and model-based
    designs in trials (Stat. Methods Med. Res 2015, Clinical Trials 2020). More broadly, the expertise
    within ECTU in medical statistics and study design has been crucial for the success of many projects:
    Norrie, Weir and Parker are co-authors of several important studies highlighted in this UoA1
    submission, such as AFFIRM fetal movement trial (Lancet 2018), and the role of troponin assays in
    the management of myocardial infarction (Circulation 2020, JACC 2019, Lancet 2018).
    Regeneration and Repair: 105 UoA1 Staff Returned
                                               This research theme has been underpinned by MRC core
                                               funding in each of the key research areas being bought
                                               together in IRR and fundamental to our understanding of
                                               how to repair damaged tissues; regenerative medicine
                                               (MRC CRM £2.5m, Director St. Forbes), inflammation
                                               biology (MRC CIR £2m, Director Gregory), stem cell
                                               niche biology and computational biology (MRC Capital
                                               Award: Computational and Chemical Biology of the Stem
                                               Cell Niche, CCBN). Senior fellowships awarded within
                                               this research theme including MRC Senior Clinical
                                               Fellowship     (Mole,     £3.2m),    NHS      Research
                                               Scotland/Universities    Senior   Clinical  Fellowship
                                               (Fallowfield, £0.4m), Wellcome Trust Intermediate
                                               Clinical Fellowships (Baillie (£1m), Bird (£0.9m),
                                               Ferenbach (£1.2m)), Wellcome Trust Senior Research
                                               Fellowships in Clinical Science (Henderson (£1.8m),
Figure 4: Model systems for studying            Walmsley (£1.8m)), Wellcome Trust Senior Research
regeneration: Mouse Salivary Gland              Fellowships in Basic Biomedical Science (Wood,
                                                £1.8m).
    Our regenerative medicine research investigates tissue formation, homeostasis and repair:
    Illingworth demonstrated the importance of 3D chromatin structure in stem cells (Science 2014,
    Genes & Dev 2020). Kaji identified genes and signalling pathways required for cell fate change in
    the development of pluripotency (Cell Stem Cell 2014, 2017). Emmerson (Figure 4) has defined the
    essential role of the neuronal niche in salivary gland development and regeneration (eLife 2017,
    EMBO Mol Med 2018, Development 2017). Becker has identified Wnt and Tnf signalling as potential


7
    therapeutic targets for spinal cord regeneration in zebrafish (Development 2016, Nature Comms
    2017, 2018).
    Disease modelling and regenerative therapy development are a major focus: A. Williams utilises
    single cell genomics to elucidate the heterogeneity of oligodendroglia and mechanisms of
    remyelination in mouse and human brain (Nat Neurosci 2017, 2019, Sci Transl Med 2018, Nat Med
    2018, Nat 2019). Schumacher uses computational biology to model and predict tissue regeneration
    at the cellular level. (Nat Cell Biol 2019). Forrester uses human pluripotent stem cell derived
    macrophages to model the human haematopoietic stem cell niche, identifying new strategies for red
    blood cell production (Nat Commun 2019, Blood 2020). St. Forbes elucidates mechanisms
    controlling regeneration in the damaged liver to identify therapeutic targets, (Nat Cell Biol 2015,
    2019, Nat 2017, Sci Transl Med 2018) and has developed macrophage cell therapy from bench to
    Phase 1/2 clinical trials (Nat Med 2019).
    Our inflammation research investigates the role of innate immune cells in tissue repair: Dzierzak
    defined cellular and molecular controls of the haemopoietic stem cell niche (Nat Commun. 2015, J
    Exp Med 2015, 2018, Immunity 2019). Henderson with Ramachandran studied human tissue injury
    using single-cell RNA sequencing and mouse in vivo genetic knockout approaches to explore the
    pathogenesis of fibrosis (Nat Commun 2016, Nature 2019, 2020). W. Wood used Drosophila to
    understand inflammatory cell migration and signal integration in tissue damage (Cell 2016, 2017,
    Dev Cell 2018, Current Biol 2014, 2020). Saunders has used the endometrium as a model of
    scarless tissue repair defining immune cell phenotypes in inflammation and regeneration (FASEB J
    2016, 2019). Anderton has studied T, B and innate lymphoid cell controls, anti-tumour immunity
    and peptide immunotherapy (Nat 2014, Science 2016, Cell 2015, Immunity 2016). Jenkins and
    Bain have defined the biology of mucosal surface and cavity macrophages in health and disease
    (Nat Commun 2016, Sci Immunol 2020).
    In work exploring the links between cellular and non-cellular mediators of inflammation, Walmsley
    and Whyte demonstrated the importance of oxygen and metabolite sensing pathways in regulating
    neutrophilic inflammation (Science Immunol 2017, Cell Metab 2020). Walmsley has defined how
    the metabolic response of neutrophils programs their behaviour in injured tissue (J Clin Invest 2017,
    2020). Rossi and Lucas investigate how dying immune cells promote inflammation resolution,
    indicating potential therapeutic regenerative strategies (Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2015). Cash has
    developed models that identify inflammatory mechanisms influencing skin wound repair (EMBO J
    2018, Current Biol 2014). M. Gray studies mitochondria and the pro-inflammatory effects of cell
    death upon macrophage activation in rheumatoid arthritis (Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2016). Yao has
    described lipid regulators of inflammation, especially prostaglandins and their receptors, in immune
    and epithelial cell function (Science 2016).
    We are developing novel diagnostics and therapies for inflammatory diseases. Dhaliwal, Haslett
    and Akram have developed in situ optical approaches to image lung infection and fibrosis (Sci
    Transl Med 2018). Vendrell developed novel fluorescent probes to identify apoptosis, infection and
    metabolites in situ (Nat Commun 2016, 2020). Mole described Kynurenine–3–monooxygenase as
    a mediator of multi-organ failure in acute pancreatitis and therapeutic target (Nat Med 2016).
    Fallowfield defined the role of relaxin in liver cirrhosis induced portal hypertension and renal disease
    and took drugs targeting this to Phase 2 trial (PLoS Med 2017).
    Exploring the link between regeneration and cancer, Serrels elucidated the regulation of CD8
    effector T-cell responses in pancreatic cancer, especially the role of focal adhesion kinase (FAK)
    (Cell 2015, Nat Cell Biol 2014). Feng has used zebrafish models to investigate the tumour initiating
    effects of inflammation (EMBO J 2015), while Gregory’s work has revealed the oncogenic response
    of macrophages and extracellular vesicles to dying tumour cells (Current Biol 2015). Hansen has
    studied the Hippo pathway in tumours and tissue regeneration, describing links between the immune
    and mechanotransduction systems (Nat Cell Biol 2015 Current Biol 2019).
    The role of stem cells in cancer development and therapy is investigated in collaboration with CRUK
    EC: S. Pollard has developed genome engineering tools to study the role of neural stem cells in
    glioblastoma development (Genes & Dev 2017, eLIFE 2016). Ottersbach has defined roles of

8
    haematopoietic stem cell development and childhood leukaemia (Sci Rep 2019). Guest has
    identified a cell of origin and mechanistic drivers of cholangiocarcinoma (Cancer Res. 2014, Proc
    Natl Acad Sci USA 2016).
    Cardiometabolic: 68 UoA1 Staff Returned
    Our Centre for Cardiovascular Science (CCVS, Director: Baker), which had its BHF Centre for
    Research Excellence status renewed in 2019 (£3m) and was awarded the Queen’s Anniversary
    Prize (2014-16), nucleates this research theme. BHF Centre funding for Vascular Regeneration was
    renewed 2017 (£2.5m). Newby (£1.8m) and Baker (£1.8m) have both renewed their BHF Chairs
    and Dweck was awarded a BHF Intermediate Clinical Fellowship (£0.9m). A Wellcome Trust Senior
    Research Fellowship in Clinical Science was awarded to Semple (£1.8m); Denby was awarded a
    KRUK Senior Fellowship (non-clinical, £0.5m).
    Improved diagnosis and novel therapy development
    for cardiovascular disease is a major research focus.
    Miller, Mills and Newby demonstrated the adverse
    cardiovascular effects of air pollution (UoA1 ICS/A);
    their findings have driven policy change at local,
    national and international government level (Lancet
    2013). In work on myocardial infarction, they also
    determined the optimal thresholds of cardiac troponin
    concentration for diagnosing infarction and defined
    early rule-out pathways resulting in faster and more
    accurate diagnosis, saving NHS resources (BMJ
    2017, Lancet 2018, NEJM 2019). In parallel, Newby
    and Mills have developed novel cardiometabolic
    imaging techniques to improve diagnosis and aid
    development of future therapies and have published a
    large portfolio of work including multicentre
    randomised controlled trials (SCOT-HEART) in
                                                              Figure 2:
                                                                     5:ACell
                                                                         multispectral lineage-tracing ‘Confetti’injury
                                                                                                                  mouse
    computed tomography positron emission tomography Figure   model,
                                                                             lineage tracing
                                                                     whichAexpresses
                                                                                               during vascular
                                                                                      1 of 4 lineage-tracing
                                                                                             fluorescent proteins (GFP,
                                                              and  repair:   multispectral                     ‘Confetti’
    and magnetic resonance imaging (Lancet 2014, RFP, YFP, CFP) specifically in vascular endothelial cells
                                                              mouse model, which expresses 1 of 4 fluorescent
    NEJM 2018, JACC 2019). Baker has developed (Brittan)
                                                              proteins (GFP, RFP, YFP, CFP) specifically in vascular
    RNA-, gene- and cell-based therapies for vascular endothelial cells (Brittan)
    disease including first-in-human approaches (JACC
    2015, Circulation 2016, Circ Res 2019). Brittan
    (Figure 5) discovered novel targets modulating cardiac neovascularisation by resident endothelial
    cells following myocardial infarction and identified the vascular origin of endothelial progenitor cells
    (EHJ 2019, Circulation 2019).
    Our metabolism, obesity and diabetes theme examines risk factors for cardiometabolic diseases.
    Reynolds has elucidated the effect of metformin on maternal and fetal outcomes in obese pregnant
    women (Lancet Diabetes & Endo 2015). Stimson has defined the regulation of metabolic activity of
    human brown adipose tissue (Cell Metabolism 2016, 2018). Andrew led a population-based cohort
    study in incidence of type 2 diabetes mellitus in men receiving steroid 5α-reductase inhibitors (BMJ
    2019). Benezech has studied the role of iNKT cells and the lymphoid structures within visceral
    adipose tissue in the control of inflammation and obesity (Nat Commun 2016). Cawthorn analysed
    how bone marrow adiposity impacts human metabolism (Cell Metabolism 2014, Nat Commun 2015,
    2020). Morton identified thiosulfate sulfurtransferase as an adipocyte-expressed antidiabetic target
    in mice selected for leanness (Nat Med 2016). Minchin has developed high-throughput in vivo
    profiling of candidate human obesity genes in zebrafish (Cell. 2019). Sh. Forbes is lead of the
    Scottish Islet Transplantation Service and is developing methods to optimise islet transplantation
    (Science Trans Med 2020). In work on renal disease, Bailey has defined the activation of the
    endothelin system in transition of acute kidney injury to chronic kidney disease (Circulation 2016).
    Dhaun identified a novel role for myeloid endothelin-B receptors in hypertension (EHJ 2019) and


9
 Webb described the endocrine and haemodynamic changes in resistant hypertension, and
 determined its optimal therapy (Lancet 2016).
 Addressing a major global need within metabolic medicine, Dear, Eddleston and Webb developed
 a toxicology research programme and, having validated a shorter treatment of acetylcysteine for
 paracetamol overdose patients which reduces adverse drug reactions and can save NHS resource
 (Lancet 2014, returned in REF2014) (UoA1 ICS/I), further stratified risk after paracetamol overdose
 using mechanistic biomarkers (Lancet Gastroenterology and Hepatology 2018). Eddleston is
 studying strategies to prevent pesticide self-poisoning in rural Asia using randomised trials (Lancet
 2017) (UoA1 ICS/K) and has helped to determine risk factors for suicide and self-harm (Lancet
 Psychiatry 2019).
 Reproductive Health: 28 UoA1 Staff Returned
 Our MRC Centre for Reproductive Health (MRC CRH, Director: J. Pollard), which had its MRC core
 grant renewed for a second five-year term in 2016 (£2.3m), nucleates this research theme. The
 Edinburgh Tommy’s Centre for Maternal and Fetal Health (£3.1m Director: Denison) is based within
 MRC CRH and works on the major clinical challenges of preterm birth, stillbirth, and the impacts of
 maternal obesity, depression and stress. A Wellcome Trust Intermediate Clinical Fellowship was
 awarded to Stock (£1.1m).
                                               Reproductive resilience, repair and preservation is a
                                               key focus. In work on heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB),
                                               which is common and debilitating for women, Critchley
                                               and Saunders refined a mouse model of simulated
                                               menses (Sci Rep 2017), which models human
                                               menstrual bleeding and supports translational studies.
                                               Maybin and Critchley have described physiological
                                               endometrial hypoxia during menstrual bleeding and
                                               shown that women with HMB have decreased
                                               endometrial HI-1α during menstruation (Nat Commun
                                               2018). Horne found that women with endometriosis
                                               have peritoneal mesothelial cells with an abnormal
                                               metabolic profile (JCEM 2014, PNAS 2019), leading to
                                               an ongoing phase II clinical trial (EPiC) and led a major
                                               trial of gabapentin for pelvic pain (Lancet 2020). In work
 Figure 6: Understanding human germ cell      on      preservation after chemotherapy, Mitchell
 development: A Human MII oocyte derived from established a clinical and research programme for
 in vitro culture (Anderson)                  fertility preservation in pre-pubertal males (Cell Reports
                                              2018), complementing the established ovarian
 cryopreservation programme run by Anderson, which achieved the first UK pregnancy after ovarian
 tissue transplantation and which has informed and led the European Society of Human Reproduction
 and Embryology guidelines (Figure 6).
 In studies of germ cell development and pregnancy, Anderson identified novel targets of the RNA
 binding proteins DAZL and BOLL in human ovarian development and identified roles in primordial
 follicle formation (FASEBJ 2019). N. Gray has shown mechanistic roles for poly A binding proteins
 in germ cells (PNAS 2016, 2017). Lin has shown the mechanisms behind transcriptional activation
 in the early embryo (Cell 2018). Mitchell has developed xenograft models to show how commonly-
 used drugs affect testosterone production (Science Trans Med 2015). Horne’s research into ectopic
 pregnancy has led to a Phase II study of gefitinib (epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor) with
 methotrexate as a new strategy to treat ectopic pregnancies (Ebiomedicine 2018). Computational
 magnetic imaging studies by Boardman have shown how brain development is impacted by preterm
 birth, and identified genetic and environmental exposures that modify risk (eLife 2020, JAMA
 Network Open 2019, NeuroImage 2019). Miron (UoA4) and J. Pollard have shown that brain
 macrophages (microglia) are essential for brain remyelination after injury due to pre-term birth (Nat
 Neurosci 2019). Stock has demonstrated that the timing and mode of delivery have long-term

10
 consequences for mother and baby, affecting neurocognitive, respiratory and metabolic outcomes
 (PLoS Med 2018). Norman has shown in multicentre clinical trials that progesterone does not
 reduce risk in pre-term birth, also changing guidelines (NEJM 2019), and that awareness of foetal
 movement did not reduce risks of stillbirths (Lancet 2018).
 In work linking with the Cancer and Regeneration themes above, work on reproductive system
 cancers by J. Pollard has pioneered studies of tumour associated macrophages and has described
 roles in metastasis (JEM 2015, Nat Cell Biol 2019) and inhibition of chemotherapeutic efficacy
 (Cancer Res 2015). Several of these studies have been translated into human endometrial and
 breast cancer therapeutic targets (Cancer Cell 2019).
 Infection Medicine: 15 UoA1 Staff Returned
 Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, our research in infection medicine focused on host-pathogen
 interactions with the development of a core funded Centre being an important strategic goal. In work
 examining pathogens, Schneiders has described intrinsic mechanisms of antibiotic resistance,
                                                                              fitness and survival in Gram-
                                                                              negative bacteria (Nat Commun
                                                                              2018), Scortti has identified
                                                                              molecular determinants of
                                                                              bacterial virulence (PLoS Genet
                                                                              2018,     Cell     Rep     2019),
                                                                              Bachmann has developed
                                                                              strategies for rapid point-of care
                                                                              detection     of    anti-microbial
                                                                              resistance,      bacteria     and
                                                                              biomarkers         to       guide
                                                                              antimicrobial     therapy     and
                                                                              combat resistance (Biosens
                                                                              Bioelectron 2016) and Welburn
                                                                              (Figure 7) has identified the
                                                                              interactions between parasites
                                                                              and their vectors and hosts that
                                                                              lead to transmission of human
 Figure 7: Promoting Global Health: Cattle being sprayed to kill parasites to sleeping      sickness     (PLoS
 reduce human sleeping sickness (Welburn)                                     Neglected Tropical Diseases
                                                                              2016). Parallel work on host
 responses focuses on the role of immune cells in infection. Dockrell is working to recalibrate the
 alveolar macrophage antimicrobial responses he has described to combat anti-microbial resistance
 (Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2018, 2019), and Bogaert has described the roles of the microbiome,
 (epi)genetics and host immunity in the pathogenesis of paediatric respiratory infections (Lancet
 Respir Med 2019, 2020; Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2017).
 COVID-19 Research
 These and other Edinburgh Medicine researchers reacted quickly to the COVID-19 pandemic and
 were able to rapidly pivot research, capturing research resources as a result of existing multi-
 disciplinary networks and close collaborations, and contributing crucial data in real-time as the
 pandemic has evolved.
 Epidemiology. Sheikh and Mills are tracking the progress of the COVID-19 epidemic in near real
 time, using longitudinal healthcare records of 1.2 million people in Scotland to form a more complete
 picture of the effect COVID-19 is having upon people's health (HDR Breathe Hub). Swann and
 Harrison reported the clinical characteristics of children and young people admitted to hospital with
 COVID-19 in the UK (BMJ 2020). Colhoun is exploring the epidemiology of COVID-19 disease in
 diabetes. Figueroa is exploring the impact of COVID-19 on health services in rural Kenya. Nair is
 exploring the impact of COVID-19 on rural communities in South Africa by building on the existing
 population-clinic linkage in rural north-east South Africa (GCRF funded) with a focus on health

11
 outcomes stratified by presence or absence of co-morbid chronic conditions such as HIV/AIDS, TB,
 cardiovascular and metabolic disease.
 Genetics. Baillie is lead PI of GenOMICC, (£28m), the largest study in the world of its kind
 comprising of an open, collaborative, global community of clinicians and scientists trying to
 understand and treat critical illness. Partners have been recruiting patients since 2016 to study
 emerging infections (SARS/MERS/Flu) and adapted very quickly to respond to the COVID-19
 pandemic leading to a milestone publication on genetic mechanisms of critical illness due to COVID-
 19 (Nature 2020). Coronagenes (Wilson and Tenesa) will recruit and follow the general population
 during the coronavirus pandemic through an existing online e-recruitment platform; the aim is to
 capture the self-reported longitudinal phenotypes of those who suffer a COVID-19 infection but that
 do not require medical intervention (complementing the GenOMICC study). Schneiders is
 investigating the role of bacterial co-infection in severe pneumonia-like disease in COVID-19
 patients using a genomics approach in a multi-centre study in the UK and India. Ponting is analysing
 genetic and omic data, derived from COVID-19 patients in NHS intensive care units, to better
 understand host, virus and host-virus factors that alter outcomes from infection (medRXiv 2020).
 Pathobiology. Baillie also leads, with Docherty and Harrison, the ISARIC-4C (£6m) Coronavirus
 Clinical Characterisation Consortium (BMJ 2020, Am J Respir Crit Care Med 2020). Michlewski
 has implicated TRIM25 as an essential RNA-binding protein in sensing and inhibiting the virus,
 pivoting a BBSRC funded project focused on influenza A. Dockrell is profiling the inflammatory
 cascade of COVID-19 to elucidate the peripheral blood signature mediators in four patient groups:
 community, at hospital admission, rapidly deteriorating, ventilated critically ill. Dorward has set up
 a rapid COVID-19 post-mortem study to describe the histological and molecular changes occurring
 in fatal COVID-19 infection (medRXiv 2020). Ferenbach is investigating the role of epithelial
 senescence on fibrosis and outcome after COVID-19 infection (£523k). R. Gray is studying the role
 of Neutrophil Extracellular Traps (NETs) in COVID-19 Pneumonia.
 Diagnosis. IGMM scientists, laboratory space and equipment have supported NHS Lothian’s testing
 efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. A pool of 25 scientists (selected from >750 volunteers)
 delivered up to 1000 tests per day during the outbreak. Looking to next-generation testing,
 Bachmann is researching a molecular diagnostic of SARS-CoV-2 for community point of care
 infection testing with an industry partner, and Gilbert is developing a second-generation serology
 test for stratifying patients into groups corresponding to whether the patient has been infected with
 SARS-CoV-2, characteristics of immune response and prognosis for future resistance to disease
 (medRXiv 2020).
 Clinical investigations. Our clinician scientists within CCVS are utilising advanced clinical imaging to
 detail the impact of COVID-19. Newby is examining the association between COVID-19 and
 thromboembolic disease using 18F-GP1 PET-CT and deploying the approved protocols of the
 iThrombus study. Singh and Newby are using gadolinium and manganese-enhanced MRI
 combined with CT coronary angiography to assess the mechanisms and direct impact of myocardial
 injury in patients who are recovering from COVID-19 infection. Tavares is using autoradiography
 techniques and microPET/CT techniques with 18F-GP1, a biomarker of blood clots, to study how
 COVID-19 triggers pulmonary thrombosis. M. Williams is using machine learning to classify features
 of COVID-19 on chest CT scans. Dweck is investigating COVID-19 effects on the heart and has
 found in a global study that almost half of Covid-19 patients who have been hospitalised had heart
 scan abnormalities resembling the early stages of heart failure (Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Imaging
 2020).
 Treatments. Haas and Tait-Burkard (returned UoA6) are testing a selected set of FDA-approved
 small molecule inhibitors and biologicals for antiviral activity against SARS-CoV2 and is also
 performing a genome-wide siRNA knockdown screen for host factors affecting SARS-CoV2
 replication as part of the €77.7m IMI-2 CARE consortium. Drug inhibitors of the identified host factors
 will be tested for SARS-CoV2 inhibition. Dhaliwal is leading STOPCOVID-19 (£2m LifeArc): a team
 of 150 respiratory physicians and scientists testing existing and experimental drugs to find a
 treatment. Sheikh is investigating hypertonic saline nasal irrigation and gargling with hypertonic

12
 saline for suspected or confirmed COVID-19 using a pragmatic web-based Bayesian adaptive
 randomised controlled trial (ELVIS COVID-19). Ball is determining if IFNA14 (a non-canonical
 subtype of IFNA) has therapeutic potential in COVID-19 patients.
 1.4    Approach To Impact
 Over the past decade, there has been a significant culture shift in the Edinburgh Medicine
 translational research environment. To address a paucity of translational activity, an Entrepreneur-
 in Residence was appointed (Dr Howard Marriage, 2009, MRC funded). As a result of an initial
 increase in translational activities, the infrastructure was further improved in 2011 by recruiting a
 wider team of industrialists with commercialisation experience and a proven track record in
 translating research outputs. This commercialisation team focused on increasing industrial
 collaborations as well as company creation by implementing targeted best practice translational
 business models. This strategic venture successfully increased translational and commercialisation
 activity within the Edinburgh Medicine Institutes: over 50% of academic staff are now
 engaged/interested in translational research. The Edinburgh Medicine commercialisation team are
 now embedded into Edinburgh Innovations (EI), the University of Edinburgh technology transfer
 office, to ensure that a streamlined professional service is offered to Edinburgh Medicine academics
 interested in translational activities.
 A further transformational decision was to create a “CMVM Translation and Commercialisation
 Board" (TCB, led by Carragher) in 2018 to further increase the percentage of translationally active
 investigators and researchers and to facilitate translation of excellent clinical and veterinary research
 into impactful contributions to patients, animal welfare, food production and society. The TCB initially
 identified barriers to translation and commercialisation and are working on ways to overcome these
 through funding diversification, improving education and culture, continuing to develop partnerships,
 improving communications, promoting translational areas of excellence and exploiting our enterprise
 and facilities.
 Our strategy to impact involves investment in support infrastructure, strategic funding schemes and
 the recruitment of dedicated research support officers, translators/entrepreneurs in residence and
 public engagement with research leads, alongside the embedding of impact into our research culture
 by its inclusion as a metric of success in the annual review process of Edinburgh Medicine
 investigators.
 Infrastructure
 Our philosophy of creating the physical infrastructure required to bring together the NHS and
 University on our two campuses promotes translational research, and we encourage this further by
 locating newly-formed spins-outs (e.g. Cellinta) within our Institutes or in dedicated bioIncubator
 space on the same campus. To catalyse this translation we have built up four supporting
 organisations, coordinated by the TCB, each described in Section 3; Edinburgh Innovations, driving
 commercial collaborations and the technology transfer office; Edinburgh Research Office (ERO),
 responsible for grant management; the Edinburgh Clinical Trials Unit and the joint UoE/NHS Lothian
 R&D support office (Academic and Clinical Central Office for Research and Development;
 ACCORD) enabling and overseeing clinical trial activity.




13
 Strategic Funding
                                                                            Four strategic funding
                                                                            schemes enable our
                                                                            investigators to develop
                                                                            impact. The £7.7m
                                                                            MRC Confidence in
                                                                            Concept (CiC) funding
                                                                            (the success of which is
                                                                            shown in Figure 8) has
                                                                            been      awarded      to
                                                                            Edinburgh       Medicine
                                                                            each year since 2013.
                                                                            We have also secured
                                                                            MRC Proximity to
                                                                            Discovery         funding
                                                                            each year since 2014
                                                                            (£700k). This is used to
Figure 8: Outputs 2013-2020 from Edinburgh Medicine MRC CIC Awards           promote academic and
                                                                             industry    interactions
and funds activities such as quarterly Drug Discovery Club symposia, ‘Horizons’ conferences,
postdoctoral career support and staff exchanges with industry. The £12.75m Wellcome
Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) (£2m WT, £2m UoE; 2014-2016; £3.75m WT, £5m
UoE; 2016-2021) supports the strategic priorities of the University in biomedical sciences including
commercial and translation and; public engagement.
 A key innovation was the use of the fund to support a Translator in Residence role to project manage
 and support awardees towards commercial/translation outcomes. ISSF also funds a pilot
 programme to integrate an additional one year ‘Engagement for Impact’ training into a current PhD
 programme, so as to establish a culture shift and enable newly graduated PhDs to better engage
 with audiences beyond the academic world and become the next generation of commercial scientific
 leaders and policy makers. Evidencing success of the ISSF, awardees have leveraged £112m in
 additional funding, secured 106 external awards and 31 fellowships. It has led directly to impact: Sh.
 Forbes (CCVS) was awarded ISSF funding to develop a software tool to track the function of islet
 transplants in patients with type 1 diabetes – the BETA-2 score. The majority of islet transplant
 programmes globally now use this score (UoA1 ICS/B). The funding strategy is also nimble, in 2020
 we earmarked £120k to support postdoctoral/research assistants on Covid-19 delayed projects and
 directed £300k to support COVID-19 research projects.
 In 2018 UoE was awarded funding (£1.2m, renewed £2.4m 2020-23) for a Wellcome Institutional
 Translation Partnership Award (iTPA). The Wellcome iTPA team has enabled Edinburgh
 Innovations to better engage with Wellcome Trust funded researchers to identify and develop early
 stage translational opportunities. The team includes two Entrepreneurs in Residence embedded
 within our research structure (a model we have used since 2006 (as detailed in Section 1) and now
 widely adopted by others) with a successful commercial/translational background required to identify
 and then nurture projects towards translation through leveraging future funding, industry
 collaborations or commercialisation. This provides support to ~320 researchers during the funding
 period, increasing engagement with translation by 260%. The program has built an early stage
 funding pathway for 57 funded projects: 68% of the projects involve early career researchers new
 to translation; 54% of the projects are cross-disciplinary, and 49% involve collaborators including
 the NHS and industry. These projects have resulted in: 1 industry secondment; 16 invention
 disclosures; 5 patent applications; 3 licences (4 opportunities); and leveraged £24.6m further grant
 funding.




14
 Support for Impact
 Our dedicated impact research support officers include 2 CMVM Impact Officers (open-ended
 contracts, 1.9 FTE). Through proactive engagement with our academics, the Impact Officers
 facilitate and support research outputs that have the potential to impact national and global
 communities. A specific example is the Health and Ethnicity Linkage study (SHELS, Bhopal and
 Sheikh, Usher, 2003-2017) which demonstrated striking differences in health risk factors and
 outcomes between ethnic groups: this impacted on the Scottish Government’s Racial Equality Action
 Plan (2017). Another is the worldwide uptake of the EQUitable Impact Sensitive Tool (EQUIST,
 Rudan, Usher) which was developed at UNICEF’s request, for designing and delivering equitable
 healthcare improvement programmes in low-and-middle-income countries. The Impact Officers
 instigated a meeting between Rudan and key stakeholders from UNICEF and World Bank to map
 the global uptake of the EQUIST, reinforcing each stakeholder’s commitment to EQUIST (UoA1 ICS/
 F). Developing future impact is a key goal, for example the Officers are working closely with
 Campbell and NHS Consultant Clinical Scientist, (Cubie) on a preventative cervical cancer
 treatment in Malawi which has now screened 30,000 women (previously unscreened), treating 90%
 of those with early lesions on the same day and reducing cervical cancer cases by 6% in one clinic
 over 5 years (Int J Cancer 2016).
 The Impact Officers also sit on the TCB to input to new initiatives, learn of emerging innovations and
 facilitate subsequent policy and practice impacts; this underlines our commitment to streamlined
 and joined-up processes for maximising impact from research and innovation successes.
 Public Engagement with Research
 Edinburgh Medicine uses Public Engagement with Research (PEwR) in many ways; to reveal
 knowledge, inspire interest, listen to new perspectives, consult people with lived experience, build
 trust in new technologies, collaborate and co-create research. Edinburgh Medicine employs a PEwR
 Manager (Lambert) to set strategic direction and enhance support for both engagement
 professionals and research staff. Lambert leads an active “engagement with research” forum with
 >70 members. She coordinates 15 other "engagement with research" posts (0.2 FTE to full time)
 across CMVM; this thriving PEwR community delivers and supports areas from outreach to
 involvement.
                                                                  In 2019, Lambert developed a strategy
                                                                  for PEwR in consultation with staff and
                                                                  students that can be adapted across
                                                                  research disciplines, funding and skill
                                                                  levels (Figure 9). Our approach aims
                                                                  to reveal, involve and embed
                                                                  underpinned by the principles of
                                                                  training, evaluation and partnership. It
                                                                  builds on the strength of outreach and
                                                                  community        engagement       work
                                                                  achieved since 2013.
                                                                  Reveal: sharing our research.
                                                                  Involve: asking the people we are
                                                                  trying to reach how we should shape
                                                                  our messages and activities.

Figure 9: Edinburgh Medicine Public Engagement with Research strategy Embed:  making engagement         a
                                                                   natural part of research activity.
 An example of the impact of our public engagement with research is "Save a Life for Scotland"
 (2015–ongoing) which aims to increase survival of people undergoing “out of hospital cardiac arrest”.
 Clegg (IRR) engaged policy makers, health practitioners and a range of public audiences from
 school pupils to shoppers. He researched barriers to cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and


15
 delivered training to upskill whole communities. Over 200,000 people in Scotland are "CPR ready"
 as a result (UoA1 ICS/J).
 Embedding Impact into our Research Culture
 Finally, we have embedded impact into Edinburgh Medicine research culture by systematically
 reviewing metrics of activity during the annual review process in 5 categories: (1) practice and
 practitioners; (2) policy; (3) commercialisation and translation; (4) public, community and patient
 engagement; (5) education. Edinburgh Medicine staff can then be rewarded for achieving impact
 related to research outputs. An example of this is the SNAP clinical trial led by Dear (CCVS), which
 led to revisions of the national protocol for treating paracetamol overdose so as to produce fewer
 adverse side effects (UoA1 ICS/I). This impact was highlighted during the annual review meeting of
 Dear and was central to his promotion to Personal Chair of Clinical Pharmacology.
 1.5       Integrity And Open Ethical Research
 Research Integrity
 The University of Edinburgh is committed to ensuring the highest level of research integrity and
 governance and this is firmly embedded in the University’s ethos and culture. Institutional policies,
 and therefore those of Edinburgh Medicine, regarding research integrity and open research are
 covered in detail in the Ref5a submission.
 A key step in enhancing research integrity was the appointment of MacLeod (UoA4) as Institutional
 Academic Lead for Research Improvement and Research Integrity with one day per week dedicated
 to this activity. Macleod and Sena have established CAMARADES, a collaborative group that has
 pioneered meta-analysis and systematic review for the analysis of reproducibility in experimental
 animal studies. This has expanded to six global national coordinating centres, with Australia,
 Canada, Germany, the Netherlands and USA. Macleod and Sena’s work has influenced major
 publishers, including Nature Publishing Group, to implement strict criteria for reporting study
 methods, and funding bodies to examine experimental design.
 MacLeod also co-leads the UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN), a peer-led consortium that
 investigates the factors contributing to robust research, providing training and disseminating best
 practice, and working with stakeholders to ensure coordination of efforts across the sector. Under
 his leadership, there are two specific Edinburgh Medicine Research Improvement Group projects:
          Induction training materials related to in vivo experimentation: access to animal facilities
           across the UoE are linked to training compliance and current employees also have to comply
           with this training.
          Improved process for trial reporting on EuDRACT: implemented in partnership with
           UoE/NHSL Academic and Clinical Central Office for Research and Development
           (ACCORD). All studies sponsored by University of Edinburgh are mandated to register and
           openly report.
 Ethical Research
 Edinburgh Medicine spans clinical and non-clinical research, student projects and research involving
 the use of animals and biobanks. To ensure this research is ethical, we use robust research ethics
 review processes and policies. Thus, Edinburgh Medicine research involving animals must be
 approved by the UoE Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body. UoE is continually seeking to
 improve best practice regarding animal usage and reporting and monitors this (e.g. reporting of
 randomisation), in recognition of which UoE was awarded in 2019 a Public Engagement Activity
 prize at the Understanding Animal Research awards. The NHS Research Ethics Committee fulfils a
 similar function for research involving human participants or human tissue. The Edinburgh Medicine
 Research Ethics Committee (EMREC) covers all non-clinical work requiring ethical review. A new
 ethics review software system Infonetica is being implemented across the institution.
 Data sciences pose particular ethical challenges, and in partnership with NHS National Services
 Scotland, we have also developed a national safe haven with high performance computing capability

16
 which complies with the ISO/IEC27001 information security standard. This infrastructure is
 networked to four regional safe havens and supports analysis of population-wide data allowing
 researchers to process sensitive data with the highest standards of security. UoE provides a
 comprehensive Research Data Service, which provides guidance and advice to clinical researchers
 on issues around the management of data including sensitive data related to patient information.
 Open Science
 The University is a strong advocate for Open Science, contributing to and adopting LERU’s
 Roadmap for Open Science. Progress against the 41 recommendations are regularly reviewed by
 the UoE Research Policy Group. The University was early in its adoption of open access for
 publications, launching its first institutional repository in 2003 and growing strong rates of open
 access research since then. Our open access repositories are well used; there were 1.6 million
 downloads from our repository systems during 2019-20, an increase of 33% from 2018. Krzak
 (CMVM Professional Services) and Tate (UoE Library) published a case study of large scale
 implementation of a REF2021 open access compliance programme (Journal of EAHIL 2016).
 Specific metrics of Edinburgh Medicine success in open science and reproducibility include:
  The Edinburgh Open Science Initiative driven by Edinburgh Medicine staff (Cawthorn, CCVS)
   and PhD Students (Thomas, CCVS) to promote open research and research integrity (Biochem
   2020).
  Increasing use of electronic lab books with 56 research groups within Edinburgh Medicine now
   actively using the RSpace service. Staff also utilise Research Electronic Data Capture (RedCap)
   which supports clinical trials. The University’s Data Research Service continue to promote these
   services to increase user uptake.
  Pius’ (Senior Data Manager, Usher Institute) work on HealthyR Notebooks: democratising open
   and reproducible data analysis in resource-poor environments funded by the Wellcome Open
   Research Fund in 2018. Harrison and Pius have published a book, HealthyR: R for health data
   analysis, which is available free electronically and HealthyR courses are available in the
   University.
  Sena is the inaugural editor of BMJ Open Science.
  The Human Phenome project led by Sudlow, HDR UK Scotland, and Hemingway, HDR UK
   London, is developing an online open-access, standards-driven library of complex health and
   disease characteristics (phenotypes) from diverse health data. This will significantly reduce
   duplication of effort and will be essential to the delivery of health research at scale.
  The IUPHAR database (Guide of Pharmacology) established in Edinburgh in 2009 and managed
   by Davies, provides a free and global, comprehensive, searchable online database of
   pharmacological information.
 1.6    Future Aims
 Edinburgh Medicine will execute major strategic developments during the period of the next REF
 cycle so as to bring all medical education, research and innovations to our two core campuses by
 2024. In addition to the construction of a new biomedical and medical school we will:
 (1) Create a new Institute, the Brain and Body Institute, bringing together our neuroscience
 community with researchers in the BHF Centre for Cardiovascular Sciences. It is increasingly clear
 that the diseases of metabolism and of vessel function play a major role in initiating or prolonging
 diseases of the brain. The traditional separation between brain research and the rest of the body is
 inappropriate and misses vital research opportunities. This move, which will be completed by 2024,
 will create major new collaborative opportunities and research programmes in diseases such as
 stroke, dementia, multiple sclerosis and brain tumours.
 (2) Deliver the medicine and healthcare strands in the transformation of Edinburgh into the “data
 capital of Europe” as envisioned by the £661m DDI component of the Edinburgh regional city deal

17
 (£237m from Governments to UoE, 2018). We will expand our world leading expertise in data
 sciences by providing the infrastructure for the curation, maintenance and interrogation of real-world
 health data records and by doubling the size of the Usher Institute with a £68m new building.
 (3) Expand the new £90.7m IRR complex by the addition of interdisciplinary activities in chemistry
 and imaging to create the largest single institute for regeneration globally.
 (4) Build on the investment and interaction within Infection Medicine across Edinburgh that has
 spearheaded our response to COVID-19 to develop a core-funded Centre as part of IRR where
 growing strategic links with inflammation research can be exploited.
 Underpinning these strategic developments, and recognising that it is our people that drive our
 success, Edinburgh Medicine will continue to develop and nurture a research culture that
 mainstreams equality, diversity and inclusion practices into our activities.




18
 Section 2. People
 Edinburgh Medicine is a vibrant and diverse community of 377 researchers (early career to senior),
 460 postdoctoral researchers, 673 research students, which is supported by 668 technicians/facilities
 manager and professional services staff. All University of Edinburgh employees have a mandatory
 personal development and review meeting each year which provides dedicated time for employee
 and line manager to reflect on achievements, training and career development aspirations.
 Our vitality, diversity and inclusion are evident:
          47% research staff growth (377 researchers returned in REF2021)
          38% of returned researchers are female
          Appointed 73 new Chairs (22 new, 51 promotions) since REF2014
          40% of new Chair appoints and promotions are female
          29 nationalities are represented in our community
          77.7% of our returned researchers are on open ended or full tenure contracts
 2.1       Staffing strategy
 Our staffing strategy focuses on attracting, retaining and nurturing talented researchers who align
 with our core strategies. Equally important, we strive to recruit talented technical and professional
 services staff who underpin our aims and provide crucial support to the research community. At the
 root of our recruitment standard and current community is diversity while exercising equality and
 inclusion. In return, we offer a healthy research and working culture, while ensuring our staff are
 provided with training and support to allow them to achieve their career and personal goals.
 The University is a signatory of the ‘Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers’
 and we follow the three clear principles: Environment and Culture, Employment and Professional and
 Career Development as described in this section below.
 2.2       Recruitment, promotions and career development
 Of the 377 researchers returned (360 FTE, 47% increase since REF2014), 143 represent new
 recruitments to the University of Edinburgh; 60% of these are new Early Career Researchers (ECR)
 and in total 32% are female. 139 researchers have transitioned from a fixed term to an open ended
 contract.
 Overall 37% of our researchers are at professorial level with 22 new Chairs appointed. Some notable
 examples of strategic recruitment at senior level include:
          Baker (QMRI/CCVS) who led renewal of British Heart Foundation core funding and enhanced
           gene therapy expertise into CMVM;
          Morris (Usher) was instrumental in setting up the Usher Institute and is inaugural Director of
           Health Data Research UK;
          Tomlinson (IGMM/ECRC) who leads CRUK EC has integrated oncology research across a
           variety of biomedical areas, including human patient cohorts and clinics, animal models of
           disease and biomathematics;
          Whyte (IRR/CIR) was recruited to strengthen both inflammation research and College
           leadership and is currently Head of CMVM;
          Carragher (IGMM/ECRC) originally recruited from AstraZeneca, was promoted to Personal
           Chair of Drug Discovery and currently leads our Translation and Commercialisation Board.
 We promoted 51 researchers to established Chairs. Key to these promotions has been our prior long-
 term investment in supporting careers and enabling young scientists to address key strategic
 problems. For example:
          Williams is a clinician scientist working in regenerative medicine who was an Edinburgh
           clinical trainee then PhD student with Brophy (UoA4) and who, after postdoctoral training in


19
         Paris, was supported for Wellcome Trust intermediate and CSO clinical fellowships before
         being appointed to her chair enabling her work applying single cell sequencing technologies
         to neuropathology;
        Dhaliwal was an Edinburgh clinical trainee who, during PhD studies in lung inflammation in
         the MRC CIR, developed the idea of using optical molecular imaging via bronchoscopy to
         diagnose and treat pulmonary disease. He was supported in this by Haslett, then Head of
         Centre, to enable the development of an EPSRC funded strategic partnership with chemists.
         Appointed first as a Senior Lecturer and now Chair, he leads a large translational group
         discovering novel biosensing approaches to disease.
 Early career researchers account for 34% of our REF staff return. Of the 23 Chancellor’s Fellows
 returned in REF2014, 12 are now on open-ended contracts in UoE. Some notable examples of ECR
 recruitment include:
        Vallejos (IGMM/HGU), a Turing Fellow who was recruited from the Alan Turing Institute and
         University College London, for her expertise in biomedical data science;
        Stagg (UI/CPHS), holds an MRC Career Development Fellowship and was recruited from the
         London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, for her expertise in infectious disease
         epidemiology;
        Cash (IRR/CIR) was recruited for her expertise and interest in wound healing and her
         specialised intravital microscopy techniques. She is a Chancellor’s Fellow and secured a Sir
         Henry Dale Fellowship which allowed her to establish her own lab in 2016;
        Gammoh (IGMM/ECRC) was recruited for her technology expertise in RCAS glioma mouse
         models, in vitro lipidation and autophagy assays. She is a Chancellor’s Fellow and has
         secured a CRUK Career Development Fellowship.
 We also use similar recruitment strategies for our Professional Services staff:
        Elliott (CMVM Registrar) was recruited from the MRC to provide expertise in operational
         leadership, ethics and research policy and funding.
 Supporting Principal Investigators
 To provide the essential skills in team leadership and strategic planning we provide mandatory
 training on managing their research group for Investigators at the time of appointment. The focus is
 on skills often not learnt during post-doctoral training e.g. people management, equality, diversity and
 inclusion training, recruitment, challenging conversations etc. As part of this research leader training
 for new Investigators, we specifically offer training to support female researchers to develop their
 skills and advance their careers at the University and beyond. 40 female Edinburgh Medicine
 employees (26 academic and 14 professional services staff) have participated in the external
 AURORA programme during the current REF period.
 Once established, we offer two types of career support for our Investigators. First, we offer different
 levels of leadership and management programmes to cater for aspiring to senior leaders: the
 Edinburgh Manager and the Edinburgh Leader programmes. Given our focus on strategic gain in
 senior appointments we also provide a new 6-month Strategic Leadership in Research programme
 (UoE investment £400K, 2019-20) which has skilled 48 exceptional mid-career colleagues from
 across the University (16 from Edinburgh Medicine) to excel in challenge-led research environments
 and to equip them with the leadership skills, knowledge and behaviours required to win large-scale
 strategic funding.
 Second, we provide bespoke support most commonly around grant applications and fellowships. The
 Institute of Academic Development, Edinburgh Research Office and Edinburgh Innovations together
 work closely with individual investigators to identify funding, partnership and engagement
 opportunities, bringing together any necessary teams to address these and provide expert support in
 completing those parts of an application requiring input outside the skill set of the investigator.
 Together with the Dean of Research and the CMVM College Research Office, this team provides a

20
 powerful mechanism for career development by ensuring that opportunity, expertise and resource
 are matched in preparing high quality applications.
 Expanding Skills and Personal Development
 A one-stop-shop for staff and student skills training and career development is provided by the
 Institute of Academic Development (IAD, >30 FTEs). A comprehensive portfolio of free courses and
 workshops, napped against the UK’s Researcher Development Framework, allows staff to evaluate
 their current skillset and plan their personal development. Workshops include ‘Careers in academia’,
 ‘Academic progression: becoming a Professor’, ‘Research grant finance management’, ‘Mentoring’,
 ‘How to run a viva’ as a career coaching with external STEM career instructors for researchers at key
 career transition stages. We are running a pilot career development scheme for clinical academics:
 activities include work shadowing and local mentorship from senior colleagues. In addition, IAD offers
 staff one-to-one consultations with a professional career advisor.
 We have addressed the need for training in early translational engagement and project development,
 consultancy activities, industry engagement and collaboration, management of intellectual property
 and commercialisation support through licensing and company formation. We were awarded MRC
 Proximity to Discovery funding (£700k since 2014) to specifically support industrial engagement,
 knowledge transfer and translational training activities.
 Since 2015, all staff are required to complete online ‘Overcoming unconscious bias’ and ‘Equality and
 diversity’ training: recruitment panels have an appropriate gender balance. Training is available to all
 staff with regards to: recruitment and interviewing; performance and development reviews; career
 development for early career researchers; managing parental/carer leave of staff; flexible working
 rights; study leave and opportunities; how to apply for promotions; and family friendly policies.
 2.3    Early Career Researchers
 The University of Edinburgh’s Strategy 2030, commits us to being the UK’s leading institution
 supporting the development of early career academic staff. Our investment in early career researcher
 excellence is demonstrated by the continuation of both our existing Edinburgh Medicine career
 development track programmes:
 Edinburgh Clinical Academic Track (ECAT, Directors Whyte, Walmsley, Henderson, Gilbert,
 Jackson) The ECAT programme was established to support and mentor future clinician scientists
 with an emphasis on making our medically qualified and veterinary clinical academics competitive for
 next-level fellowships. Underpinned by continuous Wellcome Trust investment since 2007 (£5.5m
 2007, £6.2m 2013 and £10.2m following 2017 renewal and supplements), ECAT allows the most
 promising clinicians to study for a PhD, embedded within UoE/NHS Education Scotland-funded
 Clinical Lectureships to provide a bespoke, comprehensive run-through clinical academic training
 programme. This is an interruption of clinical career e.g. a temporary step aside to allow full-time
 immersion in discovery research. We are able to facilitate this by the unique flexibility to allocate
 Clinical Lectureships to trainees in any clinical discipline. The ECAT programme has also led benefits
 for women who took the opportunity of a break from clinical work to be able to start or add to their
 family, without impacting clinical progression.
 A total of 70 trainees have been appointed to the programme to date, and funding is in place for a
 further 7 in 2021. This “junior to consultant” research training has matched clinicians with excellent
 supervisors, including those outside a standard clinical pool, and attracted excellent applicants from
 a wide range of so-called “orphan” academic disciplines. The early cohorts of ECAT lecturers (23
 individuals) have exited the programme and 14 now have intermediate fellowships or senior
 lectureship posts at UoE or elsewhere. This cohort includes Baillie, Anaesthetist (Member of SAGE
 COVID-19 Clinical Information Network, PI of GenOMMIC).
 Our ECAT scheme has become an exemplar for clinical academic training in the UK devolved
 administrations, reflected in investment from the Welsh Assembly and Welsh Universities to establish
 a similar scheme (WCAT) and, in Ireland, the Wellcome – Health Research Board Irish Clinical

21
 Academic Training (ICAT) Programme. Australia are also implementing the model as their MACH-
 Track programme.
 The ECAT model also underpins our recent award, jointly with Glasgow, of a CRUK Clinical Academic
 Programme (3 CRTF and 4 MB PhD students annually). Furthermore, clinical PhD studentships
 aligned to ECAT have been leveraged from MRC (4 studentships) and CRUK (9 studentships). The
 award of ad hoc externally funded clinical PhD fellowships has been enhanced by ECAT. By July
 2020, we had 59 non-ECAT clinicians in doctoral studies. The success of our structured approach to
 clinician scientist training is evidenced by the 30 Clinical Training Fellowships awarded during the
 current REF period.
 We have further invested into training our clinical academics through strategic use of CMVM
 endowment funds and WT ISSF Funding, linking PhD programmes and ad hoc fellowship
 appointments. We provide career advice and mentorship from early days at medical school through
 academic foundation years, and core and specialist training (the ECAT website receives >1500
 hits/month). Support is provided by a team of senior clinical academics and coordinated by a
 dedicated UoE-funded administrator.
 Edinburgh Scientific Academic Track (ESAT, Directors: Bickmore and Dzierzak) is a sector-
 leading, carefully structured development programme of tenure track positions for early career
 scientific researchers, targeted to areas of strategic research priority. Selection onto ESAT is based
 on potential success; hence, there is the expectation of permanent appointment after a review at year
 four. Fellows join ESAT through their appointment either as Chancellor’s Fellows (see REF5a) or by
 gaining nationally competitive career development fellowships (e.g. MRC Career Development
 Award, Royal Society/Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale Fellowship, CRUK Career Development Award,
 Kennedy Trust Senior Fellowship).
 Since REF2014, we have appointed 60 Edinburgh Medicine early career scientific researchers into
 ESAT, 20 of whom have secured career development fellowships including: CRUK Career
 Development Fellowships; MRC Career Development Awards; Royal Society/Wellcome Trust Sir
 Henry Dale Fellowship; UKRI/Rutherford Innovation Fellowship.
 We have invested £25.8m, an average commitment of £430k per appointee, representing salary
 support and start-up costs. Annual symposia and workshops are held to equip ESAT fellows with the
 skills to be the next generation of research leaders and include events dedicated to academic
 teaching, research integrity, media training and grant funding; these sessions are led by
 representatives from UKRI, Wellcome Trust, CRUK and ERC grant funding panels. ESAT fellows are
 also encouraged to network with their peers from across the University to stimulate collaborative
 interactions.
 ESAT 'alumni' have already demonstrated exceptional research leadership qualities and include:
 Marsh (MRC CDA; RSE Patrick Neill Medal 2019/20, Lister Prize 2018; Science 2015; Cell 2016),
 A. Wood (SHDF; Genetics Society Balfour Lecturer 2018; Genes & Dev 2016; PLoS Biol 2018).
 ESAT fellows who have been promoted to permanent academic posts include Mill (Reader, MRC
 Programme grant, BSCB Women in Cell Biology Medal; eLife 2018), Joshi (Reader, Nat Commun
 2017), Theodoratou (Chair of Cancer Epidemiology and Global Health, Gut 2109: Nat Commun
 2019), Nair (Chair of Paediatric Infectious Diseases and Global Health, Lancet Global Health 2019).
 2.4    Postdoctoral Researchers
 Postdoctoral researchers (PDRAs) are at the heart of Edinburgh Medicine research. We are home to
 more than 460 PDRAs from 29 nations around the world, and are committed to providing them with
 an environment that enables them to thrive in Edinburgh as well as make the best-informed choices
 about the next stages of their career, whether in or beyond academia.
 UoE is a signatory of the Concordat to support the Career Development of Researchers and IAD are
 working with the research community to embed our Concordat actions in core practices integrating
 career and skills development into the PDRA community. Specific training courses provided include:
 attracting research funding; public engagement; and writing research proposals. Edinburgh


22
 Innovations also provides training in commercialisation for University staff engaged in translational
 activities. We also support PDRA career development by encouraging them to become Researcher
 Co-Investigators on projects, which allows them to provide significant intellectual input to grant writing
 and design. This is beneficial when applying for Fellowships and aids their transition to independence.
 Edinburgh Medicine also offer mock fellowship interviews for PDRAs who are pursuing an academic
 career path.
 Support and development of this group is co-ordinated through the @EdMedECR initiative, which
 was established in 2017 and is led by G. Gray, Head of Medical School ECR Experience, who is
 seconded to IAD 1 day per week to develop this aspect. Hadoke, Director of Post-Graduate Student
 and Early Career Research Experience for CMVM has specific responsibility for developing support
 for our PDRAs and post-graduate experience. New arrivals are introduced to established PDRA-led
 societies to embed them in the wider local community: these societies offer social interactions, peer
 support networks, training opportunities and a forum to provide views and feedback on their research
 environment. Training in careers in and beyond academia with experiential presentations from alumni
 is provided: there is also an MRC Proximity to Discovery funded PDRA careers seminar series with
 a focus on career progression into industry/commercial organisations.




 Figure 10: Edinburgh Medicine PDRA Development Strategy

 The Edinburgh Medicine PDRA development strategy (Figure 10) is designed to ensure PDRAs are
 aware of the extensive Researcher Development programme offered by the University and beyond
 and to encourage early and continued engagement. PDRAs are embedded into well-established
 networks within the Centres/Institutes: Edinburgh Medicine also has several internal funding schemes
 (detailed in Section 3) that are particularly supportive for PDRAs and early career researchers
 including the Wellcome Trust iTPA and MRC Proximity to Discovery.
 PDRA contribution is celebrated during international PostDoc Appreciation Week in September each
 year. The future plan is to recruit local PDRA champions and create a PDRA academy at the
 University of Edinburgh.




23
                                                                    Edinburgh Medicine PDRA success
                                                                    is evidenced by the award of
                                                                    independent fellowships and career
                                                                    progression to independent ECR
                                                                    positions (Gwyer Findlay, Royal
                                                                    Society       Dorothy       Hodgkin
                                                                    Fellowship; Bain, Gibson, SHDF;
                                                                    Illingworth, MRC CDA); and being
                                                                    named as inventors on patents
                                                                    (Cassetta; Starkey-Lewis). The
                                                                    career destinations of our PDRAs
                                                                    (Figure 11) stand in testament to the
                                                                    career development experienced
  Figure 11: Edinburgh Medicine PDRA Destinations                  here: the majority continue in
                                                                   scientific research, becoming the
 next generation of research leaders, while others opt to branch out to positions within the NHS,
 industry or other fields, reflecting the wide-ranging exposure to opportunities.
 2.5    Technical Staff
 Our technicians are key partners in the research enterprise and drive many innovations in Edinburgh
 Medicine. Our research excellence is underpinned by access to cutting-edge core technologies and
 facilities including imaging; genomics; proteomics; tissue culture; histology. The maintenance and
 use of these facilities, and the development of innovative strategies to address previously
 inaccessible research problems, is the responsibility of a highly skilled group of technical staff into
 our Institutes and Centres. It is essential that these staff know they are valued and feel appropriately
 rewarded and incentivised, and have in place a career structure that encourages ambition.
 Edinburgh Medicine implemented a Fair Publication policy in 2020, which ensures that contributions
 from technical staff are acknowledged in publications.
 UoE has also launched of a programme of Career Development Support for technicians. The
 University is a signatory to the Technician Commitment, recognising the role technicians play in
 research as well as teaching and supporting students. This is implemented through the IAD and
 includes funding to support the first year of professional registration; we also hold "Writing Retreats"
 to facilitate the application process for professional registration. Professional registration has been
 awarded to 16 Edinburgh Medicine Technical staff; 12 of these registrations are a result of the support
 fund created in 2019. A quarterly Technicians newsletter is produced to provide an update on events
 and opportunities across the University for technicians along with information on career development
 support and advice.
 Edinburgh Medicine also funds a “Business Excellence for Facilities Management” certificated
 programme to support 10 core facility staff managers. The objective is to build business management
 skills and an opportunity for knowledge exchange across facilities and enable facilities managers to
 innovate in their role in order to enhance and develop services.
 2.6    Professional Services Staff
 Our research is also underpinned by a large and talented team of Professional Services (PS) staff
 embedded across the research institutes to provide specialist operational and strategic support for
 research activities. PS staff are vital for research development, data management, HR, project
 management, public engagement and communication, finance, governance, impact,
 translation/commercialisation, procurement as well as operations and logistics. PS staff are
 encouraged to participate in learning and career development opportunities including taught
 workshops (Aspiring Manager Development Programme) and online programmes (LinkedIn
 Learning). PS staff involved in research management and administration are provided with
 membership and encouraged to engage with the training and CPD offers of professional



24
 organisations such as the Association of Research Manager and Administrators (ARMA) or Praxis
 Auril.
 2.7       Research Students
 Edinburgh Medicine attracts the highest calibre of scientific and clinical postgraduate (PG) students
 from a wide variety of backgrounds, and offers broad-based external programmatic support including
 the UK’s third largest MRC Doctoral Training Programme (DTP), and two Wellcome Trust (WT)-
 funded programmes with contributions to several other Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT) including
 one of the UKRI Artificial Intelligence CDTs.
 CMVM research training strategy has, since REF2014, strategically pivoted towards cross-centre,
 cross-college and cross-institution cohort-based training, in step with strategic objectives of the
 University and major PG research funders to promote broad cross disciplinary training.
 Major cohort-based training programmes include:
          MRC Precision Medicine DTP (26 students pa, joint with the College of Science and
           Engineering, the University of Glasgow, and the Karolinska Institute)
          WT programmes:
                  Translational Neuroscience (7 students pa, 2014-)
                  Tissue Repair (7 students pa, 2014-19)
                  One Health Models of Disease (7 students pa, 2020-)
 Increasing cross disciplinarity is also reflected in growing numbers of students within CMVM
 supported by cohort-based programmes based in the College of Science and Engineering,
 prominently including
          EastBio (BBSRC, 54 CMVM studentships since 2014
          PhD with Integrated Study in Advanced Care, a recently launched joint venture between Legal
           and General and the UoE
          OPTIMA (EPSRC & MRC; 23 CMVM studentships since 2014)
          CDT in Biomedical Artificial Intelligence (UKRI)
 Our PhD programmes equip graduates with diverse skills applicable to careers in research, industry
 or allied sectors through bespoke generic training, industrial placements, integrated taught modules,
 and/or “real world” interactions with entrepreneurship and/or healthcare. We are committed to
 innovation in doctoral training, with a flexible PhD portfolio that includes several 4 year degree
 formats, including those with an initial rotational year; those with a “1+3” profile, the first year yielding
 an MSc; and, those in a novel 4 year format with a customised integrated taught component. This
 integrated approach was pioneered in Edinburgh Medicine in the Precision Medicine MRC DTP, and
 is now adopted by many other DTPs including WT Translational Neuroscience and One Health
 programmes. Another key area of innovation is the development of two new PhD programmes
 addressing societal needs not matched by conventional programmes: PhD programmes with
 Integrated Studies in Engagement for Impact or Advanced Care.
 Our PG research student numbers have increased by 16% since REF2014. This growth has been
 driven by a combination of the new WT and MRC DTP awards as above and the success of our
 research themes in attracting notable new programmes including; Human Genetics and Genomics
 (MRC HGU; 8 students pa), Cardiovascular Biology (Centre for Cardiovascular Science; BHF; 6
 students pa), Cancer Biology (Cancer Research Centre; CRUK; 2 students pa) and Biomedical AI
 (Usher Institute et al, UKRI; 12 students pa).
 As mentioned previously, doctoral training for clinician scientists is delivered through the highly
 successful WT ECAT programme (5 medical and 2 veterinary studentships pa) as well as numerous
 personal UKRI and charity fellowships. The portfolio has been diversified with recent funding of the
 joint Edinburgh/Glasgow Train and Retain Academic Cancer Clinicians (TRACC) programme, which
 includes 4 MBPhD studentships as well as 2 clinical training fellowships per year, and Kennedy Trust
 MB PhD programme (TRAM, 4 MBPhD studentships pa).


25
 Together with the MRC Precision Medicine DTP and the Edinburgh-Glasgow One Health PhD
 programme, the TRACC and TRAM programmes are the most recent example of successful joint
 working in doctoral training with the University of Glasgow. This is part of a wider strategy to use PhD
 programmes to develop collaborative training and research with international partners. Further
 examples include new university-wide funding of One Health (Leiden), Vascular Biology (Leuven) and
 Human Genetics (Helsinki) collaborative PhDs, adding to an existing joint PhD programme in
 neuroscience with the University of Aarhus and PhDs by integrated study which are part of the
 Zhejiang University-University of Edinburgh Institute.
 Finally, strategic funding has been used to back the investment in Chancellor’s Fellows by funding of
 doctoral studentships for each fellow, who are supported as first time supervisors by an experienced
 co-supervisor as part of a supervisory team.
 Great care has been taken to ensure continuous improvement of training quality and student
 experience while student numbers increase. All PhD students receive induction, pastoral support and
 close monitoring by supervisory teams and Centre-based thesis committees, fostering a culture of
 two-way dialogue. Rates of PhD thesis submission within 48 months are consistently above 80%,
 significantly higher than those reported across all UKRI funding councils (52-63%). Commitment to
 student welfare within CMVM is illustrated by the creation of the new senior role of Director of
 Postgraduate Student and Early Career Researcher Experience, separating the experience portfolio
 from the financial and strategic focus of the Dean of Postgraduate Research, while the creation of the
 UoE Doctoral College (operational since March 2020) has critically enhanced coherence and
 coordination of PGR support and generic training across the university. The Doctoral College includes
 the Institute for Academic Development (IAD), offering a wide variety of curated transferrable skills
 and career management training, and the Information Service (IS), which provides PhD students with
 support including research data service, computing, and publication management (e.g. support for
 Open Access publishing). Students are encouraged to participate in the UoE ‘3-minute thesis’
 competitions, scientific meetings and to take advantage of training opportunities with international
 partners. PhD supervisors complete mandatory supervisory training every 5 years, to ensure an
 evenly high standard of supervision and ensures supervisors are up to date with changes in process
 ensuring best practice is in place. Within Edinburgh Medicine, Principal Investigators are encouraged
 to undertake mentorship and mental health first aid training. During the COVID-19 pandemic, a major
 effort has been invested in adapting face to face induction and briefing events in online formats for
 both students and supervisors and PhD students had priority access into our buildings during the
 gradual reopening process.
 Destination data from 2017/18 CMVM pool of research student graduates (including Edinburgh
 Neuroscience UoA4 and Roslin UoA6) shows that 98.58% secured employment or went onto further
 study (51% response rate).
 2.8    Equality, Diversity And Inclusion
 Both the University of Edinburgh and Edinburgh Medicine are committed to mainstreaming equality,
 diversity and inclusivity and supporting all staff and student groups from our diverse community. Our
 commitment to EDI is evidenced by the many initiatives that benefit all Edinburgh Medicine staff
 groups as well as targeted initiatives for staff (as referenced in Ref5a) e.g. the Disabled Staff Network
 and the Staff Pride Network.
 Over the past three years we have focussed on scaling up efforts to embed gender equality. In
 Edinburgh Medicine, 38% of the returned researchers are female, compared to 30% submitted for
 REF2014: The progression of junior female researchers is actively monitored to ensure this group
 are nurtured, retained and, when appropriate, promoted leading to improved gender parity in senior
 positions. The introduction of mandatory gender representation on PhD selection and supervision
 teams has raised general awareness of the importance of the visibility of female academics in
 senior/leadership roles.



26
 The current Chancellors Fellows recruitment round indicates our commitment to a culture of openness
 and diversity. Our aim is that at least 50% of the new Chancellor’s Fellows appointments will be
 women and 20% will be from black and minority ethnic groups. The University is a member of the UK
 Race Equality Charter and a proud holder of the prestigious Athena SWAN Silver Institution Award
 for our work in advancing gender equality. Edinburgh Medicine also has a Silver Athena SWAN
 award. Our Edinburgh Medicine Athena Swan team is currently led by Mercer and Wigmore.
 In line with the UoE REF2021 Code of Practice, we have adopted an inclusive approach to defining
 ‘independent researcher’, and have embraced the decision to return 100% of eligible academic staff,
 which builds on our inclusive submission to REF2014 (85% of eligible staff). We adopted a rigorous,
 fair and transparent approach to selecting outputs, fully accounting for staff special circumstances
 which have affected their research activity. The process took full account of E&D considerations,
 building in unconscious bias and E&D training. We also set up an independent E&D group to review
 the distribution of outputs across staff by gender and career stage (noting that we were unable to
 access accurate data on other protected characteristics because of the voluntary nature of the
 information and constraints to updating personal details). The result of this review demonstrated a
 balanced spread of outputs across gender and career stage: 32% of outputs submitted are
 authored/co-authored by female staff (who comprise 38% of our returned staff); 37% by ECRs and
 Grade 8 colleagues (49% of our staff). This is testament to how our inclusive approach to research
 support has enabled staff to flourish, across gender and career stages.
 EDI Policies & Initiatives
 Since REF2014, the University of Edinburgh has implemented a suite of 'Family Friendly' policies (full
 information provided in Ref5a) providing all employees with access to a wide range of leave and
 support entitlements including but not limited to: flexible working policy, parental leave policy, time off
 in an emergency to care for dependents, adoption/surrogacy leave policy. Any employee applying for
 promotion is encouraged to identify periods of significant absence e.g. ill health or maternity leave,
 that may have had an impact on productivity and this will be taken into account. This policy will also
 come into play with the COVID-19 pandemic having an effect on researchers with caring
 responsibilities including but not limited to childcare.
 All Edinburgh Medicine employees are eligible to apply for flexible working including part-time roles,
 condensed hours or agreed arrangement for working from home: all 153 Edinburgh Medicine
 applications (120F/33M) were approved from 2013-2018. Our Flexible Working/Return to Work
 Initiatives including a Research Leadership Course prioritising researchers with caring responsibilities
 who may forego leadership opportunities due to courses being held out with the University. We offer
 a returners programme for staff who have taken leave greater than four months to help transition
 back into the workplace and minimise disruption to staff career trajectories. Flexible Caring for Carers
 grants are also offered to enable those with caring responsibilities to attend conferences or workshops
 (also available for invited speakers). We recently held a workshop as part of the Athena SWAN action
 plan to explore the challenges of part-time researchers: this also included full time employees who
 due to teaching commitments or technical/facility responsibilities have limited research time. A recent
 output of the workshop was the ‘Part Time Research; Full Time Challenge’ one day conference to
 explore this topic further.
 Since 2016 the live-streaming of seminars within Edinburgh Medicine has increased which has had
 multiple benefits for our research community as it allows researchers based at different campuses to
 easily access presentations from internal and visiting speakers. The seminars are recorded and made
 available after initial broadcast allowing part time workers, or those away at scientific conferences or
 with family commitments to access these talks. There is also a regular Technicians EDI newsletter.
To oversee the effectiveness for Edinburgh Medicine of these initiatives, and develop more targeted
approaches to enhance EDI, There is an overarching CMVM EDI Committee (EDIC) (also
encompasses UoA4 and UoA6) that meets quarterly led by Chapman and Boyd (UoA6). Within

27
Edinburgh Medicine, there are three local EDI groups: the BioQuarter Local EDI Group, the Central
Campus Local EDI Group and the Western General Campus Local Group who act as local
ambassadors and champions for EDI within their geographical area. The objective is to organise a
programme of local events and to influence strategy, inform policy development, generate and
interrogate EDI evidence, develop and cascade best practice across CMVM as well as acting as the
first point of contact and source of local advice.
 Achievements to date are:
        WREN programme (Work Shadowing for Women): a pilot programme, initially for female
         clinical academics, to understand why women are often under-represented in senior
         leadership roles and solutions. This received very positive feedback and is being further
         developed to extend to other groups.
        Part-time researcher events – to identify challenges faced and look for solutions as mentioned
         above.
        Career Coaching Programme – following a competitive application process, 12 female
         participants have completed this programme with excellent feedback, round 2 is now in
         process.
        Careers Beyond Academia – an event for ECRs, exploring motivations and requirements,
         identifying opportunities and options and how to market skills and experience to a non-
         academic employer. Feedback included ‘one of the best events I have ever attended’. Further
         virtual events are being explored for 2021.
        Inspiring People annual symposium to celebrate diversity and offer role models from different
         genders, ethnicity, sexual orientation, ability/disability with a focus on career progress and
         insights.
        ECAT SUSTAIN events – an innovative annual programme of training and support which
         develops leadership and career potential of participants.
        Lunchtime Forums run by the Edinburgh Medicine Athena SWAN team cover a wide range of
         topics including academic promotions, how to run a viva, flexible working, meet the professor
         and career progression for professional services staff.
M. Gray (CIR) leads on BAME in the CMVM EDIC and is a member of the UoE BAME equality sub-
committee; she is representing Edinburgh Medicine, working to tackle structural racism in the
University and address the BAME student attainment gap. She was awarded a Principal’s Teaching
award to undertake qualitative research for the latter; her work is in conjunction with the University’s
Race Equality Charter commitment, which aims to eliminate institutional, structural and individual
racism. Work on “decolonising’ the curriculum is underway as part of a project to develop a more
inclusive curriculum. There is also work underway to update our curricula to address how inequalities
impact health which is particularly relevant as evidence builds showing the disproportionate effects
the COVID-19 pandemic is having on BAME groups: Harrison from the Usher Institute is keeping
these issues on the national agenda (BMJ 2020). We are hosting a UK wide event for medical schools
to discuss issues of equality, diversity and inclusivity in medical training and academic clinical careers,
leading an initiative to provide role models and mentors for Black, Asian and Minority (BAME) students
across the University.
 Research Culture
In July 2020 the University carried out a survey of academic staff employed to carry out research;
participants were asked their views on the University’s research culture and the support they received.
The survey was intended to identify barriers to and opportunities for improving practice and equality
with particular regard to those with protected characteristics. The design of the survey drew on the
results from the Wellcome Reimagining Research survey on research culture carried out in 2019
which had identified the necessity to embed EDI principles into policies on research grant applications,
participation in research events, research collaborations and output authorship. The objective is to



28
deliver a responsive and supportive research culture and ensure that all involved in research are given
equality of opportunity.
 Edinburgh Medicine has a zero-tolerance stance towards any form of bullying. The Respect at
 Edinburgh web hub was created as a resource for staff and students providing information on
 Institutional policy, processes for raising and addressing concerns as well as support and training
 information. Staff are encouraged to become Respect Champions for their work area. The recent
 "Don’t Cross the Line" campaign raised awareness to reduce all forms of bullying and harassment
 and the related training covers all protected characteristics.
 Health & Wellbeing
 UoE has a health and wellbeing dedicated website providing information and resources for use by
 both staff and students. Training courses are available for staff with regards to time management and
 managing workload. The University Counselling Service and Occupational Therapy team provide
 confidential support. There are also a number of Institutional and Edinburgh Medicine projects and
 activities in place to promote health and wellbeing and encourage community spirit including but not
 limited to:
    University Chaplaincy provides mindfulness drop in sessions which transferred to an online format
     during the COVID-19 pandemic;
    JogScotland offer running groups and there are organised walking groups on multiple Edinburgh
     Medicine campuses;
    CRM has a team of Mental Health First Aiders who are trained to support colleagues;
    SolidariTEA is a postgraduate student initiative providing advice and support from peers and
     encouraging discussion across the Edinburgh Medicine community;
    BioRhythms Choir is for all staff, students, patients, carers and community members based at the
     BioQuarter.




29
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1       Income
 Our research income has grown by an average annual growth rate of 16% since REF2014 and is
 derived from a wide range of national and international funding bodies totalling >£540m (Figure 12)
                                                                    as well as >£12m in philanthropic
   Sponsor Area      Sponsor Type
                                                                    donations. The sponsor table
   UK         88%    Government and Research Councils  51%
                                                                    (Table 1) demonstrates the
   EU         8%     Charities                         49%          diversity of our research and
   Overseas 4%       Industry                          6%           impact activities and our 'mixed
                     Other                             3%           economy' of research funding.
     Table 1: Funding Sponsor Information

                         Total value of new awards in Edinburgh Medicine
     160,000,000

     140,000,000
                                                                                   *includes
                                                                                   £53m HGU
     120,000,000                                                                   grant

     100,000,000

      80,000,000

      60,000,000

      40,000,000

      20,000,000

               0
                     2013-14       2014-15    2015-16       2016-17   2017-18*   2018-19       2019-20
     Figure 12: Edinburgh Medicine annual Research Income 2014-2020
 Edinburgh Medicine's research funding success has been built on a strategy incorporating five
 components.
 (1) A focus on securing core funding from MRC, CRUK, BHF and other relevant funders to support
     our Research Centres. Table 2 details the £127m core funding that has supported each of the
     established Centres that together form our four Institutes.




30
 Table 2: Edinburgh Medicine Core Funding

 (2) We seek funding for research projects across institutional, international and disciplinary
     boundaries. We have adapted to funding environment changes by winning large collaborative
     interdisciplinary awards that are major drivers of innovation and led large cross-institutional
     consortia with a focus on impact driven research.
          The PROTEUS Hub (Dhaliwal, £11.3m) aims to develop revolutionary technologies that
           will provide quick bedside diagnosis and management of lung diseases in the clinical
           critical care environment;
          The UK Regenerative Medicine Platform Engineered Cell Environment Hub (St Forbes,
           £9.5m) aims to understand how stem cell behaviour is influenced in tissue environments
           and use this knowledge to develop future therapies for serious untreatable diseases;
          The HDR Core and Breathe Hub (Morris, Sheikh, £12.1m) uses health data to develop a
           better understanding of these diseases and ways to prevent, treat and cure them;
 (3) We seek seed and strategic support funding. We have been consistently successful in securing
     money to be used for internal strategic purposes (detailed in Section 1). We enable these funds
     to work together to maximise success and have a proven track record of using these internal

31
         funding schemes to leverage further funding from external sources, most commonly by providing
         support towards data required for a fellowship application or seed funding promising
         collaborative and/or innovative ideas to make them competitive for a larger external application.
                MRC Confidence in Concept funding has been awarded to Edinburgh Medicine each
                 year since 2013, totalling £7.7m and supporting over 70 translational projects.
                MRC Proximity to Discovery funding each year since 2014 (total £700k) with a remit of
                 promoting academic/industry interactions.
                The Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) brought in £4m (£2m WT,
                 £2m UoE; 2014-2016) and £8.75m (£3.75m WT, £5m UoE; 2016-2021). This cross-
                 College fund supports the strategic priorities of the University in biomedical sciences. ISSF
                 awardees have leveraged £112m in additional funding; this includes 106 external awards
                 funding and 31 fellowships. 20% of supported competitive applications included an EDI
                 element.
                UoE was awarded funding (£1.2m, 2018) for a Wellcome Institutional Translation
                 Partnership Award (iTPA). This provided support to ~320 researchers during the funding
                 period, increasing engagement with translation by 260%. The program has built an early
                 stage funding pathway for 57 funded projects, with significant over-representation of Early
                 Career Researchers (ECRs) new to translation led projects (68.4%), cross-disciplinary
                 (54.4%), and involving collaborations between NHS and industry (49.1%). These projects
                 have resulted in: 1 industry secondment; 16 invention disclosures; 5 patent applications; 3
                 licences (4 opportunities); and leveraged £24.6m further grant funding.
 (4) Edinburgh Medicine Personal/Project Funding: this represents the core of our funding and is
     supported through peer feedback of outline applications and mentorship of our ECRs. Please
     see below for a selection of notable personal funding successes. Clinician scientists are in italics.
     Programme          BHF: Baker (£1.3m), Mills (£1.2m), Newby (£1.8m)
                        CRUK: Dunlop (£3.5m), Ottersbach (£0.7m), J. Pollard (£1.1m), S. Pollard
                        (£1.6m)
                        MRC: Benezech (£1m), Eddleston (£2.7m), Minchin (£0.6m), Rossi (£2m),
                        Saunders (£1.4m), Smith (£2.1m), Kaji (£4m)
                        WT: J Pollard (£4.3m), Newby (£2.3m)
                        Other: Gregory (Bloodwise, £1.2m), Anderson (BBSRC, £0.5m), Sudlow (HDR-
                        UK £1m)
     Translational      BHF: Mills (£1.2m, £1.1m), Newby (£0.6m, £0.9m)
                        Innovate UK: Fallowfield (£1.7m), Forrester (£0.5m)
                        MRC: Dockrell (£3.5m), Hay (£1.5m), Laird (£1m)
                        NERC: Mills (£1.6m)
                        NIHR: Horne (£1.1m), Newby (£1m), Ralston, Hill (£1.5m)
                        WT: Boyd (£0.7m), Newby (£2.3m)
                        ESRC/Newton: Bachmann (£2m)
     EU Funding         ERC Consolidator: Patton (£1.4m)
                        Advanced: A. Jackson (£1.9m), Dzierzak (£1.9m), Ralston (£1.8m), Crow
                        (£1.8m)
                        FP7/H2020: Baker (£1.5m), Mill (£1.5m), Vendrell (£1.5m)
 Table 3: Selection of Edinburgh Medicine Personal/Project Funding

 5.       Our strategy to enhance impact (Section 1) has increased our commercial and translational
          income from £11m in 2016 to £22m in 2020. Notable successes include:
             St. Forbes (IRR) was awarded funding for three MRC Developmental Pathway Funding
              Scheme projects (£3m, £1.9m, £3.3m) to develop cell therapies to treat liver disease. One of
              these projects (Autologous Macrophage Therapy for liver cirrhosis) in now in a Phase II trial.




32
         Critchley (QMRI) carried out an NIHR funded randomised controlled clinical trial (£1.9m)
          investigating ulipristal acetate versus conventional management of heavy menstrual bleeding
          (including uterine fibroids).
         Pollard (IRR) and Carragher (IGMM) were awarded funding from CRUK and the Brain
          Cancer Charity (£12m) to support research working towards new treatments for glioblastoma

 3.2     Organisational Infrastructure

 Institutes and Centres
 As described in Section 1 and illustrated in Table 2 above, our core organisational strategy is the
 creation of Institutes comprising a number of core-funded Centres. The Director of each Institute is
 supported by the Heads of each Centre and an administrative team, with research seminars, research
 in progress meetings, journal clubs, interview and grant feedback, annual appraisals and
 postdoctoral/student mentorship organised at a Centre level.

 Research Support
 Edinburgh Research Office (ERO) centrally coordinates the University’s research grant applications
 and awards facilitating cross-College collaborations for large, complex bids. Comprehensive ERO
 support enables academics to concentrate on the scientific aspects of their applications. ERO aids
 researchers by co-developing funding applications pre-award following up with contracts support and
 post-award grant management.
 The CMVM College Research Office creates the environment to nurture research excellence by
 supporting research ethics, integrity and governance, open science compliance and impact. The team
 (5.4 FTE) includes the Head of the CMVM College Research Office, two dedicated impact officers,
 two translational project managers and a research information officer with a remit including
 overseeing and supporting specific activities in targeted priority areas of the Edinburgh Medicine
 research portfolio including international and global health research; translational and innovation; and
 delivery of our clinical research portfolio. The team play a major role in horizon scanning as well as
 developing and optimising strategic submissions.
 Each Edinburgh Medicine research Institute has a dedicated Edinburgh Innovations team with
 business development, enterprise formation, consultancy and intellectual property expertise,
 embedding a translation and commercialisation culture aligned with each Institute's research strategy
 and providing support for translational and industrial funding applications.
 Sponsorship and governance of clinical research is coordinated through a joint office with NHS
 Lothian (ACCORD, Section 4), which works closely with the UK-CRC registered Edinburgh Clinical
 Trials Unit (ECTU). ECTU provides an infrastructure to design, plan and deliver clinical research
 studies across a varied portfolio of clinical specialties and methodologies. The Edinburgh Medicine
 Research Ethics Committee (EMREC) covers all non-NHS and global health research studies
 requiring ethical review.
 3.3      Operational Infrastructure: Buildings & Estates
 Edinburgh Medicine currently spans two campuses: the Western General Hospital and Edinburgh
 BioQuarter (EBQ). Since REF2014, significant continuous investment has enhanced cross
 disciplinary research at each site and the University has an ambitious programme for medical
 research colocation at EBQ.
 Shared access to key facilities promotes economy of scale, collaborative research and skills training.
 These include Flow Cytometry and Cell Sorting, Confocal and Advanced Light Microscopy, Histology
 and specialist assay development, Biomolecular Core, Mass Spectrometry, HTPU microarray
 services and Healthcare Technology Accelerator Facilities. Shared facilities operate on a cost
 recovery basis ensuring sustainability, retention of expert technical managers and potential to
 upgrade technology.


33
 Western General Campus:
 The MRC Institute of Genetics and Molecular Sciences (IGMM) is located at the Western General
 Campus and is integrated with the NHS Lothian regional cancer hospital (Western General Hospital)
 and clinical genetics service. A £27.2m expansion of the research space was completed in 2016,
 funded by the MRC, Wellcome-Wolfson Capital Awards and UoE. This five level building created a
 new connection across three centres (MRC Human Genetics Unit, Edinburgh Cancer Research
 Centre and the Centre for Genomic and Experimental Medicine), improved the flow of staff and
 students to support research connections, and provided collaborative space and a 180-seat lecture
 theatre. This enabled mathematical and computational capacity to expand (an area of strategic focus)
 allowing the integration and interrogation of large clinical, genomic and biological datasets. The new
 building hosts 100 data scientists, as part of the 500 strong Institute. This has supported new cross-
 disciplinary collaborative research and facilitated training schemes including the Biomedical AI CDT
 (led by the School of Informatics, UoA11) and the £2.2m (MRC/UoE) cross-disciplinary fellowships
 (XDF) programme: a postdoctoral level programme for physicists, chemists, mathematicians,
 statisticians, engineers, computer scientists and other experts seeking training to become leaders in
 Quantitative Biomedicine.
 ECRC laboratories have undergone a £2.5m upgrade. Further investment at this campus will provide
 an integrated undergraduate and postgraduate education centre, with computer labs, meeting and
 wellbeing space. They will be joined by the Division of Pathology (Director, Arends) and the
 Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (ECMC), together forming a Host and Tumour Profiling Unit
 for state-of-the-art genomic, proteomic or metabolomic analyses of patient-derived samples for
 translational studies. These will be united in a single building with excellent connectivity, social and
 lecture space. The value of the new building in bringing together IGMM scientists, encouraging
 collegiate working and stimulating new scientific collaborations is significant. CGEM has brought in
 £23m of grant income including funding of an Illumina HiSeq platform (£7.5m), the funding of the
 MRC Node for Molecular Pathology (£2m, Edinburgh and St Andrews) and the Scottish Genome
 Partnership), together providing new impetus in Edinburgh to deliver medical genomics and molecular
 pathology to the NHS.
 Edinburgh BioQuarter (EBQ) Campus (Figure 13):
 EBQ is a partnership between UoE, NHS Lothian, the regional development agency Scottish
 Enterprise and City of Edinburgh Council. This partnership supported the co-location of academic
 health science, clinical care and commercialisation across multiple shared function buildings, and 3
 of our institutes (Usher, IRR and QMRI) are located on the 160-acre site alongside the 1000 bed
 teaching hospital Edinburgh Royal Infirmary, Edinburgh Medical School, the Anne Rowling
 Regenerative Neurology Clinic (a clinical research facility for UoA4) and 8,500sqm
 commercial/incubation space providing an incubator building with specialist and flexible
 accommodation for (25 at present) rapidly growing life science companies. Since 2014, the EBQ
 infrastructure has been expanded by the UoE Centre for Dementia Prevention (UoA4), the Centre for
 Tissue Repair (enabling IRR to realise the added value of bringing together stem cell biology, tissue
 regeneration and inflammation research - £90.7m), the Royal Hospital for Sick Children (£150m) and
 Clinical Neurosciences. Further expansion is underway for the Centre for Tissue Repair expansion
 (to promote interdisciplinarity by co-locating the PROTEUS collaboration of chemists, optical
 physicists and clinician scientists, reproductive health and infection medicine with IRR) and agreed
 for the Usher Institute (£68m) and the Regenerative Neurology Clinic (£15.3m), along with the
 refurbishment costs (£7m) to create the Brain and Body Institute within QMRI in 2025.




34
Figure 13: Aerial picture of the Edinburgh BioQuarter campus, showing the Usher Institute, IRR, and QMRI clustered around
Edinburgh Royal Infirmary and the new Royal Hospital for Sick Children

 Future EBQ partnership plans also include relocation of Edinburgh Eye Hospital to EBQ, further
 commercial and life science incubator facilities and residential and social development creating an
 integrated academic health science park and community development.

 3.4      Scholarly Infrastructure
 Tissue Biobank: NHS Lothian hosts an NHS Tissue Biobank, the NRS BioResource and the Tissue
 Governance Unit; which is part of a Scottish network overseen by the Chief Scientists’ Office and
 local NHS R&D departments. The Biobank works closely with UoE researchers to provide access to
 research materials, with governance managed through the ACCORD office (See Section 4).
 Data Safe Haven: In partnership with NHS National Services Scotland, we have developed a national
 safe haven with high performance computing capability, networked to four regional safe havens and
 supporting secure analysis of population-wide data. Edinburgh Medicine academics hold leadership
 roles in the MRC Farr Institute, UK Biobank, NHS Digital Academy, Scottish Government’s Digital
 Health and Care Review, the Edinburgh Parallel Computing Centre national supercomputing facilities,
 ESRC Administrative Data Research Centre and EPSRC Alan Turing Institute. Investments from
 UKRI, Scottish Government, charities and industry have catalysed excellence in large-scale imaging
 research (Scottish Universities’ Imaging Network, SINAPSE); capacity for high throughput whole
 genome sequencing (Scottish Genomes Partnership); a network of high quality NHS-embedded
 tissue biorepositories; expertise in digital molecular pathology (MRC/EPSRC Molecular Pathology
 Nodes); and outstanding precision medicine research through our Scottish Precision Medicine
 Ecosystem partnership between academia, NHS and industry. Crucially, we will leverage substantial
 investment from the £1.1b Edinburgh City Deal, which aims to make Edinburgh the data science
 capital of Europe and brings £237m to the University for data-driven innovation. UoE/NHSL have also
 agreed a joint strategy to build a ‘Data Loch’ as part of the DDI component of Edinburgh’s City Deal
 to make health data accessible for research and innovation with a single streamlined approval and
 access process. The Data Loch went live in April 2020, well ahead of the scheduled June 2021
 launch, to collate Covid-19 datasets and is led on behalf of Edinburgh Medicine by Mills.


35
 Generation Scotland: GS is an ethically sound resource of human biological samples and data
 which are available for medical research with a focus on identifying the genetic basis of common
 complex diseases. Led by Porteous, as a joint venture between the Scottish Medical Schools and
 NHS (£15m funding from SFC, CSO, MRC and Wellcome), GS has created a unique partnership
 between the Scottish Medical Schools, NHS Scotland and the people of Scotland towards the
 common goal of developing more effective treatments based on genetic knowledge of complex
 disease. There are currently 3 GS Research Tissue Banks: the Scottish Family Health Study;
 Genetic Health in the 21st Century; and the Donor DNA Databank. GS supports the £5.2m HDR-UK
 award (2018-2023, Sudlow/Porteous) and a £1.3m MRC Pathfinder on Mental Health award
 (McIntosh/Porteous).
 3.5    Edinburgh Medicine Facilities
 Edinburgh Imaging constitutes a key part of Edinburgh Medicine, UoE and national academic
 research infrastructure. It also forms a crucial part of the overall NHS Scotland clinical imaging
 delivery network. Since REF2014 two standalone facilities have been integrated, the Brain Research
 Imaging Centre (BRIC) and the Clinical Research Imaging Centre (CRIC), into a single Edinburgh
 Imaging entity supporting medical imaging research across Edinburgh Medicine, and Edinburgh
 Neuroscience, strengthening interdisciplinary links. Edinburgh Imaging is world class in terms of size,
 scope, co-location and integration of academic research scanning facilities and equipment:
 supporting laboratories and activities, academic, clinical, technical, image analysis, data
 management and professional services expertise. The facilities are also integrated with NHS Lothian
 clinical diagnostic services, data archives and embedded online and campus teaching activities.
 Recent investments from UoE, MRC, BHF, Wellcome Trust and NHS have upgraded the clinical
 research imaging facilities to incorporate two PET/CT scanners, a 3T brain-optimised MR scanner
 adjacent to the RIE Emergency Department, a BHF-funded upgrade of the existing 3T MR system;
 and a combined PET and 3T MR scanner. The latter was installed as part of an £8m project co-
 funded by MRC Dementia Platform UK and UoE. This expansion of activity is now being enhanced
 further by a major £2m upgrade to double the capacity and upscale the capability of the
 radiochemistry suite which includes a cyclotron with Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) and
 Medicine and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) licenced production facilities. There
 are extensive image analysis facilities plus growing activity in retinal and optical imaging. All activity
 is underpinned by an integrated data management platform. This represents circa £40m capital
 investment in imaging equipment over the last 10 years, and an annual turnover of nearly £4m. This
 world class equipment infrastructure is underpinned by 11 senior academics in radiology, medical
 physics, image analysis plus ~100 imaging scientists and technical support staff.
 Edinburgh Preclinical Imaging at EBQ is a state-of-the-art facility with 4 imaging modalities: high-
 field magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), ultrasound, optical imaging and micro PET/CT. The facility
 has an integrated strategy to develop novel in vivo imaging technology to understand disease
 mechanisms and develop therapies.
 Edinburgh Clinical Trials Unit (ECTU), a UK-CRC registered trials unit, provides the expertise and
 infrastructure to design, plan and deliver clinical research studies across a varied portfolio of clinical
 specialties and methodologies. ECTU employs 63 staff and contributed to over 70 studies during the
 REF period; trials are supported by a team of trial managers, data managers and programmers.
 ECTU is core to our ability to deliver clinical insights that transform clinical guidelines, practice and
 patient outcomes. Indeed, 6 of the 13 impact case studies in this Edinburgh Medicine submission
 involve a clinical trial as a key component.
 Clinical Research Facilities (CRFs): There are four CRFs managed as a single UoE/NHS Lothian
 collaboration, comprising adult CRFs at the two major adult hospital sites, the paediatric CRF and the
 Dementia CRF. Both adult and paediatric CRFs have full accreditation to undertake Phase 1 (first in
 human) studies, managed through a Phase 1 committee. In 2018 Edinburgh CRF opened 99 new
 clinical research studies and supported the delivery of 212 active trials. The clinical trials supported
 by the CRFs have seen a consistent 20% increase in clinical trials year on year- most notably in



36
 phase 1 and 2 trials. Over 8100 participant visits were conducted in the CRF, or by the community
 outreach team.
 A state of the art 1000 m2 GMP cellular therapy facility is based within the CRM. The facility was
 designed in consultation with the MHRA to meet the evolving regulatory expectations for cell therapy
 manufacturing within UK and Europe. The facility is licenced by the Human Embryology Fertilisation
 Authority (HFEA), Human Tissue Authority (HTA) and MHRA and is jointly operated by Roslin Cell
 Therapies Ltd. and the Scottish National Blood transfusion Service (SNBTS). The facility has 7 high
 quality clean rooms (4x Grade B, 2x Grade C and 1x Grade D) including support areas and dedicated
 GMP quality control laboratories for stem cell characterisation and safety testing. SNBTS have a
 research, development and manufacturing team within CRM that collaborate with UoE academics to
 deliver phase 1/2 cell therapy trials.
 Other Edinburgh Medicine facilities of note include:
 Edinburgh Super-Resolution Imaging Consortium (ESRIC) joint with Heriot Watt University: This
 national facility has a focus on interdisciplinary collaboration and training providing an openly
 accessible resource with the tools to address fundamental questions in human biology and disease.
 ESRIC houses state-of-the-art imaging technologies alongside molecular biology and cell culturing
 facilities, which are open to researchers from any field anywhere in the world with equal priority to all.
 ESRIC won the Times Higher Education Award for STEM Research Project of the Year 2018.
 UK Zebrafish Screening Facility: This facility has an automated zebrafish embryo handling system
 (VAST, Union Biometrica), combined with a high speed spinning disk confocal microscope
 (Zeiss/Yokogawa) for rapid zebrafish screening. The facility also has a Zeiss LSM880 microscope
 with Airyscan for super resolution in vivo imaging. This combination allows high-throughput in vivo
 chemical screening, with follow up at the sub-cellular level in living embryos, to identify potential drug
 targets and understand their mechanism of action.
 Edinburgh Genomics (EdGe): provides advanced genomics services for researchers. Based in the
 School of Biological Sciences (UoA5), EdGe deliver next-generation sequencing and bioinformatics
 support. EdGe provide training in bioinformatics (e.g. RNA-seq data analysis, metagenomics) and
 has supported >800 publications.
 National Phenotypic Screening Centre: the University of Edinburgh is part of the collaborative
 National Phenotypic Screening Centre network which also involves the Universities of Dundee and
 Oxford. Edinburgh Phenotypic Assay Centre (EPAC, led by Carragher, Frame and D. Gray (UoA5))
 aims to develop state-of-the-art cell based assays suitable for medium to high-throughput screening.
 EPAC links research groups with cutting-edge automated imaging, image-informatics, biological
 modelling and assay screening.




37
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Edinburgh Medicine has an exceptionally strong collaborative ethos, developing international and
 national partnerships to promote research and teaching (top-down) and also encouraging individual
 investigator-led collaborations to drive specific research projects (bottom-up). This is made possible
 by the colocation of NHS, commercial and academic research; our translational infrastructure
 (Section 1); and availability of responsive internal funding that catalyses the development of
 collaborative interdisciplinary projects (Section 1). Our research strengths also allow us to respond
 to national and international priorities as evidenced by a series of key international collaborations;
 see specific examples throughout Section 4.
 4.1       National Partnerships
 NHS Lothian (NHSL): Our key partnership between UoE and NHSL (and other National NHS bodies)
 remains strong. Of the 377 researchers returned, 131 hold NHS honorary appointments. Over 700
 NHSL employees currently hold honorary UoE contracts. Joint appointments at the highest level
 ensure that collaboration continues to thrive; notably, the NHSL R&D Director (Walsh) is a joint
 UoE/NHSL appointment, providing overall leadership and strategic oversight for clinical research.
 Seamless delivery of world-class clinical research is facilitated/delivered by a fully integrated
 UoE/NHSL research office, the Academic and Clinical Central Office for Research And Development
 (ACCORD) with a framework agreement that defines shared responsibilities for all aspects of
 research development and governance. In 2018/19, ACCORD managed 700 non-commercial clinical
 studies, many led by UoE academics or research active NHS clinicians with honorary UoE status,
 recruiting >12,000 patients. ACCORD also manages an active commercial portfolio (>1200 recruits
 in 2018/19); many of these are complex phase II/III trials involving collaboration between UoE and
 NHSL clinicians. The embedded joined-up approach to clinical research enabled emerging COVID-
 19 research studies to be swiftly triaged and supported. NHSL is the leading Scottish health board
 for COVID-19 recruitment with more than 4000 patients enrolled.
 UoE/NHSL collaborate to create a world class research environment by actively reflecting National
 Institute for Healthcare Research (NIHR) structures through disease specific Network and Specialty
 Groups. Eight of the Scottish network/specialty leads are based in UoE/NHSL: Shenkin (Aging, UoE);
 Cameron (Cancer, UoE); Gillies (Anaesthesia and Critical Care, NHSL); Weller (Dermatology, UoE);
 Lees (Gastrointestinal, UoE); Ralston (Musculoskeletal Disease, UoE); Schwarze (Paediatrics,
 UoE); Hill (Respiratory, NHSL). In addition, NHSL funds over 50 NHS Research Scotland (NRS)
 Research Clinicians, mostly consultants, through protected time to undertake research, often with
 UoE collaborators.
 The Edinburgh Clinical Research Facilities are managed as a single UoE/NHSL collaboration and
 NHSL also hosts an NHS Tissue Biobank (Section 3: Facilities). NHSL funds a successful
 Patient/Public Involvement (PPI) programme for research, including regular training programmes for
 researchers/academics. This provided advice to >90 research projects, including support for grant
 submission. NHSL hosts >25 PPI panels and 8 PPI champions actively support a wide range of
 research areas.
 NHSL also leads the recently established East of Scotland NHS Innovation Test Bed to develop
 health and social care innovations, health technologies, DDI and NHS priorities - maximising NHS,
 academic, and industry collaboration.
 Examples of joint academic/health service research and resulting impact include:
          UoE/NHSL collaboration integrating genomics into clinical care (Fitzpatrick and Meynert,
           IGMM). Outputs include: (a) implementation of trio exome sequencing workflow in NHS
           Lothian (2019); (b) creation of new accredited role for clinical scientists using genome
           analysis aided approaches to diagnose and treatment of human disease; and (c) co-
           developing new tests and clinical applications utilising novel technologies.
          The Edinburgh Resuscitation Research Group (RRG) works with the NHS and Scottish
           Ambulance Service optimising delivery of care after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA)

38
         and optimising the "chain of survival" (UoA1 ICS/J). Clegg is the Chair of the OHCA Strategy
         Delivery Group, a collaboration involving all of Scotland's emergency services, Scottish
         Government, Third Sector, NHS and academic partners.
        Simpson and Sheikh (Usher) collaborated with Health Protection Scotland (NHS Division)
         to establish robust systems to demonstrate the effectiveness of the seasonal influenza
         vaccine. These studies have informed the Joint Committee for Vaccination and Immunisation
         who advise the UK Department of Health and the Devolved Administrations on amendment
         to vaccination policy, and contribute evidence for WHO recommendations on annual
         influenza vaccine strain selection.
        Reynolds and Denison (QMRI) have demonstrated the negative impact of maternal obesity
         on pregnancy outcomes. With funding from the charity Tommy’s, they found that obese
         mothers attending a multidisciplinary clinic were 8 times less likely to suffer a still birth,
         compared to matched controls. Tommy’s Metabolic Antenatal Clinic was opened at the
         Edinburgh Royal Infirmary in 2011, renewed in 2016 and is an integral part of MRC Centre
         for Reproductive Health’s research.
        Gourley (IGMM) has been named as an ‘NHS hero’ for his contributions to investigating
         gynaecological cancers. He was pivotal in pushing for genetic sequencing in ovarian cancer
         patients after observing in clinical trials that women with BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutations
         responded particularly well to an experimental new drug, Olaparib, now available on the NHS.
 Other national collaborations of note include:
 Health Data Research UK (HDR UK): This funding (£5.2m, 2018-2023) creates a substantive site
 in Scotland capitalising on world-leading health and informatics research capabilities and exceptional
 data assets from Scotland’s population of 5.4 million people. The Universities of Edinburgh (co-
 ordinating), Glasgow, Dundee, Aberdeen, St Andrews and Strathclyde bring multidisciplinary
 expertise in epidemiology; learning health systems; clinical phenotyping; precision medicine and
 therapeutics; clinical trials; public health; genomics; molecular pathology; informatics;
 supercomputing; data systems; software architecture; and advanced, scalable analysis methods
 including machine learning, artificial intelligence and natural language processing.
 Cancer Research UK (CRUK): The CRUK-Edinburgh Centre (CRUK-EC) is a physical hub and
 cancer banking activities at ECRC/IGMM with considerable CRUK-funded research existing as
 ‘spokes’ across UoE. CRUK-EC is part of a network of CRUK Centres underpinned by a core and
 training CRUK Centre Award, £7.7m (renewed 2017). CRUK-EC benefits from UoE infrastructure and
 collaborations across Edinburgh Medicine including IGMM, Usher Institute, IRR and MRC CRH
 demonstrating the interdisciplinary nature of CRUK-EC themes. Strong links exist between the
 CRUK-EC and the CRUK-Glasgow Centre/CRUK Beatson Institute and recent joint CRUK funding
 was obtained to Train and Retain Academic Cancer Clinicians (TRACC; led by Whyte and MacInnes
 (University of Glasgow) £6m). The partnership between UoE, CRUK and NHS Lothian brings together
 cancer scientists and clinicians, delivering outstanding cancer research and patient care. The
 CRUK/CSO-funded Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (ECMC, £0.9m) was renewed in 2017.
 ECRC is a CRUK Brain Cancer Centre of Excellence (Lead Frame). CRUK-EC is working with
 Scottish Government to streamline and optimise clinical cancer research across Scotland in line with
 the Innovative Healthcare Delivery Programme (IHDP).
 MRC Molecular Pathology Node: The Edinburgh-St Andrews Molecular Pathology Node (£2m,
 MRC) led by Aitman (IGMM) integrates state-of-the-art genomic and epigenomic methods with image
 analysis of complex phenotypes and bioinformatics to develop molecular diagnostics for use in
 mainstream medicine. Rapid translation to the clinic will be achieved by engaging closely with the
 NHS, industry and academia. An MRes Programme in Molecular Pathology has been created to train
 a new generation of molecular pathologists with modern genome-analysis capability to provide a
 skilled workforce for this area.
 Scottish Genomes Partnership: The Scottish Genomes Partnership (£15m 2015-2020) was a
 major Scotland-wide research programme between the Universities of Edinburgh, Glasgow,
 Aberdeen and Dundee, with NHS Scotland, NHS Lothian, NHS Greater Glasgow & Clyde, NHS

39
 Grampian and NHS Tayside. The programme, led by Aitman (IGMM) and Biankin (University of
 Glasgow), explored causes of central nervous system disorders, developmental disorders, and
 cancer, as well as examining genes which influence risk factors for common, complex diseases in a
 Scottish population.
 UK Regenerative Medicine Platform (UKRMP): UKRMP brings together leaders in regenerative
 medicine from across 16 UK universities, creating a critical mass of expertise and knowledge.
 UKRMP funding supports translational research generating scientific knowledge to help deliver the
 great promise of regenerative medicine. Edinburgh (St. Forbes, IRR) led the initial UKRMP Niche
 Hub (£4.5m, 2014-2018) which was renewed as the UKRMP Engineered Cell Environment Hub
 (£5.1m, 2018-2023) involving multiple Edinburgh Medicine academics.
 PROTEUS/OPTIMA: PROTEUS is an interdisciplinary research collaboration, with major investment
 from EPSRC (£11.3m) and 3 consortium Universities (£3m). This team of internationally recognised
 researchers and academics from UoE (Dhaliwal, Haslett and Bradley (UoA8)), Bath and Heriot Watt,
 are working to revolutionising how lung diseases are diagnosed and managed within the Intensive
 Care environment, where respiratory failure is common and bedside care is critical. PROTEUS’
 leading fibre optic research, sensing and imaging, signal processing, and clinical care has resulted in
 the design of a fully integrated system for rapid and accurate diagnosis of bacterial infections.
 Healthcare Technology Accelerator Facility (HTAF): This is a collaborative facility involving UoE
 (lead) and several UK Universities (Bath, Durham, Heriot-Watt and Strathclyde) and the NHS. Funded
 by the MRC, EPSRC, Wellcome Trust and Carb-X, (£1.2m) HTAF aims to expedite the development
 and commercialisation of healthcare technologies, provides a sterile GMP environment for primary
 manufacturing, packaging and assembling of medicines for use in clinical trials and investigations.
 Northern Alliance Advanced Therapies Centre: Funded by Innovate UK (£7m), NAATC is a
 consortium of twenty organisations (industry, NHS and academic including UoE) led by Newcastle
 Hospitals and the Scottish National Blood Transfusion Service (SNBTS) to develop the systems and
 infrastructure required to support the delivery and increase patient access to advanced therapy
 medicinal products (ATMPs). Edinburgh Medicine’s involvement is led by Baker (QMRI) and St.
 Forbes (IRR) who have track records developing advanced therapies.
 4.2     International Partnerships
 Our strategy is to develop deep and sustainable partnerships with key institutions across regions,
 increasing opportunities for research and knowledge development, especially in emergent disciplines.
 International collaborations account for 54% of all papers published in the assessment period.
 To help mitigate against Brexit, we have established strong partnerships with key European
 Institutions through our European Global Scholarships Programme that has cemented commitments
 between institutes. UoE is one of eight leading European research universities in the UNA Europa
 alliance with Data Science, Artificial Intelligence and One Health highlighted as key research strands.
 We are also a founding member of the League of European Research Universities (LERU), which is
 a prominent advocate for the promotion of basic research at European research universities: we have
 implemented LERU Open Science recommendations (Section 1).
 International collaborations/activities in our portfolio include:
 Zhejiang University-University of Edinburgh Joint Institute (ZJE): ZJE is the largest UoE
 transnational research-led educational activity established in 2016 at the new 200 acre International
 Campus of Zhejiang University in Haining, China. Occupying a new 10,000 m2 research facility, at full
 capacity ZJE will host ~40 research groups, 550 post-graduate researchers, and 630
 under/postgraduate students. ZJE was awarded the Education Institutional Partnership of the Year
 2018 at the China-Britain Business Awards and currently hosts the British Council Joint Institute
 Alliance, convened by Welburn, ZJE Executive Dean. We continue to develop the UoE-ZJU
 partnership across mutual research areas and funding opportunities, including new PhD and Masters
 programmes. Bachmann, Director of UoE Postgraduate programmes at ZJE, is leading the existing
 and developing new PG programmes as part of the Biomedical Talent & Translation Pathway at ZJE.


40
 NIHR funded Global Health Units and Groups: The RESPIRE collaboration (Director Sheikh)
 includes organisations in Bangladesh, India, Malaysia and Pakistan working in partnership with the
 UoE to reduce respiratory disease deaths in Asia. DIPLOMATIC (Director Reynolds) is a Global
 Health Research Group aiming to reduce preterm birth and stillbirth and to optimise outcomes for
 babies born preterm in Malawi and Zambia.
 Euro Marie Sklodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network (NOVA-MRI): This €4m network
 coordinated by Leiden University Medical Centre in the Netherlands involves 16 organisations,
 including the University of Edinburgh as well as 7 industrial partners. The Edinburgh team is led by
 Vendrell (IRR), and creates multiple avenues for cross-collaboration and translational research
 across different institutions in Europe.
 THERACAT: An international and multidisciplinary consortium (MSCA-ITN European Training
 Network) developing novel bio-orthogonal catalysis-based tools for cancer therapy. The network
 comprises 6 academic partners (Unciti-Broceta IGMM), 3 industrial partners and 3 partners with a
 focus on science communication (CRUK), EDI (UAB-Observatory for Equality), management and
 entrepreneurship (ESADE business school).
 International Centre for Cancer Vaccine Science: (€11.5m; 2017-2023) a research collaboration
 between the University of Edinburgh (Hupp) and the University of Gdansk with a focus on innovative,
 interdisciplinary programmes and industrial collaborations driving translational clinical developments
 and commercialisation in infectious diseases and cancer.
 Innovative Medicines Initiative: VALUE-Dx this project involving 20 academic partners (Edinburgh
 lead Bachmann) plus BioMérieux, Janssen Pharmaceutica, Bio-Rad, Accelerate Diagnostics, Becton
 Dickinson and Wellcome Trust will define and understand value indicators and barriers to adoption
 of diagnostics of Community-Acquired Acute Respiratory Tract Infections (CA-ARTI) in order to
 develop and improve health economic models to generate insight in the whole value of diagnostics
 and develop policy and regulatory recommendations. RESCEU Respiratory Syncytial Virus
 Consortium in Europe (€3.6m (UoE) 2017-2021) brings together clinicians, epidemiologists,
 scientists, health economists, statisticians, public health professionals, patient organisations,
 regulatory agencies and industry to address key gaps in knowledge of RSV. Nair and Campbell lead
 from Edinburgh.
 Project DOSA: Diagnostics for One Health and User Driven Solutions for AMR: This programme
 (£2m, MRC), led by Bachmann brings together five Indian (Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi;
 Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms, Bangalore; ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries
 Technology, Cochin, Kerala; ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana; Silchar
 Medical College and Assam University, Silchar) and four UK academic institutions (the Universities
 of Edinburgh, Bradford, Southampton, and University of the Arts London). Medical researchers,
 diagnostic innovators, economists and social scientists will create rapid diagnostic solutions to fight
 AMR in diverse settings such as community healthcare, dairy farms and aquaculture.
 Human Cell Atlas Programme: This international consortium aims to create comprehensive
 reference maps of all human cells as a basis for understanding human health and disease. Ponting
 (IGMM) is a member of the Organising Committee, Fitzpatrick and Vallejos are on the funding panel.
 4.3    Translation & Development of Impact
 The University of Edinburgh was a finalist in the Outstanding Entrepreneurial University category of
 the Times Higher Education Awards 2019. Figures from Research England’s Higher Education
 Business and Community Interaction (HE-BCI) Survey showed the University of Edinburgh rose from
 15th place in 2014 to 4th in 2020.
 Company Creation: Edinburgh Medicine has been involved in the creation of 6 spin out companies
 during the REF reporting period. UoE has developed a number of strategic partnerships with venture
 capital investment firms with interests that align with Edinburgh Medicine research outputs including
 Epidarex Capital, Mercia Technologies plc and Advent Life Sciences. We have also highlighted some



41
 key value inflection points that are relevant to companies reported during the last REF reporting
 period.

     Name of Company      Year        Comments

     Aquila Biomedical Ltd 2011       Innovative contract research solutions for drug discovery.
                                      Currently employs >30 members of staff and is situated on
                                      Edinburgh Bioquarter campus.
                                      Acquired by Concept Life Sciences in 2017; Spectris plc
                                      (FTSE250) has since acquired Concept Life Sciences.


     NeurocentrX          2013        Development of therapeutics for neurological conditions
                                      through reformulation, clinical development and product in-
                                      licencing.
                                      Investment was provided by Equity Gap Ltd, Scottish
                                      Enterprise, and Carbon Life Ltd

     Corticrine           2014        Small molecule inhibitor UE2343 (Xanamem): company
                                      acquired by Actinogen Ltd (2014).
                                      Phase II Clinical Trial in early dementia patients nearing
                                      completion (2019).

     Edinburgh Molecular 2014         Optical Molecular Imaging technology. Multiple clinical
     Imaging                          trials ongoing.
                                      Situated on the Edinburgh Bioquarter campus; £5M
                                      investment secured from Epidarex Capital, Scottish
                                      Enterprise and private investors.




     Triscribe Ltd        2015        Building world-class health analytics as a service - helping
                                      NHS clinicians with better information about medicines
                                      usage in hospitals.


                                      Private Seed funding 2018


     PhenoTherapeutics    2019        Development of remyelination therapeutics for multiple
                                      sclerosis
                                      £2m investment secured from Advent Life Sciences, the
                                      Scottish Investment Bank and Life Arc


     Macomics             2020        Immuno-oncology company developing first-in-class
                                      cancer therapies targeting cancer immune evasion
                                      pathways.
                                      CiC funding in 2018 (£97k), £1.3m seed financing led by
                                      Epidarex Capital and Scottish Investment Bank (SIB).



42
                                            Scientific co-founder Cassetta has a 50% FTE position as
                                            a UoE Chancellors Fellow to continue to develop his
                                            academic career.

     Cellinta                2020           Gene Therapy company targeting cancer.
                                            £1.3m investment by SV Health and CRUK Seed Fund.




 Table 4: Edinburgh Medicine Spin Out Companies

 In addition, Edinburgh Medicine academics lead several companies:
           Stemnovate Ltd: Hay (IRR) is a Director and Co-founder of an SME providing compliant
            organ-on-chip platforms integrating stem cell research and tissue engineering as
            physiological alternatives for precision drug discovery and screening.
           MyWay Digital Health: Wake (Usher) is CEO and Clinical Lead of the company providing a
            diabetes self-management app to NHS Scotland.
 Industrial Collaborations: Our academics have a proven track record of collaborating with the
 pharmaceutical and biotechnology sector. Collaborations can occur using a variety of different models
 including: co-sponsored PhD studentships; research collaborations; technology beta testing and
 development; tools development; and clinical research. Specific examples of translational
 collaborative activities with industry include (with more examples listed in Figure 14 below):
           Webster (QMRI) and Mole (IRR) discovered a clinical development candidate
            (GSK3335065), arising from research on the role of KMO in acute pancreatitis which entered
            Phase 1 trials in partnership GSK (Nat Med 2016, Nat Commun 2017). This was a GSK
            Discovery Partnership with Academia project.
           Vendrell (IRR) has developed novel fluorescent probes for the identification of apoptosis,
            infection and metabolites in situ. This technology is patented and the associated IP has been
            licenced by Merck, Biolegend and Cambridge Research Biochemicals.
           Boulter (IGMM) identified key factors in the development and progression of
            cholangiocarcinoma (JCI 2015) and is probing whether these could be amenable to
            intervention in partnership with Leap Therapeutics.
           Boyd (IGMM) is involved in the UK Cystic Fibrosis Gene Therapy Consortium, joining
            Boehringer Ingelheim and Oxford Biomedica to develop a new viral vector-based therapy.




43
          The partnership builds on pioneering research carried out by the consortium including clinical
          trials, which have shown encouraging results.




 Figure14: Edinburgh Medicine Industry Collaborations (please note only collaborations that are in the public domain
 are included)

 4.4     Edinburgh Medicine Engagement with Communities and the Public
 From 2013 to 2020, our colleagues have won funding for engagement activities from the MRC,
 Wellcome Trust, the European Commission, learned societies and charities.
 Annual returns to the Higher Education Business and Community Interaction Survey reveal growth
 in participation numbers in estimated external ‘engagements’ between 2013 and 2019, from an
 estimated 170,000 ‘engagements’ in 2013 to an estimated 260,000 in 2019. This reflects growth in
 support from professional engagement and communications staff to researchers and development of
 engagement approaches that better consider the needs of participants and that focus on quality of
 interaction.
 An excellent example of community engagement was the Castlebrae Science Development Project.
 The aim was to enrich science education and STEM engagement within Castlebrae Community High
 School and its cluster primary schools (Castleview, Newcraighall & Niddrie Mill) through a partnership
 with CRM by developing science capital in young people whose backgrounds meant they may not
 traditionally have viewed science positively or as an opportunity for them. Schools, pupils, engaged
 parents and scientists/STEM providers welcomed the opportunities and particular activities offered
 and rated their experiences positively. All partner schools initiated some enhancements to science
 delivery during the timescale of the Project. A particularly successful mentoring scheme was
 introduced which consisted of fortnightly sessions involving interactions between CRM volunteer
 mentors (typically PhD students) and pupil mentees.
 In 2019, Edinburgh Medicine received three major national public engagement awards including the
 2019 Understanding Animal Research Public Engagement Award for openness about the use of
 animals in research (all participants in Edinburgh Medicine). CRM in collaboration with Castleview
 Primary School won the 2019 Rolls Royce Science Prize and the Eden Award for community science
 engagement.


44
                                                                       In January 2020 we launched the
                                                                      Academic Leads for Public Engagement
                                                                      leadership programme and recruitment
                                                                      to the first PhD programme to combine
                                                                      medical science research with credited
                                                                      teaching         in       communication,
                                                                      engagement, patient involvement, data
                                                                      design and informatics. Both the
                                                                      academic lead programme and the
                                                                      Medical Sciences and Translational
                                                                      Research PhD with integrated studies in
                                                                      Engagement for Impact programme are
                                                                      part of long-term culture change
                                                                      initiatives led by the College to work
Figure 15: Edinburgh Medicine public engagement: the IRR team towards              an     environment  where
receiving their award of the 2019 Rolls-Royce Science Prize for their researchers are best equipped to solve
work with Castleview Primary School                                   real-world problems through excellent
                                                                      research.
 Edinburgh Medicine Response to COVID-19 Pandemic
 Public Engagement
 Our scientists have included public engagement in their research response to the Covid-19 pandemic.
 The Coronagenes study has made extensive use of social media to recruit and inform, but also to
 engage by hosting Q&A on Instagram Live to encourage people all over the world to join the study.
 RuralCovidLife builds on the original CovidLife study to address experiences in Scotland’s more
 remote communities. In the city of Edinburgh itself we contributed to the Curiosity Box initiative led
 by Edinburgh BioQuarter: a STEM education pack was delivered to every pupil who attends primary
 school in our neighbouring communities.
 Public Health Policy
 Researchers from the Usher Institute are advising government on public health policy including
 activities such as social distancing, tracing and tracking the spread of infection and testing. Four
 Usher researchers are members of the Scottish Government’s COVID-19 Advisory group: Morris
 (chair), Sheikh, Sridhar (returned UoA20) and Woolhouse (returned UoA6). This group supplements
 the work of the UK Government Scientific Advisory Group on Emergencies (SAGE), which has been
 advising ministers north and south of the border: Morris is also a member of SAGE; Baillie, Docherty
 and Harrison are members of the COVID-19 Clinical Information Network. Rudan is a key advisor
 to the Croatian Government, providing support with COVID-19 strategy and communications.
 Training & Education
 UoE’s MSc in Critical Care team, with colleagues from the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh,
 created an online educational resource to respond to the pandemic: the free to access "COVID-19
 Critical Care: Understanding and Application" programme teaches clinicians how to effectively care
 for critically ill patients. To date 45,000 learners from 197 countries have engaged with this resource.
 Wider activities and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The University of Edinburgh Chancellor's Awards recognise innovation, relevance, creativity,
 personal dedication and impact in teaching and research. Since REF2014, Edinburgh Medicine
 researchers have received the following Chancellor's Awards: Fitzpatrick (Impact 2018), Walker
 (Research 2015), Frame (Research 2014), Mills (Rising Star 2014).
 Table 5 illustrates examples of our contribution to the research base, economy and society:




45
     Contributions to Governmental and International Advisory Bodies

     International      A*STaR Health and Biomedical Sciences International Advisory Council
     Advisory           (Savill); A*STaR Clinical Sciences Unit Scientific Advisory Board (Seckl);
     Committees         Breast International Group (Cameron, Chair 2019); Gates Foundation
                        Scientific Advisory Group (Nair, 2014); Singapore Academic Research
                        Council (Savill, 2020); WHO Experts in Digital Health (Pagliari); WHO
                        Steering Group for Impact Working Group (Welburn); SAB Centre for
                        Regenerative Therapies Dresden (Becker, Chair), International Society for
                        Pneumococcal Disease (Bogaert); European Academy of Allergy and
                        Clinical Immunology (Schwarze); Consulting Group Contraception
                        Discovery and Development Branch, NICDH USA (Anderson); International
                        Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics Committee for Menstrual
                        Disorders (Critchley), Vice Chair of JPIAMR Scientific Advisory Board
                        (Bachmann, 2018-20), Member of CARB-X Advisory Board (Bachmann,
                        2020).
                        MRC Chief Executive Officer (Savill 2010-18); AMS Council Member
     Leadership in UK
                        (Critchley); BHF Data Science Centre Director (Sudlow); Longitude Prize
     Science
                        Advisory Panel/Judge (Bachmann, 2017-); NHS Research Scotland Clinical
                        Cancer Research Champion (Cameron); NHS Research Scotland Primary
                        Care Research Champion (Guthrie); NICE Multi-morbidity Guideline
                        Development Group (Guthrie, Chair 2014-16); Royal College of
                        Obstetricians and Gynaecologists Stillbirth Clinical Study Group (Stock,
                        Chair 2017); Scottish Clinical Virology Consultants Group (Haas); Chief
                        Scientist at the Scottish Government Health Directorate (Morris); Scottish
                        School of Primary Care Executive Management Group (Guthrie); Scottish
                        Universities Life Science Alliance AMR Steering Group (Bachmann,
                        Member); UK BioBank Chief Scientist (Sudlow 2011-2020); UK Clinical
                        Academic Training Forum (Whyte Chair); UK Government Cabinet Office
                        Better Use of Data in Government: QA Group (Pagliari, 2016); UKRI Digital
                        Health Research and Innovation Project Expert Group (Sudlow, 2019);
                        University of Cambridge Centre for Trophoblast Research SAB (Critchley);
                        WT Population Health Expert Advisory Board (Sudlow, 2015); WT Science
                        Review Advisory Group (Sudlow, 2019); Zika Virus UK Government
                        Advisory Committee (Jackson, 2016)
     Contributions to Science Funding

     Funding        Current chairs of major UK panels: Innovate UK Biomedical Catalyst Major
     Committees and Awards (Seckl); MRC Asset Sharing Initiative (Seckl); MRC Confidence In
     Organisations  Concept (Seckl); MRC DPFS (Seckl); MRC Methodology Research Panel
                    (Sudlow); MRC/NIHR Efficacy and Mechanisms Evaluation Board (Norrie);
                    MRC Molecular & Cellular Medicine Board (Jackson, Deputy Chair); MRC
                    Proximity to Discovery (Seckl); MRC Training and Careers Board (Whyte);
                    MCSA Individual Fellowship Programme (Becker, Vice Chair Life
                    Sciences), NIHR HTA General Committee (Norrie, Deputy-Chair);
                    Wellcome Trust: Molecular Basis of Cell Function ERG (Bickmore), UKRI
                    Future Leaders (Dockrell), MRF National Doctoral Programme in AMR
                    (Dockrell), Fellowships and Awards Working Group, European Respiratory
                    Group (Bogaert), AMS INSPIRE grants panel (Seckl)




46
     Other Measures of Distinction

     Elections to             26 fellows of the Academy of Medical Sciences including new Baker (2015),
     Learned                  Dzierzak (2015), Sheikh (2015), St. Forbes (2016), J. Pollard (2016),
     Societies                Fitzpatrick (2017) and Campbell (2020)
                              4 fellows of the Royal Society including new Bickmore (2017), Jackson
                              (2020)
                              34 fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh including new J. Pollard (2015),
                              Sheikh (2015), Welburn (2015), St. Forbes (2016), Rudan (2016), Aitman
                              (2017), Dzierzak (2018), Ponting (2018), Sudlow (2018), Whyte (2018),
                              Fitzpatrick (2019), Saunders (2019), Wigmore (2019); Guthrie (2020),
                              Murray (2020)

     Contribution to          British Society of Immunology (Davidson, Public Engagement Secretary
     Societies and            2018); Genetics Society (Bickmore, President 2015-20); MRC Harwell
     Organisations            (Bickmore, Chair 2015); British Association of Cancer Research (Frame,
                              President 2015-19); MRC Unit for Lifelong Health and Ageing (Bickmore,
                              Member 2018); Lister Institute of Preventive Medicine Governing Body
                              (Bickmore, Chair 2014); Marie Curie Research Strategy Board (Norrie
                              2016); Royal Society of Edinburgh (Welburn, Chair Sector A Selection
                              Panel); Sanger Institute (Bickmore, Chair 2017); UCL Scientific Advisory
                              Board (Fitzpatrick 2016); Weatherall Institute for Molecular Medicine
                              University of Oxford (Bickmore, Chair 2014-17); Scientific committee of
                              European Cystic Fibrosis Society (Bogaert); Programme committee
                              European Society Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Disease (Bogaert)

     Notable                  UK Civil Honours System: British Empire Medal (Hannah, 2016); CBE
     Awards/Prizes            (Hastie, Haslett (2017), Morris (2018); OBE (Frame, Seckl (2018), Porteous
                              (2019)).
                              James Black Medal, Royal Society of Edinburgh (Haslett 2014); Donald
                              Metcalf Award, International Society of Experimental Haematology
                              (Dzierzak 2015); George Abercrombie Award, RCGP (Murray 2015);
                              Wellcome Trust Beit Prize (Feng 2014, Christophorou 2015 and Gibson
                              2020); Royal Society of Edinburgh Patrick Neill Medal (Unciti-Broceta 2016,
                              Marsh 2019, Boulter 2020); Teamwork in Innovation Award; Royal Society
                              of Chemistry (Mole, Webster 2016); Chinese University of Hong Kong
                              Distinguished Scholar (Guthrie 2017); BMJ Imaging Team of the Year
                              (Scot-Heart trial 2017); Pfizer SRI President’s Presenter Award (Gibson,
                              CCVS 2017); British Association for Cancer Research AstraZeneca Young
                              Scientist Frank Rose Award (Serrels 2017); Rosetrees Trust Prize for
                              Interdisciplinary Research (Bachmann/Dear 2017); American Thoracic
                              Society International Trainee Scholarship Award (Marsh 2018); Society for
                              Endocrinology Early Career Prize Lecture (Gibson 2018); Lister Institute for
                              Preventative Medicine Lister Prize (Marsh 2018); Africa Palliative Care
                              Association Award (Murray, 2019); Sir William Gilliat Congress medal
                              (Stock 2019) and Academic Award (Critchley 2020), RCOG; BHF Research
                              Fellow of the Year Award (Mills 2019); Women in Cell Biology Prize from
                              the British Society of Cell Biology (Mill 2019); British Pharmacological
                              Society’s Lilly Prize (Eddleston 2019); Hind Rattan (Jewel of India) award
                              (Nair 2019); Hooke Medal (Chambers 2020); Royal Society of Edinburgh
                              Patrick Neill Medal Marsh (2019), Boulter (2020)
 Table 5: Wider activities and contribution to the research base, economy and society


47
48
