Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Institution: University College London (UCL)

    Unit of Assessment: 4 (Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience)

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Overview: Context and structure
UCL’s research in psychology, psychiatry, and neuroscience aims to advance our understanding of
mind, brain and behaviour to improve global health and wellbeing. The 402 staff (380 FTE)
returned in this Unit of Assessment (UoA) engage in basic, clinical, and translational research, lead
clinical trial networks, collaborate extensively with other researchers nationally and internationally,
and train the next generation of researchers in these fields. This research is catalysed by strong
links with multiple NHS Trusts, underpinned by two National Institute for Health Research (NIHR)
Biomedical Research Centres (BRCs) and an Academic Health Sciences Centre (UCL Partners,
UCLP). The vitality of this research is demonstrated by:

•     Outstanding facilities and infrastructure, and major investment in staff, buildings, and
      equipment in the REF period. In 2016 we were chosen to host the £280M multi-centre UK
      Dementia Research Institute (UKDRI) which will transform treatment and care for people with
      dementia;
•     Over 28,000 peer-reviewed research articles published during the assessment period. The
      impact of this work is demonstrated by >470,000 citations, and over 670 ‘highly-cited’ articles
      (top 1% for their field). On both impact measures we rank internationally second only to
      Harvard for psychology, psychiatry and neuroscience, and 3 of the top 5 most cited
      researchers in the UK for this area in the REF period are included in this submission (Fox,
      Hardy, Zetterberg; InCites);
•     Comprehensive external collaboration including contributions to major international and
      national research networks: 54% of our research outputs include an international co-author;
•     An environment designed to foster and actively promote interdisciplinarity: 60% of staff in this
      submission are involved in interdisciplinary collaborations, and 30% of our submitted outputs
      include an author from a different UCL UoA (the rule we have adopted to identify outputs as
      interdisciplinary in REF2);
•     A broad and inclusive range of activities and initiatives designed to realise our researchers’
      potential, including the development of early scientific careers, and embedding equality,
      diversity and inclusion in all aspects of our research, for example through structured
      mentorship programmes;
•     Research activity sustained by vibrant doctoral training programs which award over 200 PhDs
      annually, with a 15% increase over the REF period;
•     External research awards of over £720M, with average annual income 120% higher than the
      previous REF period, and equating to over £270K of yearly external income per staff member;
•     Substantial engagement with industry, with £32M of funding in the REF period, leading to
      major and diverse impacts as described in our impact case studies and including >800
      publications with an industry co-author;
•     Major contributions to the national effort to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, ranging from
      public engagement via evidence briefings, to ground-breaking diagnostics on COVID-19-
      related neurological disease, and online therapy delivery for stroke patients.

       This submission comprises research activity within UCL’s Faculty of Brain Sciences (FBS;
Dean, Thompson)1, one of four Faculties constituting the UCL School of Life and Medical
Sciences (SLMS). Research is conducted in 7 major units to which all UoA4 staff are affiliated:
Division of Psychiatry (DoP; Director, Lewis); Division of Psychology and Language
Sciences (P&LS; Fonagy); Ear Institute (EI, Gale); Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience (ICN;

1
 The submission is coextensive with the Faculty, comprising all FBS staff who meet the criteria set
out in UCL’s REF Code of Practice. The only exception is that 5 staff within the UCL Interaction
Centre are submitted to UoA11 (Computer Science and Informatics).
                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Scott); Institute of Ophthalmology (IoO; Dick); Institute of Prion Diseases (IoPD; Collinge);
and Queen Square Institute of Neurology (IoN; Hanna).
        Research in UoA4 is strategically closely aligned with the our partner NHS Trusts,
exploiting co-location of UCL academics with the following Trusts: University College London
Hospitals Foundation Trust (UCLH), including the National Hospital for Neurology and
Neurosurgery (NHNN); the Royal National Throat, Nose and Ear Hospital (RNTNEH); Moorfields
Eye Hospital Foundation Trust (MEH); the Royal Free London Foundation Trust; Camden and
Islington Foundation Trust (C&I); and the North East London Foundation Trust (NELFT).

1.2 Mission and strategic principles
FBS has formulated an ambitious strategy that incorporates its core values and develops the
complementary expertise contained within its constituent parts to realise our shared mission and
vision, in alignment with the major aims of the UCL Research Strategy (see REF5a).
     The mission encompasses the full translational pathway spanning discovery science through
experimental medicine, to disease prevention and the delivery of new treatments and therapies,
across the major research themes shown in Figure 1. It goes beyond disease to inform also our
understanding of the neural processes underlying behaviour and how they can be modulated.
Moreover understanding and influencing human behaviour are key to the effective translation of
science into policy and practice. Behaviour is fundamental to delivering evidence-based
interventions by clinicians/practitioners, public health specialists and planners and in maximizing
the uptake of such practices by patients, the general population and policy-makers.
     Our research thus encompasses genes, molecules and cells, systems, behaviour, and
complex interventions in a manner that allows maximal alignment and collaboration with major
emerging initiatives and partners. Key strategic mechanisms to realise these research and impact
goals are:

•   Investment in major research centres and institutes: maintaining a vibrant research
    environment and infrastructure, based around strong research groups led by outstanding
    individuals and funded by regular and longer-term research grants;
•   Crossing boundaries between disciplines and communities: fostering interdisciplinary and
    inter-institutional collaboration and partnership with community, governmental and industry
    stakeholders in developing solutions to society’s most pressing challenges, via mechanisms
    described below; supported and facilitated by cross-School Neuroscience and Populations &
    Lifelong Health Domains and UCL’s Grand Challenges programme (especially the Global
    Health and Human Wellbeing themes);
•   Nurturing research leadership: maximising the opportunities available to the UoA’s
    researchers, optimising their career development, supporting those from under-represented
    groups, and amplifying the impact of their research as widely as possible, via a range of
    mechanisms including mentoring and leadership programmes plus continual interaction within
    and across research groups;
•   International engagement and collaboration: interacting globally through international
    institutional collaborations (e.g., Max Planck Society, Yale), training networks, hosting
    conferences and a high intensity of international conference participation, visitor exchanges,
    major involvement in editorial work for leading international journals, plus staff and student
    recruitment;
•   Enterprise and knowledge exchange: incentivizing and supporting this key aspect of the
    research of staff members and the research centres to which they are attached via institutional
    structures and procedures, recognizing our responsibility to society and realizing the public
    benefit of our research discoveries;
•   Well-resourced state-of-the-art doctoral programmes: running training programmes with
    significant teaching components (including PhD-specific courses in theory, methods, core
    skills and career development), opportunities for international exchange and extensive
    interaction with experts.

1.3 Development of the research environment since REF2014
We have made substantial progress towards these aims, supported by significant levels of
institutional investment in people and infrastructure, as well as major research expansion.

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         In 2016 UCL won the national competition to be the Hub of the UK Dementia Research
Institute, coordinating and operating alongside 6 other Centres based at 5 UK Universities
(Cambridge, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Imperial, KCL). Launched in 2017, UKDRI is the single biggest
investment the UK has made in dementia thanks to £280M from founding funders the Medical
Research Council (MRC), Alzheimer’s Society and Alzheimer’s Research UK (ARUK). The UKDRI
HQ is led by De Strooper and the UCL Hub by Duff (recruited from Columbia University). UKDRI
leads the UK’s dementia research efforts to tackle the huge challenge of the condition, which is
now the leading cause of death in England and Wales. It brings together world-leading expertise in
biomedical, care and translational dementia research comprising 60 Principal Investigators and
over 650 researchers, support staff and students. The Institute carries out research relevant to all
dementias, including Alzheimer’s Disease (AD), Parkinson’s Disease (PD), frontotemporal
dementia (FTD), motor neuron disease (MND), vascular dementia, and Huntington’s Disease (HD).
         Key to the success of UKDRI is the development of collaborations with researchers from
across UCL’s research base including the Francis Crick Institute and Sainsbury Wellcome
Centre, as well as engaging with other UKDRI Centres and international networks. Collaborations
extend across other disciplines, including UCL Computer Science, for example with Dr Neil
Oxtoby, an expert in applying computational approaches in understanding progression of
neurodegenerative disorders.
        Another strategic focus has centred on mental health and well-being. Following the
successful launch of the UCL Mental Health strategy in 2019, a new Institute of Mental Health
(IoMH) was established and David recruited as Director, made possible through a donation of £1M
by the Sackler Trust and £0.4M from UCL for core staff and pump priming. The IoMH will facilitate
and focus activity in mental health across UCL, spanning psychiatry, psychology, neuroscience,
and epidemiology. As a measure of our breadth and depth, a recent audit revealed over 800
potential IoMH affiliates (academic staff, clinical collaborators) who have published relevant
research between 2016-2020. These developments put us in a strong position to compete for
major funding initiatives: for instance, Roiser (supported by Osborne and Fearon) was awarded
£5.7M by Wellcome Trust (WT) for a new IoMH doctoral training programme in MH Science, for 25
studentships over 5 years.
        Implementation of the strategy will enrich UCL’s mental health research community and
outward presence, particularly novel cross-disciplinary activities capitalising on UCL’s unique
strengths in mechanistic and population health. Discussion with C&I is progressing regarding the
redevelopment of the St Pancras Hospital site to provide space and facilities for the IoMH and
enhance translational research through co-location of UCL clinical academics within the NHS
Trust.
        UCL Partners, UCL’s Academic Health Sciences Centre/Network, is one of the world’s
largest academic health science partnerships, covering a population of 6M people in North London
and surrounding areas, aimed at accelerating the translation of scientific discoveries into clinical
practice by coordinating discovery science and facilitating clinical trials. Its Mental Health and
Behaviour Change Programme (directed by Fonagy) has a budget of ~£1M pa.
        Health services and applied research has been strengthened by the Collaborations for
Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) North Thames (NIHR £10M) and
its successor, the Applied Research Collaborations (ARC) North Thames (NIHR £9M),
supplemented by >£30M from other contributing institutions, involving several staff including
Fonagy (Mental Health Theme Lead), Osborn (Multimorbidity Lead), Livingston (Dementia),
Pilling and Johnson (Adult Mental Health), Michie (Behaviour Change), and King (PRIMENT
Clinical Trials Unit [CTU]). These collaborative networks link UoA4 to UCLP and more than 40
organisations including NHS, higher education, local authority and patient groups to identify and
evaluate interventions to improve health and social care.
         Two partnerships between NIHR and UCL, renewed in 2016, have provided extensive
investment in collaborative experimental medicine research and strongly leverage support from
other funders. The UCLH Biomedical Research Centre was awarded funding of £114M and
expanded to include themes in deafness and hearing, dementia and mental health, and
neurological diseases, all led by UoA4 researchers. UCLH BRC invests in staff, equipment,
facilities and training, taking innovations in basic science and translating them into treatments and
therapies. In particular it supports first-in-human studies including early-phase translational studies,


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                             THEMES
 Neurodegeneration &          Mental Health             Understanding &        Sensory Systems
    Neuroprotection       B1 Clinical and            Influencing Behaviour   D1 Ophthalmology
 A1 Neurodegenerative        epidemiological         C1 Behavioural and      D2 Ear and audition
    disease                  psychiatry                 cognitive sciences
                                                                             D3 Speech, hearing
 A2 Prion diseases        B2 Clinical, educational   C2 Language and            and phonetic
 A3 Neuroinflammation        and health                 cognition               sciences
                             psychology              C3 Linguistics
 A4 Neuromuscular
    disease               B3 Human
                             neuroimaging and
 A5 Epilepsy
                             cognitive
 A6 Clinical and
                             neuroscience
    movement
    neuroscience
 A7 Brain repair and
    rehabilitation

           SLMS Research Coordination Office and Translational Research Office

                   University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust

                     UCL Partners Academic Health Science Centre/Network

                              UCLH Biomedical Research Centre

                                    Doctoral Training Centres

                               UCL Business & UCL Consultants

                                   Global Engagement Office

                            European Research & Innovation Office


 Figure 1. Columns: research themes and sub-themes. Rows: key partners for facilitating
 research translation.

improvements in diagnosis, treatment selection, evaluation of response to therapies, and
repurposing (discovering new uses for existing therapies).
        The partnership and combined impact of our joint research with MEH has been sustained
though their joint designation as the Moorfields Biomedical Research Centre with funding of
£19M (Director, Khaw). This facilitates the infrastructure and support required to build on
fundamental discovery research in vision science and enables rapid delivery of new diagnostic
methods and therapies into the clinical setting, closely aligned with the Eyes and Vision theme
within UCLP to maximise opportunity in key common areas in personalised medicine, lifelong
health, global reach, partnership working, industry engagement, patient and public involvement,
and research capacity development. There is strong engagement with industry (recent major
contracts with GSK, Roche, Pfizer and Santen), successful spin-outs and spin-in initiatives and
extensive collaborations with centres in the US and Europe.
        In 2017 the MRC Prion Unit became incorporated into UCL as the Institute of Prion
Diseases and relocated in 2018 to the newly refurbished Courtauld Building (a joint £30M
investment by MRC and UCL) providing a national centre of excellence to pursue a long-term

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research strategy in prion and related neurodegenerative diseases involving protein misfolding.
This facility includes highly specialised microbiological containment level III laboratories and tissue
culture suites and a variety of comprehensive advanced analytical and microscopy facilities with
appropriate biosecurity. The incorporation into the university has allowed expansion of its research
into understanding the role of protein polymerisation in other human diseases. The Institute has a
national strategic role in analysis of prion pathogens.
        The Max Planck-UCL Centre for Computational Psychiatry and Ageing (Director,
Dolan), a £6M joint investment between UCL and the Max Planck Society, opened in 2014 in
newly-refurbished space. The Centre award was renewed 2019-24 (£2.5M) and it also has
partnered with Telefonica (£1.6M industrial collaboration) to develop app-based tools for early
detection and monitoring of depression and anxiety. Its scientific goal is to elucidate causes of
psychiatric disorders and life course change.
        The UCL Drug Discovery Institute (DDI; led by Whiting) was launched in 2015 with
funding from ARUK of £10M for the first 5 years, recently renewed until 2025 with a further £12M.
The spinout company AstronauTx, formed in 2019, has received approximately £9M in seed capital
including investment from the Dementia Discovery Fund and UCL Technology fund. Working
alongside Institutes at Oxford and Cambridge, its goal is to develop new therapies for
neurodegenerative diseases, with a particular focus on modulating astrocytes in the brain. It is
housed in the Cruciform Building in laboratories benefitting from a £1M UCL-funded refurbishment.

1.4 Open science and integrity
UCL’s high-level commitment to research transparency and integrity are underpinned by the
institutional infrastructure and policies described in REF5a, including the Data Safe Haven and
Research Data Repository. All research in this UoA complies with UCL’s Statement on Research
Integrity (which incorporates the principles of the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity),
Code of Conduct for Research, and Statement on Transparency in Research. These include
policies about the use of metrics for Open Research in the context of UCL’s commitment (since
2015) to the principles of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DoRA).
Importantly, UCL is a founding member of the UK Reproducibility Network (with Shanks as
institutional lead). Extensive training and enabling mechanisms (including recognition in
promotions criteria) have been developed as described in §2.
         Staff across UoA4 have led initiatives to enhance open science principles. 130 staff (34%)
have published papers or undertaken activities that specifically aim to promote research
reproducibility, including defining guidelines or setting community standards for research
procedures or analyses. For example, Michie co-authored a now-standard template for better
reporting of interventions (TIDieR), and Shanks and Fearon participated in the collaborative
network that developed a consensus-based checklist to improve and document the transparency of
social and behavioural research reports. Carandini was part of the collaboration that established
reproducibility of decision-making in mice, releasing methods and data from 5M mouse choices
obtained from 7 laboratories across the world. 197 staff (50%) made research data, software, or
code available using open source sharing platforms. Reproducible research is an increasingly
important focus for staff, including seeking open science grants (e.g., WT Open Research
Enrichment award to fund BonVision: Saleem), pre-registering hypotheses and conducting
registered reports, and contributing to the design and sharing of open-source experimental and
analysis packages (notably Friston’s Statistical Parametric Mapping [SPM] neuroimaging
software, but also including many other examples such as Love’s neural dimensionality software).
         UCL Discovery provides free and unrestricted access to more than 21,000 texts authored
by UoA4 researchers. Of all UoA4 articles and conference papers that were accepted from 1 April
2016 (not only those submitted as REF2 outputs), 97% have been deposited in UCL Discovery,
are gold open access or qualify for exceptions; 89% comply with or have exceptions to the REF
open access policy. Administrative staff time in all units participating in this UoA is specifically
allocated to supporting compliance with OA policy.

1.5 Research and impact strategy for the next 5 years
Our research has a particularly broad range of key non-academic users and beneficiaries. This
informs our strategic approach that provides specific institutional and UoA mechanisms and
incentives targeting measurable impacts for each group. Our key users and beneficiaries are:

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

•   Patients, their carers and people at risk of conditions affecting health and well-being
    who benefit from our development and delivery of new diagnostics, better ways of monitoring
    disease and novel treatments; and through our work improving the effectiveness of existing
    treatments and disseminating best practice through training and continuing professional
    development. Our research has significantly improved the management of adults and children
    with a wide range of neurological and mental health conditions and also the modification of risk
    factors in healthy people;
•   Local, national and international healthcare providers who see lower costs from our
    interventions reducing risk of disease, and whose referral patterns benefit from our expertise.
    Approximately half the patients seen at our partner hospitals come from outside Camden,
    facilitating the development of highly specialized clinical services co-located with academic
    excellence. This has enabled us to make advances in the investigation and treatment of rare
    (for example, neuromuscular) disease as well as targeting special user groups such as
    individuals with hearing impairment. Our expertise allows rapid dissemination and translation
    of research findings into clinical practice but also establishes standards of prevention,
    investigation, diagnosis and treatment for these patients nationally and internationally;
•   Industry and entrepreneurs who partner with us to translate discovery into impact. Our
    expertise in neuroscience has led to major collaborations in early phase development of new
    molecules and the repurposing of existing medicines for new indications. We have also been
    very active in clinical trials (>350 initiated in the REF period) where partnership with industry
    has led to the development of new medicines for neurological disease; and in work with SMEs
    in the development, implementation and dissemination of new forms of treatment for
    neurological and mental health disorders;
•   Professions outside academia including schoolteachers benefit from our extensive outreach
    and public engagement work, which includes the co-creation of structures like the Centre for
    Educational Neuroscience (a collaboration with Birkbeck and the UCL Institute of Education;
    MacSweeney) to effect a two-way dialogue with teaching professionals;
•   Government Departments, non-governmental organisations and other policy makers via
    membership of key committees influencing policy through direct interaction; through major
    input into National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) guidelines particularly
    with respect to mental health; and through advice provided to UK Government Departments
    and Ministers of State, all-party Parliamentary Groups, and House of Commons Select
    Committees;
•   Media and cultural organisations and the public through raising awareness of our research
    findings among a broad range of audiences and through dialogue to inform our research
    priorities.

        UCL expects academic staff to seek out and actively pursue opportunities to engage
directly with external organisations and key research users in ways that result in the direct transfer
of expertise and knowledge to transform and benefit society, as exemplified by our Impact Case
Studies. UCL’s promotions process, the Academic Career Framework (ACF), explicitly recognizes
and rewards these activities. The following subsections describe the major ways in which we
promote and deliver research impact across these groups.

1.5.1 Institutional and UoA mechanisms for translating research. UCL provides a range of
knowledge transfer and enterprise support mechanisms. At Faculty level these include the
Faculty’s Vice-Dean for Enterprise (Devlin) and Faculty Enterprise Champions (Schilder,
Raihani, Whiting, McQuillan, Marshall); a Knowledge Transfer and Enterprise Board (chair,
Thompson) delivers strategic leadership to several UoAs, including UoA4. Research strategy is
developed and implemented by a senior executive team including Institute/Division Directors, the
Vice-Deans for Research and Enterprise, and others with key roles. Regular meetings of the FBS
executive team with all Heads of Research Departments ensure alignment with departmental
strategy.
        The Office of the Vice-Provost for Research oversees all aspects of research support,
including a range of services managed by the SLMS Research Coordination Office (RCO). This
includes a Research Coordinator Team which alerts researchers to new funding schemes, co-

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ordinates large and interdisciplinary bids, provides support for early career and fellowship
applications including training on grant writing, brings together communities by facilitating events
and forums, and develops mutually beneficial relationships with external funding agencies. The
Translational Research Office (TRO) supports the translation of basic and clinical research into
therapies, diagnostics and devices, through interacting with investigators, identifying translatable
opportunities, and advising on and accessing suitable funding. The TRO advises on industrial
partnership alliance management and provides project management support to steer programmes
towards practical endpoints. The SLMS Neuroscience and Populations & Lifelong Health
Domains, and the BRCs, also play lead roles in collaborative funding bids.
        The UCL/UCLH Joint Research Office (JRO) supports the work of the UCLH BRC,
including its Neuroscience Programme, particularly on research governance and standard
operating procedures. Its Clinical Research Support Centre sponsors major academic clinical trials
and works in collaboration with UCL subject-specific clinical trials units such as PRIMENT.
        We also capitalise on UCL-wide support, including: Base KX (the UCL start-up hub); UCL
Business, UCLB, the university’s technology transfer office; UCL Consultants (UCLC,
consultancy contracting services); UCL Innovation & Enterprise; UCL’s Global Engagement
Office, which has supported 67 UoA4 projects with combined funding of £180K; the UCL Public
Engagement Unit and Media Relations team; and European Research & Innovation Office,
which provides advice about EC programmes and promotes interaction with other EU groups.
        Key performance indicators such as invention disclosures, technology transfer and
industrial income, new industry-sponsored studentships and consultancy contracts, are used to
measure and review the effectiveness and achievements of our approach. Such engagement is
managed in the staff appraisal system and recognised in promotions.

1.5.2 Translating research for patient benefit. Our approach to delivering new diagnostics and
therapeutics that alter the incidence and course of both common and rare human diseases is to co-
localise a critical mass of researchers using key technologies with clinical research facilities and
national NHS referral clinics. For example, our clinical neurologists are co-localised with the
NHNN, which hosts major national clinics for HD (Tabrizi, Wild, Bates), prion diseases (Collinge),
MS (Thompson, Ciccarelli), dementia (De Stooper, Fox), epilepsy (Duncan, Sander, Walker)
and neuromuscular disease (Greensmith, Hanna). NHNN also hosts major regional neurosurgical
facilities, co-staffed by many UoA4 staff. Such co-location has led to the implementation in NHS
patients of new path-breaking approaches, such as the use of deep brain stimulation in PD
(Marwan, Kennerley, Yousry) and treatments for cluster headache (Akram) and obsessive-
compulsive disorder (Zrinzo, Joyce).
         The Institute for Clinical Trials and Methodology was established in 2014 in conjunction
with the transfer of the MRC Clinical Trials Unit into UCL. This has provided an opportunity to bring
together cross-Faculty expertise in clinical trials (including PRIMENT), and to strengthen
methodological underpinning of the field, creating the largest clinical trials grouping in Europe.
         The Wellcome Centre for Human Neuroimaging develops non-invasive imaging methods
to identify novel biomarkers for diagnosing and treating a range of neurological and psychiatric
disorders, including predicting patient outcomes after stroke (Price, Ward); anatomical
phenotyping in PD (Callaghan, Lambert); abnormal receptor signalling in NMDA antibody
encephalitis (Friston); neuro-rehabilitative feedback in stroke and dementia (Crinion, Leff); and
predicting mood changes in patients with depression (Dolan).
         Whilst understanding and treatment of common neurological and mental health disorders
allows us to reach many millions of patients, our approach equally emphasises impacts on rarer
diseases and special populations with health needs. By exploiting the national reach of our NHS
partners, who attract large numbers of specialist referrals, UoA4 staff have developed new
diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to conditions such as muscle channelopathies (Hanna),
progressive supranuclear palsy (Morris) and COVID-19-related neurological and neuropsychiatric
illness (Paterson).
         We have made all tests of cognition and language for deaf signers developed over the last
14 years freely available to practitioners on the Deafness, Cognition, and Language Research
Centre (DCAL) Assessment Portal (MacSweeney). We developed and disseminated new
interventions for children and adults with language impairments (Beeke, Best, Bruce). For
example, the Better Conversations with Aphasia initiative is a freely available web-based resource

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for clinicians, patients and families to support communication across a range of neurogenic
impairments and has >6000 registered users drawn from 51 countries, including 24 developing
countries.
         By closely aligning and co-locating end-users, psychologists, allied health professionals
and clinicians with UoA4 staff, we provide new clinical services for people who do not usually have
access to such services. We enhance this strategic approach by leveraging and aligning
investment from the BRCs which specifically seek to invest in experimental medicine initiatives
(diagnostics and first-in-human therapeutics) leading to patient benefit in a short time frame.
         The UCL Therapeutic Acceleration Support (TAS) Fund is supported by the MRC
Confidence in Concept scheme, the WT Institutional Strategic Support Fund and the UCLH
BRC. It aims to accelerate the transition from discovery science to the early stages of therapeutic
development by providing responsive and flexible funding to support preliminary translational work.
During this REF period the TAS has supported 18 UoA4 projects (typically Technology Readiness
Levels 2-4) with £1.4M of funding.
         We have further maximised the opportunities to deliver impact by working with the TRO,
which supports UoA4 staff in developing, securing and project managing milestone-driven
translational funding (e.g., MRC Developmental Pathway Funding Scheme [DPFS], WT innovator
awards, NIHR i4i, EU, Innovate UK etc.). UCL now has the UK’s largest MRC DPFS portfolio (22%
of all awards) and the overall translational funding under management at the TRO during this REF
period was in excess of £67M, £36.5M of which is directly associated with UoA4 staff as principal
applicant. We make full use of institutional assets to deliver translational pipelines. For example,
we have worked with UCLB in applying novel technologies to pioneer biologics in oncology (J.
Greenwood, spin-out PanAngium) and develop innovative imaging tools for the early diagnosis
and identification of blinding conditions such as glaucoma diabetic eye disease, retinal detachment
and macular degeneration (Cordeira, spin-out Novai).
         We also prioritise working with the voluntary sector to reach populations largely
inaccessible to statutory service providers. For example, DCAL has partnered with the National
Deaf Children’s Society to deliver language development training. DCAL is also a full member of
UKCoD, the umbrella body which represents third sector organisations of and for deaf children and
adults, enabling them to link their research work more closely with the needs of these populations.

1.5.3 Industry collaboration and economic engagement. Another key pathway to impact is our
delivery of collaborative research (aligned, wherever possible, with our research strategy) resulting
from successful efforts to foster and sustain productive working relationships with a broad range of
commercial organisations. We use institutional resources such as UCLB to provide technical, legal
and business planning advice on our development of spin-out companies and industry
partnerships, and UCLC to help staff establish and maintain formal consultancy arrangements. In
2018/19 staff established 243 research contracts worth £14.8M.
        Enterprise in this submission has been catalyzed by two UCLB-led funds, the Apollo and
UCL Technology Funds (~£100M) which pump prime and de-risk new start-ups. Strategies for
successfully competing for research funding operate at several levels. This engagement is not
restricted to neurological disease. For example, the UCL Technology Fund’s investment in the
UoA4 spin-out MeiraGTx (Ali, Bainbridge, Michaelides Impact Case Study), which develops
gene therapies for inherited retinal diseases, led to £100M of investment through an IPO. Similarly,
the EI works with Autifony, a spin-out biotech from GSK in which UCL is a founder shareholder, to
deliver novel assets targeting voltage-gated ion channels in the treatment of hearing disorders. In
addition, they collaborate with DeepMind to design a next-generation hearing aid that can recreate
normal patterns of speech-evoked neural activity in the brains of hearing impaired listeners using a
combination of large-scale electrophysiology and deep learning (Lesica). With Genomics England
we are developing a new pharmacogenetics testing service for cancer, cardiovascular disease and
mental health (Bramon). Rees and Keane collaborate with DeepMind and Google Health.
Keane’s collaboration with DeepMind employs machine learning on thousands of eye scans to
identify signs of eye disease and recommend how patients should be referred for care.
        Outside biotech, we have extensive collaboration with industry that leverages our
experience in behavioural science, cognitive neuroscience, big data, perception, and decision
making. For instance, the Centre for Behaviour Change (CBC) worked with Action Aid Ireland to
integrate behaviour change into their Women's Rights Programme to improve the safety and

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
economic independence of women and girls in Ethiopia, Kenya and Nepal. A collaboration with
Just Giving investigated nudges that enhance charitable donations (Raihani). With Toyota Motor
Europe and Jaguar Land Rover, a cognitive neuroscience approach studies attention and cognitive
control in driving, as well as methods to enhance drivers’ safety (Lavie). A collaboration with the
US National Football League investigates the impact of head injuries during a player’s career on
cognitive abilities (Sharot), while a study with Audible investigated cognitive and emotional
engagement in narratives (Richardson, Devlin).
         “Big data” projects with Deutsche Telekom, Telefonica, and dunnhumby have used
gamification (Sea Hero Quest) to investigate navigation skills in normal aging and people with mild
dementia (Spiers), smart phone apps to deliver cognitive tests relevant to monitoring of mental
health in the general population (Dolan), and data from Tesco’s loyalty database to investigate
how the trade-off between exploration and exploitation influences consumer purchasing behaviour
(Love). Our expertise in sensory systems has been used to help NTT Corporation Japan build
touch-based navigation aids for the elderly (Haggard), and in collaboration with MeiraGtx, develop
unique brain-based vision tests to measure if a new gene therapy for children with a heritable eye
disease can restore function to retinal cone-receptor cells (Dekker). Decision making is another
area where we have extensive collaborations. For example, we have worked with sporting
organisations (English Rugby, British Sailing, the Football Association) to improve decision making
to enhance elite performance (Walsh, Harris); we partner with BlackRock applying causal models
to study investment decisions (Lagnado); and with Unilever to help recognize and avoid
stereotyping (Ahmetoglu, Harris).
         Our approach and the support of UCLB has enabled the disclosure of 85 new inventions, 3
proof-of-concept projects, 37 priority IP protection filings and 49 licensing deals within the census
period.
         In conjunction with the UCL Academic Careers Office (ACO) (led by Rees), the TRO
provides mechanisms for supporting industry engagement by early career researchers (ECRs). Six
Therapeutic Innovation Networks (TINs) have been established to provide opportunities for ECRs
to acquire knowledge and skills from researchers and industry experts and seed-funding to
develop and advance novel therapeutics and diagnostics. In 2020, for example, 8 UoA4 ECRs
were supported at ~£10K each to collect pilot data for their therapeutic projects. Additionally, the
WT Translational Partnership Award (£500K p.a.) provided support to 50 UoA4 ECRs via skills
development and innovation through our translational education ACCELERATE scheme.
         Joint studentships and fellowships further help to engage industry users with our research.
We take advantage of institutional resources such as the ACO, and have coordinated an
institutional approach to our MRC/BBSRC industrial CASE studentships that has led to a wide
range of collaborative PhD studentships with industry (72 in the assessment period), including the
pharmaceutical (AstraZeneca, Eisai, GSK, Merck), manufacturing/technology (Philips, Siemens,
Toyota), retail (dunnhumby), and financial (BlackRock) sectors. We are building links with other
non-academic bodies such as the Ministry of Defence through shared studentships (Lavie,
Hamilton). A total of 81 FBS PhD students participated in UCL’s EPSRC-funded SPERO
entrepreneurship training programme and 3 graduate start-ups were created in 2019/20 (for
example, the Neurovirt virtual reality and haptics device for upper-limb rehabilitation).
         To consolidate these links with industry, we encourage staff to seek awards enabling
secondment to industry (for example, Spiers’ 6 mo secondment to Centric Lab).

1.5.4 Major infrastructure investment. Two major projects representing a combined investment of
nearly £800M are at the heart of our forward impact strategy.
        UCL is investing ~£280M to create a new state-of-the-art facility for the IoN and UKDRI
national headquarters due to be completed in 2024, transforming the former site of the Eastman
Dental Hospital and Institute at 256 Gray’s Inn Road, London, and bringing together over 500
research scientists and clinicians. The new building will provide a bespoke translational research
environment of ~17,000 m2 enabling co-location of interdisciplinary basic researchers and
clinicians. It will foster new models of open innovation and will support effective engagement with
industry, patient organisations, patients, the public, policy makers and funders. It will connect to
Europe’s largest clinical neuroscience centre, NHNN, assessing 150,000 patients annually, thus
enabling unrivalled patient research opportunities. Furthermore, it will catalyse the implementation


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 2. Left: Planned new building for the Institute of Neurology and UK Dementia Research
Institute at the former Eastman Dental Hospital site on Gray’s Inn Road. Right: New home for the
Institute of Ophthalmology (and Moorfields Eye Hospital) on the St Pancras Hospital site.

of first-in-human trials carried out at the Leonard Wolfson Experimental Neurology Centre
(LWENC).
          In addition to UCL funding of £120M, this major infrastructure project is supported by
awards of £41M from the Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and
£29M from Research England’s UK Research Infrastructure Partnership Fund (UK RPIF), and was
the highest priority on the UCL Capital Programme. It has stimulated significant private sector
investment, with an exceptional consortium of UK retailers providing >£20M from the levy on
plastic carrier bags and the Garfield Weston Foundation £5M. Partner charities have made a
further commitment of >£20M. This project will significantly strengthen the contribution of the
research base to economic growth, with projected gross UK economic benefits of £850M and the
creation of >1,800 jobs over 30 years2.
          The partnership between the IoO and MEH represents the largest co-located site for eye
research, education and care in the world. Recent successes include the London Project to Cure
Blindness (Coffey), which published results in 2018 showing patients regaining sight after
receiving retinal tissue engineered from stem cells. It is hoped that this treatment, the first
description of a complete engineered tissue successfully used in this way, will also help treat age-
related macular degeneration (AMD) in the future.
          However, research and clinical services currently operate from separate, outdated
buildings, distant from other UCL centres. In a major ~£500M joint project, a new clinical, research
and teaching site will be created close to the UCL main campus, bringing together clinical care,
research and education, and linking IoO/MEH with the Francis Crick Institute and strengthening
collaboration with UCL groups, for example IoN, UKDRI, Institute of Healthcare Engineering and
the School of Pharmacy. MEH’s main City Road hospital site and IoO will be integrated in a new
purpose-built environment on the St Pancras Hospital site in Camden, comprising ~40,000 m2, of
which ~10,000 m2 will be dedicated to UCL research. MEH has committed ~£350M towards the
programme, including NHS capital funding of £110M, and the projected cost to UCL is ~£155M, to
be covered via a combination of the sale proceeds of the IoO’s current site on Bath Street, a £30M
grant from UK RPIF linked to a joint fundraising campaign by UCL and Moorfields Eye Charity, and
the UCL Capital Programme. The Sir Jules Thorn Trust have committed £5M towards a new
Clinical Investigation Centre. Construction is expected to be complete by early 2026.
           The project offers a transformational opportunity to ensure the long-term future of the IoO
and MEH as world-leaders in eye health, research, education and care. The facility will support a
portfolio of research programmes addressing patient need in the commonest eye conditions of
glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy and AMD, underpinned by core strengths in genomic medicine,
cellular and molecular biology, AI, neuroscience, physiology and psychophysics. IoO will also
benefit from provision of enhanced research facilities such as tissue culture labs, a Biological
Services Unit, flow cytometry, and cellular and sub-cellular imaging.

2
    https://www.london.gov.uk/press-releases/mayoral/international-dementia-research-institute
                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.6 Research themes

A.      Neurodegeneration and neuroprotection
This theme encompasses research applying integrative molecular, cellular, neuroimaging,
epidemiological and cognitive approaches to neurodegenerative and related disorders affecting the
brain in order to define disease, illuminate mechanisms of pathogenesis, and guide design of
therapeutic interventions for disorders of the nervous system. Specific goals identified in
REF2014 were to: (i) establish a world-leading facility for experimental medicine, the LWENC; (ii)
strengthen and complement existing molecular and cellular expertise in the neurobiology of
neurodegenerative disease; (iii) develop novel therapeutic strategies for neurodegenerative
diseases through establishing a pipeline for identifying targets, and molecules affecting these
targets; (iv) establish new cross-Faculty and inter-institutional collaborations; (v) and use our
expertise to evaluate combinations of biological, psychological and social approaches to dementia
care that have impact on both neurodegenerative processes and mental health. Achievements
against all of these goals are elaborated below.

Strategic achievements in the REF period
A1. Our research in neurodegenerative disease has a strong focus on understanding major
neurological disorders including AD, HD, PD and Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB), MND, FTD,
and brain tumours. Multi-disciplinary bench-to-bedside research programmes span genetics,
molecular cell biology, transgenic and knock-in mouse models, neuroimaging, biomarkers,
neuropathology, systems neuroscience and experimental medicine.
         The research strategy focuses on translating mechanistic insights to therapeutic trials while
improving diagnostic and disease-modification measures. To do this, we use well-characterised
cohort studies that include high-risk individuals, such as gene carriers and biomarker-positive
healthy individuals, to identify the earliest changes of disease and assess markers of early
progression. We conduct longitudinal analysis of imaging and biofluid biomarkers in these cohorts
to develop valid outcome measures, efficient clinical trial designs, and to identify the optimum time
for therapeutic intervention. We are leaders in innovative trials in antisense oligonucleotide (ASO)
therapies for neurodegenerative diseases (Tabrizi Impact Case Study) and in innovative clinical
trial design and execution.
         Platform technologies include: genomics; disease models from Drosophila (FTD) to
genetically modified mice (HD, FTD, oncology); iPS cell studies; RNA- and protein-based
expression analysis technologies for understanding transcriptional and translational processes in
HD and PD with bioinformatics expertise in all these areas; genomic editing tools such as CRISPR,
zinc finger nucleases, and AAV delivery harnessed across numerous disease areas to monitor
functional outputs derived from genomic alterations; and high content screening technology,
ultrasensitive immunoassays and mass spectrometry, and super-resolution microscopy
techniques.
         Industry collaborations with a total value of >£2.1M include Ionis, Roche, Wave, Vertex and
Takeda (Fox, Isaacs, Rohrer, Tabrizi, Wild, Wray) developing and delivering ASOs through to
cutting-edge clinical trials with significant success, particularly in HD. Tabrizi is developing novel
drugs to inhibit CAG repeat expansion due to somatic instability in HD with both Vertex and Triplet
Therapeutics, and zinc finger AAV delivered gene therapy approaches with Takeda. In PD, Plun-
Favreau established a collaboration with Cerevance investigating mitochondrial and synaptic
dysfunction.

A2. Research on prion diseases takes advantage of nationally unique specialised facilities for
studying human and animal prions and pathogenic protein assemblies in other neurodegenerative
diseases, notably AD and other dementias. These include dedicated microbiological laboratories
and an animal facility, as well as specialised robotic platforms for cell-based bioassay of prions and
a comprehensive array of equipment for study of infectious protein assemblies including
fluorescence, confocal, super resolution, atomic force and cryo-electron microscopy, mass
spectrometry, asymmetric flow field flow fractionation and analytical ultracentrifugation.
        Major external collaborations include with KCL as part of the EMBED-care collaboration
investigating end of life care in dementia; contributing to major international collaborative groups

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for genome-wide association study of dementias, leading in prion diseases; and with the Papua
New Guinea Institute of Medical Research regarding kuru disease.

A3. Research in neuroinflammation is focused on understanding the mechanisms underlying
central (mainly MS) and peripheral neuroinflammation, with the goal of developing novel
therapeutic strategies for protection of neural function and structure. Our overall strategy is to
understand the pathophysiology of neuroinflammatory diseases in order to identify new targets and
therapeutics that we translate into clinical trials.
         An example of this strategy comes from our original discovery of sodium dysregulation in
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, the most commonly used model for MS. This was
followed by evidence that axons can be protected from degeneration by partial blockade of their
sodium channels using pharmacological agents. To test whether sodium channel blockade
provides neuroprotection in MS we have carried out two clinical trials, one with phenytoin, which
won the 2016 MS Research Prize for 2016 (Kapoor, Smith). The MRI analysis of these trials has
been performed by the MS Trial Office (Ciccarelli, Barkhof), which has been the imaging analysis
centre of 11 clinical trials during the REF period. The most recently initiated trial, funded by the
NIHR-HTA and MS Societies (Ciccarelli, Barkhof, >£5M), is a phase III trial (MS-STAT2) which
aims to test the efficacy of simvastatin in secondary-progressive MS from more than 20 centres in
the UK. This has followed the phase II trial (MS-STAT) which showed that simvastatin reduced the
development of brain atrophy in MS. A recent award (UK MS Society, £13M; Ciccarelli, Barkhof,
Thompson) is for a platform trial that will use a novel multi-arm, multi-phase design to identify
effective treatments in progressive MS.
         Important insights into the mechanisms of MS have been provided by our longitudinal,
observational MS cohorts, whose follow-up visits at 5, 14, and 30 years (Chard, Ciccarelli) have
led to the identification of MRI biomarkers which predict disability and are now routinely used
clinically. The physics team led by Wheeler-Kingshott has developed advanced imaging
techniques which have underpinned the design of clinical trials as secondary outcome measures,
and include total sodium concentration (BRC, £500K) and spinal cord atrophy.
         Platform technologies include: a 3T MRI scanner dedicated for MS research, funded by the
BRC and UK MS society; XNAT for managing data and automated processing, with RedCap for
clinical variable storage and linkage to MRI; optical coherence tomography in neuroprotection
trials; confocal microscopy for real-time observation of physiology in combination with
electrophysiology; and induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) derived microglia.
         Industry collaborations are strong in the MS Trial Office and include Biogen, Novartis,
Roche, Eisai, MedDay, and Sanofi-Genzyme; other industry collaborations are with Eisai, Hoffman
LaRoche, and Lundbeck. Collaboration with the Centre for Medical Image Computing (CMIC) in
UCL Engineering has led to the translation of microstructural, advanced imaging to clinical studies,
and extensive collaboration with European and international research groups: for example
Ciccarelli is a member of the Steering Committee of the European MAGNIMS group, which has
developed guidelines on diagnostic criteria and MRI protocols in MS.

A4. Our basic and clinical research in neuromuscular disease combines genetic, functional cell
biology and neuropathological methods to understand and develop novel therapies for these
diseases. Research ranges from spinal cord motor circuits and motor neuron physiology, systems
neuroscience, muscle disorders including Inclusion Body Myositis, mitochondrial disease and
muscle ion channel disorders, peripheral nerve disease, and a number of neurodegenerative
diseases including ataxia. There is particular strength in MND including amyotrophic lateral
sclerosis (ALS) and Kennedy’s Disease.
        Major techniques that underpin this research include human and mouse genetics, RNA
biology and protein-RNA complexes, axonal transport and intra-vital imaging, single cell
transcriptomics, in vivo physiology and optogenetics, the microbiome, biomarkers, human-induced
pluripotent stem cell biology and models, drug discovery, cellular imaging (confocal and
multiphoton microscopy), as well as a major commitment to clinical trials. New laboratory spaces,
including new wet lab space in Queen Square House (Brownstone, Schiavo) and a new central
animal behaviour suite (Brownstone) as well as refurbished laboratories in the Cruciform Building
for the DDI (Whiting, Fish), have enhanced capacity. In vitro and in vivo electrophysiology
(Brownstone, Greensmith) includes the ground-breaking “Neuropixels” electrodes with 1,000

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
recording sites allowing recordings across the whole brain (Carandini, Harris) and the first
imaging of the activity of populations of over 10,000 neurons in the living brain.
         A number of important centres are incorporated including the new MRC International
Centre for Genomic Medicine in Neuromuscular Diseases (£3.66M; led by Hanna, Houlden,
Reilly) which aims to create a transcontinental genomics research capacity in neuromuscular
diseases, building partnership between the UK and Brazil, India, South Africa, Turkey and Zambia.
It will establish a core international bioinformatics platform pipeline and clinical and genetic
database, to identify known and new disease genes across four continents. Work on novel
transgenic and humanised mouse models involves major links to the mutagenesis programme at
MRC Harwell (Fisher).

A5. The major goal of our experimental research in epilepsy is the elucidation of the cellular and
molecular mechanisms underlying paroxysmal brain disorders leading to the development of new
treatments. Our portfolio covers the complete pipeline from basic science discovery to clinical trials
as well as population studies and health service research. Key infrastructure for this work includes
a range of cutting-edge experimental techniques, such as time-resolved fluorescence imaging, tri-
dimensional, direct stochastic optical reconstruction microscopy, optogenetics and full clinical
phenotyping including MRI, fMRI PET, SPECT, Stereo-EEG, EEG-video telemetry, transcranial
magnetic stimulation (TMS), visual field perimetry, genomic analysis, facial stereography and
therapeutic drug monitoring.
        Clinical epilepsy research encompasses genetics, imaging, pharmacology,
neurophysiology, psychology, neuropathology, clinical trials focusing on drugs, devices and
surgical interventions. It aims at developing precision medicine for people with epilepsy. Recent
contributions in genomic research, with a network of international collaborations, include the
discovery of genes causing rare syndromes, genetic factors increasing susceptibility to disease,
and pharmacogenetic variants and genetic factors related to epilepsy traits.
        Translational research includes drug development for personalised treatment for drug-
resistant epilepsy, and techniques to improve curative epilepsy surgery supported by over £5M
from WT, MRC and Department of Health. A first-in-human trial in collaboration with Vitaflo
(Walker) has tested a new dietary therapy for epilepsy for which UCL has IP. We also have IP for
new gene therapies to treat focal epilepsies (Kullman, Lignani, Walker) with first-in-human trials
planned for 2021.

A6. Research in clinical and movement neuroscience brings together expertise across the
clinical and basic science spectrum of the physiology and pathology of human movement and
movement disorders. It incorporates groups from the Queen Square and Royal Free campuses
and includes the Reta Lila Weston Institute and the Movement Disorders Centre, the latter
established in 2017 with funding from the UCLH BRC and MJ Fox and Safra Foundations. Major
research programmes study the aetiology and pathogenesis of PD, Parkinsonisms and
tauopathies; the molecular biology of alpha-synuclein metabolism; cell biology of lysosomal and
mitochondrial function, dysfunction and turnover; DNA structure and single cell somatic mutation
detection; movement neuroscience and motor cortex physiology and behaviour.
         These programmes use a broad range of cutting-edge methods, including techniques for
studying the molecular cell biology and genetic basis of neurodegenerative diseases and
movement disorders; genetic stratification of neurological disorders; deep brain stimulation surgery
(hosting the largest centre in the UK); TMS; cortical mechanisms underlying pathological fatigue in
neurological conditions, currently focussing on post-stroke fatigue; and identification of prodrome
and clinical evolution of PD and genetic subtypes.
         Major translational research includes Phase II and III trials funded by NIHR on exenatide
and ambroxol for neuroprotection in PD (Foltynie, Schapira); efficacy of antidepressants in PD
(Schrag, NIHR, £2M); exploiting MAPT-AS1, a long non-coding RNA, for therapeutic reduction of
tau (DaSilva with Apollo Therapeutics, £1.5M); transcranial brain stimulation for stroke
rehabilitation; therapeutic indications for deep brain stimulation in PD, Tourette syndrome, and
obsessive compulsive disease; and novel therapeutics for mitochondrial disease (with Muscular
Dystrophy UK). Research funded by Microsoft is evaluating wearable devices to assess and treat
motor features in PD. Schapira leads the MRC Centre of Excellence in Neurodegeneration, a
collaboration with teams in Canada, Italy, and Germany.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

A7. Our research in brain repair and rehabilitation covers the clinical themes of stroke,
neuroradiology, neurorehabilitation, spinal cord repair, autonomic neurology, uro-neurology,
neurosurgery, headache, and high-dimensional neurology. We aim to translate neuroscience and
mechanistic findings into precision medicine to improve clinical care (diagnosis, treatment,
neurorehabilitation).
         With an underpinning clinical focus, staff employ a wide variety of approaches, including:
experimental models of spinal cord injury (cell culture and transplantation, histological analysis,
biomaterial cellular scaffolds); advanced neuroimaging biomarkers to improve patient selection,
outcome prediction, and as outcome measures for stroke, neuromuscular diseases,
neurodegenerative diseases, brain tumours and prion diseases (Golay Impact Case Study);
observational studies including imaging, cardiovascular and neurophysiological assessments,
neurogenetics, and fluid biomarkers; high-dimensional complex modelling of imaging, physiological
and clinical data; randomised controlled trials of drugs, devices and web-based applications; and
clinical implementation studies of new interventions.
         A major development is the establishment of the Stroke Research Centre (SRC), which
facilitates multicentre collaborative clinical trials and observational studies, with staff funded by
NIHR, BHF and Stroke Association (Werring, £2.5M). The SRC unites clinical stroke research with
the high-dimensional neurology group, which applies complex modelling to healthcare data,
including secure large-scale data storage and computational resource; funding includes a WT
Innovations grant to Nachev (£4.5M, with KCL). The autonomics group has established a novel
controlled autonomic laboratory, while the uro-neurology theme established the first UK pelvic
neurophysiology laboratory. The Neuradiological Academic Unit secured a state-of-the art upgrade
to their 3T research MRI system (MRC Infrastructure Award; Yousry, Thornton, £1.2M), and a
computational platform for integrating imaging biomarkers into hospital information systems.
         Major international collaborations include: advanced vascular and quantitative
neuroimaging (Jäger, Thornton, Barkhof, Golay, including €6.5M EC funding);
neurorehabilitation (Back of the Brain project; Leff), spinal repair (Li); autonomic neurology; uro-
neurology; headache (Matharu); MRI in neuromuscular diseases (Myo-MRI COST); and gliomas
(Bisdas, NIHR funded).

B.      Mental health
Research in this theme combines initiatives in clinical and epidemiological psychiatry, clinical,
educational and health psychology with discovery neuroscience to address the global challenges
of mental health problems. Specific goals identified in REF2014 were to: (i) create a single
knowledge hub for mental disorder with the establishment of IoMH, which sits across this area,
building on UCL’s strengths in neuroscience and treatment research to make major advances in
our understanding of the biological basis and development of mental disorders; (ii) apply this
knowledge to the design and evaluation of new therapeutic approaches; and (iii) research how
evidence-based care is implemented to improve outcomes for patient and population benefit.
Achievements towards these goals are now described.

Strategic achievements in the REF period
B1. The aim of our research in clinical and epidemiological psychiatry is to address clinical
problems in order to achieve benefits for patients and public health, using insights from basic
science. We adopt a multidisciplinary approach spanning the full range of specialisms including
psychiatry, clinical psychology, epidemiology, systematic review, statistics, genetics, neuroscience,
psychology and social science.
       The PRIMENT Clinical Trials Unit is a cross faculty collaboration that specialises in
mental health, primary care and other community based trials. A major programme in clinical trials,
mostly funded by NIHR (>£22M) of psychological, pharmacological and more complex
interventions has achieved major impact including Livingston’s START intervention for carers of
people with dementia that is being widely implemented in the NHS (Impact Case Study); Howard’s
demonstration that donepezil reduces time spent in hospital for patients with AD and the first
evidence that antipsychotics are effective in late onset psychosis; Johnson’s peer-supported
programme that reduces admissions for people with psychosis; and Lewis’ PANDA trial that found
antidepressants were effective for anxiety symptoms in mild depression.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Our applied epidemiological work focuses on longitudinal studies using record linkages and
secondary analysis of existing data including UK birth cohorts. We work closely with colleagues in
the Karolinska Institute using Swedish data as well as UK-based record linkages in primary care
(CPRD) and mental health electronic records (CRIS) in collaboration with KCL. Hayes and Osborn
(Impact Case Study) have developed a cardiovascular risk prediction tool for people with severe
mental illness.
         In old age psychiatry, Livingston led the Lancet Commission on Dementia Prevention and
Care that has had substantial international impact in promoting interventions to prevent dementia.
This has catalysed funding such as Cooper’s ESRC grant (£3.8M) to investigate lifestyle changes
and Costafreda’s project to investigate enhanced support for hearing aids. Mukadam has
extended this work to low and middle income countries.
         Johnson leads the Mental Health Policy Research Unit (NIHR £5M), a joint UCL/KCL
initiative to provide evidence-based policy guidance to DHSC, NHS England and Public Health
England. It provided key evidence for the Wessely Mental Health Act review (Johnson & Lloyd-
Evans Impact Case Study). Killaspy (Impact Case Study) has developed and evaluated methods
to improve rehabilitation for those with complex psychosis who have major long term disability.
         The Molecular Psychiatry Laboratory aims to characterise genetic variants increasing
susceptibility for mental disorders or influencing response to psychotropic medications. We host
deep phenotype and genomic data from people suffering from a range of mental disorders
including schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and alcohol misuse.
         Sampson has developed an intervention to improve care of people with severe dementia
approaching the end of life that is being evaluated via an ESRC £3.7M grant. Stone (Marie Curie
Centre grant £2.3M and NIHR) has evaluated prediction tools in palliative care and, with Hudson
and Shulman (Impact Case Study), has led work in homeless people that has changed NHS
policy. A mental health theme within the UCLH BRC renewal, led by Howard to encourage
translational psychiatry, facilitated project funding for pharmacogenetics prediction of antipsychotic
response (Bramon) and the development of an intervention to improve sleep in dementia
(Rapaport).

B2. Research in the areas of clinical, educational and health psychology has a strong focus on
understanding the causes of and mechanisms that underlie mental disorders, behavioural
problems, and educational difficulties. This is complemented by a major objective to develop and
evaluate innovative interventions (Fearon & Fonagy Impact Case Study).
        Key infrastructure for this work includes cohort studies and large secondary individual and
group datasets to develop causal models and prognostic and predictive tools for mental disorders
and a range health, behavioural and organisational problems; fMRI, EEG and VR to aid in the
understanding of the mechanisms underpinning mental disorder and the development of novel
interventions; and large-scale multi-centre trial platforms and large (>500K) clinical databases to
evaluate interventions and implementation methods.
        Major Centres underpin and enhance work in this area. The Centre for Behaviour Change
(led by Michie, Impact Case Study) was established at the end of the REF2014 period and,
following significant institutional support (including £370K of seed funding and earmarked space),
has grown into a major national and international centre of excellence in public health policy and
the theoretical and practical applications of behaviour change. Michie plays a lead role in the NIHR
Behavioural Science Policy Research Unit with strong collaborations with Newcastle,
Cambridge, Warwick and the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, and leads the UCL
element of the NIHR School for Public Health Research, which has a similar range of university
collaborations, with Osborn leading the Public Mental Health programme (£3.2M). Another
important development was the opening of the new building (the Kantor Centre of Excellence,
Rodney Street) for a major partner, the Anna Freud National Centre for Children and Families
(AFNCCF). This provides facilities for both laboratory-based work (EEG, fMRI), digital mental
health interventions and cohort studies. Fearon, Fonagy, McCrory and Viding are key
collaborators with AFNCC and there are strong links with Cambridge, King’s and Yale.
        The Evidence Based Practice Unit (EBPU), led by Deighton (Impact Case Study),
focuses on the improvement of mental health and well-being in schools with a range of research
programmes including RCT evaluations of school interventions. The Centre for Outcomes
Research and Effectiveness, led by Pilling, is a health services research group focused on

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
evidence synthesis to support NICE clinical guidelines and health policy initiatives, clinical trials of
novel mental health interventions (for example the ODDESSI Programme grant), and the use of
large datasets to inform prognostication and prediction in psychological interventions. The unit has
been awarded >£5M of funding and recent work has been central to the Green Paper on children's
mental health and the NHS Long-term Plan.

B3. The interdisciplinary strategy of our research in human neuroimaging and cognitive
neuroscience is to study how the brain generates thoughts, feelings and behaviour, and how
these processes break down in neurological and psychiatric disorders, combining cognitive
psychology, computational neuroscience, anatomical and functional neuroimaging and
neuropsychology. Major infrastructure supports MRI/fMRI (3T and 7T), fNIRS, EEG, MEG, TMS,
PET, electrophysiology in epilepsy patients, pharmacology, study of cognition in special
populations (autism, depression, AD, anxiety, stroke), children and adolescents, computational
modelling and SPM, and machine learning. In combination, these support clinically transformative
applications of neuroimaging that exploit computational approaches to find biomarkers for early
diagnosis of neurological conditions, use biomarkers to re-stratify psychiatric patients into finer
groups, provide more accurate prognoses, find ways to identify the best treatments for different
patients, and develop better treatments and rehabilitation paradigms.
        A magnetically shielded laboratory funded by a WT collaborative award (£870K) with
Nottingham University is supporting Barnes’ ground-breaking development of Optically Pumped
Magnetometry, the first mobile MEG system for non-invasively measuring brain function in freely-
moving individuals and allowing detection of functional biomarkers at the bedside. Additional space
in Alexandra House has been acquired, particularly aiming to facilitate industry collaborations,
including Crinion and Leff’s novel online therapeutics development and Lavie’s driving simulator
work with Jaguar Land Rover and Toyota (spin-out MindVisionLabs). fNIRS equipment has been
funded by Shimadzu (£500K) to support the work of P. Burgess and Hamilton, and the latter has
also built a motion-capture virtual reality lab (Leverhulme).

C.       Understanding and influencing human behaviour
Research in this theme exploits expertise in behavioural and cognitive sciences, neurology and
neuroscience to improve understanding of the basic neural and cognitive processes underlying
human wellbeing from infant development to aging, and to inform strategies for behaviour change
interventions. Goals identified in REF2014 were to (i) establish state-of-the-art research facilities
for the study of cognition and behaviour, including investment in upgrading laboratories (see §3.3);
(ii) explore the cognitive and neural bases of behaviour in relation to wellbeing and apply this
understanding to improve behaviour change interventions; and (iii) strengthen and complement
existing lifespan expertise in behaviour change.

Strategic achievements in the REF period
C1. Our research into the behavioural and cognitive sciences has substantially expanded its
scope. We have moved from understanding the basis of simple and constrained behaviours in
laboratory environments, to understanding complex behaviours of individuals and groups in
naturalistic scenarios, including through partnerships with key stakeholders outside academia.
        In cognitive and decision science our work provides international leadership in the
integration of large scale behavioural and cognitive neuroscience measurements, including in
decision making and bias, with a focus on new computational approaches, which we have
supported with a nation-leading GPU cluster (£60K) for machine learning to link brain activity to
cognition via cognitive models. Love is a Fellow at the Alan Turing Institute. Research into
language and multimodal communication emphasizes naturalistic scenarios. Major projects study
word meaning and how large-scale brain networks work together to support language.
        These expanded directions have brought new opportunities for engagement with industry
partners, including collaboration with Audible on cognitive and emotional engagement from
auditory content (Devlin, Richardson), dunnhumby (Love) and Telefonica (Sharot) to explore real
world decision making, and through new tools to connect researchers to industry (the Behavioural
Insights Exchange [BIX] programme; Devlin, Raihani).
        Similarly, our research into sensory science has also broadened towards understanding
more complex behaviours. New collaborations investigate how the brain builds and uses

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
representations of complex, three-dimensional worlds in animals and humans. This area has
benefitted from significant investment in new facilities including virtual reality for both human and
animal experiments, development of new virtual reality tools (Saleem), and mobile brain imaging
through fNIRS (Howell). It has also produced significant new partnerships with clinicians (J. A.
Greenwood), and industry, including with Lilly on the development of new measures of
neurodegeneration (Solomon, Saleem), with MeiraGTx on gene therapies in childhood vision
(Dekker) and with Deutsche Telekom and ARUK to develop and propagate large scale spatial
navigation research (Spiers).
        Research has been strengthened by investment in the expansion of the Birkbeck-UCL
Neuroimaging Centre (BUCNI) to include a new 3T MRI scanner.

C2. We undertake research in language and cognition, spanning developmental and
neuroscience perspectives on language processing and disorders. Norbury (Impact Case Study)
leads the Surrey Communication and Language in Education Study (SCALES), the first UK
population study of language development and disorder at school entry, with funding from WT and
ESRC (>£1M). It focuses on the prevalence of language disorder and improved diagnostic criteria
for the condition. Varley leads research on aphasic disorder (Stroke Association) and, with funding
from AHRC and the Alzheimer’s Society, collaborates with the UKDRI, exploiting data from patient
cohorts to develop novel automated tools for detecting and tracking language change in dementia.
The conversational analysis group (Beeke, Bloch) collaborates with clinicians in palliative care to
explore end-of-life and helpline conversations, and ward-based interactions in dementia.
         Translational research developments include digital health innovations (Clarke,
Swettenham). Collaborations with industry partners develop technology to assist in numeracy
(Donlan, Bruce, Newton; funded by Nuffield), lexical development (Best, ESRC) and language
profiling (Varley: Frequency in Language Analysis Tool, AHRC). The review period has also seen
substantial investment in infrastructure, with refurbishment of aphasia clinic space and facilities for
baby research. Capacity for TMS research has been extended with a tDCS system.
         The Deafness, Cognition, and Language Research Centre (Director, MacSweeney) is a
multi-disciplinary centre that brings together researchers from linguistics, psychology, and
neuroscience, supported by a second ESRC Centre Grant (£5.5M) from 2011-2016. During this
time DCAL established itself as a leading centre for research on deafness and language, with a
unique record for capacity-building of researchers who are deaf themselves. Its research focuses
on how communication and cognition are shaped by deafness and the use of visual language, in
particular sign language. MacSweeney’s WT SRF funded a programme on the neural basis of
reading in deaf individuals. DCAL has also established extensive open resources for researchers
and practitioners in the field; e.g., BSL Corpus, BSL Signbank, DCAL Data Research Archive, and
DCAL Assessment Portal.

C3. Research in linguistics spans theoretical linguistics and psycholinguistics. The aims of this
research are to develop methods to describe the world’s languages, explain how language is
produced and comprehended in human communication, how the ability to do this develops typically
and atypically in relation to neural underpinnings, and how human language differs from other
species’ mediums for communication. Staff employ a range of experimental and computational
methods beyond behavioural experiments, including EEG, fMRI, eye-tracking, corpus research,
and Bayesian modelling. A key goal is to exploit corpus data, modelling and other computational
methods in the service of theory development.
       Nevins leads two large consortia of researchers across 10 institutions on under-studied
languages investigating what rules are possible for mapping external manifestation of language to
underlying structures. Abels together with collaborators at Edinburgh and QMUL uses artificial
language learning to uncover universals in the noun phrase.

D.       Sensory systems and therapies
Research in this theme brings together expertise in audition, vision and cognition to transform
understanding of the mechanisms underlying function and dysfunction in sensory systems, and
develop and validate new therapeutic approaches in areas ranging from stem cells to
neuroprosthetics. Key goals identified in REF2014 included (i) the new purpose-built MEH-IoO
facility and investment in and expansion of informatics capability (described above); (ii) to build an

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
integrated programme of translational research applied to visual impairment and hearing loss; and
(iii) develop novel approaches and technologies to interface with sensory systems. Achievements
against these goals are described below.

Strategic achievements in the REF period
D1. Research in the field of ophthalmology spans fundamental biological science and vision
research, through to translation into ophthalmology and clinical medicine (Gazzard Impact Case
Study).
         Research in development, ageing and disease harnesses genomics (e.g., Genomics
England, UKBB) and transcriptomics (bioinformatics), alongside in vitro disease modelling using
patient derived iPSC and organoid differentiation technologies, cell, molecular and vascular biology
and biochemistry, ASO and small molecule therapies, and transplantation, to understand the
pathways involved and develop better treatments and interventions for vision loss caused by
defective development, childhood or early onset disease, and the effects of ageing. Research in
regenerative medicine employs gene and cell therapies, physical (engineering) and pharmaceutical
and biological interventions to promote healthy eyesight and improve outcomes for individuals with
eye diseases. In visual function and integrative epidemiology, we investigate new ways to assess
vision (including psychophysics) and combine imaging, informatics, and machine learning with
epidemiology and genetics, to develop new approaches to healthcare delivery.
        We have built a bespoke adaptive optics scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (AOSLO) imaging
platform to investigate the relationship between retinal structure and function, at a cellular level.
This technology is unique in the UK, and enables researchers to investigate genotype-phenotype
correlations and perform longitudinal assessment to understand the natural history of disease. We
have also established the Brian Mercer patient iPSC bank to facilitate translation.
        Engagement with industry is extensive. There has been continued MRC DPFS success,
with Moss/J. Greenwood (£4.9M) winning an award to conduct clinical trials into the use of a
humanised monoclonal antibody (LRG1) to treat AMD, and resulting in a spin-out company (UCLB
investment, PanAngium); Daniels (£1.9M) won a similar award for a phase I/II clinical trial of RAFT
for aniridia related keratopathy; Cordeiro (£1.7M) was awarded a WT translational award for
imaging techniques to detect apoptosing retinal cells. Substantial biotechnology collaborations
include Apollo Therapeutics (Limb, £1M), ProqR Therapeutics (Hardcastle, Davidson,
Cheetham, £1.5M) for developing ASO therapies for corneal and retinal diseases, and Gyroscope
Therapeutics for gene therapy candidates for AMD (Shima, £322K). Bainbridge jointly won the
Antonio Champalimaud Vison Award (€1M) for the landmark development of gene therapy for a
rare genetic retinal disease. Keane collaborates with Birmingham through the INSIGHT program
(Health Data Research Hub for Eye Health; HDRUK award).

D2. Multidisciplinary research on hearing and deafness moves from genomics, through cell and
molecular biology, neurophysiology and computation to human sensory perception, audiology and
ENT based clinical trials. In partnership with the RNTNEH this constitutes the UK’s largest single
grouping of audio-vestibular discovery and clinical scientists.
         Research approaches combine molecular genetics and genomics for disease gene
identification, in vitro disease modelling, and use of animal models to study development, normal
function and disease; in vivo/awake systems neuroscience (including Neuropixels, optogenetics)
and computational neuroscience (including AI), and human studies using EEG, pupillometry,
psychophysics and audiometry; cell and matrix combinations for therapy, de novo design of
polymers and gels and biomimicry, health data science and health economics, and the
development and execution of clinical trials. Research excellence and the goal of translation and
impact is evidenced by the award of a new BRC theme in Deafness and Hearing Problems
(Schilder, Dawson, Gale, Linden, Saeed, £2.7M), facilitating infrastructural support for
bioinformatics, acoustics, electronics and imaging. Facilities include light and electron microscopy
(Gale, BBSRC, £380K for Zeiss 880); multiple purpose-built booths for human auditory testing,
enhanced with the award of a 64-channel mobile EEG system (Chait, £120k); a modern cell-
molecular biology laboratory optimized for shared use by multiple labs; and facilities for in vivo and
behavioural experiments in animals.
         Project collaborations with other centres worldwide include the World Hearing Centre in
Poland (Keating) and Horizon 2020 collaborations in France, Denmark and Germany (Chait,

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Marquardt). Major translational research advances include: Phase I and II trials successfully
completed in REGAIN, a first-in-human drug trial to treat hearing loss (Schilder, Saeed, £1.2M);
and EVOTION (Bamiou, €5.4M), a multicentre collaboration that has recruited >1000 patients and
collected >33M real time datapoints from hearing aids and mobile phone apps, providing a new
platform for policy-making on hearing loss and aids. Birchall is developing a soft robotic total
laryngeal replacement, and with Mehrban developed novel biomaterials for clinical application.
Many other industrial collaborations have also emerged over this period including work with
Cochlear Ltd, GSK, Takeda, Autifony Therapeutics and Audion Therapeutics.
        Over the next 5 years UCL will invest in this area by expanding and refurbishing the Ear
Institute site, the freehold of which has been purchased for £6M.

D3. Research in speech, hearing and phonetic sciences includes the basic science behind
human vocal communication together with investigations into the production and perception of
spoken language. Staff study mechanisms of vocal learning and paralinguistic and extralinguistic
influences on speech form, and how the communication of linguistically-coded information varies
across speakers, ages, impairments and listening conditions.
        Key platforms/infrastructure include equipment for capturing speech perception and
production behaviour; neuroimaging technologies such as EEG, fMRI, real-time magnetic
resonance imaging (rtMRI), and functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS, funded by WT);
TMS; speech corpus collection and analysis; computational modelling of variation in speech
production and speech acoustics; machine learning and speech signal processing.

 2. People

2.1 Staff
To ensure the continued vitality, sustainability and succession planning of research groups, FBS
has committed considerable resources since 2014 to recruitment and development of permanent
staff. In total 58 (52.7 FTE) new academic staff members have been appointed, including 16 new
lecturers, 24 associate professors, and 18 at professorial level. Total staffing has increased by
29% on a like-for-like basis since REF2014. We have prioritised ECRs, including 57 that meet the
REF definition of ECR status in this submission.
         Our recruitment strategy comprises two main components. First, new UCL-funded
positions, often associated with education initiatives, enable recruitment of outstanding staff in
open competition. Secondly, we encourage, retain and integrate as many of the >600 ECRs as
possible via fellowship awards of all kinds, to enhance their development and the vitality of their
research groups. For example, in 2019 UoA4 ECRs applied for 193 fellowships. Where appropriate
we provide institutional resources to support these applications as a major part of investing in the
human capital that underpins the research environment, including bridging funds for ECRs
between contracts when follow-on grants are secured (for example, the annual P&LS budget for
this is ~£115K). The ablest of these researchers move on to more senior fellowships and UCL-
funded posts, with proleptic appointments supporting retention. As one indicator of the success of
this strategy, 6 prestigious UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships have been awarded to UoA4 staff
since their launch in 2019, with substantial UoA support including tapered salary, commitment to
an open-ended position at the end of the fellowship, and appropriate research infrastructure.
         Generous start-up funds are provided to enable new staff to set up their research (for
instance, research assistant funds for Melis to establish collaborations with London Zoo, and funds
for Singmann to purchase GPU clusters for machine learning), and care is taken to limit teaching
and tutorial loads during probation. Staff recruited as lecturers since 2014 have secured significant
grant support (e.g., Gould, NIHR £1.4M; Mason, MRC £700K).

2.1.1 Major recruitments. Recruitments during the REF period have ensured sustainability of all
major research areas.
        The UKDRI award has enabled the recruitment of key group leaders in neurodegenerative
disease. Duff’s programme studies the causes and consequences of tau pathology propagation
and the basis of selective cellular vulnerability. Hong investigates the immune basis of region-
specific vulnerability in neurodegenerative diseases and the role of microglia in circuit-specific
function and behaviour. Busche (awarded a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship, £1.2M) studies

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
disruption of functional connectivity in neurodegeneration. Frigerio uses single cell genomic
technologies to investigate alterations associated with AD and resilience mechanisms at cellular
and genome-wide resolution. Bartels’ research elucidates the cellular mechanisms responsible for
triggering the denaturation of alpha-synuclein (aSyn) into abnormal aggregation in neurons, as
observed in DLB, PD and Multiple System Atrophy. Wiseman leads on the development of
innovative animal models for dementia research and also investigates the mechanisms driving the
pathogenesis of AD associated with Down syndrome.
         Within the IoN, significant new appointments include Bates (FRS), who founded the
Huntington’s Disease Centre bringing expertise in understanding the molecular basis of HD
(pathogenic mechanism, mouse models of HD, therapeutic target validation and preclinical
testing), and Weil who brings expertise in imaging and behavioural markers of progression in DLB.
The prion diseases group has been boosted by the appointment of Bieschke from Washington
University who brings expertise in structural biology. Future research in neuromuscular disease
has been secured by major appointments. Schiavo focuses on the mechanisms of action of
bacterial neurotoxins and their exploitation as tools to study signaling endosomes and axonal
transport. Brownstone undertakes biophysical and behavioural analysis of spinal cord circuitry in
a research program that aims to identify new strategies to improve movement in people with
neurological disorders by studying neural circuits in the mouse brain stem and spinal cord. Whiting
and Fish significantly enhance our capacity in drug discovery and development: Whiting leads a
team of neurobiologists, pharmacologists and medicinal chemists at the DDI, developing new
therapeutic approaches for dementias and neurodegenerative diseases, and Fish is a medicinal
chemist identifying new small molecule chemical probes for epigenetic drug targets.
         Major appointments in epilepsy include Lignani with expertise in the development and
application of genome therapy using CRISPR-Cas9 technology; Jepson is an expert in drosophila
models for the study of paroxystic brain disorders; Wykes’ expertise is in the elucidation of seizure
mechanisms using novel graphene electrodes; Magloire brings expertise in optogenetics to
understand seizure mechanisms; and Balestrini was recruited with expertise specifically in cortical
excitability and TMS. In clinical and movement neuroscience a major appointment is
Spinazzola, strengthening research on mitochondrial function and dysfunction.
         Institutional capacity-building investment has enabled major appointments in clinical and
epidemiological psychiatry. Howard brings expertise in clinical trials and strengthens
translational work in old age psychiatry. Stone was recruited to lead palliative care research with
an emphasis on prediction. David’s research interests include neuropsychiatry, medically
unexplained syndromes and neuroimaging, as well as an innovative program on insight in
schizophrenia and how it relates to treatment compliance and decision-making capacity. As noted
previously, his appointment as Director of the IoMH is a major investment by UCL in this area.
Kuchenbaeker was appointed to lead on statistical genetics with strong links with the UCL
Genetics Institute. Huys is a psychiatrist appointed to enhance the translational impact of
computational neuroscience in mental illness. Totsika strengthens work on mental health in
intellectual disability.
         Major appointments in clinical, educational and health psychology strengthen the
following four research areas. First, several appointments ensure continued leadership in
understanding mechanisms that cause and maintain the development of common mental health
problems. Steinbeis brings expertise in understanding how socio-affective skills and behaviours
change over development. Pingault was recruited with expertise specifically in studying influences
of genetic and environmental early risk factors (e.g., bullying victimisation, family adversity) on a
variety of mental health outcomes. Gutman’s work investigates mental health trajectories in early
life, with a focus on risk and resilience among minority ethnic young people. Second, several new
appointments are aimed at developing new interventions to effect behaviour change to tackle key
societal challenges. Chadwick contributes expertise on programmes to reduce childhood obesity.
Das takes a neuropharmacological approach to reducing trauma symptoms and maladaptive
behaviours such as smoking, heavy drinking and binge eating. Third, appointments address the
need better to understand and treat severe mental ill health, for example, psychosis and bipolar
disorder. Bell focuses on the cognitive neuropsychology of psychosis. Fornells-Anbrojo works on
interpersonal processes in paranoia, and is a key figure in the development of novel virtual-reality-
based treatments for psychosis. Shaikh investigates psychological and social processes that
cause and maintain psychosis. Mason uses neuroimaging to better understand the mechanisms of

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
psychological interventions such as CBT and to improve their efficacy. Fourth, two new
appointments are in the area of business psychology. Ahmetoglu is an expert on personality,
creativity and business success, with a focus on entrepreneurship, and Tsivrikos seeks to
elucidate how social psychology processes shape business organisations and impact on their
effectiveness. All of these new recruits bring skills that will facilitate collaborations across the
Faculty and will make important contributions to the IoMH.
        New appointments in human neuroimaging and cognitive neuroscience include de
Martino who brings expertise in the neural basis of decision making; Fleming, whose research
programme is in metacognition; Kok, with a programme in visual neuroscience; Hauser, adding
major strength in computational neuropsychiatry; Lambert, who brings a research programme in
neuroimaging methods; Makin, whose expertise is in brain reorganization and plasticity; and Bach
who studies the role of emotion in behaviour.
        Capacity-building early-career recruitments in behavioural and cognitive sciences have
been made in several domains, including L. Harris who investigates how social cognition is
organised, Dekker and Cardin who study how behaviour emerges during development and is
shaped by the way we communicate, and Raihani and Melis with expertise in how evolution has
shaped behaviour and can help us understand it. Mehta brings new approaches to understanding
the biological bases of complex behaviours, including how hormonal mechanisms moderate
human cognition, and Saleem studies how sensory signals are moderated by cognitive signals in
rodent brains.
        Strategic appointments in language and cognition have created new capacity in cohort
studies, typical and atypical language development, with Norbury bringing expertise in child
language learning and Taylor enhancing strength in reading and neuroimaging research.
Increasingly theoretical linguistics employs experimental and computational methods and
strategic appointments have aimed to strengthen skills in these areas. Chow is a psycholinguist
who employs both behavioural and electrophysiological techniques to examine the representations
and processing mechanisms that underlie real-time language comprehension. White brings
expertise in computational modelling of the learning of phonological patterns.
        Demonstrating their support for DCAL, UCL recruited 3 new staff: Cormier, a sign
language linguist and expert in corpus linguistics, leads a group developing the first ever corpus for
British Sign Language and is part of a large consortium looking at how sign-language use can
reveal word-order universals; Cardin, examining neural plasticity in deaf adults; and Kyle,
conducting longitudinal studies of literacy development in deaf children. We have also
strengthened our research in hearing and deafness with the recruitment of Shekhawat and
Cooper, who bring expertise in translational research on therapies for hearing impairment in
children and tinnitus in adults. In speech, hearing and phonetic sciences two major recruitments
have been made: McGettigan, bringing expertise in the neural and behavioural correlates of
human vocal communication, and Carignan, an expert in language production and oral
articulation.
        Major appointments in ophthalmology include Eden who investigates the regulation of
membrane contact sites and their role in lipid transport and disease prevention, and MacDonald
who uses zebrafish to study glial specification and the consequences of glial loss on neuronal
function and structure.

2.1.2 Career Development, Mentoring and Appraisal. Attention to developing research excellence
marks our policies at all levels, including annual staff appraisal and objective-setting. UCL fully
supports the principles of the RCUK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers. All parts of UoA4 have dedicated programmes for ECR development which are
embedded in their Athena SWAN (AS) Schemes, and aligned with the dedicated programme for
ECRs run by UCL’s HR Organisational Development (OD) team.
         The development of an international research profile is the expected norm and a key
feature of mentoring and staff review during probation. This policy is also implemented through
research excellence as a major criterion for staff recruitment and promotion; attention to staff
development in the strategy for establishing new research programmes; and use of resources for
infrastructure developments to support advanced research.
        During the REF period Bates provided academic leadership for Doctoral Training and ECR
staff with a full-time manager appointed to coordinate initiatives across FBS. We have

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
comprehensive mentoring systems both for academic and research staff. Prospective mentors are
provided with training through the online mentoring platform (uMentor) developed by UCL and also
participate in a cross-institutional Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) mentoring programme.
Mentors are more experienced staff working in a similar area as the mentee but without direct
management involvement. The SLMS Early Career Neuroscience Forum (ECNF) and FBS Early
Careers Network enable ECRs (both post-doctoral and junior PIs) to meet their peers, share
experience and initiate collaborations. They also provide careers advice (e.g., clinical academic
careers workshops) and disseminate information regarding jobs, training, and funding
opportunities. We have established a bi-annual intensive mock grant-funding panel for junior
researchers with mentorship from experienced researchers, co-ordinated by the ECNF.
        The ACO, which brought in £9.2M in grant funding in 2018/19, promotes, supports and
develops all aspects of academic and clinical academic careers in SLMS. Their career schemes
aim to give researchers working in translational science the funding, skills and personal qualities
necessary to succeed in research. A highlight is the ADAPT to Thrive series, in which researchers
share stories of failures from their career (Festival of Failure3), aiming to normalise failure and build
a more resilient research community. Other schemes include Eureka@UCL, focused on training in
translational research, and Clinician Coders, which helps clinical academics to develop skills in
data science. As well as offering career and support development, the ACO obtains funding to
enable SLMS to offer various fellowships (including MRC Skills Development Fellowships and the
WT Clinical PhD programme) through the UCL Clinical Academic Training centre. Across the UoA
there is effective integration of clinical and non-clinical researchers. Several research groups are
led by clinicians but include non-clinical staff, and vice versa. Careful attention is paid in
employment contracts and annual monitoring schemes to ensure that clinically active staff have
sufficient time for scholarly work, and that there is an appropriate balance of duties.
        All staff are appraised annually within the UCL Appraisal, Review and Development
scheme which includes formal discussion with the Head of Department or manager, the setting of
research and training goals, and planning towards progression and promotion. The scheme plays a
key role in succession planning. We fully participate in UCL’s sabbatical policy, which allows paid
leave free from teaching and administrative duties and which is designed to enable staff to
maintain a high calibre of research, scholarship, teaching and innovation. For example, staff have
taken sabbaticals at the University of Sydney (Killaspy) and Stanford (Sagoo).
        To ensure that we are aware of any staff concerns, and to assist in the design of support
mechanisms, UCL ran staff surveys in 2015 and 2017. FBS created and implemented detailed
Action Plans following both surveys.

2.1.3 Staff training. All staff are invited to participate in a wide variety of training schemes which
enhance the skills of senior staff and prepare ECRs for careers as independent researchers or for
other paths (scientific writing, grant preparation). Fair recruitment training is compulsory for serving
on interview panels, and PhD supervisor training for being a primary or secondary PhD supervisor.
46 staff have participated in the Examining Doctorates programme and 109 in the Effective
Supervision course. Across the whole Faculty (not just submitted staff), 285 researchers have
participated in the Introduction to Research Supervision programme.
         Staff are provided with protected time to complete 10 days per year of skills training, with
access to modules across 8 themes (e.g., leadership, management, communication). Staff are
encouraged to use the Researcher Development Framework (RDF) tool to enhance the
knowledge, attributes and skills required for success as professional researchers. 572 research
staff attended the dedicated Research Staff Development Programme or the general Professional
Development Programme in 2019. Many new courses in research integrity and open science (e.g.,
Reproducibility for Everyone) have been created at both central and local levels. Across the REF
period, >30 staff p.a. have participated in leadership training programmes (Women in Research,
Women in Leadership, Senior Women in Leadership, Future Leaders) with notable career impacts.
For example, these programmes prepared many female staff including Linden, Price and Viding
for significant leadership roles.



3   https://www.thelancet.com/journals/lancet/article/PIIS0140-6736(19)32943-5/fulltext
                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Funds are available through the UCL Graduate School for conferences, and exchanges
with other academic institutions are actively encouraged. The annual UCL Neuroscience
Symposium brings together nearly 1000 clinical and basic researchers.
        Key to diversifying the skills portfolio of ECRs is providing opportunities for training in
teaching. The UCL Arena fellowship scheme (accredited by the Higher Education Academy)
provides education training at different levels. In the REF period 146 staff and research students
have been awarded Fellowships, including 18 Senior Fellowships.

2.1.4 Promotions. Academic and research staff are recognized and rewarded via UCL’s Academic
Career Framework which was comprehensively revised in 2017/18 to support every type of
academic career path via a robust set of processes with clear criteria. Promotions are not
contingent on the availability of grant funds but are based on ability and achievements, taking full
heed of personal circumstances such as parenting or caring responsibilities, part-time working, ill-
health and disability.
         Importantly, to address EDI concerns, Heads of Department annually consider all staff
against the promotion criteria, not just those who put themselves forward. Since 2014 the ACF has
explicitly recognised contributions to open science, incorporating UCL’s commitments as a DoRA
signatory. In the REF period 111 staff have been promoted to senior lecturer/reader/associate
professor/principal research fellow and 106 to professor/professorial research fellow.

2.2 Research students
Postgraduate training is a key component of our research and scholarly activity. FBS hosts
students in MRes, PhD, and Professional Doctorate programmes. In total 1493 postgraduate
research (PGR) students enrolled in the REF period. The total number of PGR students increased
by 17% from 802 in 2014 to 940 in 2020. The number of doctorates awarded annually increased
from 187 in 2013/14 to 215 in 2018/19, and 1182 were awarded in total in the REF period.
        Our commitment to doctoral research training is delivered through initiatives on recruitment,
programme development, progress monitoring, equality and diversity initiatives, and integration
into the research culture. The success of these is confirmed by the latest (2019) Postgraduate
Research Experience Survey (PRES), with overall satisfaction at 84%.

2.2.1 Recruitment. Recruitment to PhD training is based on broad marketing (mainly digital), UCL’s
reputation, and active staff engagement with other HEIs, third sector organisations, and industry.
We organise open days for prospective PhD and MRes students with representatives from all PhD
programmes. Selection processes are criterion-based and geared to ensuring equality and
diversity (e.g., decisions are taken by expert panels).
        Most programmes are extremely competitive. For instance, the LWENC’s programme in
neurodegeneration consistently receives 200 applications for the 3-4 funded places per year;
successful applicants have a mix of clinical and non-clinical backgrounds and over 95% have first
class degrees or international equivalents. The WT Mental Health Science programme received
>400 applications for 6 funded places in its first year, with a large proportion from BAME
backgrounds, and all successful applicants had first class degrees or equivalents. The Doctorate in
Educational and Child Psychology generally receives >350 applications for 16 places, and the
Doctorate in Clinical Psychology programme, the most competitive in the UK, consistently receives
around 1400 applications for the 53 funded positions.

2.2.2 Current programs. UCL offers a portfolio of structured 3- and (mostly) 4-year PhD
programmes and we have been successful in obtaining consistent funding through UCL’s MRC,
BBSRC, ESRC, EPSRC and WT Doctoral Training Programmes (DTPs). Total studentship funding
in the REF period has been over £12.5M.

•   The UCL-Birkbeck MRC programme is the largest MRC DTP in the UK, funding ~8 UoA4
    students p.a. on 4-year studentships, National Productivity Investment Fund and MRC iCASE
    studentships; the latter are based on joint projects with industrial partners, including a wide
    range of large (e.g., GSK, Astra Zeneca) and small-medium enterprises across four major
    streams in disease mechanisms, experimental medicine, neuroscience and mental health, and
    development;

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   UCL is the lead partner (with Birkbeck, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine,
    SOAS, and UEL) in the ESRC-funded UCL, Bloomsbury and East London Doctoral
    Training Partnership (UBEL), providing >40 studentships annually in areas spanning the
    social sciences. Its Psychology and Linguistics pathways fund ~4 UoA4 studentships p.a. A
    new Mental Health theme has been created within the DTP, funding 12 students across all
    partners;
•   The UCL Wellcome 4-year PhD in Mental Health Science (Roiser, £5.7M), funded in 2019,
    is the first of its kind in the UK. It is based in the IoMH and will recruit 6 students p.a. from
    2020-2024;
•   The London Interdisciplinary Biosciences Consortium is a cross-institutional BBSRC-
    funded DTC (£5.4M, the largest in the UK) that funds ~2 UoA4 students p.a. on 4-year
    studentships;
•   The Ecological Brain programme is funded by the Leverhulme Trust (Vigliocco, £1M) and
    provides 5 studentships p.a.;
•   The UCL WT PhD Programme for Clinicians (Rees, £5.4M) funds 5 studentships p.a.
    across SLMS of which on average 1 p.a. is to a UoA4 student;
•   The UCL WT Neuroscience programme (intakes 2013-18) allocated ~3 awards p.a. to UoA4
    students and many other students on the programme completed their Y1 rotations in UoA4
    research groups;
•   The AHRC London Arts and Humanities Partnership (LAHP), a consortium of 8 institutions,
    funds 1-2 Linguistics students annually;
•   LWENC runs a 4-year PhD programme (3-4 p.a.) funded by the Wolfson Foundation with £2M
    support from Eisai Pharmaceuticals;
•   UCL has a doctoral partnership with the Max Planck Society. The joint Computational
    Psychiatry Unit accepts 2-3 students p.a. and also participates in the multi-institution Max
    Planck School of Cognition consortium (total 17 students/year);
•   UCL runs PhD studentship programmes to enhance collaboration with industry or third sector
    organisations. IMPACT studentships involve collaborations with industry or third sector
    organisations, with UCL providing an element of matched funding. SLMS Grand Challenge
    studentships are co-funded by UCL and the BRC. Studentships funded through these
    schemes have involved collaborations with funders from the pharmaceutical (AstraZeneca,
    GSK, Eisai, Merck), manufacturing (Philips, Research in Motion, Toyota), retail (dunnhumby),
    and other sectors;
•   FBS runs a UCL-National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) 4 year joint programme in
    neuroscience (2 p.a.);
•   A PhD programme has been established with Santen Pharmaceutical (Ohnuma, £1.7M) that
    has supported several projects.

     In addition to students on research doctorates, a large number are registered on professional
training doctorates. In conducting projects at the cutting-edge of their topic areas, many of which
are collaborative and interdisciplinary, these students make a considerable contribution to the
research culture. The Doctorate in Clinical Psychology programme (~60 p.a.) combines
professional clinical training with comprehensive research training in the largest programme in
Europe; the Doctorate in Educational and Child Psychology (~16 p.a.) is accredited by the BPS
as a programme of initial professional training in educational psychology; the 4-year part-time CPD
Doctorate in Educational Psychology (~16 p.a.) provides doctoral level research training for
experienced educational psychologists holding masters-level qualifications; and the 4-year
Doctorate in Child and Adolescent Psychotherapy programme (~15 p.a.) provides intensive
clinical training for those wanting to work as psychotherapists in child and adolescent mental health
services (CAMHS).
     Lastly, MRes programmes emphasize research training and provide strong recruitment to
further research degree programmes. Students spend at least 6 out of 12 months exclusively on a
major research project. We have taken several steps towards integrating MRes students into the
research community, for example by including them in the Postgraduate Research Poster
Symposium organised yearly (see below).



                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2.3 Sustainable doctoral training programmes. Specific governance processes, reviewed
regularly, are in place to ensure that our doctoral training is effective and sustainable. Individual
DTPs supplement these general resources with specific support of their own and cohort building.
         All research students are supported throughout their PhD by the UCL Doctoral School,
which monitors student progress and ensures high quality supervision and training. Each of the
units in this submission has a Departmental Graduate Tutor (DGT) responsible for ensuring fair
and equitable student recruitment, appropriate supervision, progress from MPhil to PhD
registration, and thesis submission. Tutors also advise students about how to access additional
resources that may be necessary for their research and provide support if they encounter
difficulties. All students are allocated to an experienced principal supervisor, while subsidiary
supervisors have specific expertise relevant to the project. Academic and research staff are
required to attend a course on PhD supervision before being permitted to supervise and must act
as a subsidiary supervisor before progressing to primary supervisor. Across FBS, the number of
research students per full-time academic staff member is currently 3.9 (2019), up from 2.9 in 2014.
         We have made active efforts to increase academic staff involvement in PhD supervision.
For instance, from the start of the 2019/20 academic year all newly enrolled PhD students are
supervised by Thesis Committees (TC) designed to support the student and principal supervisor.
Each TC consists of at least two members of staff and includes the subsidiary supervisor. The
DGT can also be part of the TC, as can the principal supervisor (if the student agrees). The TC is
chaired by the subsidiary supervisor and meets with the student at least 6 times over the course of
a 3-year PhD programme. TCs also oversee the upgrade. We expect that the introduction of TCs
will improve the student experience and facilitate early detection of any issues or problems.
Participating in TCs allows ECRs introductory exposure to doctoral supervision, and provides a
formal role for external collaborators (industry supervisors, national and international
collaborators).

2.2.4 Career development and support. Considerable emphasis is placed on careers guidance
both via the Doctoral School and the student’s research group. The success of these mechanisms
is confirmed by first destination data: of PhD students graduating in 2016-17, 95% went on to full-
or part-time employment, and 4% to further study, 86% were in graduate employment, and the
average starting salary was ~£45K. For professional doctorate students graduating in 2016/17,
100% went on to full- or part-time employment, 95% were in graduate employment, and the
average starting salary was ~£37K. For MRes students graduating in 2016/2017, 45% went on to
full- or part-time employment, 31% enrolled in further study, 100% of those who work were in
graduate employment, and these students had an average starting salary of ~£32K.
         All students are expected to take advantage of the Doctoral Skills Development Programme
and are required to participate in this programme and/or appropriate departmental courses for a
period equivalent to 10 days per year. There are over 220 different courses across the full range of
skill domains defined by the Researcher Development Framework. Training courses and activities
are assigned a points value (1 point = 1 half day training) and students are expected to accumulate
60 training points over 3 years, or 80 points over 4 years. Students in the 2015/2016 entry cohort
averaged 54 points.
         As with staff, training in teaching (via the UCL Arena One scheme) is an important element
of skills development for doctoral students. In the REF period 780 students have attended
workshops in this scheme and 95 the more advanced Teaching Associate Programme.
         The COVID-19 pandemic and the temporary closure of non-essential research facilities and
laboratories in March 2020 created major challenges for the UoA’s doctoral researchers. To
support all PhD students, UCL rapidly implemented several measures to ensure continuity of
supervision, support, training, and funding throughout the period of lab closure and beyond. These
measures include: the UCL Stipend Extension Scheme to support final-year funded students in
submitting their thesis in a timely manner, by underwriting funding at the agreed minimum London
UKRI rate for up to 3 months and allowing Departments/Supervisors to top-up extensions for
longer periods from their own funding sources; provision of 200 free places for online bespoke
training for biomedical PhD students in computing and statistical methods, including artificial
intelligence (SysMic); and FBS is providing £7,500 to support doctoral students who have acquired
additional caring responsibilities during the pandemic, such as home schooling or caring for an
elderly or other dependant.

                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2.2.5 Progress monitoring. Progress is monitored using the online Research Student Log. This
documents academic progression and skills development training and reflects a dialogue between
students and principal and subsidiary supervisors. It allows students to record and reflect on their
review meetings (including important milestones such as the MPhil to PhD upgrade) plus
discussions on academic, generic and transferable skills training. Research students regularly
assess and plan their skills training needs in discussion with their supervisory team using the skills
self-assessment tool in the Research Student Log. Meetings of the Thesis Committee are also
recorded in the Research Log.
         Of all FT PhD students on three-year programmes starting in 2013, 185/222 (83%)
completed their doctorates within the prescribed 4 year period. Of all PT PhD students starting in
2011, 22/32 (67%) submitted within the prescribed 7 year period. We anticipate improvement in
this figure as not all the mechanisms described above were in place at the outset of this period.
Special systems have been established to support part-time PhD students, many of whom are
either clinicians or research assistants. Work plans are scrutinised by DGTs to ensure that
candidates are given adequate time and facilities for their research and not disadvantaged by
competing responsibilities.

2.2.6 Integration into research culture. The majority of doctoral students are involved in
collaborative, often interdisciplinary, projects and affiliated with specific research groups within the
UoA units. They therefore participate actively in the research programmes of these groups:
attending research planning meetings, presenting their work, contributing to publications, and
attending conferences in the same way as other ECRs. In addition, specific mechanisms are in
place to ensure effective integration of students into the research culture and to prepare them for
scholarly careers.
        Students are encouraged to give presentations at national and international research
conferences, supported by funds from the Doctoral School and individual research groups.
Typically, students present at one or two national and one overseas conference during their
training. A three-day Postgraduate Psychology conference is held at Cumberland Lodge every
year, organised by PhD students themselves, providing an opportunity for intensive exchange with
researchers outside the individual student’s research group.
        In addition to institutional research transparency and integrity training offered by the
Doctoral School and OD, local training courses have been developed to enhance knowledge and
practice in ethics, data management, research misconduct, and bullying and harassment. For
example, the IoN offers a 3 month Research Integrity and Governance module.
        FBS organises an annual Postgraduate Research Poster Symposium, which includes short
oral presentations and poster presentations and aims to offer PG students the opportunity to
present their research and meet with other students and staff. There are also prizes for both short
presentations and posters judged by senior academics within FBS.
        Individual departments supplement Faculty-wide mechanisms with a broad range of more
specific training activities. For instance, UCL Linguistics leads a consortium of 8 universities in
organising an Advanced Core Training in Linguistics (ACTL) graduate programme which holds
advanced training events (weekly classes and summer schools) for Linguistics PhD students from
across the UK. All the departments in this UoA also run regular research seminar programmes at
which students present their work.
        Funding is also available from the Doctoral School to learn new techniques and/or carry out
research over periods of a few weeks to a maximum (exceptionally) of one year in an overseas
laboratory. During the REF period >25 students have received funds allowing them, for example, to
gain neuroimaging skills (Laval University of Québec, Canada). Placements with industry,
Government Departments, and charities are also encouraged. These help broaden students’
research experience and provide a valuable commercial and policy context for their research.
Examples include work with the National Deaf Children’s Society to develop an intervention
programme for parents of deaf children, and with the Kosovo Association of the Deaf and the
Office of the Prime Minister of Kosovo to produce the first dictionary of sign language in Kosovo.
The annual UCL Neuroscience Symposium provides a forum for PhD students to present their
research via posters to the academic community, as do many more focussed events such as the
annual Queen Square graduate symposium.

                                                                                               Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.3 Promoting equality and diversity
Effecting improvements in the equality and diversity profiles at all levels in this submission
(including staff and research students) has been a key priority for enhancing the vitality and
sustainability of the research environment. Here we summarise progress in advancing Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) since REF2014, consider these issues in relation to the preparation of
this submission, highlight continuing challenges, and describe policies and mechanisms to address
these challenges and further enhance EDI in this UoA.
         The AS scheme for promoting gender equality across the HEI sector has been the main
foundation for our policies and initiatives on EDI. AS Self-Assessment Teams have been
established in all units of this submission. In recognition of the importance of EDI, AS teams are
represented on the senior leadership and Executive bodies of all participating units, and leaders
within units play active roles in AS teams. Division/Institute Directors have EDI targets explicitly set
in their appraisals. In addition to core EDI activities, AS teams have led initiatives to combat
harassment and bullying, to disseminate a culture of family-friendly and flexible working practices,
including organisation of meetings in core working hours, and respect for parental child caring
duties.
         All major units within this submission have obtained AS awards during the REF period.
These include 2 Silver awards (P&LS, first awarded 2013, renewed 2017, further renewal
submitted Nov 2020, and IoN, first awarded 2015, renewed 2020), and 3 Bronze (DoP, IoO, and
EI). To build on these awards, we have funded and appointed a Faculty AS co-ordinator and have
dedicated professional services support for these activities in every Division/Institute.

2.3.1 Staff and student profile. The staff population in UoA4 is 39% female, ethnically diverse (11%
BAME), and international (27% EU, 19% non-EU); 4% have a disability and 8% declare as LGBT+.
After the 25-34 range (8%) the age distribution is age 35-44: 33%; age 45-54: 31%; age 55-64:
24%. The ‘leaky pipeline’ for gender is evident in the decrease in the proportion of female staff
from Grade 8 (47%) to Grade 10 (33%). On the other hand the proportion of BAME staff in the
submission is similar at Grade 8 (13%) and Grade 10 (11%).
        Detailed analysis of the Faculty’s entire HESA2/3 staff profile in 2013 and 2020 provides
extensive evidence that our EDI work is bringing about significant change. The proportion of
female staff increased from 45% in 2013 to 50% in 2020 and the proportion of white staff
decreased from 80% to 72%. Between 2013 and 2020, the percentage of BAME staff at Grades
9/10 increased from 10% to 11% and at Grades 7/8 from 18% to 20%. At all levels we have made
progress towards 50:50 gender diversity: in 2020, 49% of grade 8, 45% of grade 9, and 33% of
grade 10 staff were women, compared with, respectively, 46%, 41%, and 30% in 2013.
        Promotions data provide further evidence of the sustained impact of our EDI strategy. Of
the 217 senior promotions noted above (§2.1.4), success rates were 77% for women and 90% for
men in the period 2014/15-2016/17. For the period since 2017/18, success rates for female
applicants have been transformed (women = 97%, men = 91%). Whereas 10/33 female applicants
were unsuccessful in the first part of the REF period, only 2/61 were unsuccessful subsequently.
The advancement of women in this submission is additionally confirmed by their increasing
representation in leadership roles: across FBS, 12 of 29 Heads of Research Department are
women.
        The UoA4 graduate student population is 72% female and ethnically highly diverse (63%
white, 37% BAME). 10% report a disability. Consistent with the trends above, the percentage of
non-white PhD students increased from 25% in the 2013/14 intake to 33% in 2019/20.

2.3.2 Preparation of this submission. In line with UCL’s Code of Practice, research staff were
regularly updated on the independence determination and output selection processes and
encouraged to contact their local REF leads with questions or concerns. All staff in the UOA
undertake mandatory Diversity in the Workplace training and the UOA lead responsible for all final
selection decisions attended face-to-face REF-specific EDI training. Outputs were nominated by
eligible staff and reviewed by a total of 119 senior staff, of whom 65% were male, in line with the
UoA’s gender split at Grade 10 (67% male). Each output was independently reviewed by at least
two assessors. The preliminary output selection in Nov 2020 was prepared using an automated
method to optimize the profile thus minimizing human bias.

                                                                                               Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         The Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) reveals trends consistent with the demographic data
described above. Notably, fewer outputs are attributed pro rata to female (0.87 likelihood) than
male (1.09) staff, and female HESA2 staff were less likely to meet the criteria for independence
than males. Similar patterns apply to ethnicity, although it is encouraging that outputs were more
likely to be attributed to BAME (1.07) than to white (0.98) HESA2 staff. We will incorporate this
information into the development and implementation of our future AS action plans and, in
particular, investigate whether success is correlated with any of our interventions (e.g., leadership
training).

2.3.3 Actions to create and promote an inclusive environment. We have invested significant energy
into promoting EDI and to ensuring that our staff have appropriate learning and development
opportunities. UCL’s umbrella leadership programme includes 5 routes: Emerging Leaders (for
early-career BAME staff), Future Leaders, Women in Leadership, Senior Women in Leadership,
and a new Inclusive Leadership programme. FBS has 33 funded places p.a. on these
programmes. We have increased the visibility of role models by targeted actions. For example,
P&LS achieved impact on the gender balance of its seminar speakers, reducing a >30% male-
female gap in 2014/15 to zero since 2017/18.
         172 staff in the UoA have completed UCL’s mandatory Unconscious Bias training, which is
embedded into the induction process, 108 have completed Taking The Lead training, equipping
senior leaders with the skills to address bullying and harassment, and 26 Where Do You Draw The
Line training workshops have been run for FBS staff. This is a harassment prevention approach
collaboratively developed by UCL, Cambridge, Manchester and Oxford. In 2019/20 we piloted a
bespoke training workshop on racialised implicit bias and following positive feedback are rolling
this out across the Faculty in 2020/21.
         Inclusive Advocacy is a positive action 2-year sponsorship programme, established as part
of the Race Equality Charter, which connects senior leaders (Advocates) to Grade 7 and 8 staff
(Protégées) from BAME backgrounds. The senior leader’s role is to proactively ensure that the
protégé receives access to useful experiences and networks that will result in career advancement.
Under this scheme, 10 pairs of advocates and protégés from the UoA have been sponsored.
Additionally, 6 staff have been mentored under the cross-institutional B-MEntor scheme. Mentors
of any ethnicity are paired with a BAME mentee from a different department. The main distinction
between mentoring and sponsorship is that whilst a mentor may help an employee envision and
plan their next position, an Advocate will leverage their social and career capital to ensure
expanding developmental opportunities for the protégé.
         Workload allocation models are used across FBS to inform decision-making and fairness.
We have quantitatively analysed many aspects of the collected data. For example, analysis across
IoN staff for 2019 showed that male (4109 half-hour units) and female (3975 units) workloads were
equitable. Analysis in P&LS allowed us to monitor the workload of part-time staff and ensure that
unreasonable demands, out of alignment with full-time staff, are not placed on this group. In
response to 2015 data suggesting that there was a higher adjusted workload for part-time than full
time staff, workload redistribution and rebalancing took place and led to a measurable decrease in
workload for PT staff.
         We have investigated the recruitment of research students for competitive studentships in
the UoA, and found evidence for unconscious racial bias. Indeed, there were differences between
the ratings given to applications from BAME and white candidates when names and racial identity
indicators were present, which disappeared when the names were absent. In 2019/20 we
introduced guidance to all PhD programmes to conduct blind reviews (where the names of the
applicants are not available) and will measure the impact in 2020/21 onwards. Many other
initiatives are undertaken at programme level to attract a more diverse applicant pool. For
example, one PhD programme created a dedicated section on its website about diversity,
advertised via UCL's BAME sabbatical officer and on the BBStem and Leading Roots websites,
resulting in 50% of the applicants being non-white (~200/400). This approach to recruitment will be
shared across FBS and further developed in coming years. DTPs promote diversity through a
range of mechanisms. For example, the WT Mental Health programme ring-fences one place in
each cohort to a BAME student.
         We have committed to identifying BAME staff to become highly-trained Fair Recruitment
Specialists (5 staff completed this training in 2020) and have set a target of mandating the

                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
inclusion of these in all recruitment panels from 2020/21. Plans have been drafted to introduce
mandatory attendance at stereotype awareness and diversity workshops. Building on DCAL
expertise, we have launched an online course, Deaf Awareness: Working and Communicating Well
with Deaf People, and staff contribute to the Discover UCL Summer School for D/deaf and Hard of
Hearing Students.

2.3.4 EDI leadership. Recognition of the importance of EDI has resulted in the appointment of a
Faculty Vice-Dean for EDI (Cox) who provides oversight and coordination and chairs the EDI
Committee, which includes Faculty Leads on Gender, BAME, Disability, Religion and Belief, and
LGBTQ+ Equality. Staff in the UoA are members of a number of institutional and national EDI
committees and networks including: Provost’s Inclusion Forum, Race Working Group (Race
Equality Steering Group), Athena SWAN Psychology National Forum, LGBTQ+ Working Group
(LEAG), Out@UCL, UCL Women, UCL Menopause Network, UCL Astrea, Neurodivergent Staff
Network, Disability Working Group and Enable@UCL.

2.3.5 Effects of COVID-19 on EDI. We are at an early stage of monitoring data on the potential
unequal effects (e.g., impact on progress towards promotion) of the pandemic across different staff
groups, as a prelude to a remedial action plan to support the hardest-hit groups. For gender,
however, initial data show that grant applications in 2020 fell by approximately equal amounts for
female (-10%) and male (-9%) staff. The UCL COVID-19 Career Support Scheme (£0.5M)
provides a short-term boost to regain lost career momentum caused by the pandemic.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income
New grants totalling £720M have been awarded, with average annual income 120% higher than
over the previous REF period. Average annual income per FTE researcher is £270K, 50% higher
than the equivalent figure in REF2014. Funding for research from MRC (£135M), NIHR (£88M,
including BRC), WT (£142M), ESRC (£25M), EC (£51M), and industry (£32M) has shown strong
growth. In total we have been supported by, amongst others, 356 NIHR, 168 WT, 53 ESRC, 163
MRC, and 99 European Commission (EC) awards. In line with our REF2014 strategy, we have
seen substantial growth in awards for translational research, spread across all groups. We have
been awarded 182 fellowships worth £66M, including 10 NIHR, 19 MRC, 38 WT
SRF/PRF/Investigator/Sir Henry Wellcome, and 7 Royal Society fellowships. In addition to these
grants, income through UCL Consultancy was £6.0M in the REF period.

3.2 Major awards
Research across the UoA has been supported by numerous major grants. We briefly describe
highlights in this section.

3.2.1 Theme A: Neurodegeneration and neuroprotection. Research in neurodegenerative
disease: Major awards include a neurogenetic therapies programme to accelerate the
development of life-changing treatments (Fox, Rohrer, Tabrizi, Wray, £5M Rausing Trust), and an
NIHR BRC Neurodegeneration Theme Award (Fox as lead, £5M) to advance therapies for
dementia and related disorders. Significant awards from the CHDI Foundation (Bates, £5M;
Tabrizi, £2.5M), UKDRI (Bates, Tabrizi, £1.5M) and MRC (Bates, Tabrizi, £1.3M) to validate and
test therapeutic targets are complemented by a WT programme award (Tabrizi, Bates, £3.2M) to
aid understanding of disease mechanisms in HD. Hardy and collaborators at Oxford, Cambridge,
and the Royal Veterinary College were awarded $7M from the MJ Fox Foundation to study the
variability of Parkinson’s progression; a major longitudinal study (Insight 46) to detect prodromal
dementia and the life course determinants of brain pathology (Fox, Schott, combined funding
£11M); the MRC-funded Genetic FTD Initiative (Rohrer, £2.8M); a C9orf72 study in mediated
neurodegeneration in FTD and ALS (Isaacs, €1.9M). Since 2014 £7.2M has been secured for
ARUK Senior Fellowships (Barnes, Lashley, Wray), CHDI Foundation (Wild), WT (Weil), and
MRC Clinician Scientist Fellowships (Rohrer, Wild, Ryten).



                                                                                           Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Prion diseases: Major funding and senior fellowships totalling £38M including awards from
MRC, BBSRC, DHSC Policy Research Programme, ARUK, Alzheimer’s Society, CJD Foundation,
CJD Support Network; MRC has awarded 2 3-year clinical fellowships. Collinge and Mead are
both NIHR Senior Investigators.
        Neuroinflammation: Major funding comes from NIHR (Research Professorship to
Ciccarelli, £1.8M), MRC (Toosy, £1M), EU-IMI Consortium grant (€8.8M, Pocock as UCL lead),
Horizon 2020, Charities (Fondation Leducq, International Spinal Research Trust, UK and US MS
Societies, Rosetrees Trust, Wings for Life), and WT.
        Neuromuscular disease: The ARUK DDI award (Fish, Whiting) has been described
previously. Other grants include a WT Strategic award (Harris, £3.5M); Schiavo is part of an
Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Programme (€15M). Sharma leads the UCL Integrated
Academic Training programme, the largest in the UK and involving ~150 junior academics (£5M).
Industrial collaborations include awards from Orphazyme (Machado, Hanna, Greensmith) and
Lilly (Schiavo). An investigator-led trial is supported by the FDA Office of Orphan Products
Development Grant Program (US$1.6M: Hanna, Greensmith, Machado). Senior fellowships
include 5 WT Senior Investigator Awards (Brownstone, Fisher, Harris, Schiavo and Ule); two PIs
were awarded the only MRC Senior Clinician Scientist Fellowships in 2018-19 (Fratta, Patani);
intermediate level fellowships include an MRC Career Development Award (Sleigh), two MRC
Intermediate Fellowships (Pitceathly, Cortese), and a senior Motor Neuron Disease Association
non-clinical fellowship (Bryson), an ERC Senior Investigator Award (Harris) and an Advanced
Grant (Ule, £1.3M).
        Epilepsy: major funding and fellowship awards include: ERC advanced grants (N.
Burgess, £2.0M; Rothman, £1.8M), Epilepsy Research UK fellowship (Magloire), MRC New
Investigator Grant (Jepson, Lignani), MRC Programme Grants (Duncan, Kullmann, Walker),
NIH Centers without Walls (Diehl), NIHR BRC High Impact Initiative (Koepp), NIHR RIGHT
Programme (Sander), WT Principal Fellowship (Kullmann, Rusakov), WT Innovation (Duncan),
and WT Strategic Award (Jepson, Kullmann, Rothman, Sisodiya, Volinskii, £4.1M).
        Clinical and movement neuroscience: Staff have been successful in gaining fellowships,
including Gandhi (WT Intermediate Clinical Fellowship and MRC Senior Investigator Award),
Kuppuswamy (WT Sir Henry Dale), as well as major grants: MRC Experimental Medicine
(Schapira, £1M) to study glucocerebrosidase mutation and personalised therapy in PD; Horizon
2020 (Schapira, €6M, Schrag, €4M) on mitochondrial involvement and developing palliative care
in PD; Joint Program on Neurodegenerative Diseases (Schapira, €1.6M) on clinical evolution of
GBA-linked PD; and NIHR programme grant (Schrag, £2.2M) on the development and validation
of a facilitated self-management tool for PD. Major awards in 2020 include $8.4M for research into
the effects of the microbiome in PD (Schapira), $7.5M for research on alpha-synuclein biology in
PD (Wood) and $1.2M on single cell sequencing (Proukakis). Additional funders include the Brain
Research Trust, MJ Fox Foundation, Parkinson’s UK, and Safra Foundation. Spinazzola was
awarded an MRC Senior Non-Clinical Fellowship (£2.2M).

3.2.2 Theme B: Mental health. Clinical and epidemiological psychiatry: Major funding in the REF
period includes the establishment of the Mental Health Policy Research Unit (Johnson, NIHR, £5M). A
mental health theme (£5M) was created within the BRC renewal, led by Howard. Palliative care
research has been funded by a Marie Curie centre grant (£2.3M) with an associated grant for Stone
(£3.2M) and a programme grant to improve care, assessment and communication at the end of life
(£2M). An ERC Starting Grant for genetics of depression in diverse populations was awarded to
Kuchenbaecker (£2.5M). NIHR have funded several large randomised trials (>£22M). The group’s
vitality has been supported by several senior Fellowship awards, including Kirkbride (Sir Henry Dale),
Hayes and Huntley (WT Clinical Research Career Development), Davies, Marchant, Moore,
Mukadam, and Orgeta (Alzheimer’s Society Senior Fellowships), Wood (NIHR Clinical Lectureship)
and Irizar (European Commission Marie Curie), and NIHR Senior Investigators (Livingston, Howard,
Lewis, King).
          Clinical, educational and health psychology: awards include NIHR Senior Investigator
Awards (Fonagy, Michie), MRC Clinical Research Fellowship (Mason), Sir Henry Dale Fellowship
(Carlisi, Schoeler), MQ Transforming Mental Health Fellowship and EC Consolidator Grant
(Pingault), WT Collaborative Award (£2.2M), NIHR School of Public Health Research (Michie,
£1.5M), Big Lottery Fund and DfE (Deighton), NIHR Programme Grant and Guideline

                                                                                             Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Development Grant (Pilling, £1.9M), NIHR Innovation Grant (King, £1.26M), ESRC, NSPCC
(McCrory), NIHR (Fonagy, £1.6M), NIHR Public Health (Scior), EC Consolidator Grants
(Fotopoulou, £1.6M; Pingault, £1.2M), EC (Steinbeis, £1.2M), and MRC (Curran, £1.6M;
Kamboj, £470K; Michie, £470K; Viding, £700K).
       Human neuroimaging and cognitive neuroscience: major awards include 2 Wellcome
Centre for Human Neuroimaging renewals (£14.8M), Max Planck Centre for Computational
Psychiatry and Aging (£1M), Wellcome PRFs (Price, Maguire), WT (Maguire, £2.4M) and further
Fellowships and major awards, including WT Senior Research Fellowships (Makin, McSweeney,
Crinion), MRC Senior Research Fellowships (Lambert, Robinson), 4 Sir Henry Dale Fellowships
(Fleming, De Martino, Hauser, Kok), an NIHR Research Professorship (Leff), a Dorothy Hodgkin
Fellowship (White), ERC advanced grants (Bach, £1.6M), 3 ERC starter grants (Makin, Kok,
Hauser), 3 WT Collaborative awards (N. Burgess, with collaborators from Oxford, hosted at the
Sainsbury Wellcome Centre; Rees with colleagues from UCL; Barnes with collaborators from
Nottingham), a £4.5M WT Innovation award (Rees), and an EPSRC Collaborator award (Lavie,
with Jaguar Land Rover and Cranfield).

3.2.3 Theme C: Understanding and influencing human behaviour. In behavioural and cognitive
sciences, research has been funded by major UKRI awards including ESRC (Rodd, £540K;
Shanks, £850K; Vigliocco, £530K), BBSRC (Bendor, £500K; Cardin, £240K; Solomon, £400K),
EPSRC (Skipper, £390K), MRC (Solomon, £680K), as well as ERC (Bendor, £1.2M; Spiers,
£400K; Vigliocco, £3.0M) and other funders including WT (Jeffery, Senior Investigator, £1M;
Love, Senior Investigator £1.1M; Sharot, Senior Research Fellow, £1.7M), Nuffield (Richardson,
£270K) and IARPA (Lagnado, £540K). New researchers have won prestigious fellowships
(Dekker: ESRC; Fleming, Saleem: Sir Henry Dale; Raihani: URF).
       In language and cognition, major awards include ESRC (Norbury, £650K), Leverhulme
(Wonnacott, £320K), AHRC (Varley, £230K), Stroke Association (Varley, £200K), and in
linguistics, significant support has been provided by funders including AHRC (Szendroi, £690K)
and Leverhulme (Nevins, £330K; Carston, £240K).

3.2.4 Theme D: Sensory systems and therapies. Ophthalmology: Six investigators hold WT
Investigator Awards, Carandini (collaborative with Harris, £3.6M), Cheetham (£1.5M), Futter
(£1.3M), J. Greenwood and Moss (£1.7M), and Ruhrberg (£1.4M). Carandini has been a
Simons Investigator since 2014. Strategic development of ECRs has been supported by
fellowships from BBSRC (MacDonald, £960K), WT Clinical Career Development Fellowships
(Moosajee, £1.2M; Mahroo £1.1M), NIHR Clinician Scientist award (Keane, £980K), Fight for
Sight Early Career Development fellowships (Davidson, Arno), and UKRI Future Leaders
Fellowships (Davidson, £1M, Keane, £1M, Khawaja, £1.2M). In addition to EC funding (Rubin,
£660K), we hold substantial charity, philanthropic and UKRI funding, including Coffey (Oak
Foundation £1.2M, Uren Foundation £2.2M, MRC £2.7M), Pearson (MRC £2.3M), and Turowski
and Sivaprasad (RCUK GCRF £2.3M for the ORNATE India project).
         Hearing and deafness: Significant EC funding has been secured, with two ERC
Consolidator awards (Albert, £1.4M; Bizley, £1.5M) and major Horizon 2020 awards (Schilder,
Saeed, £1.2M; Bamiou, €5.4M). Research has been further enhanced by two WT (Lesica, SRF,
£1.5M; Bizley, Sir Henry Dale, £1.9M including renewal) and two UKRI Future Leaders
Fellowships (Andres, £1.5M; Keating, £1.4M, the latter being a former Rosetrees Trust/UCL
Excellence Fellow).
         Speech, hearing and phonetic sciences: Major funding has been received from: ESRC
(totalling £2.4M) supporting the study of speech communication changes across the lifespan
(Hazan) and development of speech perception and measurement of listening effort (Iverson); WT
(£1.3M) to support Avatar Therapy (Huckvale); Leverhulme Trust (£1.2M) including computational
models of speech acquisition (Xu); EC (£1.2M) to support two training networks (Hazan and
Iverson); and EPSRC (£1.1M) to study binaural hearing aids (Rosen, Huckvale). In addition
funding for a spin-out company in fatigue management was received from ESA (€1M) using voice
analysis technology developed by Huckvale.




                                                                                      Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.3 Major infrastructure investments
Highlights of unit-specific investments and income, and major future developments, are reported in
detail in our Research Strategy in §1.

Major Schemes:
•   Development of a £280M, 17,000 m2 translational neuroscience building for IoN and UKDRI
    (£41M BEIS, £29M RPIF, £60M donors);
•   IoO/MEH new building £155M, including 10,000 m2 for IoO, total cost ~£500M (£30M RPIF,
    £60M donors);
•   Courtauld Building for the MRC Prion Unit, £30M for ~3,000 m2;
•   UKDRI Interim Hub in the Cruciform Building, £10M (£2M MRC) for 1,200 m 2 of refurbished
    laboratory and office space;
•   £2.5M to relocate DoP to 1,500 m2 of newly refurbished accommodation in Maple House
    facilitating expansion in support of the IoMH;
•   £2M for fit out of Russell Square House to facilitate expansion of IoN teams.

Refurbishments:
•   £1.5M for Cruciform Building refurbishment for cortical neuromics laboratory (Carandini,
    Harris);
•   £0.7M modifications to Alexandra House for ICN;
•   £0.7M for laboratory modifications (Rothman);
•   £0.9M for a laboratory facility for studying the neural circuits for movement (Brownstone);
•   £1M to refurbish laboratories for the ARUK DDI in the Cruciform Building;
•   Several UCL Small Works Projects across the UoA.

     The SLMS Capital Equipment Fund gives priority to proposals with cross-faculty and
multidisciplinary applications. £1.4M of funds have been provided to the UoA in the REF period for
equipment including eye-tracking, functional transcranial Doppler and motion capture systems.
UCL is also a recipient of WT Institutional Strategic Support funding, and £1.5M has been received
for equipment, bridging, recruitment start-up packages and translational pump priming. Institutional
resources, often leveraging external funding, have enabled further investments in equipment and
laboratory refurbishments during the REF period, including:
•    Extensive upgrade of neuroimaging facilities: a new Siemens Prisma 3T MRI scanner has
     been installed in BUCNI (£2.3M); two further Siemens 3T scanners have been upgraded to
     Prisma systems (£1.1M); a Siemens 7T Terra scanner was delivered in 2019 (£8.5M), with
     additional funding from Siemens to develop MRI sequences and software; and a Philips 3T
     scanner was upgraded to an Ingenia system in 2018 (£600K, with BRC funding) with provision
     of a sodium quantification system;
•    A magnetically shielded laboratory for pioneering Optically Pumped Magnetometry (OPM)
     research (WT collaborative award, £870K).

3.4 Equipment, facilities and support
Long-term institutional and funder investment has provided outstanding cost-recovered facilities for
research, brought together under UCL’s Scientific Technology Platforms initiative (e.g.,
genomics, imaging). A central Research Equipment Catalogue ensures that the fullest use of
these facilities, equipment, and technician support is made across research teams. These include:

•   Major facilities for neuroimaging including a Siemens Avanto 1.5T scanner, VSM MedTech
    MEG scanner, functional transcranial Doppler and near-infrared spectrometry systems in
    addition to the 5 new/upgraded MRI scanners described above. All facilities provide
    substantial IT, physics, radiography, and electronics support;
•   A further 4 Siemens MRI scanners are available for research within NHNN, a 3T Prisma, a 3T
    Skyra, and two 1.5T systems, one of which is combined with a neurosurgical suite for
    interventional MRI projects;
•   Extensive facilities for imaging and microscopy, including electron, photon, laser capture and
    confocal microscopes as well as specimen preparation equipment including cryo-preparation
    and microtomes;

                                                                                            Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•     Equipment and laboratories for 3D whole-body motion capture; eye-tracking; gene
      sequencing; transcranial magnetic stimulation systems; frameless stereotaxy systems;
      equipment for capturing motor evoked potentials; an MRI-compatible EEG system;
•     Extensive animal neuroscience facilities including histology and electrophysiology, specialist
      laboratories for research in infant vision, child development (with advanced audio-visual
      facilities for attachment research), neuropsychology (including an extensive range of test
      batteries), speech and language, and human-computer interaction, as well as numerous
      general-purpose testing facilities; specialised laboratories (including Faraday cages) for
      human electrophysiology, crossmodal attention, and motor control studies, plus patient testing
      suites; a wet-lab and psychophysiology suite for psychopharmacology research;
•     Underpinning these research facilities is considerable investment in human resources.
      Technical staff (153 FTE) have increased considerably (+36%) since 2013. Other support staff
      (278 FTE, +27%) have also increased over the same period.

      Researchers have access to 16 UCL libraries, including collections in all UoA4 specialties.
A WT Research Resources in Medical History award enabled preservation and cataloguing of
neurology archives in the Queen Square Library. A team of Site and Subject Liaison Librarians
provides an enquiries service as well as information skills training for researchers (e.g., in
systematic review, reference management), and supports Open Research through administration
of the REF OA policy and the UCL Open Access Repository.

3.5 Research governance
UCL has a set of research governance policies, detailed in REF5a, that underpin expectations
about the conduct of research. The Code of Conduct for Research articulates UCL’s expectations
and defines action to be taken if an individual is suspected or accused of research misconduct. All
issues relating to confidentiality and security in the use of patient and participant data fall under
UCL’s Data Protection policies and the Data Protection office provides extensive training,
guidance, and support.

    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Major institutional collaborations
The major national UKDRI collaboration on dementia, and the large-scale translational research
partnership in ophthalmology between UCL and MEH via the IoO, are described in §1.
        The Sainsbury Wellcome Centre for neural circuits and behaviour, funded by the Gatsby
Charitable Foundation and the Wellcome Trust (WT), opened in 2016 and substantially
strengthened UCL’s research in systems-level neuroscience. Neuroscientists working in the new
facility use state-of-the-art molecular and cellular biology, imaging, electrophysiology and
behavioural techniques, supported by computational modelling, to investigate how brain circuits
process information to create neural representations and guide behaviour. A key strength of the
Centre is that it includes the Gatsby Computational Neuroscience Unit, which combines research
in theoretical neuroscience and machine learning. The Centre nurtures close links with research
groups in UoA4: among the 20 affiliates are Bizley, Brownstone, N. Burgess, Carandini, Harris,
Jeffery, Kullmann, and Linden.
        The Centre hosts a number of activities that are synergistic with FBS, including a core
research base for the International Brain Laboratory (funded by £25M from WT and Simons
Foundation), a major initiative bringing together 22 international groups of which 6 are based at
UCL and 2 (Carandini, Harris) in UoA4.
        The Francis Crick Institute is an important partnership for the UoA. Through a range of
initiatives, researchers are actively developing and strengthening links between the founding
partner organisations. During the assessment period, as part of the Crick-HEI Attachment Scheme
there have been four group secondments (Ule, Patani, Gandhi, Moosajee) and two satellites
(Albert, Fish) from UoA4. In addition, De Strooper’s group is now established within the Crick in
UCL-funded space. The presence of the UKDRI and DDI (through Fish) enables even greater
recognition of these UoA4 institutes on a national and international scale. UoA4 contributes
leadership to the Crick (Gandhi, Assistant Research Director; Rees, co-chair of the University


                                                                                             Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Academic Partnership Committee), its research staff hold joint grants with Crick Group Leaders
(e.g., Fisher with V. Tybulewicz), are actively involved in Crick Interest Groups (Schiavo, Lignani,
Matthews, Andres-Miguel) and are secondary supervisors for 13 students on the Crick PhD
programme.
       The Institute of Healthcare Engineering is a cross-institutional initiative bringing together
engineers, computer scientists and health researchers to develop digital and medical technologies.
Prof Geoff Parker was recruited jointly by UCL Computer Science and IoN to lead the Institute’s
research on the application of quantitative MRI methods to a wide range of diseases including
neurological conditions.
       In CAMHS, our long term partnership with the Anna Freud National Centre for Children
and Families has flourished over the REF period. Fonagy is the Centre’s Chief Executive and led
the project to create its state-of-the-art £40M new home close to the UCL campus, facilitating the
numerous research and training collaborations. It hosts many UCL professional education
programmes, including at doctoral level.
       UCL has launched a key international partnership with Peking University, supporting initial
research collaborations in dementia (Spector) and neuroscience (Chait, Fleming, Haggard). The
IoO is the International Strategic Partner for the newly formed International Centre for Translational
Eye Research (ICTER; Poland), focusing on imaging at different levels of resolution, from single
molecules to the entire architecture and function of the eye. A strategic Memorandum of
Understanding (MoU) is in place with Singapore National Eye Centre (SNEC) and Singapore Eye
Research Institute (SERI), principally to build on research infrastructure for AI, big data and health
service related research. An MoU with the University of Electronic Sciences and Technology in
China has been established to develop studentships and build a PhD student cohort in imaging
and AI.

4.2 Collaborative networks and clinical trial consortia
        Our extensive involvement in collaborative research networks is described in §1.6. Staff are
also centrally involved in major global discovery science and clinical trial consortia. These include
the International Parkinson Disease Genomics Consortium (IPDGC; Hardy, Plun-Favreau, Ryten,
Wood) and the Alzheimer’s Disease European Sequencing Consortium (ADES; Hardy); in HD, the
HD-CSF, HD-Clarity (Wild) and Roche-sponsored Natural History Study and GENERATION HD1
phase 3 trial (Tabrizi); the 27-site Genetic Frontotemporal Dementia Initiative (GENFI) cohort
study (Rossor, Rohrer); Rohrer also co-leads the FTD Prevention Initiative linking GENFI and
other genetic-FTD studies around the world; the Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network (DIAN),
DIAN-TU and Alzheimer’s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) collaborations in AD (Fox); and
the WT-sponsored Vision in Parkinson’s initiative (Weil). The Alzheimer’s Association Global
Biomarker Standardization Consortium (GBSC), aiming to accelerate biomarker standardisation for
AD and other dementias, is chaired by Zetterberg.
        Sisodiya leads international epilepsy consortia on discovery (EpiCNV), pharmacogenetics
(EpiPGX), and genetic-imaging integration (ENIGMA-Epilepsy), chairs the ILAE Task Force on
Clinical Genetic Testing in the Epilepsies, and is on the steering committee of international
genetics consortia (Epi25, ILAE Consortium on Complex Epilepsies). In stroke, Werring leads the
Microbleeds International Collaborative Network (MICON), with influence on national (NICE) and
international (ESO) guidelines.
        The Psychiatric Genomics Consortium involves Bramon (leading on psychosis
endophenotypes), Kuchenbaecker (leading on ethnic diversity within the Major Depression
Collaboration, funded by ERC £2M), Lewis, and McQuillin (leading the collection and analysis of
sub-phenotype data for bipolar disorder). Foster leads the UK Biobank Eye and Vision Consortium
and part of the International Glaucoma Genetics Consortium (IGGC). IoO/MEH are major
contributors to the Genomics England project, with Webster Clinical Interpretation Partnership lead
for the Hearing and Sight domain, and the UK Inherited Retinal Dystrophy Consortium (UKIRDC;
Arno, Hardcastle).

4.3 Individual collaborations
For the following sections we have taken a quantitative approach, supported by examples. Data
were obtained from a comprehensive survey completed by all submitted UoA4 staff. External
collaborations are supported by the award of honorary positions (including Category C staff). A

                                                                                             Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
total of 1096 individuals, many with NHS appointments, held such positions on the census date,
with 161 being at professorial level, and including world-leading researchers (e.g., C. Frith, U. Frith,
R. Murray, T. Shallice, C. Sunstein).
         In addition to the collaborations noted in §1.6, staff have taken part in collaborative
research involving other UK (85% of staff) and international (84%) institutions, and in
interdisciplinary research (60%). International collaborations are thriving as indicated by the award
of 158 EU and 201 non-EU grants in the REF period. 93 members of staff (24%) have hosted
visiting international researchers for a period of 12 months or more, funded by a competitive
scheme from their own country.

4.4 Contribution to sustainability of the research base
The breadth of contributions is highlighted by the following aggregate metrics: 42% of staff have
served on national (UKRI or similar) or international grants committees, and 40% on learned
societies/professional bodies; 67% of staff have given invited keynote lectures; 57% have
participated in conference organization; and 84% have examined doctorates; 98% are involved in
some aspect of refereeing/peer-reviewing, while 52% of staff served on journal editorial boards,
31% in editorship positions.
        Our approach to research transparency and reproducibility is detailed in §1.4. In the REF
period, 40% of staff published research that reproduces key findings in their field.

4.5 Contribution to the economy and society via collaboration with industry and research
users
Staff have engaged extensively with industry (44%), with many examples described above,
through 72 CASE studentships, industry-sponsored research, Higher Education Innovation Fund
awards (25 projects, £470K) and consultancy, and in collaborations for postgraduate research
training (25%); with health and social care services (40%); and with central or local government
bodies (14%). Effective collaboration with industry is corroborated by the award of 141 grants from
industrial partners, with 38% of staff having sat on non-academic expert committees, and this
collaboration has led to significant translation or commercialisation: 43% of staff have been
involved in patents, licensing, spin-out formation, consultancy, clinical trials, or been awarded
translational funding. Our Impact Case Studies provide examples of the extensive benefits of these
collaborations for income generation, patient benefit, NHS cost-saving and other societal gains.
        Staff make major contributions to clinical trials, with UCLH and MEH at the forefront
nationally for patient recruitment. In the REF period 168 UCLH-hosted trials led by UoA4
researchers were initiated as well as 85 hosted at MEH and 126 elsewhere (e.g., C&I, NELFT),
sponsored by industry (e.g., Bayer, Pfizer, Roche, Santen), charities and NIHR.

4.6 Response to the COVID-19 pandemic
Researchers and facilities in UoA4 have made major contributions to the national effort to fight the
COVID-19 pandemic. Michie is a member of the behavioural science sub-group of the
government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage), and also a member of the
independent Sage committee.
         A total of 53 projects, of which the majority are funded or a funding application has been
submitted, have ranged from public engagement to novel diagnostics and therapy delivery. Three
examples are briefly described here. Koepp studied SARS2-CoV-2 transmission, and related
morbidity and mortality, in long-term care facilities for people with chronic epilepsy and co-
morbidities. The EBPU (Deighton, Edbrooke-Childs) developed two streams of dissemination
activity to respond to the mental health challenges posed to children and families during the
pandemic, including emerging evidence briefings (lay summaries synthesising the research
literature emerging about the impact of Coronavirus on children and young people’s mental health)
and Research bites, short summaries of research knowledge around key themes relevant to
challenges that young people have been facing during the pandemic (e.g., on supporting pupil
mental health and wellbeing during the return to school). These briefings were downloaded over
2500 times between April and June 2020. Video summaries with lead authors were produced to
enhance engagement and accessibility. Ward and Leff developed N-ROL (Neuro-Rehabilitation
OnLine) as a rapid response to the reduction of in- and out-patient therapy available to patients

                                                                                               Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with acute brain injury (e.g., stroke). This charity-funded programme delivered over 2000 patient-
sessions. A patient who was treated via N-ROL was featured on the BBC News at Ten.

4.7 Contribution to society via engagement with wider audiences
Staff in UoA4 (85% in total) have developed relationships with many research users, beneficiaries
or audiences outside the university sector, including policy makers, patient groups, local
communities, healthcare practitioners, museums, schools, and the media. These activities have
included policy development, media coverage, exhibitions, open days, public lectures, and student
mentoring/work placements.

4.7.1 Working with policy makers. We explicitly encourage UoA4 staff to contribute their research
and expertise to a wide range of policy areas that have led to engagement with national and
international policy-making bodies. For instance, Livingston led the Lancet Commission on
Dementia Prevention and Care, which identified a possible 33% reduction in dementia incidence
via modifiable factors such as exercise and improved hearing, leading to changes in Public Health
England’s middle age dementia check. Cox was appointed a Special Advisor to the Department of
Culture, Media and Sport’s select committee inquiry into Immersive and Addictive Technologies.
         McCrory leads the UKRI Adolescence, Mental Health and the Developing Mind
programme and serves as Co-Director of the UK Trauma Council, comprising national leaders in
the first UK-wide platform enabling collaboration between individuals and organisations with
expertise in childhood trauma producing educational materials and policy recommendations in
response to national emergencies such as the pandemic and terrorism. McCrory and Fonagy are
members of the Expert Group on Early Intervention to guide the charitable activities of HRH the
Duchess of Cambridge. Fonagy is Senior National Clinical Advisor for Mental Health in Children
and Young People at NHS England/Improvement, and in this capacity frequently advises the
Secretary of State for Health, Ministers of State (both Education and Health), and has given
evidence to several Select Committees (Health and Science & Technology). Collinge has served
on Government advisory committees on prion disease at a national and international level.
         UoA4 staff are also encouraged to contribute to national health policy through NICE
committees and clinical guideline groups. Research carried out in UoA4 has made major
contributions to a diverse range of NICE guidelines including treatments for social work
interventions (Lloyd-Evans), hearing loss (Costafreda), eating disorders (Serpell), psychosis
(Johnson), stroke (Werring), headache (Matharu), attachment (Fearon), psychosis treatment and
rehabilitation (Killapsy, Osborn), and mentalization based therapy (Fonagy). In addition, staff
have chaired or been members of guideline committees, including for brain tumours (Brandner),
MS (Ciccarelli), glaucoma (Foster), MND (Bloch), and medicinal cannabis (Pilling). Thompson
led the International Panel on Diagnosis of Multiple Sclerosis which recommended new diagnostic
criteria that are used worldwide. Pilling received a Distinguished Contribution to NICE Award.
         FBS hosts three national research policy units led by: Johnson, Director, NIHR Mental
Health Policy Research Unit; Michie, Co-Director, NIHR Behavioural Science Policy Research
Unit; and Pilling, Director, UCL Centre for Outcomes Research and Effectiveness.

4.7.2 Engagement with practitioners. We provide CPD for clinicians and researchers involved in
neuroscience-associated healthcare, capitalizing on the opportunities that this presents to train
specific groups to exploit our research. DCAL, for example, offers a suite of online deaf awareness
courses targeting health professionals to help better understand the communication needs of
D/deaf and hard of hearing patients. These are accredited for CPD by professional bodies
including the Royal Colleges of Nursing, Physicians and General Practitioners. Our evidence-
based competences for delivering behavioural support in the English Stop Smoking Services
(Michie) have led to assessment, certification and training of 4,000 practitioners in England.
        To support and encourage such engagement, we provide resources such as CPD@PaLS,
a unit within P&LS that provides focused support for an extensive programme of courses
predominantly for speech and language therapists, teachers and psychologists, seeking either to
acquire specific skills or to update their knowledge. The topics covered relate to both adults and
children with speech and language difficulties, and reflect the wide range of our research interests,
including adult and paediatric dysphagia, dyspraxia, CAMHS, behavioural issues, supervision,
counselling, language disorders and British Sign Language.

                                                                                             Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       UoA staff working with the AFNCCF (Fonagy, Edbrooke-Childs, McCrory, Midgley)
provide advanced training for ~11,000 professionals who work with young people each year. This
includes over 30 different courses covering a wide range of topics from mentalization to evaluation
methods, as well as the £8M DfE train-the-trainer programme of Return to Wellbeing to English
schools to provide mental health awareness training to teachers as children returned from
lockdown in September 2020.
       Our approach deliberately encourages key individuals to seek out entirely new audiences
that may benefit from our research. For example, Walsh applied principles of cognitive
neuroscience to the challenges faced by sporting elites as a special advisor to the English Institute
of Sport and Cognition Advisor to the GSK Human Performance Laboratory, a facility built to
examine and promote elite performance.

4.7.3 Working with schools and education professionals. Our research on brain plasticity, cognitive
enhancement and the determinants of common problems such as conduct disorder, developmental
language disorder, dyslexia and dyscalculia has direct relevance to teachers in mainstream and
specialist schools. UoA4 staff (e.g., Rees, Dunsmuir) have been actively engaged in bidirectional
knowledge transfer with local authority services, schools and their staff (including the UCL
Academy) through delivery of training and participation in curriculum design and development.
Staff participate more widely by giving talks in schools and at school conferences. We have also
made commissioned contributions to the review of the critical incident response to the Grenfell
Tower fire by professionals working in schools (Dunsmuir, Hayes) and an evaluation of resources
for schools developed with the charity Changing Faces to address stereotyping of children and
young people with visible facial differences (Dunsmuir). The AFNCCF Schools in Mind information
network has a membership of over 19,000 teachers and the Mentally Healthy Schools resource
website had >100K users during the summer of 2020 (Deighton, Edbrooke-Childs).
        The SCALES Study (Norbury) has provided data on the prevalence and persistence of
language and learning difficulties from school entry, involving over 180 schools. These data have
been quoted in parliamentary debate and cited in a joint report by the National Literacy Trust and
the All Parliamentary Party Group on Literacy, outlining education policy initiatives to support
development of reading and writing.

4.7.4 Public engagement and the media. In response to the significant interest in our research
among both patients and the public, we have worked hard to develop and refine an approach
ensuring the effective communication of new findings to those audiences. To that end, we work
proactively both with UCL Media Relations and the press offices of funding organisations (e.g.,
MRC, WT) to ensure that publication of important findings is linked to press releases and media
contacts.
         We record the extensive media coverage of UoA4 research in our institutional information
systems. Staff appear weekly in print and broadcast media, and during the census period have
been interviewed or featured on every major news and current affairs programme, among them R4
Today, BBC News 24, Sky News, Channel 4 News, BBC Newsnight, CNN, Al Jazeera, and all
major print media (e.g., Guardian, Independent, Times, Telegraph, NY Times, Reuters, Time, Wall
Street Journal).
         Scott (Impact Case Study) delivered the Royal Institution Christmas Lectures (2017) and
received a CBE for services to neuroscience. HE-BCI data for 2018/19 record that 272 days of
staff time were allocated to 71 public engagement events with a combined audience of >10,000
people. These activities have helped us secure new funding specifically to engage external
audiences (e.g., WT public engagement awards: Patani, £108K for MND; Ward, £75K for stroke).
We extensively work with patient populations to solicit their input and help focus our research
questions (Nachev, Price, Ward) and develop novel therapeutic interventions (Crinion, Lambert,
Leff, Weil). We organise public-facing events such as interactive exhibits at the Science Museum
and their Lates program (J. A. Greenwood, Richardson, Vigliocco, Vinson), academic-corporate
conferences to build bridges with industry (Devlin), and public talks and activities such as
Nudgestock, Pint of Science, and I’m a Scientist Get Me Out of Here (McGettigan, Rodd,
Skipper). We deliberately coordinate our external engagement activity around major (inter)national
events such as the annual Dana Brain Awareness week.


                                                                                             Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        We seek to reach diverse audiences by regularly presenting major exhibits at the Royal
Society Summer Science Exhibition (Barnes, Scott), and by presenting our research every year
for general audiences at the major scientific festivals including the Cheltenham Science Festival,
Cambridge Festival of Ideas (Sommerlad) and Hay Festival of Literature, as well as for specialist
audiences (e.g., BNA Christmas Symposium: Chait) and by giving TED talks (Haggard, Scott,
Sharot, Walsh) that have attracted over 4M viewers. We encourage staff to use social media to
engage with the public, and both individual staff and Institutes within UoA4 are highly active on
Twitter, Instagram and LinkedIn.

4.8 Indicators of influence and recognition
51% of staff have been awarded scholarly fellowships or related awards, with specific fellowships
highlighted in §3.2. Many major honours/prizes have been awarded to staff at all career levels,
including: CBE (Scott); Brain Prize (Hardy, de Strooper, Dolan); Fellowships of the Royal Society
(Behrens, N. Burgess, Kullmann, Maguire, Price, Rothman) and British Academy (Carston,
Lavie); Academy of Medical Sciences (Brownstone, Dick, Greensmith, Hanna, Reilly);
Champalimaud Vision Award (Bainbridge); GG2 Outstanding Achievement in Medicine
(Cordeiro); Philip Leverhulme Prize (Raihani, Roiser); Royal Society Rosalind Franklin Award
(Viding); Pfizer Research Prize (Bach); British Psychological Society Spearman Medal (Fleming);
Royal College of Physicians Baly Medal (Kullmann); European Psychiatric Association Pascale-
Boyle Prize (Killaspy); Experimental Psychology Society Prize (Norbury); Multiple Sclerosis
Research Prize (Smith); Society for the Neurobiology of Language Early Career Prize
(McGettigan); British Psychological Society Public Engagement and Media Award (Bell); Leslie
Gehry Benner Prize for Innovation in Science (Tabrizi); Weston Brain Institute International
Outstanding Achievement Award (Fox); Consortium of MS Centres Lifetime Achievement Award,
Dystel Prize, Sobek Foundation award (Thompson); Medical Research Foundation Emerging
Leaders Prize (Pingault); Royal College of Physicians Graham Bull Prize (Patani).




                                                                                           Page 38
