Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London South Bank University

 Unit of Assessment: 20 - Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 Unit of Assessment (UoA) 20 is situated in the School of Law and Social Sciences (LSS), the
 Centre for Social Justice and Global Responsibility (CSJGR) and the LSS research groups. The
 School, CSJGR and the research groups (collectively LSS Research) are united by their
 commitment to prioritise research that recognises the intersections between equality, diversity
 and inclusion, particularly with regards to ‘real-world’ problems pertaining to social justice and
 global responsibility. Taken together LSS Research makes up UoA 20, which represents a
 thriving research community for staff and post-graduate research (PGR) students within the
 School. The overarching research strategy is to foster a vibrant, inclusive and sustainable
 research environment.

 This research strategy is achieved through five key objectives:

    1. To implement a five-year plan for future development and sustainability
    2. To contribute to social policy debates that promote social justice, equality, diversity and
       inclusion and to work with individuals, organisations and communities in the UK, and
       around the world that engage with these issues
    3. To foster new research by enabling and supporting staff to bid for and win external
       research grant funding
    4. To provide early career researchers (ECRs), research active colleagues and PGR
       students with the skills and support required to produce internationally excellent and
       impactful research
    5. To draw together an inclusive group of researchers and PGR students through the
       creation of research clusters linked to social justice, social policy and global responsibility

 1.2 Context

 Following REF2014 LSBU underwent a restructuring process resulting in the establishment of
 seven new Schools, in order to align with LSBU’s research priorities. This included, in 2015, the
 establishment of LSS. As part of the restructuring, the university created a new Research,
 Enterprise and Innovation (REI) department. The research strategy implemented by LSBU (see
 LSBU Environment Statement) called for the establishment of new research centres and groups
 within Schools, supported by £1.8m per annum of QR funding. In response, the new Dean of
 LSS, Prof Craig Barker and the newly appointed Director of Research (DoR), Prof Caitríona
 Beaumont undertook a review of the research landscape within LSS. This was underpinned by:
 (a) a commitment to create a more inclusive research environment within LSS with all staff given
 the opportunity to engage in research activities including ‘latent’ researchers (LRs) who had
 prioritised teaching over their research activities; (b) identifying and supporting the research
 interests/strengths of a wider group of researchers and PGR students in LSS, going beyond the
 research themes of the Weeks Centre for Social and Policy Studies, situated within the former
 Faculty of Arts and Human Sciences; and (c) awareness that research expertise within LSS had
 changed (linked to staff departures, new undergraduate courses and new appointments: see
 People).

 The outcome of the review process was the establishment in 2017 of a new research centre, the
 CSJGR. The CSJGR was designed to function as a supporting structure, overseeing targeted
 funding support, skills and knowledge development, and providing research leadership, to
 ensure the successful development of six new research groups (with a seventh added in 2018).
 Together the research groups represent a constellation of expertise in championing inclusivity
 and challenging social inequality. This is achieved through the adoption of an intersectional

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approach that recognises the connections between race, gender, class, age, sexuality and
 disability when it comes to social inequality.

 Membership of the CSJGR is open to all LSS research active staff, with core members identified
 as colleagues who have significant responsibility for research (SRR). The research activities and
 outputs of SRR tagged staff, comprising 21.1 FTE academics, align with UoA 20 and are
 situated within the CSJGR and across the research groups.

 1.3 Research Strategy

 The research strategy, fully aligned with the University’s Strategic Plan, has been developed
 during a period of transition and transformative change at LSBU and in LSS. The strategy’s
 overarching aim is to create an invigorated, dynamic and sustainable research environment for
 LSS Research. The success of this strategy is achieved through the implementation of the five
 key objectives listed in section 1.1.

 1.3.1 An inclusive research environment

 The CSJGR (under the Acting Head: Barker 2017-2019, Head: Prof Michele Moore (appointed
 September 2019) and with the oversight of the DoR, Beaumont) identified key areas of research
 activity within the School. Working in consultation with experienced researchers and ECRs new
 research clusters were identified and seven research groups were established. Core
 membership of the groups is made up of SRR/LSS/LSBU staff. Associate members represent
 external researchers and/or practitioners who contribute to the development and dissemination
 of ideas within the groups.

 Group leads are responsible for the strategic use of their group’s annual budget to support the
 group’s development. Annual reviews of group activity are submitted to the DoR who, with the
 Head of CSJGR and REI, confirm allocation of research funding for the following academic year.
 The REF2014 objective to ‘encourage new specialisms’ within the School and UoA has been
 achieved via these new research groups, in addition to the targeted recruitment of new staff and
 the effective progression of staff (see People).

 The groups are:

       Race, Gender and Sexualities
       Space and Place
       Crime and Justice
       Education for Social Justice
       Critical Autism/Disability Studies
       Sustainability: Policy, Practice and Pedagogy
       Law and Access to Justice

 The creation of the groups has successfully drawn together a wider and more inclusive
 community of researchers from across LSS. UoA 20 membership of 21.1 FTE represents a 42%
 increase in research active staff in comparison to REF2014, when 14.9 FTE staff were
 submitted.

 In keeping with the objective for a more inclusive research environment, group leads represent a
 mix of experienced researchers, ECRs, and LRs. Co-leadership is encouraged so that senior
 researchers can work with and mentor junior colleagues in their leadership roles. This approach
 is crucial for succession planning to safeguard a sustainable research environment. Of the 13
 group co-leads, 5 are ECRs.

 The research activities and outputs of UoA 20 members play a key role in shaping and
 developing the research themes of each group and the CSJGR. Groups convene annual
 seminar series, workshops and conferences (in excess of 100 during the current REF period)

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that build on their research activities and emphasise the intersections between equality,
 diversity, inclusion and social justice. In addition, the groups act as dynamic collectives where
 skills, knowledge and ideas are shared between members. This is achieved through regular
 group research away days, writing retreats and workshops. Over the REF period SRR tagged
 staff presented 284 papers at national and international conferences and published 173
 research outputs.

  Race, Gender and Sexuality Research Group (RGS)
 Group Leads: Dr Shaminder Takhar and Dr Clara Eroukhmanoff (ECR).
 Core Members (CM): 22, PGRs: 5, Associate Members (AM): 10.
 UoA 20 members: Takhar, Eroukhmanoff, Beaumont, Dr Lisa Pine, Dr Elian Weizman (ECR),
 Dr Jaya Gajparia (ECR), Dr Matthew Bond (LR), Dr Katie Donington (ECR), Dr Daniela Lai
 (ECR) (left 2020) and Dr Elaine Bauer (left 2018, Visiting Fellow).

 A central aim of the group is to locate the different experiences of individuals and groups in
 society, past and present, based on their race, gender, religion and/or sexual orientation and to
 provide insights and solutions into how inequalities, based on these characteristics, can be
 mitigated. The group is multidisciplinary with a mix of historians, sociologists and international
 relations scholars.

 Takhar’s research on South Asian women and their political agency raises important
 methodological questions regarding the significance of emotions when researching marginalised
 groups. Her work highlights the dangers of researcher emotion casting subjects as victims and
 thereby undermining the agency that is evident within this community of women. Takhar’s work
 also examines the links between sexuality, inequality, human rights and sustainability. Gajparia
 shares this research interest, with regards to women in Mumbai, India, and how they are able to
 perform agency over their daily lives, despite experiencing poverty and discrimination. Bauer
 works on the experiences of mixed and migrant families in the UK. Her study of children as
 language brokers in migrant families highlights how interpersonal dynamics; gender roles and
 power relations can lead to discrimination among marginalised families. Donington is a historian
 of race and the legacy of slavery. Her 2020 book represents extensive and highly original
 historical research based on an illustrative case of how family, economic, social and political
 structures interacted in the context of historical slavery in the UK. The historical analysis
 presented here speaks clearly and explicitly to issues of concern today around the legacy of
 empire and the UK’s commercial, political and cultural heritage underpinned by the transatlantic
 slave trade.

 Gender roles, identity and female experience are central to the work of Beaumont, Pine and
 Bond. Beaumont writes extensively on the history of female activism, equality and citizenship
 rights in twentieth century Britain and Ireland. Through her work, she has challenged the use of
 the ‘wave’ metaphor to trace the trajectory of the women’s movement. Instead, she highlights the
 significance of protest and activism across the century linked to gender equality among less
 well-known women’s groups, including the YWCA and the Mothers’ Union. Pine is an
 acknowledged historian and expert on the history of Germany, genocide and the Holocaust. In
 recent years, her work has focused on the gendered experience of Holocaust survivors, family
 life, education and religion in Nazi Germany. Bond works on the ‘feminisation of elites’ and the
 impact that the inclusion of women in business and political elites has on changing power
 structures within contemporary society. His new project is an in-depth statistical analysis of the
 British Aristocracy in terms of wealth, status and gender.

 As International Relations (IR) scholars, Eroukmanoff, Weizman and Lai are interested in the
 concept of race and identity in international relations, with a particular focus on the intersections
 between racism, religion, colonialism, war and national identity. Eroukmanoff is emerging as a
 leading scholar in her field. In generating new insights into explicit and indirect strategies of
 securitization of Islam and Muslim communities in the US and Western Europe, and adopting
 innovative methodologies her work is significant in exposing and interrogating indirect racism in
 contemporary western societies. Weizman’s research focuses on legal practice, education and

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 rights based activism in Israel/Palestine, through the lens of colonialism/anti-colonialism and the
 application of Gramscian theory. Weizman currently co-ordinates the international Decolonising
 Knowledge Production in Settler Colonial States workshop and research laboratory. Lai is an
 emerging expert on post-conflict societies with a particular focus on socioeconomic justice and
 reconciliation in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Her 2020 book increases understandings that social
 discontent in post-war transitional national contexts requires forms of analysis that go beyond
 those usually deployed, thereby making an original contribution to the field of IR.

 RGS convenes an annual seminar series with papers presented by group members, including
 PGR students, as well as external speakers. These seminars encourage the presentation of
 work in progress, providing a supportive space for peer feedback and researcher development.
 Beaumont, Pine, Weizman, Gajparia, Bond, Donington, Lai, Eroukhmanoff and Takhar
 have all presented their work in this forum. PGR students are encouraged to present their work,
 including Sarah Merton, on the Body Positive Movement and its links to feminism and social
 movement activism (6/5/20). Other papers have included Mehrdad Alipour, Visiting Researcher
 (13/2/19) on ‘Intersex and Transexual People, Gender Conforming Surgery, Medical Treatment,
 and Illness: A Close Examination of Four Islamic Fatwās’ and Prof Gary Younge (The Guardian
 and University of Manchester), Visiting Professor, on ‘Social Justice: An Evening with Gary
 Younge and Alex Vitale’ (26/11/18).

 The intersectional approach of the group is evident from its 2018 Conference ‘1918-2018: 100
 years of the women’s vote in Britain: How far have we come?’ (16/6/18). This included as a
 major strand the experiences of women of colour in Britain in relation to citizenship rights,
 equality and activism.

  Space and Place Research Group (SP)
 Group Leads: Dr Sophie Elsmore (ECR) and Dr Sam Johnson-Schlee (ECR), supported by Dr
 Philip Pinch.
 CM: 10, PGRs: 4.
 UoA 20 members: Johnson-Schlee, Pinch, Elsmore and Dr Sara Manalsuren (ECR).

 SP is an emerging multidisciplinary group bringing together researchers interested in developing
 critical understandings of space and place in relation to environment, inequalities and social
 justice. The group includes academics and PGR students from the disciplines of human
 geography, history, housing and planning. Pinch has published findings from his European
 Observation Network for Territorial Development and Cohesion (ESPON) funded research
 project (2013) ‘Key Indicators for Territorial Cohesion and Spatial Planning’ (Project 6430). In
 addition, his research includes a study of urban planning policy with regards to the River
 Thames and a study of the Second World War utility furniture scheme, unpacking the dynamics
 involved in the making and remaking of moralities across space through responses to the
 bombed city. Johnson-Schlee draws on a range of disciplines, including art critique, history and
 human geography to challenge notions of order and re-construction in post-war Britain. His work
 also analyses the role of conspiracy theory in the political speech of the urban marginalised and
 displaced. Elsmore’s research, based on original empirical work and theoretically informed
 analysis provides important insights into the politics of planning and development in urban areas.
 Manalsuren’s work focuses on Mongolian business practices and the impact of local traditions
 on management structures.

 The SP group supports members through research away days and writing retreats including a
 ‘Shut up and Write’ workshop (July 2018). In May 2018, the group organised a one-day
 symposium ‘Bombsite/Building Site: A symposium about post war destruction of urban cultures’.
 This event led to the publication of new outputs by Pinch and Johnson-Schlee in a 2020
 special issue of London Journal.

  Crime and Justice Research Group (CJG)
 Group Lead: Dr Christine Magill (LR)
 CM: 10, AM: 4.

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA 20 members: Dr Federica Rossi and Dr Charlotte Clements (ECR) with Dr Andrew
 Whittaker and Dr Tirion Havard (LSBU School of Health and Social Care).

 This multidisciplinary group brings together academics from across LSBU and, in particular,
 creates opportunities for collaborative work with colleagues in the School of Health and Social
 Care (Social Work). Members’ research interests include Violence Against Women and Girls
 (VAWG), youth, policing, terrorism, hate crime and criminalisation of dissent. The group sits at
 the intersection between social justice and criminal justice.

 The investigative work of members Whittaker and Havard, into street gangs and youth violence,
 is an impact case study for UoA 20. This research has led to a greater understanding of the
 threat of violence against children and young people from ‘at risk’ communities in England and
 Australia. Historian Clements focuses on the role of youth clubs and youth workers in the mid to
 late twentieth-century Britain in supporting young people. Criminologist Rossi is interested in the
 legacies of political violence in Italy, contested debates about memory and memorialisation and
 the study of terrorism, counter-terrorism and victims’ movements.

 CJG convenes a variety of internal and external events reflecting the research interests of
 members including a series of symposiums on different forms of VAWG such as the ‘Coercive
 Control: Contextualising the Invisible’ symposium (December 2019). The group’s annual seminar
 series showcases the work of group members including that of Rossi, Clements and Whittaker
 and Havard. Seminar papers have featured topics including ‘Working with Violent Women’,
 ‘Race and Marginalisation in Contemporary Youth Justice’ and ‘Gangs in Waltham Forest’. CJG
 co-organised an event with LSBU Equinet (network for BAME staff) and RGS with Prof Alex
 Vitale, CJG Visiting Prof (Brooklyn College, New York) and Prof Gary Younge to discuss social
 justice and policing (26/11/18). Prof Vitale is also a regular contributor to the CJG seminar
 series. In 2020 group members Havard and Magill with Gajparia, published an article in
 Wonkhe entitled ‘Covid-19, domestic abuse and what universities can do for students’.

  Education for Social Justice Research Group (ED4SJ)
 Group Leads: Dr Martha Shaw (ECR) and Dr Helen Young
 CM: 17, PGRs: 16, AM: 14
 UoA 20 members: Shaw, Prof Nicki Martin and Moore

 The research themes of ED4SJ and Critical Autism/Disability Studies are interwoven
 illustrating the interconnections between inclusive education, disability and social justice. As a
 result, the research interests of Martin and Moore cut across both groups. ED4SJ focuses on
 research about inclusive education in its broadest sense, across age range and diverse settings.
 In 2019, Richmond and Hillcroft Adult and Community College awarded a tender to the group to
 carry out an evaluation of their H2020 Beyond Education Programme. This work, led by Shaw,
 involved an analysis of the methodology and delivery of this education programme, aimed at
 engaging women ‘furthest from education’. The final report was submitted to the National
 Lottery’s Women’s and Girls Initiative. This commission is closely linked to the group’s
 commitment to education for social justice and research informed practice. Shaw’s research and
 publications (in collaboration with Prof Adam Dinham, Goldsmiths University) assesses the
 importance of religious education and world-view literacy in schools and how this links with faith-
 related social policy.

 Since 2017, ED4SJ has convened an annual conference at LSBU, Education Across the Divide,
 to shine a light on particular aspects of inclusive practice in education. Conference themes have
 included giving voice to the marginalised within education policy (2020) and developing
 innovative creative approaches to inclusive education (2019). Throughout the academic year
 ED4SJ organises regular workshops and seminars, including lunchtime ‘lightening’ talks, where
 work in progress for group members is shared. Visiting Professors and Fellows within ED4SJ
 include Visiting Prof Chris Barnham, Lewisham Councillor, and Visiting Fellow Barbara Peacock,
 former Director of Children and Adult Services for Medway.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Critical Autism and Disability Research Group (CADS)
 Group Leads: Martin and Fabienne Benoist (LR)
 CM: 13, PGRs: 7, AM: 18
 UoA 20 members: Martin and Moore

 CADS brings together researchers and PGR students working in the related fields of autism and
 disability studies. The group is closely aligned with and supports post-graduate taught provision
 in LSS, namely the MA Education Autism and MA Education Special Educational Needs and
 Disability. CADS works in collaboration with the Participatory Autism Research Collective
 (PARC). Martin, an acknowledged national and international expert in autism and disability
 research, co-founded PARC to promote the importance of participatory research in this field. Her
 work forms the basis of a UoA 20 impact case study. She has been the principal investigator on
 a range of funded projects, for example the Cygnet Mentoring Research Autism Project (2014-
 2016) (Project 6485), the Perseid School: Autistic Children (Sensory Schools Project) (2016)
 (Project 6585), John and Lorna Wing Foundation (Project 6683) (2019-2021). Moore is editor
 of the international disability studies journal Disability and Society, providing a focus for debate
 about issues including human rights, discrimination, policy and practices. Her work contributes to
 debates around inclusive practice with regards to disabled children in education, transgender
 young people and disabled adult service users. Moore adopts a participatory methodology
 collaborating with disabled people, the academy and service users, in order to influence and
 recommend policy changes in these areas.

 CADS hosts monthly seminars held in conjunction with PARC. The group also holds an annual
 Critical Autism Studies Conference at LSBU, featuring autistic academics and speakers, with
 contributions from Martin. In 2019 CADS convened the Autism and Girls Conference (in
 collaboration with Lambeth Teaching Schools Alliance) and the Autism in the BAME Community
 Conference (in collaboration with Autism Voice).

  Sustainability: Policy, Practice and Pedagogy Research Group (SPR)
 Group Leads: Gajparia (ECR) and Dr Antonia Noussia (LR)
 CM: 11, PGRs: 4, AM: 16.
 UoA 20 members: Gajparia and Prof Gaim Kibreab.

 The SPR group has close links with the School’s MSc Education for Sustainability and its
 research interests are based on the principles of social and environmental justice. The group
 provides opportunities for people and organisations to share new insights and adopts the United
 Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) as a framework for engaging in research
 linked to challenging global inequalities, particularly concerning gender, race, migration and
 poverty. Gajparia’s work on gender, agency and poverty in India reflects the research themes of
 the group. These themes underpin the work of Kibreab, internationally renowned for his work on
 forced migration, refugees and environmentally induced population displacement. His 2017 book
 provides an original and in-depth critical analysis of the Eritrean National Service and its impact
 on post-Liberation Eretria. Kibreab’s research on influencing immigration policy in the UK and
 Europe about Eritrean refugees is an impact case study for UoA 20.

 The SPR group works closely with external partners including the Schumacher Institute for
 Sustainable Futures, the University of the West Indies, the Refugee Forum and the European
 Regional Centre of Expertise on Education for Sustainable Development (RCE) network. Group
 members take part in writing retreats and research away days and hold events including The
 USA and the Sustainable Development Goals (2018) and the Sustainability and Climate Action
 Conference (2020). SPR is represented on the LSBU Sustainability Steering Group and
 Gajparia hosts the Sustainability Research Pod (podcast).

  Law and Access to Justice Research Group (LAJ)
 Group Leads: Chris Shepard (LR) and Dr Emmanoula Mylonaki
 CM: 5.
 UoA 20 members: Mylonaki, Barker, John Koo (LR) and Dr Cherry James (ECR)

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The LAJ was established in 2018 to foster research activities among Law staff, the majority of
 whom are experienced teachers new to research. The group is working to support colleagues to
 theorise and conceptualise the Law Division’s long-standing commitment to clinical legal
 education and access to justice. In September 2020 the School appointed six new colleagues
 into the Law Division, five of whom are ECRs, with a view to supporting and expanding the work
 of LAJ, which has the potential to allow LSS to contribute into UoA 18 in a future REF.

 Current research within the group is focussed on how domestic, European and international law
 regulates questions of social responsibility and access to justice. In the European context,
 James and Koo examine issues of temporary protection and the impact of Brexit on student
 mobility. In her 2019 book James presents a highly original study of the impact and role of
 ERASMUS programmes on UK HE and on the concept of European citizenship and identity. In
 doing so, her work informs thinking and development in the area of European social policy and
 understanding of citizenship issues. Koo takes an innovative and fresh approach to the EU’s
 responses to mass migration in 2015 and the asylum crises. Mylonaki and Barker focus on
 international law. Mylonaki argues that criminological methods and approaches can and should
 be applied to the study of international crimes. Barker is a leading international expert on issues
 relating to diplomatic law and diplomatic immunity. His research highlights the relationship
 between immunities, international crimes and violations of human rights as well as “the
 responsibility to protect”. He is a senior research fellow with the Global Citizen Forum and a
 consultant with the UN Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR).

 The group has organised a number of events, including in June 2019, a seminar to celebrate the
 launch of James’s book featuring guest speakers Prof Michael Dougan, University of Liverpool
 and Prof Elaine Fahey, City University. The 2017-2019 INSPIRED EU research funding awarded
 to James (Project 4065) resulted in the creation of a MOOC on EU policy relating to cross
 border activities linked to criminal conduct and irregular migration.

 1.3.2 Skills Training and Support for Researchers

 To foster this vibrant, sustainable and inclusive research environment for LSS Research,
 aligned to UoA 20, the DoR implemented a programme of research skills support. In 2016 the
 Being Research Active in LSS was launched and subsequently funded by the CSJGR. This
 resulted in a series of initiatives to provide researchers at all career stages with the tools
 required to engage in high quality research activities. A Virtual Learning Environment (VLE)
 Moodle site ‘LSS Research’ provides a virtual hub where all LSS staff can access news,
 information and support for their research activities and keep up to date with the activities of the
 CSJGR and research groups. This site enables staff and PGR students to share their research
 via the ‘Research Community Blog’. Information on funding opportunities, funding bodies and
 advice on how to write funding bids is included on the site alongside a Writing High Quality
 Outputs Toolkit providing researchers with detailed guidance on how to develop their own
 research and writing.

 In addition to this virtual support, the CSJGR hosts annual Research Away Days (2017-2020) to
 bring together researchers from across the research groups to share ideas, knowledge and
 skills. Topics discussed, featuring internal and external speakers, include advice on creating
 impact, research grant bidding, LSBU Open Access Policy and building researcher profile and
 networks via social media. The Being Research Active in LSS initiative provides its own annual
 programme of workshops around researcher skills. Furthermore, individual funding awards
 enable UoA 20 members, PGR students and other research active staff in LSS to develop and
 expand their research activities (see People). Workshops include ‘How to win research bids’
 (May 2017), ‘Research mentoring, what works?’ (March 2018), ‘How to write good abstracts,
 introductions and conclusions’ (May 2019). Conference attendance and field trips for staff and
 PGR students is supported by the CSJGR as well as by an annual Divisional conference
 allowance of £500.


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to the mentoring support provided to ECRs and LRs within LSS Research, all UoA
 20 members and research active staff submit an annual three-year research rolling plan setting
 out their research achievements and plans for the following three years. Meetings are held with
 either the DoR or the Head of CSJGR to discuss the plan and advice and guidance is shared
 with colleagues. There is 100% take up of this mentoring scheme. Moreover, ECRs and LRs are
 supported in their work through a peer review process for research outputs and research funding
 bids. Here a panel of experienced academics provides feedback (using a detailed form) to
 colleagues in order to assist with the submission of high-quality work and funding bids.

 PGR students are well supported through skills and training provided by the London Doctoral
 Academy (LDA) (see LSBU Environment Statement). In addition, LSS PGR students (PhDs and
 EdDs) are encouraged by their supervisors to join one of the research groups. The Directors of
 PGR Programmes in LSS, Martin (EdD) and Young (PhD) convene an annual programme of
 PGR Research Labs, which includes skills training, for example on qualitative and quantitative
 research methods, writing literature reviews and research ethics guidance. Here PGR students
 have the opportunity to present work in progress. PGR students are enrolled on the ‘LSS
 Research’ Moodle site where they access all the information available to staff, post blogs and
 keep up to date with information about their programmes, ethics guidelines, research skills, and
 research news.

 1.3.3 Support for research via external research grant applications

 The departure of experienced researchers with strong track records of winning external funding
 from the Weeks Centre (see People) and the subsequent closure of the Centre in 2017 resulted
 in a drop in external research income (see Income) within the School. This situation created a
 gap with regards to the skills, knowledge and track record required for successful external
 research funding applications. To address this in 2017 the CSJGR invested in the services of
 the consultancy group, GrantCraft, to work with the Centre, research groups and individuals to
 increase the number of research grant applications submitted. In 2017 GrantCraft ran a series of
 workshops with individual research groups and provided staff, via the ‘LSS Research’ Moodle
 site, with a ‘Project Development Workshop Booklet’. Since 2017 GrantCraft has provided
 individual and on-going support packages to UoA 20 members Beaumont, Moore, Donington,
 Shaw, Takhar, Bond, Gajparia, Clements, Lai, Eroukmanoff, Elsmore and Johnson-Schlee.
 Support has also been provided to LR Magill. GrantCraft packages provide tailored one to one
 support to staff around the drafting of external research funding bids, up to the point of
 submission. To further develop and support external grant bidding activity GrantCraft were
 commissioned to undertake a research portfolio mapping exercise in 2019 to identify strengths
 and opportunities for external funding within LSS. This provided individual staff with detailed
 guidance on the types of funders most appropriate for specific career stage, track record and
 research expertise. This targeted support has contributed to an increase in the submission of
 research grant applications from two in 2015 to an average of ten per year, between 2016 and
 2020. This is in addition to the external grant income won during the REF period (see Income).

 1.3.4 Impact Strategy

 In accordance with the University’s strategy to engage in research linked to ‘real-world’ impact
 that yields societal benefits, research active staff in LSS Research are encouraged and
 supported to situate research impact at the centre of their research activities. Training has been
 provided on research impact by REI at CSJGR Research Away Days (2017/2018), and via
 Being Research Active in LSS workshops. In October 2018 the CSJGR sponsored a workshop
 presented by the academic impact consultancy Bulletin on ‘Advanced Research Impact’.
 Beaumont won a place on the AHRC/Institute of Government ‘Engaging with Government’
 workshop in 2020 and is sharing the skills and knowledge gained with researchers in LSS,
 through workshops planned in 2021. The success of the LSS Research Impact Strategy is
 evidenced by the following achievements:



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Martin and Kibreab have contributed impact case studies for the REF2021 submission along
 with an additional case study by Whittaker, a member of the CJG group (see UoA 20 Impact
 Case Studies). Beyond these key case studies Takhar, as a member of the Fawcett Society
 Local Government Commission, contributed to its final report Does Local Government Work for
 Women? (2017), which made a number of key recommendations with regards to the issue of
 sexism and racism within local government. Beaumont has been cited in the Irish Dáil
 (parliament) Oireachtas Library & Research Service L&RS Note on Article 41.2 of the
 Constitution: Women in Home (26/6/18) in relation to the planned referendum to remove Article
 41.2 from the Irish Constitution. This issue is now being discussed in a Citizen’s Assembly.
 Beaumont’s work on the lived experiences of middle-aged and older women, in collaboration
 with the Mothers’ Union, resulted in the setting up of a working group with LSBU Human
 Resources (HR), Wellbeing and Equality Diversity and Inclusion (EDI), to devise a ‘Menopause
 at Work’ policy, to be launched in 2021.

 Barker has advised several governments on their diplomatic practice, particularly in relation to
 the appointment and training of Honorary Consuls, which is also the basis of his work with
 UNITAR. Moore leads consultative participatory human rights projects across the world to
 support children, their families and those who work with them. She is currently working in
 conjunction with the UN Development Programme (UNDP) and the Ministry of Labour and Social
 Protection of the Population of Azerbaijan, on the country’s first-ever National Action Plan on
 Suicide Prevention. She took part in a two-day round table to launch the initiative in November
 2019. Shaw’s work with Richmond and Hillcroft Adult and Community College to evaluate their
 H2020 Beyond Education Programme contributed to supporting the engagement of women
 ‘furthest from education’ (2020). James’s research on the impact and role of ERASMUS
 programmes on UK HE has informed thinking and development in the area of European social
 policy. Donington’s work is impactful with regards to decolonising the secondary school
 curriculum in England. She has led CPD sessions for teachers via the ‘Be Bold History’ network
 on the theme of ‘Bringing Slavery Home: Teaching Slavery Through Local History’ (2020), is an
 advisor to the Colonial Countryside Project (National Trust) and co-ordinates the Historical
 Association Fellowship for training of secondary school teachers in new approaches to the
 historiography and pedagogy of transatlantic slavery. Donington is regularly invited to comment
 in the media as an expert on the legacies of transatlantic slavery and controversies around
 public history debates, for example the removal of statues of former slave owners. Clements’s
 research on voluntary sector archives (Institute of Education/British Academy funded) has led to
 the establishment of the National Archives ‘Charity archives support and development plan’
 (2020), providing practical support to charities to invest in their archival management.

 1.3.5 Future Research Plans

       Continue to cultivate new research in LSS Research, which prioritises a ‘real-world’
        focus on issues pertaining to social policy and social justice. This will be achieved by
        supporting the current groups with a particular emphasis on increasing the number of
        SRR tagged staff members within each group through a new Keeping Research Active in
        LSS (replacing Being Research Active from 2021) initiative incorporating skills training,
        research support and mentoring, as well as relief from teaching.
       Increase the number of academics in LSS who have SRR by 50% by 2026.
       Building on the success of our undergraduate Law degrees, develop the work of LAJ
        with a view to submitting to both UoA 18 and 20 in a future REF.
       Provide further training and support for research active staff around external research
        funding to increase the number of external grant applications by 50% by 2026. This will
        include more one to one mentoring schemes/peer review for funding applications and
        cross group/UoA funding bids.
       Sustain existing partnerships with civil society organisations and stakeholder groups and
        increase this number by at least 5 by 2026.
       Increase the number of PGR students by 25% by 2026 through better alignment of
        EdD/PhD students with research expertise, via the research centre/groups.


                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       In addition to the 2 X PhD scholarships awarded by the CSJGR in January 2021, to
        increase investment in PGR scholarships with one attached to each research group by
        2026.
       Build supervisor capacity by extending the number of PGR supervisors by 50% by 2026
        through second supervisor roles, training and mentoring.
       Continue to prioritise effective dissemination by academic and professional publications,
        blogs, workshops, seminars and conferences. A new LSBU social justice themed blog
        site will launch in 2021 to showcase our research in this area.
       Contribute to shaping the LSBU corporate strategy around the UN SDGs, in alignment
        with the Corporate Strategy 2020-2025, in particular with regards to gender equality,
        wellbeing and reducing inequalities.

 2. People

 There have been considerable staff changes in LSS since 2014. Between 2014 and 2016 twelve
 key researchers in the Weeks Centre, including its Director, retired or left LSBU to take up senior
 research posts at other UK universities. The creation of the School in 2015 resulted in a new
 research leadership team made up of the Dean, Barker (appointed 2015, Acting Head CSJGR
 2017-19 & Joint UoA 20 Lead), the DoR, Beaumont (Joint UoA 20 Lead) and, since September
 2019, the Head of CSJGR, Moore (Joint UoA 20 Lead). Research group leads play a leadership
 role within their respective groups and come together with the School research leads to form the
 LSS Research Committee, which meets once every semester. Martin represents the School’s
 professoriate and leads on peer review and grant writing support and management.

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Since 2015 there has been a targeted appointment of ECRs to the School, linked to the
 development of new undergraduate degree programmes in history, human geography and IR.
 Moreover, recruitment is targeted to appoint active researchers working in these disciplines with
 a focus on social justice in a range of national and international contexts. Ten ECRs have been
 appointed during the assessment period: Clements, Donington, Elsmore, Eroukmanoff,
 Gajparia, Johnson-Schlee, Manalsuren, Shaw, Weizman and Lai. This brings the number of
 ECRs in UoA 20 to 11 (James) making up 50% of the total group. As part of the plan to further
 expand law based social justice research in the School, five additional ECR researchers were
 appointed in September 2020.

 ECRs are highly supported in terms of career development and skills attainment in line with
 LSBU’s commitment to the Concordat for Researcher Development and its receipt of the HR
 Excellence in Research Award. REI and the University’s Staff Development Unit provide a
 programme built around the Vitae Researcher Development Framework offering training and
 events for all research staff on a regular basis.

 LSS Research mentoring and research skills are delivered via the Being Research Active in LSS
 initiative, three-year research plans, and in research groups (see Research Strategy). Individual
 research awards funded from the QR budget and overseen by the DoR and CSJGR Head, further
 support ECRs and active researchers. Since 2017 an average of ten awards per year have been
 made for amounts ranging from £500 to £5,000. This funding is tailored to meet individual need.
 For example, Lai was awarded £1,500 to carry out fieldwork in Columbia, South America.
 Donington was awarded a top up £650 to attend a conference in New York, Bond awarded
 £5,000 to purchase data sets and Takhar £5,000 to employ a research assistant. This funding
 has enabled ECRs and research active colleagues to go on residential writing retreats (Elsmore,
 Johnson-Schlee, Takhar, Pine, Pinch and Gajparia). ECRs have benefited from customised
 support with grant writing (see Research Strategy). Since the introduction of the LSBU Sabbatical
 Awards in 2016 six members of UoA 20 have been awarded this competitive one semester
 sabbatical (Beaumont, Martin, Rossi, Donington) with Shaw and Eroukmanoff on sabbatical
 in 2020/21. This has enabled the production of an additional 20 outputs.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECRs have also been supported in career progression. Since 2016 Donington, Clements,
 Elsmore, Eroukmanoff, Johnson-Schlee, Lai and Manalsuren have been promoted from
 Lecturer to Senior Lecturer. Within the wider UoA 20 group Rossi has been promoted to Senior
 Lecturer, Shaw, Mylonaki, Pinch and Koo to Associate Professor and Beaumont and Martin to
 Professor. The successful recruitment, support and promotion of ECRs meets and exceeds the
 2014 objective to build ‘internal expertise through proactive support underpinned by
 effective promotion policies, together with the strategic appointment of new staff’.

 2.2 Research Students

 The LDA provides central support and skills training to PGR students with progress monitored
 centrally via the Research Board of Studies and the Haplo PGR management system (see LSBU
 Environment Statement). An annual summer school run by the LDA gives PGR students the
 opportunity to meet fellow students across LSBU, develop new skills and present their research.
 Within LSS the Directors of PGR Programmes oversee a rich and varied programme of seminars,
 workshops and skills training for PGR students (see Research Strategy). PGR students are
 invited to attend the Being Research Active in LSS workshops and seminars. Supervisors
 encourage students to join one or more of the research groups and all PGR students are members
 of the CSJGR. PGR students have access to dedicated study space in the School furnished with
 pcs, printers and laptops and with access to a kitchen.

 PGR students are normally assigned two supervisors with at least one supervisor having two plus
 completions. Second supervisors may be less experienced but are encouraged take up
 supervisory roles to expand capacity in this area and for career development, especially among
 ECRs. Mentoring and training is provided within the supervisory team and via LDA training and
 the Epigeum online training module. Of UoA 20 members, 15 are engaged in PGR supervision, 3
 of whom are ECRs. Between 2014 and 2020 UoA 20 members acted as external examiners for
 25 PhD/EdD examinations.

 On average, the number of new PGR students has increased from five per year in 2013-2015 to
 nine per year in 2015-2020. The PGR completion rate for the current assessment period is 40.
 This is a significant increase since REF2014 when the total within UoA 22 was 14, thereby
 representing a 285% (near three-fold) increase.

 In addition to the LDA and LSS support provided to PGRs, students can apply for funding to
 facilitate attendance at national and international conferences (up to £500 pa). Since 2017 an
 average of five awards per year have been made.

 Graduates of the School’s PGR programmes have gone on to pursue successful careers in
 academia and civil society organisations. For example, Gajparia (2015) is a Lecturer in Sociology
 in LSS. Dr. Allan Tyler (2015) is Lecturer in Psychology at LSBU specialising in queer theory. Dr
 Emma Williams (2018), recently appointed Director of Research/Strategic Partnerships for the
 Centre of Policing Research and Learning, was Senior Lecturer in policing at Canterbury
 Christchurch University. Dr Diago Canciani (2014) is Senior Lecturer in the Department of Social
 Sciences, University of Roehampton. Dr Ayar Ata (2016) works as a freelance researcher with the
 Ministry of Justice and the International Association for the Study of Forced Migration. Dr Md
 Zahidul Islam (2018), who co-authored an article with Kibreab, is working as a Lecturer at
 Kingston University.

 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 LSS Research works within a well-defined University EDI Policy. UoA 20 members utilise their
 research expertise to inform and promote EDI initiatives across LSBU. Takhar plays a key role in
 the University’s Equinet and GenderNet staff networks and co-ordinates the University’s Black
 History Month programme, which in fact runs throughout the academic year. Many of these events
 are co-organised with RGS, for example ‘Race Today and the fight for racial justice 1973-1988’


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2/12/20). This initiative illustrates the commitment to social justice within LSS Research and its
 alignment with LSBU strategic goals around research, as well as student and staff support.

 Takhar contributed to the awarding of the University’s Athena Swan Bronze Charter (April 2020).
 Takhar, Clements and Donington have been awarded funding by the University (2019/20) to
 undertake projects to address the BAME attainment gap and promote awareness around
 decolonising the curriculum across LSBU. Barker is Chair of a University working group looking
 at Decolonising Research. Martin’s work supporting researchers and students with autism in
 schools and universities is evidence of a strong commitment to EDI policies. Rossi, Takhar,
 Martin and Clements contributed to a LSS Working Group, chaired by Beaumont, which made
 recommendations on how to better support carers and disabled staff to keep research active
 during the COVID-19 Pandemic. LSS Deanery, and the University Research Committee (URC)
 approved the recommendations in July 2020 and as a result a £200 research allowance was
 introduced in LSS for staff carers and/or staff with disabilities. Beaumont instigated and
 contributed to the development of the new LSBU ‘Menopause at Work’ policy.

 An Equality Impact Assessment of UoA 20, comparing the SRR cohort with the REF eligible
 (Category A) group within LSS revealed no significant (>10%) disparities between the two groups.
 A key finding is that whereas the overall group was 38% male, 62% female, the SRR cohort was
 32% male and 68% female. Furthermore, of the SRR cohort 28% are BAME in comparison with
 19% of the wider group. This evidences that work undertaken to support an inclusive research
 environment is paying dividends.

 2.4 Research Integrity and Open Access

 Research within the School fully complies with the University’s Ethical Code overseen by the
 University’s Ethics Panel and meets the highest ethical and professional standards. LSBU is fully
 compliant with its requirements for all staff to be aware of research integrity, publishing its
 procedure, named contact, and annual reports on the University’s website. Takhar is the LSS
 Director of Ethics and chair of the School Ethics Panel. All staff, PGR and post-graduate
 taught/undergraduate students must complete the ethics approval process before embarking on
 their research. Training and support is provided via the LDA alongside the Being Research
 Active in LSS and PGR Research Labs programmes. Research outputs by LSS staff are 100%
 compliant with LSBU’s Open Access Policy.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Core funding for the CSJGR and research groups principally derives from QR income and is
 topped up by central funding from LSBU. This income pays for funding of research groups, LSS
 research awards, LSS Research Away Days, PGR conference awards, GrantCraft support
 packages and workshops, the Being Research Active in LSS programme, PhD fully funded
 scholarships, article processing charges (APC) (X 5), as well as other research related matters.

 External research income over the review period totals £705,000. This includes projects for
 Martin: 6485/ £84,000 and 6683/£70,000 (see CADS) and Pinch: 6430/£76,000 (see SP).
 This drop in external income, in comparison to REF2014, is linked primarily to the departure of
 Weeks Centre researchers (see People). In keeping with our research strategy to support ECRs,
 LRs and research active staff who have yet to acquire a track record in winning research grants,
 a rigorous system of interventions has been introduced to build on the skills and confidence
 required to apply for external research funding, including investment in the services of GrantCraft
 (see Research Strategy). In addition to submitted grant applications, further grant applications
 are in progress for Shaw, Moore, Donington, Rossi, Beaumont, Takhar, Elsmore and
 Eroukmanoff.

 LSBU Research Strategy is shaped by the URC and implemented by REI, DoRs and Centre
 Heads. The CSJGR Head and the DoR manage the QR income in LSS, with oversight from the
 Dean. Research group leads manage their allocated budgets, with oversight from the DoR and

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CSJGR. The LSS Research Committee brings together the Dean, DoR and Centre Head with
 research group leads, the School professoriate and the Directors of PGR programmes and
 Ethics to implement the School’s research strategy. The DoR and Centre Head are supported by
 administrative assistance from within the Deanery. The School’s Business Partner provides
 guidance and support with the spending of the QR budget and management of external research
 income within the School. REI provides support with regards to research grant bidding and post-
 award management and delivery.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 LSS Research enables our academics to make significant contributions to a range of diverse
 disciplines through service to professional societies, stewardship of journals, peer-reviewing,
 conference presentation and organisation, as well as collaborations with researchers and
 practitioners from other institutions and organisations, with evidence as follows:

 4.1 National and international collaborations

 Staff collaborate on research projects with colleagues in other universities in the UK and
 internationally. For example Shaw is a Doctoral Fellow at Faiths and Civil Society Unit,
 Goldsmiths, University of London. She is currently a co-investigator on a Canadian Social
 Science and Humanities Research Council funded project with Dalhouse University, Canada
 and the University of Manchester (2020-2022) around religious education in schools. Beaumont
 is co-convenor of the ‘Expertise of Experience Research Collective’ made up of 16 academics
 across England and Ireland (including Clements). Lai was a visiting researcher at the Varieties
 of Peace Program, Umea University, Sweden (2019). Barker is a senior research fellow with
 the Global Citizen Forum. The INSPIRED EU research funding awarded to James resulted in
 collaborations with European universities including the Josip Juraj Strossmayer University of
 Osijek, Croatia and the University of Pecs, Hungary. Gajparia works on a collaborative project
 with the University of the West Indies on education for sustainability post-graduate assessment
 practices. Donington is senior historical advisor to the Colonial Countryside Project, University
 of Leicester and the National Trust, and was visiting lecturer, University of Dortmund, Germany
 (2019). Rossi was a member of the French-British collaborative research project ‘Criminalisation
 of Dictatorial Pasts’ (AHRC funded), University of Exeter and LABEX Pasts in the Present,
 France (2015-2019). Weizman was visiting research fellow, Council for British Research in the
 Levant (2014-2015). Kibreab contributed to the Refugees Studies Centre Summer School,
 University of Oxford (2017, 2018, 2019).

 4.2 Editorial board membership

 Staff serve on a number of editorial boards including: Beaumont: Contemporary British History,
 Twentieth Century British History, Local Economy and Adam Matthews Digital ‘Gender, Identity
 and Social Change’ Collection. Moore: Disability Studies (editor), Takhar: Sociology, Emerald
 Group Publishing Advisory Board. Eroukmanoff: Journal of International Political Theory
 Martin: Journal of Inclusive Practice in FE/HE, Disability and Society, Advances in Autism,
 Johnson-Schlee: London Journal, Pine: series editor ‘German History in Focus’, Bloomsbury
 Academic, Rossi: London Journal of Critical Thought, Weizman: Settler Colonial Studies
 Kibreab: Journal of Refugee Studies, Mylonaki: International Law Research and Criminal Law
 and Justice Weekly.

 4.3 Peer reviewing and support to Research Councils

 Staff are actively engaged in reviewing for research funders, publishers and journals. Research
 bodies include Leverhulme, AHRC, ESRC, Irish Research Council, British Academy/Wolfson
 Foundation Awards, National University of Ireland Post-Doctoral Fellowship Awards. Publishers
 include Oxford UP, Manchester UP, Liverpool UP, Routledge, Bloomsbury Academic, Palgrave,
 Penguin/Bodley Head, Toronto UP, Emerald Publishing.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Amongst journals: all of the above, plus: Women’s History Review, Gender and History, History
 of Education, Feminist Media Studies, Journal of Contemporary History, Critical Studies on
 Terrorism, Politics, German History, Geoform, Media, War and Conflict, Cultural and Social
 History, Atlantic Studies, Australian Feminist Law Review, Autism International, Religions,
 Journal of Beliefs & Values, Environment and Planning A, Ethnic and Racial Studies, Feminist
 Review, Emotions and Society, Journal of International Development, American Anthropologist,
 African Affairs, American Sociological Review, Africa Today, Journal of East African Studies,
 Journal of Modern African Studies, European Urban and Regional Studies, Urban Geography.

 4.4 Conference and seminar/workshop organisation

 In addition to the 100 plus events organised by our research groups staff have been active in
 organising a range of conferences and seminars, for example: Eroukmanoff was co-organiser
 of British International Studies Association (BISA) annual conference, Brighton (2017), co-
 organiser for a workshop with RGS, Institute for Diplomacy and International Governance,
 Loughborough University (London Campus) and BISA Gendering International Relations Study
 Group ‘Feminist Policy Making: Add Feminism and Stir?’ (14/11/19), ‘The West and the Rest?
 Challenging Western centric nature of emotions studies’, LSBU (2019). Beaumont co-convenes
 the Institute of Historical Research (IHR) Contemporary British History seminar and was co-
 organiser of the Voluntary Action History Society (VAHS) International Conference 2016. She is
 co-convener of the ‘Expertise of Experience Collective Workshops’ (2019 & 2020). Donington is
 co-convenor of the IHR Black British History seminar. Rossi is co-organiser of ‘Criminalising
 Violent Pasts: Multiple Roots and Forgotten Pathways (1950s-2010s)’ (2018) and London
 Conference in Critical Thought (2017 & 2019). Gajparia is co-convenor of the Women’s
 Workshop and LSBU Sustainability and Climate Action Series (2020). Weizman was co-
 convenor of International Studies Association Conference (2018).

 4.5 Collaborations with professional associations/civic society groups

 Martin is a Board Member of the National Association of Disability Practitioners. Founder
 member of PARC and the Disability Equality Research Network (DERN) and member of
 Westminster Autism Commission. Shaw is a member of the Education Advisory Group for Faith
 and Belief Forum. Takhar is a member of the Lambeth Equality Commission, the Greenwich
 Asian Women’s Project, and the anti-racist action policy group for UK Higher Education. Moore
 sits on the management committee of Shaping Our Lives, a network of user-led groups, service
 users and disabled people. Weizman is a trustee and board member of the Council for British
 Research in the Levant. Clements is a Research Advisory Board Member of the Charity
 Finance Group. Beaumont was a committee member of the VAHS (2014-2018) and is a Fellow
 of the Royal Historical Society (RHS). In 2020 she was commissioned to contribute to The
 British Library Unfinished Business: The Fight for Women’s Rights exhibition book and website.
 In 2017 she worked with the Mothers’ Union to submit a British Academy funding bid.
 Donington is co-ordinator of the Historical Association’s Teaching Fellowship in Transatlantic
 Slavery and was co-curator of the Slavery, Culture and Collecting exhibition, Museum of
 London, Docklands. She is a Fellow of the RHS, as is Pine. Eroukmanoff is co-convenor of the
 BISA Emotions in Politics and IR Working Group.

 4.6 Presentations at international conferences

 Staff are regularly invited to present their research, including keynotes, at international events,
 for example: Barker: Global Citizen Forum, Montenegro (2017), Kibreab: United Nations
 Human Rights Council, Geneva, Switzerland (2015), Beaumont European University Institute,
 Florence, Italy (2014), University of Girona, Spain (2015), National University of Ireland (NUI),
 Maynooth, Ireland (2018), Trinity College Dublin, Ireland (2019), TU Dresden, Germany (2020),
 University of Tempere, Finland (2020), Eroukmanoff: International Studies Association (ISA),
 New Orleans, USA (2015) and ISA, San Francisco (2017), Pine: Museum of Jewish Heritage,
 New York, USA (2020), Cape Town Holocaust and Genocide Centre, South Africa (2020),
 Lessons and Legacies Conference, St. Louis, USA (2018). Johnson-Schlee: Freiraum Festival

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Goethe Institut), Prague (2019), International Sociological Association (ISA) Conference,
 Mexico (2016). Donington: Garrison Library, Gibraltar (2018) and Association of American
 Historians, New York, USA (2020). Martin: City University of New York, USA (2020). Shaw:
 University of Uppsala, Sweden (2019), NTNU Trondheim, Norway (2019). Rossi: Science Po
 Aix-en-Provence, France (2015), University of Aegean, Lesvos, Greece (2016). Pinch:
 European Union Epson EGTC, Brussels, Belgium (2018), Urban Institute, Latvia (2018).
 Weizman: ISA Conference, San Francisco, USA (2018), Toronto, Canada (2019). Takhar:
 International Conference Identities and Identifications, Florence, Italy (2017), Middle Eastern
 Studies Association Conference, New Orleans, USA (2019), Manalsuren: University of Bonn,
 Germany (2018), Gajparia: University of West Indies, Jamaica (2019) and Elsmore: Association
 of European Schools of Planning Conference, Lisbon, Portugal (2017), Association of American
 Geographers Conference, New Orleans, USA (2018).

 This evidence indicates LSS Research to be a vibrant and sustainable research environment.
 Our researchers, collectively and individually, make important and timely contributions to a
 variety of academic and policy debates both in established and emergent fields, with social
 justice and social inclusion at the heart of these endeavours.




                                                                                         Page 15
