Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Manchester Metropolitan University

 Unit of Assessment: D28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 History research at Manchester Metropolitan University has increased in scope, size and
 quality since REF2014. We have built on our excellent REF 2014 impact case studies to
 develop a distinctive identity as a centre of excellence for publicly engaged history based on
 outstanding academic research.

 We have consolidated existing expertise (public heritage and intellectual history) while
 developing new areas (gender history and youth studies). Our research covers topics from the
 Neolithic to the present. This has been achieved through a large increase in internal investment
 and through strategic support for high-quality outputs, cross-disciplinary work and engaged
 research with partners including English Heritage, National Trust and The National Archives.

 The UoA has grown from 14.2 FTE staff in 2014 to 34.9 FTE in 2020, with 17 new appointments
 including four new professors. Research income has increased from £185,000 (REF 2014) to
 £1.277 million with a growth in large awards from the AHRC, European Commission,
 Leverhulme and British Academy. PhD conferment has increased by 100% in the assessment
 period, and there are currently four postdoctoral researchers and 48 PGRs.

 1a. Unit structure

 The History Research Centre (HRC) is home to all researchers in the submitting unit. HRC was
 established as one of 14 University Centres for Research and Knowledge Exchange in early
 2017 in recognition of our research excellence and bold ambitions.

 HRC sits within the Faculty of Arts and Humanities and includes colleagues from the History,
 Politics and Philosophy, and English departments. It is led by a director (Stobart), deputy (Oates)
 and an advisory committee including experts from English Heritage and the Universities of
 Uppsala, Antwerp and British Columbia.

 HRC members belong to one of five thematic research clusters: War, Conflict and Society;
 Leisure, Consumption and Heritage; Religion, Race and Community; History of Ideas; and
 Youth, Gender and Sexuality. This structure encourages collaboration between colleagues from
 different periods and specialisations. Clusters are led by junior and mid-career researchers and
 include HRC-affiliated PGRs, Research Assistants and Knowledge Exchange champions. HRC
 is supported by an excellent Research and Knowledge Exchange team that includes specialised
 advisers.

 HRC includes the Manchester Centre for Public History and Heritage (MCPHH), which is a hub
 for engaged research providing pathways to impact in partnership with communities from around
 the world. HRC has strong links to the North West Film Archive, part of the University Special
 Collections, with which our members collaborate on the generation of impact.

 1b. Achievement of strategic aims for research

 We have significantly exceeded our research aims outlined in 2014; we have increased critical
 mass, the quality of our research, and the reach and significance of our impact. Our success
 includes:

 i. Increased research income
  External research income has increased to £1.277 million in REF 2021 compared to
      £185,000 in REF 2014 (see section 3).


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    The quality of our funding has improved, and we regularly attract awards from AHRC, British
     Academy, Leverhulme Trust, Gerda Henkel Stiftung, ESRC, and the European Commission.
     We also generate income through Knowledge Exchange activities, which we see as an
     important route into sustainable and impactful research activities.

 ii. Increased the production of high-quality research
  We have increased the volume of high-quality research. Over 60% of HRC members
      published monographs between 2014 and 2020, many with Cambridge and Oxford
      University Presses. Four were nominated for awards (Social History Book Prize, RHS
      Gladstone Prize, Literature Wales Prize, British Society of Sports History Lord Aberdare
      Prize). We also published a large number of scholarly articles in high-impact journals.

 iii. Increased the numbers of PhD students
  There are currently 48 PGR students aligned with the UoA, a three-fold increase compared
       to the census date in 2014. We awarded 18 PhDs in the assessment period (an increase of
       100%).
  We regularly secure AHRC funding for studentships via the North West Consortium DTP and
       have collaborative doctoral arrangements with heritage bodies including The National
       Archives, National Trust, English Heritage, and National Museum Wales.

 vi. Continued to prioritise engaged research
  In 2018, HRC established a lectureship with the People’s History Museum (PHM) and
     appointed Hirsch. Between 2018 and 2023, Hirsch will split her time between PHM and HRC,
     becoming a full-time permanent member of staff at Manchester Metropolitan thereafter. This
     provides pathways for impact, helps HRC shape local heritage developments, and facilitates
     public history training for staff and students.
  HRC is a key partner of Manchester Histories, an HLF-funded charity that explores the
     histories and heritage of Greater Manchester. HRC co-organises Manchester Histories
     Festival, a bi-annual event attended by c.18,000 people.
  Our research often comes from non-traditional sources, using co-production methodologies
     with cultural and community partners as seen in our impact case studies. This engaged
     research activity develops sustainable and impactful relationships, generates income, and
     underpins many scholarly activities in HRC.

 v. Promoted cross-disciplinary and collaborative research
  Interdisciplinary research is a distinctive feature of HRC; we have been able to direct funding
     towards exciting collaborations with artists, film-makers and cultural partners that feature in
     our impact case studies.
  Tebbutt collaborated with world-leading artist Stephen Dixon (returned to D32) to produce
     commemorative ceramics with young volunteers through the AHRC-funded engagement
     project, Voices of War and Peace.
  Three members of the HRC are part-seconded to the Manchester Centre for Youth Studies
     (MCYS), an award-winning multi-disciplinary research group developing new participatory
     youth practices and advising the government on youth justice.
  HRC research clusters promote collaborative activities. Animal Works (Philips and Khandker)
     examines working animals in wartime, and the Last Things conference, supported by the
     British Academy, brought Strickland and Crome together to explore apocalyptic thought.
  The Country House Network led by Stobart facilitates academics from History, English and
     Architecture to work with heritage providers including National Trust and English Heritage.

 1c. Future aims, objectives and strategy

 The HRC aims to become a flagship centre for innovative historical research whose breadth,
 responsiveness and synergies across historical periods are recognised for their outward-facing
 character and strong public engagement. We are committed to maintaining the momentum of


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our growth as a sustainable and engaged research centre by building on our successes,
 continuing to produce research of public significance, and extending our international reach.

 i. Enhance and capitalise on our geographical, chronological and thematic range
 The temporal, spatial and thematic breadth of our research is a particular strength. Our research
 strategy does not seek to prescribe themes or programmes; rather, it creates an environment
 allowing us to build on existing strengths and respond flexibly to new directions in the discipline.
 This is seen in the recently formed Race, Religion and Community group, which will create
 impactful research that addresses current social issues – e.g. through the involvement of Molloy
 and Hirsch in Manchester Metropolitan’s new ‘Centre for Race and Race Studies’. We have
 ambitions to support the development of cross-period expertise and collaborations, building on
 the success of the ongoing ‘Returning Soldier’ project, which brings together ancient, medieval
 and modern historians to address important historical and contemporary questions, including
 disability and commemoration of sensitive political and social subjects.

 ii. Develop new routes to outward-looking and impactful research
 The engaged nature of our research is another existing strength that we will enhance by
 expanding formal relationships with local and regional heritage groups and by extending our
 links with international bodies. Amongst other initiatives, Tebbutt will continue her work with
 community groups in Manchester and partners in Switzerland (see ICS 1); Lichtenstein (PT with
 English and submitted to D27) will develop digital projects with the local Jewish community; B.
 Edwards and S. Griffiths will further develop best-practice guidance on public engagement and
 heritage planning policy in Wales, and Sayer will expand her research on heritage and well-
 being with partners in India and Nigeria. The MCPHH remains central to our strategy of
 embedding public engagement across our research activities. Its role will be enhanced by
 increasing our reach through greater media presence. The recruitment of Fletcher, ex-BBC
 Political Unit, in 2020 was a strategic move to support this development over the coming years.
 Outreach will be further supported by the £46m Arts and Humanities building (opened 2020),
 which will form the key venue for our public-facing events and a springboard for community-
 based activities. Covid-19 illustrated the potential of digital resources, as discussed in the
 MCPHH national workshop, co-organised with the Raphael Samuel Centre, on ‘Doing Public
 History in Lockdown’. We will build on digital events developed in response to Covid-19
 restrictions which enabled us to reach larger audiences, improve accessibility and facilitate
 collaboration: e.g. celebrations of the 75th anniversary of the Pan-African Congress (September
 2020) and Manchester Histories DigiFest 2020 (see below).

 iii. Expand opportunities for collaborative and interdisciplinary research
 HRC is strong in exploring the intersections between social, cultural and intellectual history, and
 in interdisciplinary working. We will continue to support the part-secondment of staff to the
 MCYS (see 1.b.v, above) to enhance further this area of inter-disciplinary research, and to
 promote collaborative research that addresses “big questions” through interdisciplinary large-
 scale collaborative projects such as that of S. Griffiths which brings together statisticians,
 computer modellers and archaeologists explore social change in Neolithic and Chalcolithic
 Britain and Ireland. New initiatives include the establishment in 2021 of an inter-disciplinary
 Heritage Research Hub, led by Shore and MCPHH, which brings together colleagues from
 History, Architecture, Computer Science, Tourism and the Manchester School of Art, and opens
 up opportunities for national and international collaboration.

 iv. Raise our international profile
 HRC has clear plans for building on the international standing of its members to raise the overall
 profile of History at Manchester Met. In addition to facilitating the development of new
 collaborations through support for attending international conferences, this involves offering
 financial and administrative support to host major international conferences (e.g. Tebbutt’s co-
 hosting of the Children’s History Society Conference, 2021). HRC’s international profile will be
 further enhanced by building on strategic partnerships (e.g. with Leibniz University, Hanover;
 Hubei University, Wuhan) and by consolidating existing individual relationships into strategic
 partnerships, e.g. Stobart with Uppsala University, Danks and Oates with St Petersburg State

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University, and Sayer with National Institute of Museum Studies, India. We will also build on our
 Visiting Professor appointments (currently we have VPs from University College Dublin and
 University of British Columbia) and colleagues will be supported to take up similar positions
 overseas (e.g. Fletcher will apply for a senior fellowship at the British School in Rome).

 v. Increase the value and range of funded research, including Knowledge Exchange (KE)
 An area of significant growth since REF2014, we will continue to ensure the sustainability of our
 research by increasing the volume and quality of research grant applications and KE activities.
 We have already achieved significant research grant success, with major awards (totalling over
 £1 million) from the AHRC and Gerda Henkel secured in 2020. We will continue to focus our
 efforts on submitting large, high-quality and high-impact bids, whilst supporting those new to
 bidding to develop smaller applications or to collaborate as Co-Is. Our system of mentoring and
 training has been very effective and will enable us to continue to support funding applications
 and encourage more colleagues to join peer review colleges. We also seek to increase our KE
 and non-HESA income, both as a response to the challenging funding landscape post-2020 and
 as a way of developing research relationships grounded in impactful work. This will be achieved
 by embedding a systematic approach to consultancy and commercial projects within the
 MCPHH.

 vi. Grow and support graduate research
 Building on our success in growing a vibrant PGR research community since RAE2008, we seek
 to increase the number of PhDs and continue providing them with an excellent research training
 and research environment. This involves continuing to develop high-quality PhD projects that are
 funded externally (e.g. four AHRC-funded PhD students starting in October 2020); introducing
 new models for PhD study, e.g. our five-year 0.6fte PhD/0.4fte Graduate Research Assistant
 post in MCPHH, which integrates training in public history administration with the PhD, and
 developing interdisciplinary PhDs e.g. through our involvement in the £1.35m Leverhulme Unit
 for the Design of Cities of the Future doctoral scholarship scheme hosted by our Faculty’s
 Postgraduate Arts and Humanities Centre (PAHC), commencing in 2021.

 1d. Support for enabling impact
 HRC ring-fences part of its annual budget to support impact and engagement (£30,000), and we
 co-fund the charity Manchester Histories. Research leave is available to support impact activities
 and heritage projects, and colleagues are required to consider impact when applying for internal
 funding.

 Significant funding comes from external sources for impact activities, illustrating the quality of
 our work. Tebbutt’s ‘Passions of Youth’ project (ICS 1) was funded by the AHRC, while Oates
 received a British Academy grant to co-curate an online exhibition of Nuremberg Chronicles from
 the National Library of Russia, the University of Canterbury (New Zealand) and St Petersburg
 State University.

 Our knowledge exchange income is a pathway into long-lasting impactful relationships. Staff
 within the UoA have generated over £100,000 from sources such as the National Lottery, Cadw,
 English Heritage, the National Trust, the Arts Council, and Sefton Borough Council. This funding
 allows us to develop sustainable relationships, often with seldom-heard non-academic
 communities as illustrated throughout our impact case studies.

 The MCPHH plays a key role in our impact strategy, offering training and disseminating models
 of good practice for engaged research. Building on a successful legacy of engagement with local
 communities in the North West, MCPHH now works also with global partners in Germany,
 Myanmar, Ghana, India, Brazil, New Zealand, Barbados, Sweden and Russia.

 MCPHH acts as a beacon for community engagement in HRC. By bringing together staff with
 experience in heritage, we have created an environment that foregrounds impact, develops staff
 expertise and acts as a resource for colleagues. Recent appointments have extended this ethos,
 including a new MCPHH Director (Shore); a media expert and 2015 BBC New Generation

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Thinker (Fletcher); a public archaeologist and 2020 BBC New Generation Thinker (S. Griffiths);
 and the joint-lectureship with the PHM (Hirsch). MCPHH includes Knowledge Exchange
 champions (Danks, Horner and Hulme) who focus on publicly engaged history, and employs a
 dedicated Research Associate to support impact activities.

 MCPHH ensures the sustainability of our impact agenda by working with colleagues in HRC to
 build pathways to impact and engagement into funding proposals. This has included the
 development of Collaborative Doctoral Agreements with the Museum of Science and Industry,
 Chetham’s Library, English Heritage, National Trust, The National Archives and Co-operative
 Society. MCPHH also provides a space for HRC staff to collaborate on impactful projects (e.g.
 archaeologist B. Edwards’ work with Frasch on Myanmar’s application for World Heritage status
 for the temples at Bagan).

 MCPHH has a close relationship with the North West Film Archive (NWFA), part of Manchester
 Metropolitan’s Special Collections (see Section 3c). The NWFA is a key resource in developing
 impactful research across HRC and enables us to collaborate successfully with artists and film-
 makers (ICS 1 and 3).

 We are a key partner for Manchester Histories, a charity that works with people and
 organisations to share the histories and heritage of Greater Manchester. The University provides
 financial support for Manchester Histories, HRC is represented on its Board of Trustees. In 2019
 we were a partner in Manchester Histories’ successful National Lottery bid: ‘Hidden Histories,
 Hidden Historians’ facilitating community research projects across Manchester.

 Manchester Histories facilitates the co-production of research, connecting people through their
 heritage and histories. In 2019, our KE Champion, Hulme marked the anniversary of Peterloo by
 bringing together relatives of those involved in the massacre. This project was nominated for the
 THE Awards Research Project of the Year (2020), and Hulme won the prestigious ‘Peoples
 Award’ at Manchester Cultural Awards (2019).

 Through Manchester Histories, colleagues are able to work with hard-to-reach communities.
 Oates helped to organise the 2020 Manchester Histories Festival, celebrating the 50th
 anniversary of the Chronically Sick and Disabled Persons Act of 1970. As a result of Covid-19,
 the festival became a ‘DigiFest’, reaching over 3,000 people and allowing us to make the festival
 fully accessible, while facilitating contributions from a range of people with intellectual and
 physical disabilities.

 Links to impact case studies

 HRC researchers have benefited extensively from ongoing investment in impact support and
 related staff development.

 ICS 1: Passions of Youth in Manchester and Salford
 Tebbutt received internal impact funding which enabled her to develop an AHRC-funded
 participatory research project with the NWFA and local communities, telling youths’ histories
 from their own perspectives.

 ICS 2: Transforming Heritage Engagement in Wales
 Seedcorn funding from a University Impact Generator Fund and HRC enabled B. Edwards to
 secure AHRC funding for his Bryn Celli Ddu project which has transformed public understanding
 of prehistoric Wales and shaped Welsh policy and practice in public heritage.

 ICS 3: Transforming the Commemoration of Conflict
 Historians and artists at Manchester Metropolitan used materials and expertise from the NWFA
 to engage diverse communities (including refugees, young people and veterans) to explore the
 societal impacts and commemoration of the global wars of the last century.


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1e. Open research and open access

 Research in HRC is compliant with the Concordat on Open Research Data and the requirements
 of the REF Open Access policy. All journal articles and conference proceedings with an ISSN
 published after April 2016 are deposited in the University’s institutional repository, e-Space,
 within three months of acceptance. This applies to all members of the HRC, including PGRs.
 Our most downloaded outputs over the assessment period and included in the submission are
 C. Griffiths, ‘Sex, shame and West Germany gay liberation’ (output reference 154), downloaded
 over 430 times, and Stobart, ‘Cathedrals of consumption’ (reference 165), downloaded more
 than 385 times.

 Members of HRC are committed to promoting Open Access. Colleagues are encouraged to
 publish in journals supporting Green OA and to build costs for Gold OA into external bids.
 Regular training is provided and the importance of OA compliance is included in annual research
 reviews. In addition to UKRI OA grants, HRC members can access funding to make outputs
 accessible via the Gold route where they are particularly high-quality or have wider economic
 and societal implications – e.g. Output 179 by Penalba-Sotorrio in the Journal of Contemporary
 History. Colleagues have fully embraced the Open Access agenda, editing OA journals (e.g. B.
 Edwards, Open Archaeology), publishing in OA journals (e.g. Phillips, British Journal for Military
 History) and publishing OA edited collections (e.g. Cromwell and Day). Shore is co-editor of the
 RHS Open Access monograph series New Historical Perspectives, published by University
 College London Press.

 Other colleagues contribute to an open research culture by sharing research and research data
 with academics and non-academics. Day shares sports and leisure history research through the
 online magazine, Playing Pasts, which he created in 2016 (https://www.playingpasts.co.uk/).
 With a global readership of over 365,000, Playing Pasts provides free access to research from
 HRC and other UK and international universities. It was designated by the British Library as a
 ‘specially selected website’ capturing ‘different aspects of UK heritage on the web’.

 Hirsch, Fletcher, Oates and Cromwell host blogs disseminating research to the public, with over
 40,000 readers from across the world. Almost 40% of HRC staff have written for The
 Conversation: their articles have been read by over 800,000 people, and some have been
 republished in print newspapers (e.g. Guardian; iNews) with a global reach of several million.

 1f. Research integrity

 The HRC is fully compliant with the Concordat for Research Integrity, and staff and students are
 aware of their responsibilities. Shore, Strickland, Oates, Hurst and Frasch are HRC ethics leads
 and are members of the Faculty of Arts and Humanities Research Ethics and Governance
 Committee.

 Ethical considerations are a core part of a researcher’s development in HRC. Ethical and legal
 issues are addressed in mentoring discussions at the earliest stage of research project
 development, and all research by staff, PGRs and students must secure approval through
 EthOS, our online system for ethical application and review, before commencing data collection.
 We have access to training and professional support from a dedicated Research Ethics and
 Governance Manager who has expertise in humanities research. HRC staff have particular
 expertise on ethical research with children and young people, and historical research methods
 including oral history and co-production. Clear procedures are in place for reporting and
 investigating allegations of research misconduct.

 Staff are also given training in GDPR and SIS where appropriate, with data storage and
 management considered during research planning.

 2. People


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2a. Staff development

 HRC recognises the importance of staff development and training and offers a range of bespoke
 courses to members. Guided by the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, we provide time and support for colleagues to engage in a
 minimum of 10 days’ professional development each year. HRC runs academic writing retreats
 and bid-writing workshops, and provides sessions on research resilience, developing KE
 relationships, and incorporating impact into research. We also offer access to schemes that
 develop junior and mid-career researchers, and have internal grants that help colleagues to
 develop projects and skills around impact, international partnerships and public engagement.
 The University is a signatory to the revised Concordat for Career Development of Researchers
 and has held the EU HR Excellence in Research for award since 2013 (see REF 5a).

 Mentoring is at the heart of our staff development strategy. Colleagues are required to reflect
 annually on past performance and plan their research strategy for the next three-five years,
 while expectations are carefully managed to ensure that the needs of good mental health and
 personal circumstances are balanced with career development. This system allows us to identify
 targeted development opportunities that meet the needs of each individual.

 HRC also supports a vigorous culture of seminars, workshops and conferences, encouraging the
 development of both academic and public-facing talks. Its main research seminar series
 comprises fortnightly seminars, and it also hosts the ‘Human Sciences Seminar’, funded by the
 Royal Institute of Philosophy, the Manchester Classics and Ancient History seminar programme,
 ‘North West Early Modern Seminar’, and the ‘Northern Network for the Study of the Crusades’.
 In conjunction with the MCPHH, HRC hosts several public lectures a year.

 Excellence in research is recognised through the promotions system. During the assessment
 period, two colleagues were promoted to Professor, seven to Reader, and 11 to Senior Lecturer.
 Training and information sessions are provided by the Faculty Head of RKE and the Pro-Vice-
 Chancellor for RKE, ensuring the promotions process is as open and inclusive as possible.
 Additional sessions are organised for BAME and/or female colleagues to encourage all staff to
 pursue a leadership role in research. Colleagues at the top of Grade 8, 9 or 10 (Lecturer, Senior
 Lecturer, Reader) may apply for additional increments to reward excellent research or impact
 activities.

 2b. Staffing and recruitment strategy

 HRC has grown significantly in size over this period, from 27 staff and PGRs in 2014 to 93 staff
 and PGRs in 2020. In addition to 37 staff with a significant responsibility for research, this
 includes three Knowledge Exchange Champions, two Research Assistants, two Postdoctoral
 Fellows and 48 PGR students. This growth has been achieved through a significant investment
 in new posts, with appointments made at all levels. We support researchers at every stage in the
 academic career, as reflected in our staffing contract profile (Table 1):

  Professor                  Principal Lecturer   Senior Lecturer          Lecturer, Research
                             and Reader                                    Fellow
  21%                        26%                  45%                      8%
 Staff contract level profile (Table 1)

 Only 4% of submitted staff (both research fellows) are on fixed term contracts at the REF 2021
 census date. 19% of submitted staff are ECRs according to the REF definition and 40% of new
 appointments during the assessment period were ECRs, highlighting our commitment to
 sustainable growth. The majority have since been promoted.

 Our recruitment strategy has been to strengthen existing areas of expertise, supporting the
 diverse historical periods we cover (Neolithic to Modern) and extending our geographical range
 (Britain, Europe, America, North Africa and Asia). New appointments have strengthened

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 established research clusters, including: Leisure, Consumption and Heritage (Lindfield, Stobart,
 S. Griffiths); History of Ideas (Booth, Crome, Kilcourse); War, Conflict and Society (Aveyard,
 Fletcher, Millington, Penalba-Sotorrio); Youth, Gender and Sexuality (Griffiths, Pudsey, Shore).
 Other appointments have been directed at growing a new research specialism in Religion, Race
 and Community (Cromwell, Hirsch, Molloy). Throughout this recruitment campaign, we have
 consistently sought to appoint colleagues who reflect our commitment to public-facing history
 and impact.

 HRC’s growing reputation has allowed us to attract high-quality candidates at all career stages
 and from an international pool. We have invested in research leadership and in ECRs, ensuring
 the longevity and sustainability of our research culture. Leadership in research has been
 enhanced by the appointment of four professors (in our 2014 submission we did not have any
 Professors). We have attracted two Leverhulme Fellows (Booth and Lindfield), another marker of
 our growing reputation. The success of our recruitment strategy is evidenced by the subsequent
 increase in external awards and income.

 Individuals at the beginning of their research careers are integrated into the research culture of
 HRC. Training for ECRs is co-ordinated by Oates, our ECR lead, and comprises workshops,
 seminars and mentoring that focuses on career development, securing grants and managing an
 academic profile. All PhD supervisory panels are expected to include an ECR member of staff
 and, along with mid-career academics, ECRs are encouraged to play a significant role in HRC
 research clusters.

 Mid-career researchers have benefitted from participation in the University’s RKE Future
 Leaders Programme, which comprises a series of thematic workshops and a programme of
 intense one-to-one mentorship with a leading academic in a different department. Oates and S.
 Edwards both benefitted from this, and have since been promoted to Readerships.

 HRC research is facilitated by a programme of research leave supported by the Faculty. Six
 periods of research leave are awarded competitively each year to allow colleagues to complete
 a significant piece of research or impact. Part-time and full-time colleagues are equally eligible to
 apply. To ensure broad access to the opportunities, colleagues must wait three years after a
 successful application before applying for another internally funded sabbatical. High-quality
 outcomes directly resulting from such research leave include Strickland’s monograph, The
 Philosophical Writings of Prémontval.

 Recognition and support for staff achieving impact.
 The HRC has £20,000 per annum to support impact activities, and we provide an additional
 £10,000 for MCPHH to develop its public engagement programme. Staff can access research
 leave and teaching relief to develop significant areas of impact, and the promotions system
 rewards excellence in impact, e.g. Sayer was promoted to ‘Reader in Public History’ in 2020 in
 recognition of the impacts of her work on national arts and heritage policy.

 2c. Postgraduate research students

 The vibrancy of our research culture is evidenced by the enormous growth of PGR students – an
 increase of 308% at the 2021 REF census date in comparison to REF 2014. We have increased
 doctoral completions from nine in REF 2014 to 18 in the current assessment period.

 We work hard to ensure that our PhD programmes are accessible to the widest range of
 students, including those often excluded from postgraduate study. In 2019/20, 15% of our PGR
 students had a known disability; 16% were from a BAME background, compared to a national
 figure of 8.6% (source: RHS Race and Equality report), and 47% were over 35 years old. Our
 success here has been achieved through offering a number of PGR options, including part-time
 registration, distance learning, and PhD by publication. Four PhDs awarded during the
 assessment period were by publication.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are a member of the AHRC North West Consortium DTP. As well as high-quality scholarly
 training, we are committed to equipping PhD students with employability skills for academia and
 beyond. As noted above (1.b.iii), we have developed collaborative PhDs with a range of regional
 and national organisations. These offer PhD students training in the heritage sector, whilst
 building sustainable partnerships between HRC and cultural organisations. These relationships
 provide pathways to impact for other PGR students in HRC whose research has fed into
 exhibitions and activities at Tatton Park (National Trust), Manchester Ship Canal, Manchester
 Museum, and Coughton Court in Warwickshire. Additional funding for PhDs is available through
 the internally funded ‘Vice-Chancellor’s Scholarship’ scheme, which is currently supporting two
 PhD students in HRC.

 Our strength in postgraduate research is recognised in our successful recruitment from UK and
 overseas, including USA, India, Algeria, Syria, Denmark and France, and we have students
 funded by the Indian and Algerian governments.

 The Postgraduate Arts and Humanities Centre (PAHC) provides training, interdisciplinary
 research opportunities, and emotional support. Its Research Training Programme, designed
 around the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, comprises over 50 sessions per annum,
 including advanced methods training and digital research. PAHC’s career-related workshops
 offer students practical advice about job applications and interviews, and students have access
 to one-to-one consultations on their academic online presence. Employability training is also
 available via the University’s Postgraduate Passport scheme for students nearing the end of
 their studies.

 Bespoke training is also offered by HRC, reflecting our vision of academically rigorous and
 publicly engaged history. All PGRs automatically become members of HRC, benefitting from the
 same support and opportunities as permanent members of staff. This includes training in public
 history, sessions on how to publish, and guidance on gaining grants and on media work.
 Students receive training in palaeography, languages, and quantitative methods as appropriate.
 PGR students give research papers at departmental seminars and are funded to deliver papers
 at national and international conferences. They are encouraged to run conferences, with funding
 and mentoring support from the HRC. Recent conferences include ‘The Returning Soldier’
 (Rees, developed with the War, Conflict and Society research cluster) and ‘Reading the
 Reformation 1450-1750’ (Purdy, leading to an edited volume with Brill, due for publication 2021).

 Training in academic publishing is augmented by the postgraduate journal Hive, edited by
 History PhD students under the guidance of the HRC’s Director of PGR (Hurlock). Such training
 has helped History PhD students to gain recognition beyond the HRC: e.g. Bass (2019) has two
 award-winning articles, and Stone (2019) has been awarded ‘Best Biography’ by the Mormon
 History Association and received the ‘John Whitmer Historical Association Award’ for his
 monograph. Bidding workshops have supported students to secure external bids from a range of
 bodies including the RHS, Bibliographic Society, Renaissance Society of America, Jean Monet
 Centre for Excellence and the Thucydides Peace Trust Fund.

 Progression, development and engagement are supported by the online platform SkillsForge,
 where supervision and training opportunities are logged (see REF 5a). In addition to regular
 supervisory meetings, students have an annual review with an independent member of staff to
 reflect on any challenges arising during the PhD process and to ensure effective supervisory
 relationships. The implementation of SkillsForge has been a significant development in the
 increased quality of our postgraduate environment as reflected in the growth in PGR students
 and the increase in conferments.


 2d. Equality and diversity

 We are committed to ensuring that principles of equality, diversity and inclusion guide our
 activity. 42% of our submission are women (the same as our total eligible population and the rest

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the sector); 9% of our submitted staff have declared a disability, above the sector average of
 6% (according to the 2019 Advance HE Equality Report). 89% of submitted staff identify as
 White; 3% as BAME and 8% other/unknown. Three of four rotating positions of research
 leadership in HRC are currently held by women, and 57% of Professors in the HRC are women
 (compared to a discipline average of 26%). We support progression by mid-career women, with
 targeted policies that have resulted in 50% of promotions to Reader between 2014 and 2020
 going to women.

 A flexible working procedure facilitates temporary part-time working and career breaks, and our
 promotions scheme ensures that colleagues are not penalised for taking career breaks.
 Timetabling arrangements are in place to support colleagues with caring responsibilities, while
 all meetings and the majority of research seminars are held during normal working hours. HRC
 has an equality and diversity committee, open to all, whose members are given teaching relief to
 ensure that equality, diversity and inclusion are at the heart of our academic culture.

 HRC leadership recognises the effect that equality-related circumstances can have on an
 individual’s ability to research or on their productivity. Following disclosure of an equality-related
 issue, we adjust our expectations in terms of workload for the production of research and
 outputs. ECR colleagues (defined by our Faculty as being within six years of starting their first
 permanent academic job) have reduced expectations of research outputs. We make similar
 adjustments for colleagues with caring responsibilities, those with chronic disabilities including
 mental health problems, and those returning to work after a period of sickness. Our mechanism
 to support colleagues into work after periods of parental leave, illness or a career break includes
 reduced research workloads. Two colleagues working part-time following periods of maternity
 leave were promoted to Readerships in this period.

 HRC fully supports flexible remote working. Career pathways for part-time and full-time staff are
 equal to the arrangements for full-time and permanent staff. All staff receive equal access to
 support, mentoring, funding, sabbatical and career development opportunities. Staff have access
 to funding to support childcare during research trips (which enabled Oates to undertake a five-
 week research trip to New Zealand in 2019). Applications are treated flexibly and
 sympathetically, on a case-by-case basis.

 Equality and Diversity matters are administered at a university-wide level, where a Diversity and
 Equal Opportunities Committee (DEOC) oversees delivery of the University’s Equality and
 Diversity Policy and Strategy (see REF 5a). In 2017, Manchester Metropolitan University
 became the first university to achieve the top ‘Gold’ status in Business Disability Forum’s
 Disability Standard. In April 2018, the University was awarded an Institutional Athena SWAN
 award (Bronze); in 2019 it was ranked second in the English education sector on Stonewall’s
 Workplace Equality Index (WEI) and recognised as only one of 14 Stonewall Top Trans-inclusive
 employers. In February 2020, the University was accredited as the UK’s first Manchester Pride
 Role Model Organisation at the launch of the Pride All Equals Charter.

 2e. Equality and diversity and REF 2021

 HRC aimed to be fair, transparent and inclusive, following the University’s Code of Practice. All
 colleagues with significant responsibility for research (as distinct from Knowledge Exchange
 activities) and who are working as independent researchers in HRC have been included in the
 submission. All staff involved in unit of assessment co-ordination have completed training on
 ‘Managing Diversity’, ‘Equality and Diversity Essentials’, and ‘Unconscious Bias and REF2021’.

 All colleagues have been made aware of the processes surrounding requests for a reduction in
 output expectations related to individual circumstances, two staff came forward and relevant
 adjustments have been made. After carefully reviewing EDAP’s guidance, we have opted not to
 seek any reduction in the volume of outputs required by our submission because we believe
 there is enough scope within the revised rules for us to manage individual circumstances
 through our existing processes. Decisions about output selection have been led by the process

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 set out in our Code of Practice. 48% of the outputs have been attributed to women, which is
 greater than the percentage of women in the submission.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3a. Research income

 We are reporting a large increase in external research income: £1.277 million compared to
 £185,000 in REF 2014. This equates to an increase of 393% in annual external research income
 from £37,000 per annum in the REF 2014 assessment period to £182,540 per annum in REF
 2021. This growth is significantly greater than the increase in HRC staffing, with per capita
 annual research income rising by 101% from £2,605 per head to £5,230 per head over the
 assessment period.

 We have achieved this enormous growth by supporting all members of HRC to become active
 bidders: using internal funding for early-stage projects and providing training in writing proposals.
 Since 2014 we have been awarded major grants from AHRC, Leverhulme Trust, European
 Commission, British Academy, and Gerda Henkel Stiftung. We have appointed two externally-
 funded postdoctoral researchers and four AHRC-funded PhD students (with a further four
 starting in 2020).

 Major competitive awards include:
 “Co-production of alternative views of lost heritage”, AHRC (AH/L007916/1) £125,000
 B. Edwards was a co-investigator on this major project that used new forms of creative
 community engagement to crowdsource heritage data. The funding led to a further AHRC award
 of £57,000 (AH/R00198/1) for Edwards to bring the past of an important historical site on
 Anglesey to life using Augmented Reality. These projects fed into ICS 2.

 “Leibniz's Examen religionis christianae”, British Academy (mid-career fellowship, ID:
 MD160040) £92,140
 Strickland led this fellowship which, following on from an earlier British Academy small grant,
 draws upon archival sources relating to 17th century attempts at uniting Catholic and Lutheran
 faiths. The outcomes include a conference at the British School at Rome and a monograph for
 Oxford University Press (forthcoming).

 “The Passions of Youth”, AHRC (AH/L015587/1) £75,946
 Tebbutt led this project around the changing experiences of working-class young men following
 earlier AHRC funding for her monograph Being Boys. The project was in partnership with a
 range of community organisations including FC United of Manchester, Collyhurst & Moston Lads
 Club, Salford City Council and Manchester Histories Festival. It is featured in ICS 1.

 “House and Home: physical and emotional comfort in the country house, England and Sweden
 c. 1680-1820”, European Commission (Marie Curie Individual Fellowship ID:658812) c.£180,000
 Stobart led this fellowship which drew on a wide range of archival sources, material objects and
 social and cultural theories to explore physical and emotional comfort in a comparative
 framework. A range of outputs have been produced, including a forthcoming monograph for
 Routledge.

 “The Golden Age of Holy Land Pilgrimage (1000 – 1330)”, Leverhulme Trust Early Career
 Fellowship £163,039
 Booth was awarded this fellowship to study the rich history of Holy Land pilgrimage during its
 formative period during the Crusades.

 “Third and fourth millennia Ireland and Britain: a history of major social change explored”, AHRC
 (AH/T001631/1) £946,252



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Awarded in 2020, S. Griffiths is leading this major project which, in partnership with National
 Museums of Scotland and Ireland, Arts Council of Wales and Historic England, explores social
 change in late Neolithic and Chalcolithic Britain and Ireland.

 This growth in income has had a transformative effect on HRC’s research environment and
 reflects our ambition to develop even further our international reputation for research-driven
 public engagement.

 Knowledge Exchange and Non-HESA income
 We have also increased our Knowledge Exchange income, securing grants and contracts of
 over £100,000 from the National Lottery and other small organisations and charities. This
 income demonstrates some of the success of our innovative funding strategy and has been used
 to create long-lasting relationships with non-HEI partners, leading to greater opportunities to
 engage with diverse communities.

 Diversity of income sources

  Source of       BEIS             UK Charities,   UK Govt,         European         Non-EU
  Income          Research         Open            Industry &       Union
                  Councils         Competition &   other UK
                                   Other           Sources
  Percentage      70%              5%              7%               18%              0%
  of Income


 3b. Internal investment in research infrastructure and activities

 The success of HRC’s funding strategy over the assessment period has been underpinned by
 increased internal investment in historical research activities. HRC has received more
 investment, and an increase in autonomy in spending our resource, in recognition of our growing
 size and reputation. 100% of the QR income earned by History in REF 2014 is invested back
 into our research environment. This is used to support academic posts, administrative costs and
 PhD studentships (circa £160,000 per annum). We have an annual operating budget of £20,000
 to pay for internal schemes, and a further £30,000 per annum is available to support impact-
 related activities in HRC and can be administered with help from MCPHH. Each research cluster
 receives £1,000 to bring in visiting speakers, run conferences and seminars, and facilitate
 reading groups.

 All members of HRC (including PhD students) have access to a further £150,000 of annual
 internal funding shared across three University Research Centres. Funding of up to £2,000 per
 person is available each year to support conference attendance and small-scale archival work.
 Members of HRC may also bid for University funds earmarked to support knowledge exchange
 activities, develop proposals for GCRF, and recruit PhD students.

 HRC has funded research leave to help sustain our growing research culture (see 2.b, above).
 This has led to a significant increase in high-quality scholarly outputs, such as monographs, and
 growth in research grant applications.

 3c. Research infrastructure

 History research is supported by an excellent library, which has increased its investment in
 books, journals, and electronic resources. The library subscribes to an exceptional suite of
 electronic resources for historians (e.g. JISC Historic texts, Cecil Papers, Popular Culture in
 Britain and America, 1950-1975, Mass Observation Archive, Churchill Archive and Bibliography
 of British and Irish History). Substantial additions have been made to the newspaper archive
 provision with the Times, New York Times, Washington Post and Punch. New subscriptions to
 SAGE Premier and extra Taylor & Francis collections have expanded online journal access, with

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the additional benefit of offering discounted APC charges. Inter Library Loan requests are now
 free to all users. The provision of online resources has been particularly significant during the
 pandemic of 2020, when the library invested significant additional resources into buying e-books
 for research purposes.

 The library is also home to our Special Collections, an outstanding resource of documents,
 manuscripts and artefacts from the 17th century onwards. The collections are particularly rich in
 food history, fashion, book history and 19th-century ephemera; they are a rich resource for PGR
 students and academics. Recent exhibitions involving HRC researchers and Special Collections
 include: A Celebration of Belle Vue, Commemoration of the First World War, and Ephemera
 connected to Atlantic Crossings.

 The North West Film Archive is a key resource in developing impactful research in HRC. The
 NWFA has been located in Manchester Central Library since 2014, as part of Archives+ (one of
 the University’s cultural partnerships with Manchester City Council). The NWFA holds over
 50,000 items of film, video, and digital material from the 1890s to the present day. Many services
 are freely available to researchers and the general public, including drop-in viewing pods and a
 selection of online material. Members of HRC regularly use NWFA expertise and resources in
 their research, for example Tebbutt (see ICS 1), S. Edwards, Morris and Hawley (retired) in
 ‘Calling Blighty’ (ICS 3).

 Members of HRC also have access to specialist facilities, including digital technologies. B.
 Edwards has pioneered 3D Modelling and digital activities in his research (see ICS 2). After
 2021, this will be enhanced by the University’s new £35m School of Digital Arts (SODA), which
 will provide training and resources in digital technology for staff and students in HRC.

 HRC’s research and impact activity is supported by a wide range of Professional Services staff.
 This includes a dedicated Research Development Manager and a Project Delivery Team
 including post-award specialists and legal professionals. We have a Research Impact and
 Engagement Manager who manages a team of impact and public engagement professionals,
 and a Research Ethics and Governance Manager who offers guidance, training and support.
 Engagement with business and cultural partners is supported by a Business Development
 Manager and a Partnership Manager.

 We also enjoy the support of an RKE Systems team who oversee the smooth operation of our
 RKE Systems including: Symplectic, which HRC members use to maintain records of their
 outputs, open access compliance and web profiles; Worktribe, which is used for the electronic
 management of external funding applications; EthOS, which is used for research ethics and
 governance; and Skillsforge, which is used to manage the PGR student journey. RKE Systems
 also provide management reports and data that we feed into our annual review processes.

 Administrators in the University’s Graduate School work closely with our Research Degrees lead
 and the Postgraduate Arts and Humanities Research Centre (PAHC). We also have access to a
 dedicated press officer, a HR business partner, ISDS support and experts in Finance and Legal
 Services.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4a. Research collaborations

 HRC has relationships with academics across the world. These are rooted in our commitment to
 scholarly excellence and applied history, and we have successfully built long-term partnerships
 through externally-funded research programmes. For example: Stobart secured a Marie Curie
 Fellowship, enabling him to work with Prytz (Uppsala University) to undertake comparative
 research on English and Swedish country houses. Roche worked with geographers at the
 University of Anatolia to map the First Crusade, supported by the Scientific and Technological


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Council of Turkey. Internal funding and GCRF investment are used to establish
 international relationships and to host international Visiting Professors.

 HRC is embedded in the academic landscape in the UK, with productive and influential
 relationships with researchers at other universities. Several colleagues are part of successful
 collaborative awards: e.g. S. Griffith’s AHRC-funded project on the third- and fourth-century
 archaeology of Britain and Ireland involves working with colleagues at the Universities of Oxford
 and Manchester, UCL and UCLAN. Shore is a co-investigator on a £590,000 ESRC-funded
 project examining public access to justice in England over three centuries with partners from
 Liverpool, Manchester, Sheffield and Essex Universities. Pudsey was Co-Investigator on a
 £305,000 AHRC grant with colleagues at the University of Kent and the Petrie Museum of Egypt
 Archaeology, UCL.

 HRC supports the creation of networks as a way of consolidating research relationships and
 encouraging future collaboration. Roche received internal funding to set up the Northern
 Network for Crusades History, which has held conferences at the Universities of Leeds,
 Huddersfield and Lancaster; sponsored panels at the International Medieval Congress in 2017
 and 2018, and is producing a special edition of International Journal of Military History and
 Historiography. Oates established the Communities of Print network, which held three
 international conferences, generated almost £30,000 of grant income and produced an edited
 volume. Stobart and Lindfield established the Manchester Country House Network, which has
 organised two international conferences, one in partnership with colleagues from the University
 of Waterloo, Canada.

 4b. Collaboration with non-HEI partners

 Impactful research is a key element of our activity. We promote collaborations between
 academic and non-academic partners, facilitating a conversation between scholarly researchers
 and the community about the meaning and use of history and heritage. The AHRC project
 ‘Creating Our Future Histories’ (co-led by Tebbutt in collaboration with the National Co-
 ordinating Centre for Public Engagement) was influential in shaping our approach to publicly
 engaged history. Members of HRC embed impactful research through networks that incorporate
 academics, public and private bodies and members of the third sector, often with an international
 reach. These relationships enrich the research environment by bringing a new perspective and
 creating opportunities for further research. MCPHH in particular has close links with many non-
 HEI partners, working with them to develop impactful research which feeds into programming,
 exhibitions and policies. Nationally these include the National Trust, English Heritage, Cadw,
 Historic England, Historic Environment Scotland, Royal Commission for Ancient and Historical
 Monuments for Wales, National Museum Wales and British Museum; locally they include the
 Pankhurst Centre, Working-Class Movement Library and PHM. We have close partnerships with
 international non-HE bodies including the British Council; Myanmar Centre for Responsible
 Business; National Museum of India, and National Institute of Museum Studies in India, and
 Società Italiana di Storia dello Sport in Italy.

 Members of HRC actively participate in RAH! (Research in Arts and Humanities), an award-
 winning public engagement programme organised by the Faculty of Arts and Humanities.
 Launched as ‘Humanities in Public’ (HiP) in 2013, it rebranded as RAH! in 2018. It has a budget
 of £50,000 per year and a full-time Public Engagement Assistant. The RAH! programme has
 directly supported activities included in HRC impact case studies, through facilitation of
 evaluation, impact capture and the extension of our reach through extensive networks and social
 media presence.

 HRC excels at bringing together academic and non-academic partners to explore heritage
 activities in a global setting. Sayer was awarded a British Academy grant to build a network
 exploring Wellbeing and Heritage with partners in Nigeria (University of Ibadan); India (National
 Institute of Museum Studies, National Museum of India); and the UK (Liverpool John Moores
 University, Gorton Monastery, Compton Verney, Soldier On). Sayer is also currently working

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with Première Urgence Internationale on developing Palestinian cultural heritage in the
 Gaza Strip. Frasch and B. Edwards advise the Myanmar government on UNESCO World
 Heritage Sites and work with NGOs in Yangon and colleagues at Pakkuu University on
 responsible tourism. Stobart has co-curated an exhibition on life in Swedish country houses in
 Sweden.

 Members of HRC support co-production of research, shifting the dynamic of academic history.
 In addition to the projects reported in the impact case studies, these include Stobart’s project
 ‘100 Manchester Shops’, which had an interactive website sharing historical information and
 collecting personal testimonies about shops from members of the public, and culminated in an
 exhibition at Manchester Central Library. Day’s Playing Pasts online magazine has received
 contributions from dozens of non-academic historians and engages thousands in constructive
 dialogue about sport history. Day has worked with ex-team members to co-produce a history of
 Foden Ladies football team, and with the local community to rediscover the history of Alexandra
 Park, Manchester. Crome worked with Manchester Cathedral to develop an inter-faith
 celebration of the Peterloo Massacre (2019), and Hulme was funded by the National Lottery to
 work on a project with the descendants of those involved in Peterloo. Hulme’s work led to a film,
 media work and local talks, reaching over 18 million readers and viewers, and winning her the
 prestigious ‘Manchester People’s Culture Award’. Hulme also worked with Japanese artist
 Chima Pom and local art collective Contact Young Curators to present ‘Drunk Pandemic’,
 exploring Manchester’s cholera outbreaks, for the Manchester International Festival (2019).
 Hirsch co-created an exhibition at the community hub, the Old Abbey Taphouse in Manchester,
 which had a colour bar in the 1950s. In addition to Hirsch’s own research, testimonies and oral
 histories were gathered online and in the pub itself; community partners curated the ensuing
 exhibition.

 HRC works with many different groups, reflecting the diversity of our communities and speaking
 to a wide range of different people, including those who are often marginalised. Spangler
 advises the Historic Royal Palaces group on their presentation of LGBQT+ history, and Shore
 has worked with Leeds City Council on the celebration of LGBQT+ history. C. Griffiths
 established the History of Sexuality Seminar at the Institute of Historical Research (IHR) and
 advises YouGov on Gay Pride. Hirsch established a Black History seminar at the IHR and
 developed a programme of events to mark Black History Month with the People’s History
 Museum, and works closely with international Black activist groups including the American Black
 Liberation group, KIN. In October 2020 Molloy, Hirsch and Ola Uduku (Architecture) worked with
 Ahmed Iqbal Ullah RACE centre, as well as leading BAME academics, writers and musicians to
 stage a celebration of the Pan African Conference held in Manchester in 1945. Alex Wheatle
 (English) wrote a film for the occasion, directed by Steve McQueen. Molloy and Hirsch made this
 a city-wide event, including the Universities of Manchester and Salford in the celebrations.

 We give a voice to people who are not often heard in academia. Tebbutt’s AHRC-funded project
 ‘Passions of Youth’ worked with disadvantaged and seldom-heard young men in North
 Manchester, Moston, Collyhurst and Salford. She explored ideas of youth and manliness with
 members of the Young Father’s Club, boxing clubs and youth clubs (see ICS 1). This project
 was shortlisted for the Emerald Publishing Impact Award (2019) as an outstanding example of
 ‘mobilising research into action’. Morris worked with disadvantaged secondary-school students
 from Salford to explore the commemoration of World War I (see ICS 3). Tebbutt and Dixon (Art
 and Design) worked with recent immigrants to explore the material culture of historical
 immigration (see ICS 3). Hirsch co-curated a series of events on immigration at the PHM and
 sits on the 2020 Migration panel which examines the lives of people in Manchester who are
 affected by migration.

 We strive to ensure our research is inclusive and accessible: e.g. in B. Edward’s work with Cadw
 in Anglesey (ICS 2), he ensured that Welsh First Language (WFL) speakers were at the heart of
 all outreach activities and worked predominately with WFL schools and guides. Lord Dafydd
 Elis-Thomas (Deputy Minister Culture, Sport and Tourism and Member of the Welsh Assembly)
 described it as a ‘model for collaboration between the arts, heritage and academics’.

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Colleagues sit on advisory panels for a wide variety of external organisations: Oates is on the
 committee of Chetham’s Library Manchester; Hurlock is an advisor to the National Museum of
 Wales, and to St Winefride’s Well, the Diocese of Wrexham, and Flintshire Archives; Spangler is
 on the research committee for Versailles Palace; Tebbutt is on the board of the NWFA, and
 worked with them on the AHRC project, ‘Digitising BBC Regional Archives’; Pudsey is a Chair on
 the Classical Association Teaching Board in conjunction with OCR Examinations, and Shore
 worked with THA on their Guide to Collaboration for Archives and Higher Educations.

 Research from HRC also informs national and international policy. Sayer has drawn on her
 research into wellbeing and the social value of heritage to shape government policies and
 reviews including Historic England’s ‘Heritage and Society’ (2018); Historic England’s ‘Wellbeing
 and the Historic Environment Policy’ (2018); the What Works Centre for Wellbeing’s ‘Heritage
 and Wellbeing Scoping Review and Government Briefing’ (2019), and Heritage Ireland’s
 ‘Community Archaeology Guidance’ (2018). S. Griffiths is advising the Highways Agency on
 planned developments around Stonehenge; Hurst advises policymakers on relationships with
 Iran through workshops at the Royal United Services Institute; Hurlock was part of the Diamond
 Report (2018) on the future of Higher Education in Wales; Shore worked with the Office of
 Victims Commissioner and Victims’ Support about policies about victims’ rights, as a result of
 her ESRC ‘Victims Access to Justice’ project. This is in addition to the considerable policy
 impacts reported in our impact case studies.

 Research in HRC also benefits the local economy, developing Manchester’s heritage offer for a
 global visitor audience. Oates co-curated the exhibition ‘Reformation’ in 2017, at the John
 Ryland’s library, which was visited by 250,000 visitors from around the world and rated the top
 tourist attraction in Manchester on Trip Advisor for its duration; Lindfield writes weekly essays for
 ‘Haunt Manchester’ on the Visit Manchester Tourist website, and Lindfield and Molloy created
 two exhibitions at the National Trust’s Speke Hall, resulting in increased visitor numbers.

 4c. Contribution to the discipline

 HRC colleagues hold positions of responsibility in the academic discipline, helping to shape the
 future of academic history. Stobart and Shore are respectively Honorary Treasurer and Co-editor
 of the Monograph series for the RHS. Shore was co-convenor of History UK, and Crowley and
 Pudsey have served on the Council of the Classical Association. Day serves on the board of the
 British Society of Sports History (Vice-President and Chair); Spangler is on the board of the
 Society for Court Studies; Frasch is a Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society and trustee of the
 Association of Southeast Asian Scholars in the UK.

 Members of the HRC have roles in international historical organisations. Tebbutt is President of
 the International Society for the History of Childhood and Youth. Shore is co-chair of the Criminal
 Justice Network, and Stobart is co-chair of the Material and Consumer Culture Network for the
 ESSHC. Khandker is an executive committee member of the Society for European Philosophy;
 Fletcher is treasurer for the Society for the History of War; Molloy is treasurer for the Society for
 the History of Women in the Americas.

 HRC staff make major contributions to the sustainability and vitality of the historical profession.
 Colleagues are peer-reviewers or on expert panels for national and international research bodies
 including: AHRC (six members of the peer review panel and one strategic reviewer), British
 Academy, European Research Council, Horizon 2020, Australian Research Council, Swiss
 National Foundation, the Research Foundation of Flanders, Newton Fund and DAAD.

 Colleagues are editors of peer-reviewed journals or book series. In addition to co-editing the
 RHS New Historical Perspectives series, Shore is a series editor for McGill University Press.
 Hurlock is series editor of the Anthem Medieval Studies Series, and co-editor of War and
 Conflict in Pre-Modern Societies for ARC Humanities Press. Khandker is editor of Palgrave
 Perspectives in Process Philosophy. Journal editors include Spangler (Court Historian), B.

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Edwards (Open Archaeology), Day (Sport History) and Stobart (History of Retailing and
 Consumption). HRC members serve on a number of editorial boards including the International
 Journal of Local and Regional History, Sports in History and Transactions of the Historic Society
 of Lancashire and Cheshire.

 The world-leading research of colleagues in the HRC has been recognised through the award of
 numerous prestigious fellowships. These include the Caird Fellowship at the National Maritime
 Museum (Hirsch); fellowships at the Rothermere American Institute, University of Oxford (S.
 Edwards) and the German Historical Institute in Washington D.C. (C. Griffiths); Timothy J
 Osborn Fellow, Yale University, and the AHRC International Placement Scheme at Yale Center
 for British Art (Lindfield). Many colleagues have held Visiting Fellowships at overseas
 universities. S. Griffiths was the youngest person to be appointed Golson Lecturer at the
 Australia National University. Stobart was a Visiting Professor at both Uppsala University,
 Sweden, and at Senshu University, Japan. Sayer was a Visiting Fellow at the National Museum
 of India (New Delhi), and Booth held a Fellowship at the University of Innsbruck. Spangler was
 awarded Fellowships at both the University of Lisbon and the University of Lorraine.

 25 members of HRC have been external examiners for 40 PhDs during 2014-2020 at
 universities across the UK and overseas. These include examinations at the University of South
 Florida (Strickland), Monash University (Day), University of Malta (Shore), Macquarie University
 (Shore), University of Sydney (Crome), and University of Santiago de Compostela (Peñalba-
 Sotorrío).




                                                                                           Page 17
