Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: 13 Architecture, Built Environment, Real Estate and Planning

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview and Context
 Research within Architecture, Built Environment, Real Estate and Planning at the University of
 Reading aims to support and enhance the development and management of sustainable built
 environments within an environmental, socio-economic and policy context. Our objective is to
 contribute to the research base of our UOA13 disciplinary areas, set out in Figure 1, and to
 develop applied research that addresses policy, practice and societal issues, providing
 theoretically sound, evidence-based solutions.

 Our research activity impacts four interlinked sustainable built environment priorities relating to
 ‘Planet’, ‘Place’, ‘People’ and ‘Prosperity’. These reflect our research focus, to:
     • reduce the pace of climate change and provide built environment solutions for the planet,
     • enhance the design, management and use of property and places, and
     • improve the quality of life and economic prosperity of people.

 Figure 1. Research framework




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 With the establishment of the School of Architecture in 2014, the University has made a major
 investment into enhancing our research capacity relating to design within the built environment.
 This investment brings both critical mass and distinctive additional expertise including urban
 design, place-making, and social value of the built environment. We have continued to expand
 the Henley Business School (HBS), formed in the previous REF period. We have invested
 heavily in central impact resources, with both funding and personnel, supporting an important
 aspect of our UOA13 research strategy. We have expanded and improved our postgraduate
 research programme across all UOA13 sub-disciplines. We have been particularly successful in
 this endeavour, as evidenced by a threefold increase in completions.

 1.2 University and UOA research structure and organisation.
 As set out in the Institutional Environment Statement (IES), since 2015 the University’s research
 activity has been structured around four Research Themes, each led by a Research Dean.
 Each theme comprises several Research Divisions which map onto Departments or large sub-
 units and are led by a Research Division Lead (RDL).

 UOA13 research operates principally within three academic units: Construction Management
 and Engineering, and Architecture (both situated within the School of the Built Environment,
 SBE), and Real Estate and Planning (REP, located within HBS). As indicated in Figure 2, our
 research is organised through two Research Divisions (RDs): Built Environment which sits
 within the Environment Research Theme and Real Estate and Planning, which sits within the
 Prosperity & Resilience Research Theme. Research in each Division is organised through
 research groups which provide focus and critical mass and support interdisciplinary work.

 Figure 2. Research Management Structure




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Groups
 In Built Environment (RDL Sexton) research is organised in three research groups as described
 below.

    •   Urban Living (UL) (lead Samuel): focuses on designing for healthy lives and wellbeing
        across a range of environments, using co-design approaches. Research areas include
        urban living labs, housing, foresight/futures studies and urban agriculture, mapping and
        evidencing value (including social and cultural value) and social sustainability, the
        experience of urban environments, data gathering and utilisation, technological change
        and smart cities, and the diffusion of innovation across scales in the context of climate
        resilience.

    •   Organisation, People and Technology (OPT) (lead Ewart): builds on a long history of
        construction management research at Reading. It focuses on applied research in global
        and national design and construction management including productivity and
        sustainability, construction economics and innovation, digital practices and immersive
        visualisation, cultural and gender diversity, migrant workers and employment, and
        business processes and professionalisation.

    •   Energy and Environmental Engineering (EEE) (lead Smith): applies combined
        expertise on energy and environment to research issues associated with energy
        transitions, climate mitigation and resilience, and environmental quality and health. The
        energy research is primarily within two themes: demand (activity, flexibility, economics,
        and technology) and systems (operation, control, and efficiency). The environment
        research covers issues of quality (air and thermal) and management (control systems,
        green infrastructure measures, etc.), working across scales (building to urban).

 Research in Real Estate & Planning (joint RDLs Devaney and Pain) operates across the
 following three groups:

    •   Real Estate Valuation, Leasing and Market Practice (REVLMP) (leads Crosby,
        McAllister, Wyatt): concentrates primarily on commercial property market analysis,
        investment, development and appraisal/valuation, integrating housing research into its
        portfolio with work on affordable housing and viability. Specific examples include
        research on bank lending valuations, commercial leasing, sustainability impacts on value,
        land value taxation/capture and land tenure.

    •   Real Estate Finance and Investment (REFI) (lead Marcato): covers a wide variety of
        issues concerning direct and indirect real estate investment markets, finance, and
        alternative asset markets. The work in this group includes studies of housing, banking,
        and debt. There is also a cluster of work around public markets, Real Estate Investment
        Trusts, liquidity, risk and foreign investment. Cross-group investment research with
        REVLMP includes depreciation and performance measurement/indices.

    •   Environment, Sustainability and Participation (ESP) (leads Pain, Parker): research
        includes an array of sustainability challenges, including community engagement and
        neighbourhood planning, planning policy, economic change and resilience, healthy urban
        living, urban density, and the environment. It includes research in economic
        development, land use and spatial planning, governance, regulation, community
        planning, regeneration and smart and sustainable cities (with SBE).

 1.3 Interdisciplinary Research
 The Research Divisions constituting UOA13 are inherently interdisciplinary, including
 researchers with backgrounds in architecture, construction, engineering, town planning, real
 estate, business, economics, finance, management, geography, sociology, physics, chemistry;
 many with extensive industry experience. Research activity is structured around the aim of
 impacting the sustainability of the built environment through research into the topics set out in

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our research framework: Planet, People, Place, Prosperity. Activity and collaboration within
 Research Divisions and with colleagues in other parts of the University, are guided by these
 priorities. Across the University Research Themes, we have expanded relationships with other
 disciplines, for example, extensive collaborations with the Meteorology Department (funded by
 NERC/Climate-KIC) and Archaeology (funded by AHRC) in research and PhD supervision, and
 output collaborations with, among others, Geography & Environmental Sciences; Food, Nutrition
 & Health; History; Psychology; Biological Sciences, and other Divisions within HBS.

 Our interdisciplinary work is best illustrated by our research on energy, housing, and
 sustainability.

 The extensive collaborations with Meteorology include joint research publications (Luo, Yao),
 research with the University’s interdisciplinary Walker Institute for Climate Resilience where
 Nunes (REP) acts as one the Institute’s five internal University steering group members and
 ’ambassadors’. EEE group collaborations with Meteorology include Luo, Lu, Coker, Smith,
 Dixon, Peters, Shao and Torriti (SBE) working with Barlow, Clark, Brayshaw and Grimmond
 (submitted to UOA7), and bring together Reading’s research on climate with our work on energy
 systems. Examples include two NERC-funded projects on UK air pollution and overheating risk
 in Sri Lanka (£1.6m, SBE share £430,000, Lu, Luo, Smith from SBE with Grimmond,
 Meteorology).

 Housing is an area of interdisciplinary research grounded in the place, people, and prosperity
 priorities of our research framework. The collaboration with Glasgow University and 12 other
 partners in developing the ESRC-funded UK Collaborative Centre for Housing Evidence
 (CaCHE), initially involving Clapham and Foye (REP) and Meen (Economics) and now Samuel
 (SBE), has involved staff across disciplines and given us further impetus bringing together our
 research across architecture, planning, housing economics and social policy. Issues explored
 include housing demand and supply levels, design, affordable housing, and social value.
 Outputs include the CaCHE report on Delivering Design Value (Co-author Samuel) and the land
 value capture and development viability funded research projects and outputs (Crosby,
 McAllister, Wyatt, Hughes, Street, Shepherd, Sayce).

 The sustainability research agenda is an overarching priority for our UOA and for the wider
 University. In addition to climate-related interdisciplinary research, we have progressed this
 agenda over the period, with research across SBE and REP on smart and sustainable cities
 (Dixon, Pain) including the Reading 2050 vision project (Lead Dixon with Barton Wilmore and
 Reading Borough Council). This project is a good illustration of interdisciplinary research that
 encompasses the four parts of our research framework. It connects with the UK Government
 Office for Science Future of Cities Programme and has delivered strategy papers on Reading’s
 future as a smart and sustainable city, and a series of public lectures (internal contributions from
 Coker, Dixon, Ewart, Coker, Mohareb, Nikolic, Pain, Perrotti, with Clarke and Lloyd-Evans from
 Geography & Environmental Sciences). It has developed architecture practice, with Broadway
 Malyan Architects, funding the development of a large-scale physical and virtual model of
 Reading town centre to aid the visioning of development. The project has extensive community
 engagement through workshops with school children and young people on the future
 development of Reading and was awarded an Impact and Engagement Award by the University
 in 2018.

 1.4 Research and Impact Strategy
 The strategic aim stated in REF2014 was to ‘combine a strong orientation towards ”real world”
 problems with a commitment to high-quality interdisciplinary research to sustain impact on
 practice’. Specific objectives included:
  • Developing areas of core strength across our sub-disciplines, such as energy demand,
      indoor comfort, property valuation, and neighbourhood planning, and strengthened
      interdisciplinary collaborations between REP and SBE, and with researchers across the
      University.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •   Embedding impact into our research culture building on the existing strength evidenced by
      the REF2014 research impact score (70% at 4*, 30% at 3*).
  •   Integrating the new School of Architecture into the UOA.
  •   Expanding the international focus of our research, particularly in South America.
  •   Investing in the next generation of Built Environment researchers by expanding our PhD
      programme.

 We have made significant progress against these objectives. The strength of our core research
 areas is reflected in grants won and participation in major international networks and policy
 reviews (sections 3 and 4). Highlights include Torriti, Smith and Coker’s major involvement in
 workstreams within the £19.4m Centre for Research on Energy Demand Solutions (CREDS);
 Samuel leading the ’Place’ theme of the UK Collaborative Centre for Housing Evidence
 (CaCHE); and Crosby, McAllister, Wyatt and Parker working with the Ministry of Housing,
 Communities and Local Government on developer contributions and neighbourhood planning.
 We have also been able to attract a number of postdoctoral researchers in these areas
 (Wargent, Ramirez-Mendiola, Lo, Piano, Yunusov). As they have developed, sustainability has
 emerged as an overarching theme to much of this research. Examples include research into
 sustainable sociotechnical practices (Schweber), smart and sustainable cities (Dixon, Pain) and
 the impact on value of energy efficiency measures (McAllister, Wyatt, Van de Wetering).

 Much of the research in the UOA is user-oriented, and inherently impactful. To instil a culture of
 impact, we have focussed on:
  • strengthening our substantial existing engagement with policy and industry bodies including
     governments (in China, and with MHCLG and BEIS in the UK) and industry (RIBA, RICS,
     RTPI, IVSC), working with them to shape international and national priorities (see Section
     4)
  • engaging and extending our user communities in the research process, including the co-
     production of research. Examples include projects with industry partners on land values and
     the Community Infrastructure Levy, collaborations within Reading 2050 and with devolved
     Combined Authorities within an MRC-funded project (Prevention Research Partnership for
     Tackling the Root Causes Upstream of Unhealthy Urban Development, TRUUD).

 Engagement has been supported by significant University investment in an impact team with an
 impact manager for each Research Theme, and in the wider support system for impact,
 including the Knowledge Transfer Centre and Research Communications team. The success of
 this has been reflected in the multiple awards from professional bodies for research generated
 by the UOA, including four RTPI Research Awards and Commendations and two Nick Tyrrell
 industry prize papers (see Section 4).

 The establishment of the School of Architecture has been the most significant academic
 investment by the University during this REF period, with 12 new academic posts, including two
 professorial appointments. The School has integrated quickly into the University with the support
 of the existing SBE staff, including through joint supervisions of PhD projects. Immediate
 successes include the provision of five funded PhD studentships per year for three years
 through an agreement with the University of Santo Tomas, the highest ranked Architecture
 School in the Philippines. Evidence of both the integration and ambition of Architecture is the
 Urban Living group’s contribution to a multi-million pound bid to create an AHRC Creative
 Economy Hub, bringing together academics from across the University and over 40 industry
 partners.

 Both Divisions have focussed on developing partnerships and projects in Latin America, with
 Murray (REP) operating as the major liaison point for research in the region, leading a new
 cross-University network, Reading Latin America and Caribbean network. Collaborative projects
 that have developed out of the network include the UKRI-funded Study of Obesity, Nutrition,
 Genes and Social Factors in Peru (SONGS), a £900,000 project led by the University’s Institute
 for Food, Nutrition & Health, and involving co-investigators from REP (Nunes, Murray) examining


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the role of environmental effects. Other research on Latin America includes Plaza’s work on the
 intersections between politics, culture, architecture and urban space in Venezuela.

 Our Doctoral programme has gone from strength to strength, with a significant increase in
 enrolments and completions since 2014 (see Section 2) and we played a major role in the
 establishment of the Human Geography pathway of the ESRC SeNSS DTP (led by Pain; SBE
 liaison Schweber). The strength of our training and careers support for doctoral students is
 reflected in the career trajectories of our PhD graduates, with nine having been appointed by the
 University as either permanent or fixed-term staff; and another 39 taking up academic
 appointments at UK or international universities.

 Supporting these strategic objectives are a number of processes and activities to both enrich the
 research environment in the UOA and its constituent units, and to support individual
 researchers. This has included in particular the provision of formative feedback on research
 outputs to enhance their quality through each Division’s internal peer review group. Additional
 advice is given to ECRs on the production of outputs and bids, supplementing an updated
 mentoring system to support ECRs.

 Other mechanisms include:
    • A weekly research seminar series organised by each Division with both external and
        internal speakers, supplemented by seminars in other Divisions (e.g. HBS, Meteorology,
        Maths). During the COVID-19 pandemic, these were held online, enabling us to invite
        more international speakers and increasing staff and doctoral student attendance.
    • Major one-off collaborative industry/policy events (e.g., symposia on Housing Land and
        Future of Planning, 2019); Viability in Planning (with Economics; 2017); Argentinian
        Housing Markets, 2017); and the Future of Planning (part of the UK/Ireland Planning
        Research Conference, 2020, held online).
    • Hosting international academic conferences (e.g. American Real Estate and Urban
        Economics Association International Conference, 2014; European Real Estate Society
        Conference, 2018).
    • Activities within and across research groups to support the development of researchers,
        and connections between them – e.g., REFI group ECR emerging papers series; EEE
        group fortnightly discussion on research opportunities and emerging issues on specific
        research projects; and SBE RG technical seminars supporting postgraduate research
        students (PGRs) and ECR research skills.

 Research Integrity
 Both Divisions accord fully with the Concordat on Research Integrity and believe in the use of
 ethical, legal and professional frameworks, good governance and the support of ECRs. Both
 have strong research integrity processes, including training and support (with research ethics
 training embedded into our research mentoring processes), and School Ethics Committees
 review of staff and student research applications, with escalation of complex applications to the
 University Research Ethics Committee.

 Research integrity is further supported through internal peer review of proposals. Both SBE and
 REP have protocols such as the inclusion of acknowledgements of all contributions on papers,
 listing doctoral students before supervisor on joint papers, and through formal University
 procedures including compliance audits of individual Schools.

 Both Divisions are committed to open research and engage with the University’s Open Research
 Plan promoting research which is open, transparent and reproducible; though there are issues of
 commercial confidentiality with the use of confidential and/or private subscription data within
 some industry-funded applied research. Openness may be unavoidably limited in some areas.
 There is a commitment to a minimum of green open access for publications. There is full
 engagement with the University repository (CentAUR) with monthly reminders and support to
 upload items. Open data access for examination and replication of results is encouraged,
 examples being the data produced by the ADEPT project and the DEGW Archive (Section 3).

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.5 Research Strategy for next five years
 An important part of our strategy is to address research questions that flow from the dominant
 developments in recent years – such as the climate emergency, COVID-19, the financial crisis
 and construction risk, e.g. Grenfell. These are actual or potential catalysts for significant
 changes to our built environment with resulting risks to sustainable environments. In a user-
 focussed, applied discipline such as ours, this presents dynamic challenges, new priorities and
 research opportunities. We aim to bring together our wide-ranging and diverse perspectives on
 the built environment to help identify and research the likely consequences of these challenges.
 We have established experience in contributing to changes in policy and practice within
 commercial real estate financial stability, housing policy and practice, energy supply and
 demand management, and sustainable buildings, all evidenced within our impact case studies
 (Leads: Crosby, Torriti, Wyatt, Yao). These are in response to the Global Financial Crisis, the
 housing affordability crisis, and the climate emergency. In response to Grenfell, Hughes has
 given advice to MHCLG on procurement issues. In response to COVID-19, Street has bid to the
 Regional Science Association for work on post-COVID town centre recovery/regeneration, Dixon
 has given evidence to Oxford University’s COVID-19 Evidence Service Team, and Pain has
 researched the spatial spread of Covid-19 in the Wuhan region.

 To augment our flexible response to events, both Divisions have specific objectives for the next
 REF period. SBE aims to maintain and develop activity ‘across the scales’ as an interdisciplinary
 centre of excellence that addresses:
    • societal aspirations relating to the built environment.
    • the intersection of physical, biological and social environments that affect people’s lives,
        including quality of life, sustainability of communities, and wealth generation.
    • the resilience of the built environment sectors to threats such as long-lasting structural
        change (climate/energy) or periodic events such as COVID-19 and the Global Financial
        Crisis.

 Specific objectives over the next five years include expanding and broadening interdisciplinary
 construction-related research, fully integrating architecture and design studies into Reading’s
 overall research agenda, growing research activity on urban sustainability, and building on
 existing strengths in energy systems, energy supply and energy demand as they relate to the
 built environment.

 The REP stated vision is to ‘undertake world-class research that makes a positive impact on
 business, policy and society’. An over-riding objective is to develop the existing interdisciplinary
 research programme which examines the sustainability of the built environment through resilient
 and equitable development, investment, management and financing of both commercial real
 estate and housing. This will include developing research agendas around global and UK cities,
 the planning, design and governance of places, including the revitalisation of town centres, the
 financialisation of planning, including the capture of development land value and the provision of
 affordable housing.

 The priorities outlined do not just reflect the expertise of senior staff in the UOA, but also areas
 of strengths where we have recruited significant numbers of talented ECRs. Over a quarter of
 eligible staff in the submission are ECRs and supporting their development as research leaders
 will be one of the critical priorities of our research strategy, to maintain the sustainability and
 vitality of our research. To that end, we will continue to support ECRs in their development and
 to bring them into positions of research leadership where they will effectively shape future critical
 research agendas.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff
 The aim of our staffing strategy is to enable us to deliver both research and research-informed
 teaching across a broad range of activity while providing a depth of expertise commensurate

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with our interdisciplinary research-intensive Schools. Both Divisions follow University-wide
 inclusive, equitable and transparent policies in relation to staffing (IES, Section 3). In addition,
 each School has dedicated HR professionals to provide guidance and advice for staff
 recruitment, management, and support. Teaching and research (TR) and research-intensive (RI)
 contracts dominate but teaching-intensive (TI) contracts are used to underpin research time
 release and cover specific professional syllabi teaching requirements. TI staff are part of our
 wider research environment and add to funded research, scholarly activity, research culture,
 outputs and industry engagement (e.g. Sayce, Lees, Nicholls, D’Arcy).

 The Unit comprises 58.9 eligible FTEs of which 64% are in SBE and 36% in REP. Overall 25%
 are ECRs.

 SBE comprises 34 full-time and seven part-time eligible staff, in addition to eight TI staff. To
 support the introduction of Architecture and expansion of research in areas such as energy and
 environment and digital technology, two Architecture professors and 16 TR lecturers have joined
 SBE since REF2014, with six TR staff departures (including retirements). Of all eligible staff in
 SBE, nine are ECRs.

 REP comprises 20 full-time and two part-time eligible staff, together with 10 TI staff. Staffing
 levels in the current REF period have been relatively stable, with 13 TR staff in post throughout.
 Eight new TR/RI staff have arrived including a new BA Fellow, while six TR staff departed
 (including retirements). Of all eligible staff in REP, six are ECRs.

 Departures and retirements had limited impact across both Divisions due to the strong
 succession structure in place and the improving balance of staff across different levels of
 experience. Impending/current retirements from leadership roles are well covered by
 experienced professorial staff who in turn are supported by earlier career staff already
 experienced in research leadership roles.

 Induction through to promotion
 All new research staff participate in a structured induction programme, including orientation in
 policies and procedures (health and safety, finance, etc.). They are allocated senior research
 mentors, meeting them regularly to provide feedback on progression, draft outputs and funding
 proposals, as well as career planning. ECRs have a three-year probation period, and
 expectations and specific probation targets are discussed and agreed with the Head of School to
 ensure they can establish themselves as independent researchers. ECRs are afforded a
 reduced teaching/administration load during probation to help build research momentum and
 pump-priming resources for specific ECR activities are also available from the Research Deans.

 Promotion requires achievement of a minimum of ten criteria across academic citizenship,
 leadership, research, and teaching and learning excellence. TR staff are expected to complete
 the University’s Academic Practice Programme, leading to associate/fellowship of the Higher
 Education Academy which is a requirement for promotion. Trained promotion mentors from the
 senior staff guide applicants through the upgrade process and trained assessors apply detailed
 scoring criteria. Since 2014, there have been 11 internal promotions from TR lecturer to
 Associate Professor, including six ECRs (42% of ECRs), and six promotions from Associate
 Professor to Professor.

 Staff development
 All staff develop a five-year rolling Personal Research Plan (PRP). PRPs are discussed with
 RDLs on an annual basis, feeding into the annual formal Personal Development Review (PDR)
 process with the Head of School or designate. All reviewers receive mandatory training. PRPs
 and PDRs enable staff and the Head of School to identify development needs and plan support
 accordingly. The University provides a wide range of training opportunities for researchers at
 different career stages and delivers internal School transferable skills seminars.



                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Funding is available to support any staff development needs identified within PDRs, and to
 develop grant applications (Section 3). In addition, both Divisions have a staff sabbatical system
 and can use School-funded sessional lecturers to facilitate teaching release. Examples of
 prominent full- and part-time staff absence periods at other universities or working with industry
 and policy partners are, Parker (Royal Town Planning Institute), Crosby (Bank of England) and
 Marcato (LSE).

 Within SBE, a £1,000 allowance for probationary lecturers for their first three years is placed into
 a Staff Development Account (SDA) which can be used to support their research. SBE also
 allocates a 3% portion of the grants Full Economic Cost overhead to research groups in order to
 fund activity, and 5% to the PI/Co-I paid into their SDAs. In REP, all staff receive a £400 p.a.
 staff development allocation and full funding of academic conferences (budget £2,500 p.a. per
 FTE), together with journal submission/professional association fees paid by the School. PI/Co-
 Is are awarded 20% of any staff costs allocated to their time within funded research budgets,
 paid into their SDAs.

 2.2 Research Students
 The community of postgraduate students contributes significantly to, and benefits from, a vibrant
 research culture and represents the future research base. The University’s Graduate School,
 SBE and REP have developed their PGR programmes, nurturing the next generation of
 academics (especially within some professional built environment disciplines with shorter
 academic traditions). Improvements include:
     • a more proactive recruitment strategy
     • increased internal funding/studentships
     • joint supervision to improve the experience of both PGR students and new supervisors
     • enhanced future career support processes.

 The result is significant increases in both recruitment and completions and in the number of
 graduates obtaining academic posts. Overall, the number of completions was 135 (FTE 126.3)
 compared to 40 in REF2014, including joint interdisciplinary student supervisions in Biomedical
 Science/Engineering, Food Sciences & Nutrition, Weather, Global Development, Sustainable
 Agriculture, Informatics, Mathematics, Law.

 Table 1. PhD and Professional Doctorates breakdown (Headcount)
                2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/8                  2018/19    2019/20    Total
  SBE PhD          12         12         7        11        10             3          5        60
  EngD              1          4         5         7         4             7          2        30
  REP PhD           7          3         10        3         6            10          6        45
  Total            20         19         22       21        20            20         13        135

 The other major change is the balance of UK and overseas students and the increased diversity
 of those students. In 2013/14 the PGR cohort was 54% non-UK national, 35% female and 55%
 BAME. In 2019/20 it was 74% non-UK national, 34% female and 67% BAME.

 Application, recruitment and completion trends
 SBE: Between 2009 and 2018, the EngD completions were the product of the EPSRC-funded
 £6m Technologies for Sustainable Built Environments Centre (TSBE). Since 2017, as the TSBE
 Programme ran its course, a number of initiatives have been developed to ensure maintenance
 of a healthy level of PGR recruitment. These include:
     • development of SBE’s part-time and distance PhD training routes, encouraging more
        professional (industry based) and international applications.
     • the posting of subject-specific PhDs on Find-A-PhD.
     • sourcing a wider variety of funding, e.g. CaCHE and the Marie Curie Innovation Network.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to the University of Santo Tomas studentships, Architecture also won the University
 Anniversary PhD studentship award. These initiatives have increased enrolments since 2016
 and currently there are 39 full-time and 10 part-time doctoral students.

 REP: There are 14 full-time and two part-time students currently enrolled. The major objective
 over the last two REF periods was to increase the number and quality of PGR students. This has
 been achieved in the present period, with 45 completions compared to seven in REF2014. The
 completion rate within four years for 2009/10 to 2014/15 entrants was 79% with only two
 withdrawals. This all-round improvement has been achieved through a more structured
 approach to recruitment, supervision and training within the Graduate School, HBS and REP
 and the internal funding of PGR studentships.

 Recruitment and supervision
 Application procedures are similar in both Divisions and include feedback on, and joint
 development of, proposals from/with staff, as well as on-line interviews.

 SBE’s PGR students are funded externally mainly from Research Councils, the University of
 Santo Tomas scholarships and overseas government agencies. Around one-third of students
 are self-funded. REP offers five PhD studentships per year, matching ESRC award levels plus
 one Reading Real Estate Foundation (RREF) bursary of £15,000 per annum for three years.
 RREF is a registered charity that aims to strengthen the links between REP and industry. REP
 has used internal income, industry support (e.g. funding or in-kind data resources from BNP
 Paribas and others) and the annual RREF grant to support the significant increase in both
 recruitment, retention and completions.

 SBE also offers internal scholarships, and both SBE and REP offer Reading Alumni discounts.
 REP has also established the RREF-funded Research Excellence Fund in memory of Peter
 Byrne (former Head of REP who died in 2015), which can be used to support PhD students
 purchasing data or undertaking fieldwork.

 Students are allocated two or occasionally three supervisors. This policy has the benefit of
 ensuring continuity of supervision in the event of retirements/departures and providing a support
 mechanism for less experienced supervisors. It also facilitates the provision of valuable
 interdisciplinary support where appropriate. SBE also holds a periodic training forum for ECR
 PhD supervisors in addition to central training provision.

 There are two main types of assessment:
    • Annual reviews, which include two independent academic assessors. In SBE assessors
        may also recommend a six-monthly review.
    • Confirmation of registration occurs between 12 and 18 months which includes a
        presentation and ‘mini’ viva. Success in this process is a condition for continuation.

 Research training
 Induction programmes are delivered by both the Graduate School and the Schools. Compulsory
 training needs are delivered through the Graduate School’s Reading Researcher Development
 Programme, which offers 100 sessions based around four domains:
     • knowledge and intellectual abilities
     • personal effectiveness
     • research governance and organisation
     • engagement, influence and impact.

 International students also have English academic language support. Additional resources
 include the Statistical Advisory Service and career guidance/development courses. Three-day
 leadership skills development training is delivered across the University by HBS.

 School-level inductions include:
    • introduction to specific school procedures and resources

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   a compulsory Learning Needs Assessment within four weeks of starting, updated at each
        annual review and upon confirmation of registration.

 SBE delivers three workshops to support basic skills needed for a PhD including reading and
 critiquing, research methods and academic writing, and also organises an annual PhD
 conference where pre-confirmation students prepare a poster and post-confirmation students
 give presentations. It produces conference proceedings and awards prizes.

 PGR students in SBE can participate in graduate skills development modules run by the Faculty
 of Science and Life Sciences, are integrated into SBE research groups, and take part in the
 weekly SBE research seminar series.

 REP has integrated its PGR students into the HBS MRes-based doctoral programme and has
 been awarded ESRC doctoral training compliance, both for the SeNSS pathways Business and
 Management (led by Marcato) and Human Geography (led by Pain), endorsing REP’s significant
 interdisciplinary depth and breadth. The formal HBS PGR training programme directed until
 2020 by Marcato, includes a suite of eleven doctoral modules, which cover technical research
 methods support, and an annual one-day research student conference.

 Attendance by REP PGRs is required at the weekly term-time research seminars and at the
 monthly HBS research seminar series, which have been run on-line during the pandemic.

 Student feedback is based on a termly PGR research community meeting for students in SBE
 and elected student representatives in REP.

 Student support. SBE allocates up to £800 pa per student (expenses in excess of that figure can
 be obtained from the University Travel Grant Fund). Industry funded SBE students have a
 conference fund allocated by their sponsor. REP budgets £21,000 pa for PGRS to attend and
 present at major international conferences (actual spend was over £40,000 in the last three
 years).

 Career destinations
 Active support both internally and from the Graduate School is available for academic and
 industry post-graduation careers. The career destinations are known for 73 SBE/REP PhDs
 completing between 2014 and 2019, including:
     • Over 70% of the PhD graduates have taken up academic careers.
     • 24 of 46 PhD students in SBE went on to academic posts and three to jobs in research
         institutions. Two of the 18 TSBE EngD programme graduates are in academic posts with
         one other in research. Overall, 22 are employed in industry and four in government or
         similar.
     • 20 out of 29 PhD students from REP are working in academic posts with two in research
         institutes, two in government and five in industry.

 In summary, the realignment and expansion of the PhD programme since 2014 has been a
 success for the UOA as evidenced by the number of enrolments, completions and first career
 destinations. Improvements to all aspects of the PGR training process started in the previous
 REF period has resulted in a threefold increase in completions, averaging 18 per annum with
 around six from REP and 12 from SBE. Recruitment has also increased significantly with six
 new students per annum in REP and, since 2017, an average of 20 in SBE.

 2.3 Diversity and Inclusion
 The University of Reading holds an Athena Swan Silver Award in recognition of its work towards
 advancing gender equality. SBE and REP promote Athena values, with a strong commitment to
 gender equality among all staff and students. Our strategy throughout the REF period has been
 to implement the Athena SWAN principles and promote representation, progression and
 success for all.


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have put several formal and informal mechanisms in place to improve our diversity and
 inclusion (D&I). Firstly, we work in line with University-wide initiatives put forward by the
 institutional Diversity and Inclusion Strategy Group, under the leadership of the Dean of Diversity
 & Inclusion, to implement and evaluate relevant actions. In doing so, we ensure the
 implementation of all actions relevant to the Equality Act (2010), for example with regards to
 care responsibilities, parental leave and cover. Secondly, we ensure diversity in our recruitment
 panels and require panel members to undertake unconscious bias training.

 Thirdly, we have ensured that there is local leadership to drive the D&I agenda and that this is
 formalised in the governance structure. SBE has appointed co-directors of D&I who are
 members of the School Senior Management and Research Committees. The SBE document
 ‘Values for working together’ details D&I working practices within the School. SBE has been
 awarded Athena Swan Silver on three consecutive occasions (2009, 2013, 2017). REP D&I
 strategies are set within HBS arrangements. HBS established a D&I committee in 2017 to
 oversee all relevant issues within the School, and was awarded Athena Swan Bronze in 2020.

 The HBS D&I Committee and the D&I Directors in SBE regularly request feedback from staff via
 focus groups in addition to annual surveys of staff and students. This feedback provides
 evidence of whether policies and practices are working and informs actions and the further
 development of long-term strategies. Over the period we have:
     • formalised ECR support, offering specific and targeted support towards their career
        progression in line with the requirements of the UK Concordant to Support the Career
        Development of Researchers and the University’s Code of Good Practice in Research.
     • supported the transition back to the workplace for returning staff following extended
        periods of absence due to personal circumstances, such as maternity, adoption or
        shared parental leave, or ill health. All staff can request flexible working arrangements
        and two staff returning from maternity leave benefitted from a flexible contract, while five
        others moved to flexible part-time working during the period.
     • monitored staff wellbeing through annual University and School surveys (as well as
        PDRs).

 Direct action on appointments and promotions has resulted in increased diversity across
 UOA13, as reflected in our submitted staff profile. Across the UOA, the share of female staff has
 increased from 31% (2014) to 41% (2020). This share has been above 30% since 2012. The
 number of female full professors is 30% (2020). These are both considerably higher than the
 approximately 13% of female construction professionals in industry. Over 40% (seven out of 17)
 of the research-related management positions across both Divisions are held by women: Head
 of Department, RDL, research group lead, Director of D&I (2), Director of PGR Studies (2), in
 line with the proportion of all female staff.

 With regard to BAME staff, the proportion has remained almost unchanged for British staff at 8%
 (7% in 2014) but has significantly grown for non-British staff (57%, up from 47% in 2014). The
 proportion of fixed-term contracts has halved from 10% to 5% over the period. Our non-British
 academic staff account for over 45% and non-British full professors account for 30% of our
 professorial staff.

 D&I considerations in the construction of the submission
 RDLs and UOA leads attended two D&I training sessions to discuss unconscious bias in REF-
 related processes and to ensure that due consideration is given to D&I issues.

 For outputs, quality-assessment processes included internal allocation of papers based on
 appropriate subject expertise and ran in accordance with the guidelines of the University’s peer
 review framework (ROSS). A calibration exercise was undertaken in 2018 across the two
 Divisions to ensure similar processes and outcomes, including an external review exercise,
 using a sample of papers from both SBE and REP. No significant internal scoring differences
 were revealed. The University undertook an Interim Equality Impact Assessment in 2020 and a


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 bias analysis of the final outputs selection, revealing no statistically significant differences
 between protected characteristics for the available and selected output pool.

 The UOA Lead developed the submission portfolio based on quality assessments only, with final
 recommendations supported by objective criteria including discrete use of metrics in line with the
 University policy for responsible use of metrics, reporting regularly to the UOA steering group
 and the University REF Planning Group.

 For impact case studies, a continuing process of potential impact case study discovery was
 undertaken, with seven shortlisted for development by the internal UOA steering group in 2018.
 The final choice of five was made by the University’s REF Planning Group, informed by reviews
 undertaken by the Division impact leads and by staff external to the Unit.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income
 A revised strategy has been introduced since REF2014 in response to changes in the funding
 landscape, including a reduction in evidenced-based Government policy research. During the
 period we sought to:
     • diversify our sources of external income
     • enhance the support provided to staff to develop grant applications.

 As a result, SBE and REP have maintained a strong and diverse research funding portfolio from
 51 different sources with an overall research spend of well over £10m in the period 2013/14 to
 2019/20.

 Awards from five Research Councils account for 70% of the total income and remain a very
 important source, particularly for SBE. EPSRC funding totalled £3.1m including an award of
 >£1.21m in 2017/18 to fund the Reading element of the UK Centre for Research into Energy
 Demand Solutions (CREDS), a REF2014 strategic priority area (Torriti, DEePRED, REDPeAk,
 see impact case study) and £530,987 for the InfruTreeCity project (Li Shao). Other funding
 included ESRC (Sexton, Samuel, Clapham, Nunes, £460,000), AHRC (Samuel/Ewart,
 £255,000), NERC (Luo, Lu, £290,000) and MRC (Pain, £293,000 for the TRUUD project; Nunes,
 Murray, £26,000). These awards range across housing, the food/energy/water nexus, issues
 affecting the environment (such as environmental crime and the infrared radiative performance
 of trees), virtual reality environments creating virtual museums, multi-scale mapping, anti-
 microbial resistance, and architectural practice. Sustainability figures prominently in these
 awards.

 Other prestigious awards include the Leverhulme Trust (Chettiparambil, £16,000) and the British
 Academy Fellowship (Wargent, £260,000) for work on migrant networks and local planning.

 Examples of funding awards with new sources illustrate the widening breadth of the research
 activity across the UOA. They include awards from the UK Department for Transport-funded
 Association of Directors of Environment, Economy, Planning and Transport’s (ADEPT) SMART
 Places Live Labs competition (£315,000), part of Reading Borough Council’s successful £4.75m
 bid to use digital innovation technology linking traffic-detection, mobile-phone and air-quality
 data to produce a public health exposure model; Foreign and Commonwealth Office funding
 (Nanda, £65,000) for projects on sustainable transport and property market transparency in
 Panama and Iskandar; Scottish Land Commission (Shepherd, £26,000) for research on Scottish
 land taxation systems; UN Food and Agriculture Organization (Wyatt, £64,000) for research on
 land tenure and valuation systems; and Big Lottery Fund (Nunes, £7,500) for research into
 community gardening.

 Success in securing funding from European sources include European Institute of Innovation
 and Technology; Climate-KIC, Europe's largest public-private innovation partnership (Smith,
 Dixon, Hanna, £46,000) for work on innovation to mitigate and adapt to climate change;

                                                                                                    Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Architects’ Council of Europe (Farrelly, £16,000) for work on sustainable districts and smart
 buildings; and Danish Working Environment Authority (Tutt, £12,000) for work on how
 cooperation between Danish and foreign workers affects the working environment and safety on
 construction sites.

 International and national government funding represented around 25% of our total awards.
 Direct funding from UK Government Departments includes MHCLG (Wyatt and Parker, £80,000)
 for work on the Community Infrastructure Levy and Neighbourhood Planning, and the FCO and
 ADEPT-funded work mentioned above. The Technology Strategy Board has been a consistent
 source of funding for innovation and sustainability research across both Divisions (Sexton,
 Coker, Harty, Potter, Nanda, £187,000). Projects include smart charging systems and BIM. In
 addition to Big Lottery and SLC funding identified above, other Government sources included
 Local Authority (Crosby, Sayce; Islington Borough Council; and Street, Black; Reading Borough
 Council), related to land values and urban design and cycling, and the London Mayor’s Office for
 Policing and Crime (Shao, £28,000) to investigate live occupant location tracking to improve
 police service estate security.

 UK industry and professional charities are important sources of funding to underpin our
 impact strategy. REP secured over £200,000 of funding from the Investment Property Forum
 and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Research Trust across seven REVLMP/REFI
 projects such as liquidity, depreciation, valuation, development viability and leasing/rent,
 involving eight REP staff. Funding from professional institutions including the Chartered Institute
 of Building and the RICS Research Trust have contributed to over £400,000 of industry funding
 in SBE, which has also successfully leveraged funding from companies such as Berkeley
 Homes, Countryside, Social Life, Skanska and Balfour Beatty (Dixon, Harty, Connaughton,
 £130,000), from the Building Research Establishment (Sexton, £25,000) on the benefit of
 sustainable homes, from CrossRail (Nikolic, £80,000) for work on Design Reviews, and from
 Fleetdrive and CMS industries (Coker, Potter, £90,000) for various projects related to electricity
 charging capacity.

 Reading has been involved in several larger networks and collaborative projects. One
 example of an interdisciplinary, collaborative project was CycleBoom, an EPSRC funded RTPI
 award winning project completed in 2016 run out of Oxford Brookes University in collaboration
 with the Universities of Reading, Cardiff and West of England. The Reading team included
 Street (REP) with Van Reekum and Leyland from Psychology. Other funded research
 collaborations include CREDS, TRUUD and CaCHE, described in Section 4.

 As a newcomer to our UOA13, funding successes in Architecture reflect the development and
 integration of the Unit, and significantly shape its development. Samuel received an AHRC
 Leader Fellowship in 2015 for work on the value of architects, and a KTP with Stantec (£86,000)
 which is feeding into Farrelly’s vision for developing an Urban Room at Reading as a nexus for
 community, University and industry research. The Newton Interdisciplinary Links project
 between Reading and the Philippines University of Santo Tomas (Samuel, British Council
 £120,000) facilitated the development of the RIBA Social Value Toolkit for Architecture. Peters,
 in collaboration with Trinity College Dublin, is using Irish Research Council funding to investigate
 co-design and co-creation in community-level sustainability initiatives. Plaza has won a British
 Council Arts Digital Collaboration Grant (£18,000) investigating the exploration of architectural
 heritage in Caracas via mobile phone and Vasilikou is undertaking a project in Athens focusing
 on the generation of local and city-scale public space opportunities for low-cost and high-impact
 interventions. Wiezcorek (ECR) has exhibited her work on the evaluation of atmosphere at the
 2018 Venice Biennale.

 The strategy for both Divisions over the next five years is to continue to build from this strong
 base of funded activity, extend the proportion of staff bidding, by supporting ECRs, and secure
 funding from even more diverse sources.



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research bid support
 An enhanced University Bid Management System was implemented in 2015. It includes more
 rigorous peer review of bids at Research Division and Research Theme levels. Theme-level
 review is organised through a Research Theme Grant Development College, supported by
 central Research and Enterprise Services (RES). The process is designed to improve the quality
 of bids and success rates, ensure high-quality threshold standards and build proposal
 development capability. Division-level review is organised by group leads in SBE and by the
 REP RDLs, supported by their full-time Research Administrator. The new system has led to
 earlier communication of plans, better one-to-one support of proposal design within resaerch
 groups and by professional services, and perceived higher-quality bids.

 ECRs are supported by Research and Enterprise Services which provides training for grant-
 writing, particularly to help with their first or major external funding bids as PI or Co-PI.
 Successful bids from ECRs include Dowsett, securing Network N+ industry funding, Shepherd
 leading the SLC funded research, and the Plaza and Vasilikou projects described previously.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 SBE operates out of a range of high-quality accommodation across two campuses. At
 Whiteknights campus, Construction Management and Engineering is housed in purpose-built
 accommodation and energy research operates out of a second building. The School of
 Architecture is located in the former library of the University’s ‘red brick’ London Road campus.
 The building was refurbished to accommodate the School and its specific needs. The University
 plans to accommodate all of SBE in one building within 3 to 5 years. Across SBE, most staff
 have individual offices and there is dedicated, individual space for each PhD student.

 SBE has dedicated Resource Room, Visualisation Lab and BIM lounge space at Whiteknights.
 Managed by a dedicated part-time Resource Manager, these staff and PGR facilities include
 high-end computers, immersive visualisation technologies (such as Occulus Rifts) and 3D-
 printing facilities. Complementing the investment in technology, in addition to the University
 Library and other resources, SBE subscribes to 43 specialist data analysis, architectural design
 and publishing software applications (such as Sketch Up, Enscape 3D Sketch Up plug in, Fuzor
 Matterport, InDesign, Creative Cloud and Stata) and databases (BCIS, HIS Markit and CIS) at
 an annual cost of £15,000. In 2019, at cost of £12,500, SBE purchased two new drones, the
 software to support these, and the requisite staff training.

 At the London Road campus, staff and PhD students have access to specialist design software,
 dedicated computer facilities and workshop facilities. The workshops, staffed by two technicians,
 provide fabrication, 3D-printing and CNC facilities and services. There is ample studio space to
 support design projects. SBE has recently been gifted the DEGW Archive which documents the
 DEGW design practice work between 1971 and 1997. This archive comprises around 800
 documents (project reports, presentations and drawings, research and business reports)
 enabling time-series study of design methods.

 REP is housed in the purpose-built Henley Business School building. Full-time TR staff are
 accommodated in 20 individual staff rooms. Part-time and RI staff are housed in an adjacent
 building with space for visiting scholars. PGR students have individual workstations, many in a
 purpose-built screened ‘deck’.

 The HBS building, as well as significant formal and informal meeting space and a dedicated
 café, has two computer labs and the HBS library, which has a full suite of investment and
 finance research data resources. The HBS library spends more than £300,000 per year on
 specialist data/electronic library resources including Business Source Complete, Lexis Nexis,
 Proquest, Bloomberg, Reuters, Datastream, Thomson One Banker and (through the Wharton
 Research Data Services portal) CRSP, Compustat and Optionmetrics. A vast array of software
 packages is available for data analysis through the University’s ‘Apps Anywhere’ initiative,
 including various econometric software, NVivo, Matlab and Qualtrics.


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REP has access to specialist subscription real estate and planning based data such as the
 Investment Property Databank archive and the current MSCI databases of real estate
 performance data. Other subscription databases are BCIS (construction costs), Isurv, Egi and
 Co Star (property specific and deals databases), REVO (shopping centres), Planning Resource,
 EPRA (public real estate companies), and the UK Property Lending Survey. Research outputs,
 particularly in real estate finance, investment, development and appraisal, rely heavily on these
 databases (see Section 4). Additionally, MSCI, JLL, CBRE and other private firm datasets have
 been purchased separately (£17,500) within grant funding.

 Across both Divisions, all offices and workstations are equipped with the latest IT hardware and
 software and all academic staff have access to databases and electronic academic resources
 provided by the recently modernised and upgraded University Library (£40m).

 The University has invested heavily in professional research support including the introduction of
 dedicated Research Development Managers and Officers for each Research Theme. The
 impact strategy set out in Section 1 is supported through the Research Impact team providing
 dedicated support at Research Theme level. The team works with the Division Impact Leads
 (Dixon in SBE and Crosby in REP) and supports both the development of REF impact case
 studies and the generation of impact from other research projects through stakeholder mapping
 and the procurement of impact evidence. Through communities of practice and training, the
 University contributes to the development of our impact-focussed research culture. The
 University’s Impact Support Programme (BOISP) provides financial support for impact activity.
 UOA13 received £53,000 from BOISP to develop 10 projects, including £16,000 for four of the
 five submitted case studies, and a further £37,000 for six other projects operating within the
 wider definition of impact. Both Divisions have access to other professional services supporting
 impact, including Research Communications, Business Development (through the University’s
 Knowledge Transfer Centre) and professional research publications advice in the Library. REP
 can also access HBS marketing and business support and has a full-time Research
 Administrator.

 As well as its development of the support staff structure, physical infrastructure and financial
 support for open access publishing, the University provides financial support for research via two
 funds. In the REF period, the Research Endowment Trust Fund has awarded £61,503 to SBE
 and £29,269 to REP to support 17 individual research projects aiming to ‘build research
 excellence, foster interdisciplinary working, or support the development of large research funding
 bids’. It includes an annual grant of £1,000 to each Division to support local initiatives. The
 Research Travel Grant Fund assists with the cost of presenting research results and outcomes
 at seminars, events and conferences and is available to all academic and research staff and to
 doctoral students. It complements funds made available by Schools. In the period 2014-2020, 25
 awards (totalling £10,730) were made to staff in SBE. For REP, HBS covers the cost of all
 conference attendance from School funds.

 Additional University support comes from Reading’s UKRI Global Challenges Research Fund
 allocation. SBE have had two awards (Samuel £120,000 in association with British
 Council/Newton Fund on Eco-Social Surveying mapping social assets, urban greenery and the
 connections between them, and Luo £32,500 on Air Pollution Inequality in Rural China and Sri
 Lanka).

 RREF provides pump-priming fund of £10,000 for staff per annum as well as the annual PhD
 studentship. REP received the David Robins donation in 2018, consisting of £50,000 to support
 planning research at Reading.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 We have a multitude of relationships with other academic and research institutions, and with
 policy bodies, professional organisations and industry groups as research partners and users.


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These collaborations inform our strategic aims and objectives, help drive our research agendas
 and underpin our academic, policy and practice contributions to the discipline.

 4.1 Contribution to the academic discipline
 Impact strategy is an essential element to achieving our major objective set out in Section 1 - to
 contribute to the research base of our respective disciplines and develop applied research that
 addresses policy, practice and societal issues, and provides theoretically sound, evidence-
 based, and usable solutions. Impact is based on a combination of research output quality and
 engagement across the research process, from setting agendas to dissemination and aiding
 adoption by users.

 Reading’s impact on the research agenda is well illustrated by our involvement with CREDS,
 TRUUDS and CaCHE.

 CREDS is an EPSRC/ESRC-funded research centre comprising 100 academics across 15
 universities. Torriti is co-Director and heads the Flexibility stream, orchestrating a research
 agenda focused on the changing relationship between the timing and extent of energy demand
 on the one hand, and the provision and consumption of energy services on the other. Smith
 and Coker are project leaders within the Flexibility and Transport and Mobility Themes.

 TRUUD is a £10m project over five years involving five universities based at Bristol. Pain leads
 the Real Estate sub-package, researching health inequalities within urban planning and
 development systems within two major city/city regions.

 CaCHE is the ESRC/AHRC/Joseph Rowntree Foundation research centre bringing together 14
 organisations including 11 universities based at Glasgow. It aims to provide evidence-based
 research into a wide range of housing issues. Reading (Clapham, Meen (Economics), Foye)
 were heavily involved in its inception and Samuel leads the Place Theme, developing research
 into place-making and design value and its importance for health sustainability, social cohesion
 and the economy.

 Academic staff have held visiting positions within major universities all over the world including
 UCL, Xi’an and Chongqing (China), Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Copenhagen Business
 School, Chalmers University of Technology (Gothenburg), Sharjah UAE, Amsterdam and Delft
 (The Netherlands), NTNU (Norway), Tokyo and Tsukuba (Japan), Deakin and Melbourne
 (Australia).

 Examples of high-level peer review activity include:
    • Research Council peer review colleges: Chettiparambil, Cook, Connaughton, Dixon,
       Flanagan, Lu, Luo, Pain, Sexton, Shao, Schweber, Torriti, Yao and Green.
    • International research assessment or research grant review: European Commission and
       NWO WOTRO Science for Global Development and Smart Urban Regions of the Future
       (Pain); Hong Kong (Green, McAllister, Samuel, Li Shao); Canada, Singapore (Mohareb);
       Netherlands (Shao, Yao); China, Turkey, Portugal, South Africa (Yao)
    • Other peer review activity: Leverhulme (Shao), British Academy (Yao, Samuel), Royal
       Society (Yao, Smith), Royal Academy of Engineering (Farrelly).
    • REF 2021 UOA13 sub-panel membership and Queen’s Anniversary Awards for HE
       (Crosby).

 Examples of leadership roles in academic agenda-setting groups include Globalization and
 World Cities Research Network, GaWC (Pain Associate Director and Global City Planning
 Lead); Association of European Planning Schools, AESOP (Chettiparambil Secretary-General);
 American Real Estate and Urban Economics Association, AREUEA (Marcato International
 Board); Association of Researchers in Construction Management, ARCOM (Hughes, Lu,
 Schweber) and the International and European Real Estate Societies, IRES/ERES (D’Arcy).



                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Early career staff contribute fully and are building reputations: for example, Street is past
 secretary of the Royal Geographical Society, Planning and Environment Research Group;
 Vasilikou is a member of the AHRC Sensory Cities Network; Lu is UK management committee
 member of the COST inter-governmental framework responsible for the allocation of significant
 EU-based research funding.

 Five major journals are or have been edited or co-edited by Reading staff in the REF period,
 including Planning Theory (Chettiparambil Rajan), Construction Management and Economics
 (Hughes), Journal of Real Estate Literature (Mori), Arena Journal of Architecture (Samuel), and
 the Journal of Building Engineering (Yao). Vahdati is subject editor of Renewable Energy.
 Associate editor, editorial board and advisory board appointments across the two Divisions
 cover over 30 journals by more than 20 current and former staff.

 There are numerous examples of recognition such as academic conference keynotes and
 awards for research excellence and impact. Both projects and people have been recognised by
 government and professional/industry institutions. Examples include:
    • Yao – First Prize for Excellent Research by the Ministry of Science and Technology, PR
        China in 2017; First Prize for Advancing Science and Technology Award, Chongqing
        Government in 2015; and Second Prize in the 2019 National Education Awards, PR
        China
    • Street et al. were awarded the 2017 RTPI Academic Research Excellence Award for
        CycleBoom
    • Crosby and Sayce were commended runners-up in the same RTPI award for Viability in
        the Planning System
    • Pain was commended runner-up in the 2014 RTPI award for the REP contribution to the
        European Spatial Observation Network TIGER project
    • Crosby received the European Real Estate Society Annual Achievement award in 2014
        and was awarded Life Fellowship of the Society of Property Researchers and Life
        Membership of the Investment Property Forum
    • Both Parker and Crosby were elected Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences.
    • Parker, Wargent and Salter were awarded the 2019 RTPI Sir Peter Hall Award for Public
        Engagement for ‘Neighbourhood planning in practice’
    • School of Architecture, The Urban Room project - longlisted for the RIBA MacEwan
        award for projects that ‘make the world better’
    • Samuel’s 2014 AHRC Home Improvements project - shortlisted for RIBA President’s
        Medal for Research
    • Samuel’s (2020) RIBA President's Awards for Research in the Cities and Community
        category.

 Best paper/book awards/citations
    • Journal of Sustainable Real Estate Best Paper Award 2020 – Dixon for ‘Measuring the
        Social Sustainability of New Housing Development: A Critical Review of Assessment
        Methods’
    • Nick Tyrrell Research Prize 2018 – Ametefe, Devaney and Stevenson for ‘Optimal
        Composition of Hybrid/Blended Real Estate Portfolios’
    • Nick Tyrrell Research Prize 2016 – McAllister and Nanda for ’The Impact of International
        Investment on Real Estate Cap Rates’ Aareal Awards of Excellence in Real Estate
        Research 2014 – Mori, best paper award
    • Political Geography Research Group Royal Geographic Society Book Award 2020 –
        Plaza shortlisted for monograph Culture as Renewable Oil: How territory, bureaucratic
        power and culture coalesce in the Venezuelan petrostate
    • Art and Christianity Enquiry/Mercer Book Award 2014 – Samuel’s co-authored book
        Sacred Concrete: The Churches of Le Corbusier shortlisted
    • BRE Trust/UBM Ecobuild Wellbeing in the Built Environment awards 2014 – Dixon won
        best domestic paper for ’Creating Strong Communities: Measuring social sustainability in
        new housing developments’

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   ARCOM best paper awards – including Tutt (2018), Larsen and Green (2017), Larsen
        (2014), Boyd (2014)
    •   ERES best paper awards include K.Farrelly (PhD, 2014), Heinig (PhD, 2015).

 4.2 Collaboration with international, national, local government bodies and agencies
 A major element of our research and impact strategy is engagement with international,
 regional, national and local Government agencies and policy setting bodies.

 International examples range from multiple contributions to research in China, to the
 International Energy Agency (Torriti, Yao) and the United Nations (Wyatt).
     • In China, Essah is a Visiting Associate Professor of the National Centre for International
         Research of Low-Carbon and Green Buildings in the Ministry of Science & Technology
         and at the Joint International Research Laboratory of Green Buildings and Built
         Environments, Ministry of Education.
     • Yao is Committee member of the China Green Building Council in Chongqing and
         International Expert Advisor in Urbanisation and City Development (appointed by the
         Ministry of Science and Technology).
     • Between 2016 and 2020, Green was Honorary International Co-Director, Joint
         International Research Laboratory of Green Buildings and Built Environment, Chongqing
         University (funded by PR China Ministry of Education).
     • Pain is expert advisor to the Chengdu Municipal Government and the Guangzhou Urban
         Research Strategy Unit and has developed a major research programme into global
         business connectivity facilitated by real estate financial services and related sustainable
         urban and regional development policy.

 In the UK, staff have or have had formal research links with BEIS (Samuel), DEFRA, Ofgem and
 British Standards Institute (Torriti), Bank of England (Crosby), West of England and Greater
 Manchester Combined Authorities (Pain), and the Greater London Authority (GLA) (Samuel,
 Crosby).

 Advice to Government or other related institutions is evidenced within impact case studies
 around the subjects of property appraisal, neighbourhood planning and energy management.
 Ad-hoc advice also includes Hughes to MHCLG on procurement issues in the aftermath of the
 Grenfell Tower fire, Wargent’s evidence to the Commission on the Future of Localism, Ball’s
 evidence to a UK Government Select Committee and to MHCLG ministers on the impact of
 aging on housing, Crosby’s advice to the International Monetary Fund on Financial Stability and
 Marcato’s advice to both the BOE and the Financial Conduct Authority on Mortgages. Samuel
 gave advice to the UK Chief Scientific Officer within BEIS on research and development and to
 MHCLG on Design for Better Places. Pain has been consulted by the BEIS Industrial Strategy
 Council Places Project. Nunes was an expert member of the working group on Building Lower
 Carbon Economies for the Government Office for Science’s Rebuilding a Resilient Britain
 project, and chaired sub-group 4 – economic development.

 Local Government engagement includes Bray, who is a Design Review Group panel member,
 Southampton City Council and Pain’s role on the Thames Valley Berkshire Local Enterprise
 Partnership Local Industrial Strategy Commission. Kane is a member of the London Borough of
 Southwark Design Review Panel since 2007. Doak was a member of the Reading Borough
 Council Green City Forum until 2016. Samuel is a CABE Built Environment Expert.

 Marcato chaired the 2019 conference ’Climate Change: The Science, The Economics, The Law’
 as part of the Mayor of London’s Climate Action Week and moderated a conference at the
 Argentinian Embassy in London on renewable energy opportunities in Argentina.




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Engagement with national and international industry-based agenda setting bodies
 Our impact strategy expects engagement with industry, both nationally and internationally, in
 order to contribute to their research and practice agendas. This enables us to both identify and
 drive those agendas and undertake applied research with significant impact in these areas. Our
 impact case studies showcase three very distinctive and major research agendas which span
 our research capacity and have considerable impact on industry practice. These include energy
 demand (people and planet), property valuation (place and prosperity), and neighbourhood
 planning (people and place). They range across a variety of sustainability and resilience issues
 (sustainable real estate finance, planning and development and energy management), and
 illustrate the importance of this engagement.

 Engagement leadership role highlights include contributions to CIB (International Council for
 Research and Innovation in Building and Construction), a worldwide network of over 5000
 experts and 500 member organisations active in BE research. Larsen was chair of Working
 Group 65 (Organisation and Management), the oldest and largest of its international working
 groups shaping research agendas. Eight other staff across both Divisions are CIB members.

 Connaughton is a past chair of CIRIA, Harty is vice chair BSRIA, Samuel is Vice President
 (Research) of RIBA, Green and Hughes have chaired panels for CIOB and BSI. TI staff D’Arcy
 and Sayce have chaired/chair the European Public Real Estate Association Research
 Committee/RICS Research Trust.

 There is also significant engagement with the leading national and international professional
 institutions including board, committee and panel memberships contributing to research
 agendas. Examples include Architect’s Council for Europe (Farrelly); RICS, IVSC, TEGOVA,
 (Crosby, Wyatt, Sayce); RTPI (Parker).

 Local and regional engagement includes the Reading 2050 project (Dixon) described earlier;
 Bracknell town centre regeneration (Street, Nicholls), and the Thames Valley Local Economic
 Partnership (Pain).

 4.4 Conclusion
 Our major aim as set out in Section 1 is to support and enhance the development and
 management of sustainable built environments within an environmental, socio-economic and
 policy context. The objectives are to reduce the pace of climate change and provide built
 environment solutions for the planet, enhance the design, management and use of property and
 places, and improve the quality of life and economic prosperity of people. We believe that we
 have provided evidence within outputs, impact case studies and this statement that we have
 achieved our objectives across a wide range of sub-disciplines within the remit of UOA13.

 There are a number of areas where we feel we have made a significant contribution to
 enhancing sustainable environments and we will continue to develop these and new areas in the
 next REF period. For example, we have contributed to the sustainability in planning agenda with
 our collaborative work into the boom in cycling (Street) and Dixon’s work on technical standards
 in green infrastructure evaluation and master planning. Other work includes research into the
 social value/social sustainability of places and housing (Samuel, Dixon), regeneration of town
 centres (Street), connectivity and sustainability of global city regions (Pain) and the work
 evidenced in the impact case studies on neighbourhood planning and affordable housing
 provision.

 Our work on energy forms part of the strong, University research priority on climate change and
 we have given substantial evidence in this statement of our interdisciplinary work across the
 University with Meteorology and the Walker institute and the external collaborations within
 CREDS.

 Collaborative SBE-REP work for the BRE Trust on ‘Recognising mutual benefits of sustainable
 homes to all stakeholders’ (Sexton, Dixon, Wyatt) is part of an agenda that looks at the design of

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sustainable and resilient places and buildings. Yao’s impact case study on design standards in
 China and other work such as the impact on rents and values of energy efficient buildings
 (McAllister, Wyatt, Van de Wetering), the promotion of sustainable practices in the construction
 industry (Schweber), and research into ‘Smart Cities and Big Data in the Built Environment’
 (Dixon), all contribute to improving the development and management of sustainable practices
 within the built environment and to changing behaviours.

 Our contribution goes wider than sustainable built environments. A significant example with
 global reach is our contribution to the development of the commercial real estate research base
 and its influence on the industry. The quality of the contribution is represented by the significant
 number of research outputs submitted by REFI and REVLMP contributing staff, including
 leavers, with some major collaborations across the two research groups on depreciation,
 liquidity, and performance measurement. The impact of Reading on the development of the
 industry research base is considerable. The Investment Property Forum in 2020 identified nine
 Key Contributions for impact on industry practice from the 76 projects it had funded over the last
 20 years. Four were either led or had significant contributions from Reading academics,
 including the work underpinning our commercial real estate and financial stability impact case
 study. The commercial real estate research programme has made a significant contribution to
 global development within the discipline, as have many other areas of our work across UOA13.




                                                                                              Page 21
