Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: UoA19

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 Achievement of Strategic Aims for Research & Impact during this assessment period

 Sussex’s Department of International Relations continues to be a leading centre for critical and
 politically engaged research in IR. With a research community of 32 faculty and around 50
 doctoral and post-doctoral researchers, all working on or with aspects of critical IR, the
 Department is home to one of the largest – if not the largest – such concentrations of IR
 scholarship in the world. Our research spans historical and normative international theory, global
 political economy, war, violence and security, and international development, plus newer
 substantive areas like global health policy and global environmental politics. Conceptually, our
 research draws upon, and contributes to the development of, Postcolonial, Poststructuralist,
 Marxist, Feminist, Queer, Green, critical constructivist, and analytical philosophy traditions.
 Geographically, our research spans the globe, having involved fieldwork during this cycle in
 every continent bar Antarctica – from South Sudan to Colombia and North Korea. It seeks to
 combine theoretical innovation and reflection with wide-ranging political and public engagement
 from policy advice to governments and international organisations through to work to empower
 activist communities or to challenge abuses of state power. Recognizing the essentially
 interdisciplinary nature of the field, our research contributes to IR-specific debates and its sub-
 fields and engages with cognate disciplines to addresses cross-disciplinary issues.

 This unique intellectual profile is reflected in, and sustained by, distinctive institutional structures.
 The IR Department is housed within Sussex’s School of Global Studies, the only such school in
 the UK, whose departments and programmes – Anthropology, Geography, the interdisciplinary
 International Development programme, and IR – all share a commitment to critical, theoretically
 informed and politically engaged research, especially in relation to questions of global inequality
 and injustice. The Department’s internal research architecture combines Department-wide
 systems and activities, as detailed below, with six semi-autonomous research centres, which
 each have their own programmes of activities and act as venues to showcase and facilitate
 research and engagement. One of these centres – the Centre for Advanced International Theory
 (CAIT) – is primarily committed to innovation and debate on IR theory. The other five centres –
 the Centre for Global Political Economy (CGPE), the Sussex Centre for Conflict and Security
 Research (SCSR), the Centre for Global Health Policy (CGHP), the Centre for Colonial and
 Postcolonial Studies (CCPS), and the Sussex Rights and Justice Research Centre (SRJRC) –
 are cross-disciplinary, combining IR leadership with extensive collaboration with colleagues from
 across the University and beyond. Both through these centres and independently, IR
 researchers engage extensively in publishing and fund-raising with researchers in the Institute of
 Development Studies (in turn contributing to Sussex’s QS ranking as the world’s number one
 location for Development Studies research for four years in succession), in Sussex’s Science
 Policy Research Unit (SPRU), ranked first in the UK and third in the world of Top Science and
 Technology Policy Think Tanks in 2019, and through the UK Trade Policy Observatory based at
 Sussex. These institutional arrangements help simultaneously to sustain a strong departmental
 identity, a rich culture of intra-disciplinary pluralism and autonomy, and extensive cross-
 disciplinary collaboration.

 Our approach to engagement and impact has been developed to both reflect and sharpen these
 critical, theoretically informed, and interdisciplinary orientations. We view engagement as an
 organic part of the research process which, at its best, builds on relationships initially cultivated
 with research participants. We routinely seek to bridge the theory-praxis divide, both by
 translating insights derived from practical political struggles into theory, and by presenting
 theoretically informed analyses to policy and practitioner audiences. Our approach recognises
 that researchers and non-academic ‘users’ typically have different priorities; that the relations
 between the two can be fraught and conflict-ridden; that engagement is a deeply political activity

                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which requires constant negotiation and adjustment; that even the best and most politically-
 relevant research can be ignored if it does not align with established interests or perspectives;
 and that impact work when done with integrity, sometimes requires one to walk away. Sussex IR
 researchers thus pursue a wide range of impact strategies, from the ‘insider’ co-generation of
 research and policy outputs right through to ‘outsider’ strategies of ‘speaking truth to power’,
 holding to account and public critique.

 Since 2014 our overall aim has been to consolidate the Department’s position as a nationally
 and internationally leading centre for critical IR. This has involved four main and mutually
 reinforcing strategies. A first has been to extend our research into dynamic new areas to help
 redefine the boundaries of both critical IR and interdisciplinary enquiry in the present time. Thus
 we have significantly enhanced our profiles on post-colonialism and race (especially through the
 appointments of Bhambra, Ali, Danewid, Richter-Montpetit, Tabar), on gender, sexuality and
 queer IR (Owens, Weber, Dyvik, Kirby, Mehta, Richter-Montpetit), on militarism, war and society
 (Owens, Stavrianakis, Brighton, Dyvik, Ford, Rivas, Verweijen, Wise, Brenner), on human rights
 (Odysseos, Coleman, Karp), on global health governance (Elbe, Faulkner, Roemer-Mahler,
 Rychnovská), on environmental politics and political ecology (Newell, Gammon, Selby,
 Antoniades, Brock, Verweijen), on labour and development (Selwyn, Gray), on the meaning and
 practice of neoliberalism (Knafo, Gammon, Germann), on religion as a force in world politics
 (Petito, Sheikh), and on the point and purpose of the discipline of IR (Rosenberg, Wilkinson,
 Dyvik et al).

 Alongside this we have researched and written widely on key recent international developments,
 from Brexit, the Trump presidency and the rise of right-wing populism (Bhambra, Rosenberg,
 Selby, Gammon, Jahn), to crises in the Middle East (Matin, Sheikh, Tabar), to the 2014-16 Ebola
 crisis and current Covid-19 pandemic (Elbe, Roemer-Mahler), artificial intelligence (Weber) and
 the deepening climate emergency (Newell, Selby). Our doctoral and post-doctoral researchers
 have likewise engaged with some of the most pressing global political questions, from global
 health governance, water conflict and the political economy of biodiversity conservation to the
 impacts of the financialisation of the global economy. Across all of these areas we have sought
 to be at the cutting edge of debates about contemporary global (dis)order and IR’s responses to
 and understandings of it.

 A second complementary aim has been to support the production of research of the highest
 quality, and to publish with highly ranked journals and world leading publishers. Thus our
 publications since 2014 have included monographs with Cambridge (Owens, Karp, Newell),
 Oxford (Weber, Richter-Montpetit forthcoming), Johns Hopkins (Elbe), and Stanford (Germann
 forthcoming); and multiple articles with such highly-ranked publications as European Journal of
 International Relations (Danewid, Germann, Selwyn, Weber), International Studies Quarterly
 (Jahn, Owens, Weber, Wilkinson, Germann), Review of International Studies (Elbe, Roemer-
 Mahler, Stavrianakis), Review of International Political Economy (Bhambra, Elbe, Gray, Knafo,
 Newell) International Theory (Teschke, Gammon, Karp), Security Dialogue (Ali, Dyvik, Elbe,
 Martin, Richter-Montpetit, Stavrianakis) Journal of Peasant Studies (Newell, Verweijen) and
 Global Environmental Change (Newell, Selby). Our doctoral and post-doctoral researchers have
 also published in leading outlets and gone on to secure positions at Oxford, LSE, UCL, LSHTM,
 SOAS, Queen Mary, York, City, Loughborough, Sheffield and overseas to Utrecht, Uppsala,
 Bangalore and Renmin. During their doctoral work our students have published in leading
 journals such as Cambridge Review of International Affairs, Third World Quarterly,
 Globalizations, Geoforum and Review of International Political Economy.

 The quality of our research has been supported by research funding which has more doubled in
 size over this period and been derived from a greater diversity of funders. This includes more
 traditional sources of funding such as the ESRC, the EU, British Academy and British Council,
 but also from bodies such as DfiD, the KR foundation and Climate KIC, as well as non- social
 science bodies such as the Wellcome Trust, NERC and EPSRC. The impact of our publications
 has also been recognised with a number of awards. This includes Danewid’s paper which was
 co-winner of the EISA prize for the Best Article in EJIR in 2019, while Weber was winner of the

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ISA LGBTQA Caucus Award for best book for Queer International Relations which also won the
 Yale H. Ferguson Award which honours ‘the book that most advances the vibrancy of
 international studies as a pluralist discipline’. Owens, meanwhile, won both the Susan Strange
 Prize for the Best Book in International Studies and the International Studies Association Theory
 Section Best Book Award for her book Economy of Force. According to Scopus data, over 30%
 of all our research outputs are in the top 10% citation percentiles (as opposed to 18% at the start
 of this REF period). Research quality has also been bolstered by a robust culture of research
 integrity which involves a school level ethical review committee which assesses all applications
 to conduct fieldwork research and research governance mechanisms at University level
 including the Research Governance and Quality Assurance Committee and the Research Ethics
 and Integrity Committee. Sussex has signed the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity
 and has an implementation plan to support this. Our compliance with open access requirements
 is also monitored and reported on an ongoing basis by research administrators in the school
 (see University Environment statement for further details on the above).

 Our third aim has been to significantly increase the volume of our non-academic impact and
 engagement work, and to fully embed this work into our research. Key to this has been the
 development of supportive impact infrastructures at department, school, and University levels
 (detailed in section 3 and in the University’s environment statement). But it has also involved a
 broader cultural shift within the department in which all researchers are now encouraged to
 cultivate impact and engagement opportunities. As a result, the clear majority of the
 departmental faculty now regularly undertake engagement work. As illustrated in section 4, this
 has included wide-ranging and often highly creative attempts to communicate theoretically-
 informed analyses to non-academic audiences (e.g. Weber’s use of queer theory to engage with
 UN agencies), as well as the development of concrete policy proposals (e.g. Newell’s proposal
 for a Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty which was presented to the UN Security Council by
 former Irish President Mary Robinson). It has included extensive co-working, at one end, with
 international organisations (such as the WHO and WTO) (Elbe; Wilkinson) and with arms of the
 British state (such as the FCDO, and BEIS) (Dyvvik; Newell; Petito) and, at the other, with a
 range of NGO, civil society and protest movements (Coleman; Newell; Stavrianakis). And it has
 involved a large amount of media and social media work: the large majority of faculty have
 written media articles or been interviewed by media outlets during the census period, and some
 (e.g. Matin) are regular contributors to TV and radio debates. IR researchers have also written
 widely on the impact agenda itself (Jahn, Selby, Coleman, Newell and Stavrianakis).

 Moreover, sensitive to the importance of embedding our ethic of critical engagement within our
 own personal and institutional practices, we have made important research-led contributions to
 both curriculum reform (e.g. decolonising the curriculum) and institutional change (e.g. on
 energy and climate policy) at Sussex, as detailed in section 4. Our impact case studies also
 reflect our distinctively critical, theoretically-informed and interdisciplinary approach to impact
 and engagement: Selby’s work combines political ecology and historical materialism in IR to
 contest conventional readings of environmental conflicts, Stavrianakis’s work with NGOs is
 informed by scholarship on the arms trade rooted in critical security studies on militarism, and
 Petito’s work on freedom of religious belief builds on his earlier contributions on inter-religious
 dialogues.

 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 Our strategic goal is to further advance the standing of the department as an internationally
 leading centre for high-quality critical IR scholarship – through the excellence and significance of
 our research, sustained societal engagement and impact, the development of new and creative
 funding opportunities through further interdisciplinary research and the vitality of our PhD
 programme.

 Consolidating our position as a leading centre for critical scholarship in IR

 As a stand-alone IR department, we have one of the largest concentrations of IR scholars

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working across a range of critical traditions. Our contributions to them will be advanced through
 the publication of defining monographs for their respective subfields. Contracts have already
 been secured for books on race (Richter-Montpetit), austerity and neoliberalism (Germann), the
 global political economy of energy (Newell) and uneven and combined development
 (Rosenberg). At the same time, we are embarking on a strategic hiring programme designed to
 broaden and update our critical expertise into emerging areas like Science, Technology and
 Security, Race and Colonialism, Intersectionality, and non-Western Political Theory, as well as
 novel methodological approaches like ethnographic security studies. We have both the
 processes and structures in place to ensure that we preserve and enhance this reputation. The
 research centres host events, debates, awards and prizes and sessions where colleagues get
 feedback on abstracts. In addition, we have a departmental seminar series, reading groups and
 a peer review college. We have Professors across each of the key areas able to provide
 leadership, mentoring and raising the profile of research in their domain. Our critical reputation
 will also be supported through further institutionalization of practices – including the hiring of and
 systematic support for BAME faculty, complete gender equality within the department across all
 levels, the mainstreaming of support for disabilities, a systematic program of decolonising the
 curriculum and our research and an active commitment to inclusive pedagogy.

 Sustained societal engagement

 We will, first, deepen existing partnerships with civil society, governments, and international
 organizations in areas such as the arms trade, religion, and climate change. Second, we aim to
 establish cooperation with new groups of actors on issues and in regions where we have not
 worked before (in new areas of the Middle East for example). Third, we are planning to
 systematically develop our media work through the production of accessible materials and the
 use of creative new formats (such as film and exhibitions) (Newell and Weber) to further public
 engagement. This co-production of research, training and consultancy is supported by the
 University’s strong commitment to engagement and impact – and at School level through the
 Impact Advisory Committee that brings academics and social actors into conversation (see
 section 3 for more details).

 Increased interdisciplinary cooperation

 Internally, we are enhancing cooperation with the natural sciences and medicine (Elbe, Roemer-
 Mahler, Antoniades), development studies (Wise, Newell, Selwyn), science and technology
 studies (Elbe, Roemer-Mahler, Rychnovska) as well as neuroscience and neuropsychology
 (Gammon). We will continue to host workshops on new areas of work that seek to transgress
 disciplinary boundaries such as international historical sociology (Teschke, Rosenberg, Matin),
 joint funding raising for inter-disciplinary research (with IDS and SPRU) (Newell, Brock) and
 working within inter-disciplinary research programmes within the university such as SSRP
 (Roemer-Mahler, Antoniades, Newell). Externally, we are cultivating new partnerships in addition
 to existing ones (with Cornell, Ghana, Georgetown, Copenhagen, Zacatecas). The Sussex-
 Cornell Partnership has led to a common MA degree that will begin recruiting in 2021 which will
 in turn provide the basis for faculty exchange and research cooperation. Similarly, a
 postgraduate progression agreement with Mahidol University in Thailand will provide the basis
 for increased research cooperation. An MoU has been signed with the University of Ghana and
 the recently established Sussex-Ghana Strategic Fund will support the expansion of research
 collaborations, especially in the fields of global health and sustainability. Crucially, these
 partnerships allow us to attract new forms of research income not traditionally accessible to IR
 scholars.

 A vibrant and engaged PhD cohort

 Going forward, we will develop an innovative strategy to recruit and support the next generation
 of critical IR scholars through our PhD programme. The new faculty hires will further pluralise
 our research methods training at departmental level. This will be complemented by the


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expansion of training and funding for our students through SENSA and the doctoral training
 centre. We seek to ensure that the profile of our PhD cohort reflects our commitments to equality
 and diversity, impactful research, and critical contributions to the discipline of IR. To this end, we
 will continue to integrate research students systematically into the management committees of
 the research centres – thus providing them with a leading role in setting research agendas and
 early opportunities for academic leadership.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Having expanded significantly since 2014, Sussex IR has a good balance of established and
 early career faculty, and greatly improved gender, and to a lesser extent, ethnic profiles. We
 currently comprise 32 faculty, up from 25 in 2014, this includes eleven Professors (6 male and 5
 female), two Readers, nine Senior Lecturers, and ten Lecturers. 16 of our 32 faculty members –
 exactly half – are women, while 17% are BAME, and 10% of our faculty have a disability where
 the department takes special care to meet their needs in the working environment.

 Our staffing priorities since 2014 have essentially been fourfold. The first has been to recruit
 primarily at early career level, with high-quality researchers who would invigorate the department
 and expand our issue, theoretical and geographical coverage in cutting-edge areas of research;
 and to use such appointments to improve the diversity of our staff base while countering the
 sector-wide trends of casualisation. 80% of the IR faculty are under the age of 50. Thus eleven
 of the 13 independent researcher appointments made by the department since 2014 have been
 at lecturer level. Eight of these eleven lecturer level appointees have been women, and three
 from BAME backgrounds. Moreover, while only two of the eleven were initially appointed on a
 permanent basis (Rivas, Verweijen), four were made permanent at the end of one-year contracts
 (Ali, Mehta, Wise, Brock), one took up a position elsewhere before returning on a permanent
 basis (Richter-Montpetit), and three moved on to academic or diplomatic positions elsewhere
 (Antunes de Oliveira, Martin, Scarpello). 97% of our staff are on permanent contracts: thus, only
 two of our current 32 research faculty are on temporary contracts, where the Covid-19 crisis has
 prevented us from making those posts permanent. We have also sought to minimise the use of
 teaching-only contracts: only one such contract has been used since 2014.

 A second priority for the department has been to maintain continuity, provide intellectual and
 organisational leadership, and build upon our performance in REF 2014. Central to achieving
 this, has been to maintain, and where possible enhance, the vibrancy, professionalism, and
 collegiality of our research environment; and at the same time, to recognise and reward
 excellence through internal promotions. To this end, since 2014 seven faculty have been
 internally promoted to Professor (Odysseos, Owens, Selby, Selwyn, Teschke, Gray,
 Stavrianakis), plus two to Reader (Knafo, Roemer-Mahler) and five to Senior Lecturer (Coleman,
 Dyvik, Ford, Germann, Karp). Six permanent faculty have left the Department since 2014
 (Brighton, Kirby, Mehta, Owens, Wilkinson, Selby) to take up prestigious positions elsewhere, for
 example, as Professor of International Relations at Oxford University (Owens) or as a Pro-Vice
 Chancellor at the University of New South Wales (Wilkinson). To strengthen leadership in the
 department and across each of our core research areas, the Professoriate in the department has
 more than doubled from five to eleven.

 Third, we have sought to make a select number of high-quality senior appointments to provide
 additional leadership and raise the department’s profile in new areas of research. Bhambra was
 recruited for her intellectual leadership and profile on post-colonialism; she is currently Director
 of our Centre for Colonial and Postcolonial Studies and is key to our efforts to decolonise
 teaching and research. Wilkinson was recruited for his administrative skills and expertise in
 multilateralism and trade. Following three years as Head of Department, he served as the
 University’s Deputy Pro-Vice-Chancellor (DPVC) for Education and Innovation before recently
 taking up a Pro-Vice-Chancellor (PVC) role in Australia. The department currently has a very
 well-balanced demographic profile, including eight Professors who have not yet served as Head

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Department, so we envisage no major problems with the future management of research
 activity or succession planning.

 Last, at all these levels our aim has been to consolidate our existing profile as a centre for
 critical, theoretically informed, politically engaged and simultaneously discipline-facing and
 interdisciplinary IR, but also to extend our research in new ways. Thus our appointments have all
 been concentrated in particular cutting-edge growth areas, most notably post-colonialism and
 race (Wise, Danewid, Bhambra, Tabar), gender (Mehta, Richter-Montpetit), counter-
 radicalisation (Ali, Martin), political ecology (Verweijen, Brock), and the broader area of critical
 security studies (Ali, Danewid, Richter-Montpetit, Rivas, Verweijen, Wise). These recent
 appointments have also enhanced our regional expertise, especially on Afghanistan (Rivas),
 Palestine (Tabar) and Sudan (Wise); have extended the department’s commitment to
 interdisciplinarity (Bhambra is trained in sociology, Rivas in development studies); and have
 been congruent with our objective of fully embedding impact and engagement work into our
 research (as illustrated in section 4).

 Our focus on early career recruitment, combined with a relatively stable senior staff base, mean
 that supporting staff development has needed to be one of our priorities – at all levels. To this
 end, we have prioritised three things. First, we have established a consistent research appraisal
 and mentoring system, oriented to both monitoring progress and more importantly to discussing
 research challenges and priorities, and developing medium and long-term plans. Each spring
 faculty complete (or update) a research planning form, which addresses short to long-term
 research, funding and impact strategies and goals; this is then the subject of a meeting with the
 department’s Director of Research, as well as an input into annual appraisal meetings with the
 Head of Department; and any issues arising from this process are followed up on during the
 course of the year. In addition to this, early career and newly appointed faculty each have
 dedicated mentors to advise on publication plans, funding, and impact strategies.

 Second, we have sought to complement these top-down processes with improved mechanisms
 for peer learning and support. We have established a departmental Peer Review College, for the
 supportive internal review of draft outputs, funding applications and impact documents (this
 system is coordinated by the Director of Research; involves, each year, up to ten faculty who
 each receive workload points for their reviewing; use of the Review College is mandatory in the
 case of funding applications and voluntary but strongly encouraged for other material). Our
 research centres hold regular ‘abstract sessions’ and ‘research cafes’ for feedback on project
 ideas and draft papers. Workshops are also regularly held on, inter alia, writing and publishing
 strategies, engagement experiences and funding opportunities. We have a number of internal
 working groups and reading groups (for example on political Marxism, uneven and combined
 development and the politics of nature), plus we have weekly term-time ‘Research in-Progress’
 seminars, which feature a mixture of internal and external speakers and which all faculty not on
 leave are expected to attend. In addition, there are an array of School- and University-level
 support mechanisms (as detailed in section 3 and in the University environment statement).

 Third, we have sought, through improved workload planning, to minimise conflicts and exploit
 synergies between teaching, administrative and research demands. The Head of Department
 operates a transparent and equitable Annual Planning of Workload model which includes a 40%
 time allocation for research. Faculty now also have the option of concentrating their teaching in
 one semester to carve out additional time for research and most do this. All have the right to six
 months of sabbatical leave after three years, subject to approval of a research plan.
 Administrative roles are allocated, whenever possible, to support career and research
 development. For example, leadership of our research centres is mostly done by faculty outside
 the Professoriate, including Lecturers, to help them develop experience and networks where
 Richter-Montpetit is Director of CAIT and Ali of SCSR, for example. All research-related
 administrative duties are recognised in our workload planning system, including membership of
 the Peer Review College and mentoring. Impact and engagement work are also recognised so
 that faculty developing impact case studies are given a 5% time allocation for this work. The
 above applies to all faculty, including those on temporary contracts, while new appointees

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 receive a 10% workload reduction during their first year.

 The IR department at Sussex has hosted 9 postdocs over the course of this period. Some have
 been recruited through grants from ESRC (Baker) EPSRC (Royston) and ERC (Buckland-
 Merrett). Besides training in research methods and research management through direct
 involvement in administration of the projects, they have also been mentored to publish their own
 research in articles in journals including New Political Economy and Global Environmental
 Change and Global Challenges. The main mechanisms for supporting and integrating postdocs
 into the life of the department are through the mentoring scheme, association with one of the
 research centres and opportunities to present work as part of the seminar series or more
 informal research cafes and feedback events. We also ask postdocs to deliver a small amount of
 teaching to integrate them into the department and enhance their career prospects.

 We have also had staff seconded to external organisations, such as Stavrianakis working with
 Saferworld and successfully acquired funded visiting fellowships to universities in North and
 South America (Colombia, Brazil, Argentina, US) Europe (France, Sweden, Denmark) and
 Australia (Sydney, Queensland). Over this period, we have also received 20 visiting fellows
 across all areas of our work, including one as a university supported Asa Briggs fellow working
 with Weber. Beyond this, many of the centres have hosted high profile figures such as journalist
 and campaigner Andrew Simms, associate fellow of CGPE. The department has been able to
 successfully attract ESRC impact acceleration funds (IAA) to actively support relationships with
 business and civil society organisations. For example, Newell received financial support to host
 an event with The Carbon Trust in London involving businesses in discussion about aligning
 their corporate strategies with the goals of the Paris agreement, and addressed the plenary of
 the ‘Future Build’ construction industry conference on the theme of climate emergency, while
 Weber was supported in her work with UNAIDS. The department actively encourages faculty to
 play leadership roles with external organisations. For example, Stavrianakis is board member of
 Corruption Watch, Newell sits on the board of directors of Greenpeace UK, while Gray is a
 member of the International Advisory Board of Women Cross DMZ, a US-based organisation
 aimed at building peace on the Korean peninsula and Antoniades is a member of the academic
 advisory committee for the Jubilee debt campaign.

 Research students

 During the assessment period, we have contributed to the award of 36 doctorates, up by 20%
 from the 30.4 awarded during 2008-13. We receive on average 75 applications from doctoral
 students per year. Doctoral research funding during the current cycle has included 10 ESRC
 awards), a NERC PhD scholarship, a further 8 scholarships from governments and foundations,
 a SENSS ESRC doctoral scholarship and a SENSS grant for a three-month fellowship at
 Rutgers University in the US. The quality of our doctoral programme is evidenced by our
 researchers’ many publications and awards, and their subsequent career trajectories. The
 quality of the scholarship produced by our PhD students has been recognised with prizes such
 as the Best Graduate Student Paper Prize in the Global Health Section ISA 2018, while Joanna
 Wood was awarded the Schlesinger Dissertation Grant and the Joan Challinor Award for her
 work on the role of women in the intellectual history of IR. Remarkably, one of our MA students
 also had their work published in Cambridge Review of International Affairs.

 We view regular, engaged supervision as crucial to the doctoral research process and to the
 overall vitality of our research community. Supervisors are tasked both with providing expert
 guidance on research design, theory, and the substantive content of doctoral projects, and with
 mentoring and supporting the career development of their researchers. All doctoral researchers
 have two supervisors; in the large majority of cases these are joint supervisors who attend all
 supervision meetings and comment equally on written work. In most cases both supervisors are
 IR faculty, but joint supervision across departments is typical for interdisciplinary projects (during
 this cycle, this has included faculty in the Institute of Development Studies (IDS), SPRU,
 Anthropology, Media, History, and the Medical school). Doctoral researchers meet with their
 supervisors at least monthly, though more frequently during their first year when the focus of

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their projects is still being sharpened and records kept of all meetings and agreed outcomes. In
 recognition of the work required, supervision loads are fully accounted for in the faculty annual
 workload planning system.

 All doctoral researchers go through an annual review process every summer term, in which both
 researchers and supervisors give written feedback on progress, and each researcher meets
 individually with the Department’s Doctoral Programme Convenor. Beyond this, all first year
 researchers are required to produce an extended research plan, which is first presented to the
 department’s research community, and is then revised, submitted, assessed by an independent
 member of faculty, and then often revised once more, with progression to the second year being
 conditional upon satisfactory work. Progress is overseen by the Convenor working with a
 dedicated Doctoral Programme administrator, the School Director of Doctoral Studies, and the
 University Doctoral School.

 Doctoral researchers are thought of as full members of the department’s research community.
 All first, second and third year doctoral researchers present their work to the department each
 spring, in dedicated doctoral workshops which all faculty not on leave are expected to attend.
 Doctoral researchers are, like faculty, expected to attend weekly Research-in-Progress
 seminars. Each new researcher is also required to join one of our research centres and
 participate in its activities. Doctoral researchers are encouraged to use the Department’s peer
 review college for draft journal articles and grant applications. Research students also
 participate, and sometimes lead, in organising research centre and reading group activities.
 They are heavily involved in collaborative research, including co-authoring, with faculty such as
 Odysseos, Knafo, Newell, Germann; Coleman, Selwyn, Elbe and Teschke. Our PhD students
 also work with faculty in delivering core first and second year undergraduate courses. To
 facilitate all of this, faculty and doctoral research offices are now co-located, with all doctoral
 researchers having shared office space plus access to School and central University computing
 facilities (including the University Library’s Research Hive, a dedicated area for researchers
 used primarily by PhD students), and common room. All students receive financial support to
 attend one UK or international conference per year and the University hosts a Researcher-Led
 Initiatives Fund to support training, development, and engagement activities.

 Professional development and research training events are organised at Departmental, School
 and University levels. The University Doctoral School offers a large programme of events on
 research skills and technologies, personal effectiveness, and public engagement and impact.
 The MSc in Social Research Methods, run out of the School of Global Studies, offers more than
 25 modules each year on research design and qualitative and quantitative methods; our doctoral
 researchers regularly attend and audit these modules. The School has also run a doctoral
 lecture series, in which doctoral researchers present an aspect of their research to audiences of
 undergraduate and masters students; training is provided for these lectures, which are recorded
 and followed by a debriefing. To provide more discipline-specific training, the Department runs a
 dedicated Research Methods in IR course for doctoral researchers; and periodically organises
 discipline-specific training events, especially events on publishing (e.g. workshops on publishing
 in IR journals and turning PhD into books, and meetings with IR subject commissioning editors).

 The Department has also participated in two important cross-institution doctoral research
 colloquia. The Aberystwyth-LSE-Sussex Colloquium ran from 2013-16, as a forum for 3rd and 4th
 year IR doctoral researchers from the three institutions to present their work to one another and
 attending faculty. The Sussex-Copenhagen International Politics Seminar began in 2012, but
 continued in this period involving visits from four to five doctoral researchers and a couple of
 faculty visiting Copenhagen, and is organised around a designated seminar theme, all-day
 presentations and peer review-style feedback – all with the aim of supporting doctoral training
 and networking. Meanwhile, 111 of our undergraduate students have participated in study
 abroad schemes in Asia, Africa, Europe, Australia, North and South America over this REF
 period.

 Equality and diversity

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Members of the School of Global Studies within which IR sits actively challenge racism, (hetero)
 sexism, homophobia, transphobia, ableism, and oppression in all its forms and promote equality,
 diversity, and inclusion across the range of our work. In practical terms, this involves targeted
 training for mentoring and support at School level and mentoring for all new staff with specific
 programmes for BAME staff. The University also has a high level, public commitment to
 supporting equality and diversity through the Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion policy. The School
 has supported this with key, senior level appointments to support inclusion in priority areas
 including BAME recruitment, retention, and progression at all levels of research, LGBTQ+
 students and staff, the Gender pay gap and mental health. In October 2017, the School of
 Global Studies launched Mind the Gap (MTG) – a BAME Student Support and Mentoring Pilot
 project to enhance the BAME experience at Sussex, through the provision of pastoral and
 academic support and mentoring to increase overall levels of achievement.

 Within IR, full account is taken wherever possible of the different challenges and circumstances
 people face in seeking to conduct their research and all staff are required to undertake training
 on ‘diversity in the workplace’, while those involved in recruitment and REF preparations are
 expected to have also taken part in equalities and diversities training on unconscious bias. The
 department operates a running programme of decolonizing its syllabi and particular attention is
 paid in Research in Progress seminars to citation policies. We also have both a BAME and
 disabilities champion at department level. Other concrete measures include adjusting the timing
 of research seminars for those with caring responsibilities, provision for flexible working to
 recognise those with caring duties, support for remote working and responsiveness to requests
 for special equipment to work around disabilities. Four members of staff with disabilities have
 reduced workloads of 10, 20 or 30% and teaching schedules and administrative roles are
 adjusted accordingly. We are also attentive to dynamics around seniority and gender among
 presenters and have made conscious efforts to invite more scholars of colour to present their
 work. Beyond this, our recruitment strategy is aimed at diversifying faculty, achieving a balance
 on hiring committees and new positions are framed to increase the likelihood of attracting
 diversity of thought and background. The department’s research committee and peer review
 college seek to achieve a balance around gender and seniority to address issues of unconscious
 bias that may arise in selecting REF outputs and providing feedback to colleagues. This has
 meant that outputs selected for the REF reflect closely the balance of colleagues with protected
 characteristics in the department.

 Addressing gender inequities is also of the utmost importance to the department and the school.
 The University median gender pay gap for 2019 is 18.2%. We work closely with the Centre for
 Gender Studies at the University of Sussex to challenge university cultures on equality and
 diversity and actively participate in their programme of events with staff to raise awareness of
 these issues. The department also wholeheartedly subscribes to the University’s ‘Trans and
 Non-Binary Equality Policy Statement’ which prohibits discrimination against people on the
 grounds of their gender identity or gender expression, supports the University of Sussex LGBT+
 Staff Network and works closely with the Centre for the Study of Sexual Dissidence given the
 overlap with our own work on sexuality and sexual difference. In addition, the School of Global
 Studies has a set of guiding principles to deal with issues of bullying, prejudice and harassment
 in the workplace and members of the department have actively participated in events and
 provided support to work raising awareness of mental health issues.

 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 Total research funding since August 2013 is £2,542,472, more than two and a half times the
 amount compared with the previous REF period (£939,000). Research project funding has been
 secured from funders as diverse as research councils such as ESRC, EPSRC and the ERC, the
 British Council and British Academy, foundations such as KR, government agencies such as
 DfiD and the FCDO and NGOs such as Stand Earth and Save the Children. Funded projects
 have included major awards, such as Elbe’s €1.2 million ERC award for research on
 Pharmaceuticals and Health Security, and prestigious funded fellowships such as Newell’s ISRF

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Political Economy Fellowship. Going forward into the next period we have 22 live projects of a
 value of £1,830,980.

 In addition to this funding, the Department has been awarded 14 funded visiting fellowships, and
 event funding from sources including ESRC, UNDP, UNEP, the Italian Ministry of Foreign
 Affairs, ISA and 5 grants from BISA. We have also benefitted significantly from internally
 allocated research and impact funding, including 14 awards from the ESRC Impact Accelerator
 Award (IAA) (to the value of £82,600), 7 Research Opportunity Fund awards, and HEIF funds of
 over £10,000. This is in addition to awards from the internal Sussex Sustainability Research
 Programme to the value of nearly £300,000 (Roehmer-Mahler, Antoniades, Newell) which in one
 case led to a successful bid with colleagues in Biological Sciences to NERC of £160,000
 (Newell). This funding has been important to supporting our impact work. Internal funding from
 IAA was critical to enabling Weber to given in-person lectures to UNAIDS staff in Geneva and a
 virtual lecture to 800 UNAIDS staff worldwide. It also allowed Newell to attend the UN climate
 change negotiations to build support for this proposal for a Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty
 around which an international campaign is now organised.

 In line with the principles and mechanisms detailed above, our strategy for generating research
 income involves four main elements. Our overall approach is that all areas and types of research
 undertaken in the department are fundable: hence we have applied for and secured funding
 across all of the our main research areas, and have secured funding for theoretical and
 discipline-facing as well as interdisciplinary and ‘problem-solving’ projects (e.g. Dyvvik’s work for
 International Alert or Newell’s work for the NGO Stand Earth building the evidence base for
 ‘supply-side’ climate policies). We recognise, though, not all areas of research are equal in their
 income generation potential, and that unsuccessful applications carry significant opportunity
 costs; hence regular applications are encouraged but not required.

 Second, we use our appraisal, research planning and mentoring processes to discuss
 expectations, identify appropriate funding sources and design appropriate application strategies.
 Third, we seek to make full use of our departmental peer learning and support systems, as
 discussed in section 3, to identify funding opportunities, develop project ideas, and ensure the
 high-quality internal review of draft applications. All applications go through our Peer Review
 College where they receive detailed feedback from at least two members of faculty (and when
 deadlines permit applications are reviewed multiple times). Fourth, we have sought to diversify
 our income by successfully attracting funding from new foundations such as the KR foundation,
 think-tanks (such as Climate KIC), government agencies (such as FCDO) and donors (such as
 IDRC) as well as research councils beyond the social sciences such as EPSRC, NERC and
 Wellcome Trust. We have also been able to significantly increase the amount of income we
 attract from commissioned research and consultancy up from just 5 awards in 2014 to 43 in the
 year 2019-20. Last, we make extensive use of the department, School and University-level
 research support infrastructures detailed below, especially our department research centres and
 internal University funding schemes as described above.

 The department’s organisational infrastructure for supporting research and impact has three
 strands, all overseen by its Director of Research. The first two of these are the department’s
 Peer Review College and its REF Committee, which are oriented respectively to providing
 supportive internal advice on draft material, and to assessing and providing formal feedback on
 published outputs and preparing the departmental REF submission. Above and beyond these,
 however, our primary vehicle for developing and supporting research and impact is our six
 research centres. These centres each receive School of Global Studies core funding which is
 then supplemented with project funding, and all benefit from part-time administrative support.
 Broadly speaking, they engage in six types of activity. They organise internal networking and
 research development events, such as the abstract workshops and research cafes already
 mentioned. They sponsor and organise large external-facing events and platforms, including
 regular conferences and workshops (as detailed in section 4), lectures with high-profile
 academic and non-academic speakers (who, since 2014, have included Wendy Brown,
 Mahmood Mamdani and Yanis Varoufakis), and other activities (for instance, CAIT awards, and

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with CUP sponsorship, an annual Sussex International Theory Prize). The centres regularly host
 visiting fellows (since 2014, a total of 20 have been hosted, some with Sussex-secured external
 funding: e.g. during 2016-17 SCSR hosted Yoav Peled on a Leverhulme visiting professorship).
 They provide support with the communication of research findings and impact and engagement
 material (including through the use of social media and maintenance of centre websites).
 Simultaneously, they serve as a useful contact point for potential non-academic partners and
 users, often to productive effect (for example, Dyvik’s research on safeguarding in development
 was sparked by an open approach to SCSR from Save the Children UK). They also provide
 training and capacity building for research students who are actively involved in the
 management of the centres and, for example, sit on their prize committees. And they provide
 basic administrative support for funding applications, and for a range of funded, impact and
 collective research projects (for example, CAIT provided vital administrative support during
 Sussex’s editorship of EJIR). As such, our centres are crucial to many of our fundamental
 research objectives, whether this be to create spaces for vigorous intellectual debate, to nurture
 cross-disciplinary collaborations, or to more fully embed impact and engagement work into our
 research.

 Beyond the department, both the School of Global Studies and central professional services
 teams provide vital funding and impact support (see also the University environment statement).
 Funding applications are coordinated by a dedicated full-time School Research and Enterprise
 Coordinator and the University’s Research Development Office (RDO). All applications of over
 £500K go through a School-level peer review process as well as the department’s peer review
 college system, where they are reviewed by experienced academics in cognate disciplines. And
 the RDO operates a number of internal funding schemes such as SSRP, from which the
 department has benefitted extensively as spelled out above. At School level support for impact
 and engagement comprises a senior academic School Impact Lead, who oversees all impact
 work and support across the School; a professional services Research Impact and Engagement
 Manager; targeted funding support for specific impact activities; and a dedicated School Impact
 Advisory Board, which includes members from across Whitehall, national and international
 NGOs, the private sector and media, and which convenes twice a year to discuss impact
 opportunities and strategies, and to enable academics to present and discuss their work and
 receive feedback on their impact case studies for the REF. The University organises regular
 impact and engagement training events, most importantly its annual Sussex Impact Day. The
 ESRC IAA programme funds the School’s Impact Advisory Board, and also supports the
 Policy@Sussex initiative, a network of professional service staff across Sussex’s five social
 science schools which works with academics to produce policy briefs and other impact material.
 In addition, the IAA programme has directly funded projects by several IR faculty, including
 Newell, Selby, and Wilkinson. This funding helped support Newell’s attendance at the UN
 climate negotiations in Paris where he participated in high-level side events and Wilkinson’s
 work with trade delegations at the WTO. At department level faculty are also supported with an
 annual £750 research allowance, plus a research incentive fund derived from indirect costs on
 FEC-funded projects.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

 Over the last seven years we have made wide-ranging contributions to research, the economy
 and society, underpinned by extensive and sustained academic and non-academic
 collaboration. We have published, in addition to the 36 special issues and 28 edited books
 already mentioned, 14 monographs, 292 peer-reviewed journal articles, and over 72 edited book
 chapters. Many of these publications have received the highest scholarly recognition. Prizes
 have included the ISA Yale H. Ferguson Award, which honours ‘the book that most advances
 the vibrancy of international studies as a pluralist discipline’ (2017, for Weber’s for Queer
 International Relations); the ISA Theory Section Best Book Award and BISA Susan Strange
 Book Prize (both 2016, for Owens’ Economy of Force); the New Political Economy Graduate
 Student Prize (for Germann’s analysis of the fall of Bretton Woods); the ISA Edward Said Award,
 for ‘outstanding graduate research on global development’ (2017, for Danewid’s ‘White
 innocence in the black Mediterranean’ and 2020 for the EISA prize for best paper in EJIR for her

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 article on the Grenfell disaster); and the ISA Theory Section Best Paper Prize (2017, for Wise’s
 ‘Genocide in Sudan as colonial ecology’).

 Dedicated forums on our work have been published in International Studies Quarterly (on Weiss
 and Wilkinson’s ‘Rethinking global governance?’), Political Geography (on Selby’s ‘Climate
 change the Syrian civil war’), Millennium (on Weber’s Queer IR), and Security Dialogue (on
 Owens’ Economy of Force). Some of our publications have sparked extensive and on-going
 debate: Rosenberg’s ‘IR in the prison of political science’, for instance, has been the subject of a
 forum in International Relations, an ISA roundtable, an EWIS workshop, and 11 panels during
 EISA 2019 while Elbe’s, Pandemics, Pill and Politics was also subject of ISA roundtable.
 Altogether, 16 of our books and articles have been translated from English, into a total of 15
 different languages.

 We have sought to expand the department’s contribution as a provider of intellectual ‘public
 goods’ serving as editors of 10 academic journals. This includes the provision of the entire
 editorial team of the European Journal of International Relations, the highest ranking IR theory
 journal outside the US, between 2013 and 2017 (lead edited by Jahn together, variously, with
 Newell, Owens, Kirby and Knafo) which under Sussex editorship, rose from 15th to 11th position
 in the IR rankings, and saw its average review time cut by a third to just 36 days. But also co-
 editing Globalizations (Gray), Millennium (Danewid) and International Feminist Journal of Politics
 (Weber), as well as serving as associate editors on a variety of leading journals such as Security
 Dialogue (Stavrianakis) and Global Environmental Politics (Newell), the Journal of IR and
 Development (Karp) and the British Journal for Military History (founded and edited by Ford
 2014-18). We have also sat on the editorial boards of 36 other journals. We edit six book series,
 including Manchester’s series ‘Theory for a Global Age’ (Bhambra), Rowman and Littlefield’s
 ‘Resistance Studies’ (Odysseos), Bristol University Press’s ‘Gender, Sexuality and Global
 Politics’ series (Dyvvik) and Routledge’s ‘Global Institutions’ (Wilkinson). We have convened four
 BISA working groups, on Global Health (Elbe, Roemer-Mahler), Critical Studies on Terrorism
 (Ali), Ethics and World Politics (Karp) and Historical Sociology and IR (Matin), as well as the ISA
 Global Health section (Elbe, Roemer-Mahler). We have chaired numerous conference sections
 (e.g. Dyvik, EISA Critical Military Studies section, 2018 and 2019) and prize committees (e.g.
 Petito, Best Book, ISA Religion and IR section, 2019-20; Newell ISA Sprout award for best book
 on the environment and BISA Susan Strange award for best book in IR 2015-16). We have also
 played leadership roles in some of the major IR academic associations, including Jahn as
 President of the European International Studies Association (EISA) from 2019 and Wilkinson as
 Vice-President of the International Studies Association (ISA) from 2017-18. In addition, we have
 organised and hosted, both at Sussex and elsewhere, many more conferences and workshops
 than during previous REF cycles convening or co-convening a total of 40 one-day workshops
 and 28 multi-day conferences, the latter including a major conference on ‘What is the point of
 IR?’ to celebrate the department’s 50th anniversary and a major conference on the role of the
 BRICs in global development and one on pharmaceuticals and global health policy.

 Other key indicators of our scholarly influence and contributions include the conferral of Jahn,
 Rosenberg, Weber and Wilkinson as Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences, Bhambra as a
 Fellow of the British Academy and of Wilkinson and Newell within the Royal Society for Arts. The
 recognition received by Weber for her career contributions includes an ISA Feminist Theory and
 Gender Studies Eminent Scholar award, an ISA LGBTQA Caucus Eminent Scholar award, and
 the American Political Science Association’s 2014 decision to name their conference paper
 award in the field of Sexuality and Politics ‘The Cynthia Weber Best Conference Paper Award’.

 Our contributions to Research Council and funding body committees include the Wellcome Trust
 Expert Review Panel (Elbe) and the EPSRC Peer Review College (Selby is the only political
 scientist on this) as well as funding bodies overseas such as Formas in Sweden (Newell) and
 the main Belgian social science funding body BELSPO (Newell). Many faculty have given
 keynote conference addresses, including to the German Sociological Association (Bhambra,
 2018) and the Millennium conference (Odysseos, opening keynote 2018). We have also
 attracted many funded and competitively awarded visiting fellowships, including to the Wilson

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Center (Gray, 2017-18), the University of Copenhagen (Teschke, 2015-18) and LSE (Kirby,
 2016-18) and the University of Queensland (Newell 2018).

 Sussex IR faculty make a wide range of contributions to politics, economy, and society, which go
 well beyond those documented in our three impact case studies. To close, we offer a series of
 diverse illustrations of this impact and engagement activity, including of the collaborations and
 interactions through which it is pursued. Firstly, regarding contributions to international
 institutions, with ESRC IAA funding, Weber has given in-person lectures to UNAIDS staff in
 Geneva and a virtual lecture to 800 UNAIDS staff worldwide; co-authored a report with UNAIDS
 staff on the implications of artificial intelligence (AI) and big data for responses to HIV; given
 personal briefings to senior staff in a number of UN agencies; and more broadly has helped to
 shift internal conversations within the UN system about the implications of AI for health
 governance. Gray has also undertaken extensive impact work on international policy towards
 North Korea, including through a day-long FCO training course; multiple private briefing for
 diplomats, including for the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in North Korea; and
 opinion pieces in high-profile outlets such as Fortune and Newsweek; multiple international
 media interviews.

 Secondly, regarding contributions to society, in 2018 with funding from the KR foundation,
 Newell co-founded the Rapid Transition Alliance to showcase what he calls ‘evidence-based
 hope’ about the possibility of rapid transitions to sustainability. With a membership in excess of
 100 civil society organisations worldwide, the Alliance was launched in parliament with cross-
 party MPs; was the subject of a BBC video which received more than 45,000 views in its first two
 weeks; and has informed an art installation at London’s Barbican Centre. Newell and Alliance
 co-founder and CGPE associate fellow Andrew Simms’ subsequent call, first made in The
 Guardian, for a Fossil Fuel Non-Proliferation Treaty, has received support from Naomi Klein, Bill
 McKibben, the heads of Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth, and former climate minister, Sir
 Ed Davey, and the former Irish President Mary Robinson; and a coalition of NGOs, whom Newell
 is advising, are now taking the idea forward. Coleman, meanwhile has provided expert input for
 lawsuits relating to forced disappearances and extrajudicial executions around BP’s oilfields in
 Colombia; and in collaboration with War on Want and with ESRC IAA support, has brought
 together activists and public interest lawyers from Colombia, South Africa and the UK to discuss
 new strategies for contesting corporate violence. Building on an initial approach to SCSR, Dyvik
 has undertaken research with, and funded by, Save the Children on child safeguarding in
 humanitarian contexts; has produced an internal report and toolkit for Save on the issue; has
 advised other UK development NGOs on safeguarding practices; and has co-authored a UK
 Collaborative on Development Research evidence review on safeguarding and development.

 Thirdly, in terms of contributing to broader public debates about the economy and society,
 Bhambra has made wide-ranging contributions to public understanding on Brexit, migration and
 the racialised legacies of empire, including through her involvement in debates at Tate Britain,
 the Showroom, and the Cheltenham Literature Festival; a Tedx talk which has been viewed over
 100K times; and multiple media interviews, including on BBC Radio 4’s Thinking Allowed. Lastly,
 Sussex IR faculty have also made important contributions to institutional change at Sussex
 through work on equalities and race (as described above) and sustainability. Newell, working
 together with Sussex students on the Fossil Free Sussex campaign, played a key role in
 Sussex’s 2018 decision to divest out of fossil fuels. Selby, in work funded by the RCUK Demand
 Centre, produced an analysis of Sussex’s carbon emissions reduction performance which led
 directly to a decision by senior management to invest £1.5m installing 3000 solar panels on
 campus, the largest such installation in any UK university as part of its Go Greener programme.




                                                                                           Page 13
