Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 3

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Over the past 6 years the University of Hull (UoH) has significantly increased its support for
 multidisciplinary, translational, healthcare research through substantial investment in staff and
 infrastructure, e.g. >£28m investment in its health campus, improvements in processes that enhance
 equality and diversity, and encouraging a vibrant research culture. Together, these actions enable
 impact to be effectively delivered.
 During the REF period the University has undergone a major reorganization with the strategic aim
 of strengthening existing collaborations and facilitating focused investment in several new cross-
 cutting initiatives, e.g. Institute for Clinical and Applied Health Research (ICAHR) and the Wolfson
 Palliative Care Research Centre. The Faculty of Health Sciences (FHS) established in August
 2017 encompasses all the Institution’s healthcare research (Biomedical Science, Medicine,
 Midwifery, Nursing, Psychology, and Sports Health & Exercise). A strength of healthcare
 research in Hull is the close working relationships across the health professions
 embracing staff at both the University and local acute NHS Trust, the latter was renamed The
 Hull University Teaching Hospitals (HUTH) NHS Trust in 2019; reflecting the increased emphasis
 and value of the research partnership. This strong relationship benefits healthcare research at all
 levels and facilitates translation into practice for patient benefit.
 The UoA3 submission comprises 63 members of staff (44% female/56% male; 60.17 FTE): 22
 FTE Biomedical Scientists, 9.6 FTE Nursing and Midwifery staff,18.45 FTE Clinicians and Clinical
 Psychologists (Hull York Medical School, HYMS) and 10.12 FTE Biostatistics & Clinical Trials
 staff. The submission is principally White Caucasian (87%) with BAME comprising 11% and 3%
 not known, and 9% are recorded as having a declared disability. UoH is committed to nurturing
 the next generation of research leaders and 13 staff within UoA3 submission (20%) are classified
 as early career researchers (ECRs). Healthcare research at Hull can be broadly classified under
 5 multidisciplinary thematic areas that include staff from their various disciplines (Figure 1).
 Figure 1. Overview of healthcare research clusters at the University of Hull
                                                                   Centre for
                                                              Atherothrombosis &
                                       Prof T Palmer           Metabolic Disease
                                      Prof M Hardman
                                     Prof T Sathyapalan
                                                                                               Maternal, Reproductive
                                            3 ECR
                                                                                                  & Sexual Health
                                           20 FTE
      Cancer – Imaging,                                                        Prof M Hayter
   Diagnostic & Prognostic                                                     Dr R Sturmey
            tools                                          ICAHR*              Prof C Martin
                                                    (Trials & Methods)
                                Prof M Lind                                       9.6 FTE
                                                           Dr J Cohen
                             Prof A Maraveyas             Prof A Rigby
                             Prof J Greenman                6.67 FTE
                                   5 ECR
                                   14 FTE

                                                  Prof E Moniz-Cook         Primary Care, Palliative Care
                                                    Prof R Watson             & Long-term Conditions
                                                    Prof F Murtagh
             * Institute for Clinical and                5 ECR
              Applied Health Research                  10.9 FTE




 Each area is led by senior members of staff with established funding streams, and these provide
 a vibrant research ethos in which postgraduate students are trained in cutting-edge technologies
 and skills relevant to their project. Core equipment, masterclasses with leading national and

                                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 international guest speakers, seminars, and researcher exchange workshops are shared across
 the thematic areas, with staff and students being actively encouraged to work at the
 interdisciplinary boundaries.
 Institute for Applied and Clinical Health Research (ICAHR) The Institute is based in the new
 Allam Medical Building at the heart of the University’s £28-million investment in its health campus,
 and was opened by Her Majesty The Queen in November 2017. The purpose of our state-of-the-
 art institute is to develop and sustain a world-leading health research hub which supports a range
 of specialist research groups. The Allam Medical Building has excellent teaching and research
 facilities, >50 networked computers, bookable research rooms, and innovative breakout spaces,
 all of which have facilitated networking and generated a research “buzz”. ICAHR comprises three
 core research groups (Academy of Primary Care, Maternal, Reproductive & Sexual Health, and
 Wolfson Palliative Care Research Centre) plus six collaborating research groups (the Cancer
 group - including TRANSFORM, Diabetes Endocrine & Metabolic group, Respiratory group, Social
 & Psychological Research into Long Term Conditions (SPARC) group, and the Vascular group).
 As Figure 1 depicts ICAHR acts a central hub for much of the healthcare research at UoH.
 Since its launch in 2019, it has been highly successful in fostering new collaborative,
 interdisciplinary and multi-professional health research. This success is evidenced in the
 Impact Case studies, particularly through collaborations across the Vascular and Metabolic groups
 (together with staff from the Centre for Atherothrombosis and Metabolic Disease), and across
 Primary Care, Palliative Care & Long-term Conditions, including dementia. The institute has
 expanded the range and success of funding achieved (including Research England, NIHR, ESRC
 and MRC funding) and, since 2019, ICAHR-supported researchers have brought £2.3 million to
 UoH. The Hull Health Trials Unit (HHTU) – launched in March 2019 – gained provisional
 registration to the UK Clinical Research Collaboration registered clinical trials unit network within
 12 months. It is already supporting 7 clinical trials and 5 other studies, and provides regulatory-
 compliant information systems, a data capture framework and safe and secure storage, compliant
 with the NHS information governance toolkit standards. Researchers at all levels can access the
 expertise of ICAHR, the HHTU, and the Methods hub; these deliver advice on appropriate
 methods, funding sources, costing models, statistical advice, and networking opportunities,
 regionally and across the globe. Our Public and Patient Involvement and Engagement (PPIE)
 group (called ‘Involve Hull’) delivers PPIE co-design, co-production and engagement. The input
 from this lay group has been central to the development of many of the recent, successful, external
 funding bids.
 Maternal, Reproductive & Sexual Health (MaRH). This cluster focuses on health risk behaviours
 and the psychosocial aspects of reproductive, sexual and maternal health and well-being.
 Pioneering research activity addressing nationally and internationally relevant areas such as:
 perinatal mental health; teenage pregnancy; alcohol-related harm and maternity care; and the
 interface between these areas is being undertaken. This research has direct relevance to
 contemporary clinical practice and service development. The group’s work has produced
 seminal findings on maternal well-being, in particular the development of mental health
 ratings tools and the Birth Satisfaction Scale-Revised (BSS-R); the latter is now used
 globally in 39 countries across 134 sites improving perinatal healthcare. The group have
 also undertaken work in India and Sub-Saharan Africa addressing adolescent
 reproductive/sexual and maternal health issues, funded by the Global Challenges Research
 Fund. This collaborative study with secondary schools in Nigeria has benefited from UoH
 expertise in implementation of new healthcare measures. Another research theme has focussed
 on nursing interventions to address teenage pregnancy and work with school nurses in relation to
 sex education and sexual health promotion in schools. Research funded by the Institute of Alcohol
 Studies on implementation of alcohol guidelines in maternity care has informed the development
 of a practice-change intervention supporting midwives in explaining the serious issues associated
 with alcohol abuse during pregnancy. Continuation of this research has been funded by NIHR
 RfPB. Professor Lesley Smith is part of the Local Maternity Services (NE/Cumbria) Alcohol and
 Pregnancy Working Group, which works to improve prevention of alcohol-related harm during
 pregnancy; early results from this work helped inform the Commission on Alcohol Harm February
 2020. The MaRH cluster has a flourishing PGR group (4 scholarships and 6 international students)
 engaged in research that includes maternal well-being, and co-development of interventions to

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 improve reproductive health whilst reducing gender-based violence, and alternative approaches
 to pain in pregnancy. The group have hosted visiting academics from China, Finland, Thailand
 and Uganda in the last 3 years, and is a good example of UoH’s approach to building International,
 interdisciplinary collaborations.
 Primary care, Palliative care & Long-term Conditions Chronic diseases have reached
 epidemic proportions and are the leading cause of death globally. More people are living longer
 with multiple conditions which, in addition to the significant socio-economic impacts, reduces
 quality of life and physical functioning while increasing mortality rates, hospital admissions,
 psychological distress and polypharmacy. The group’s research responds directly to UK
 government priorities articulated in a range of policy frameworks including the NHS Long Term
 Plan (2019) and the Industrial Strategy Grand Challenge, ‘Meeting the Needs of an Ageing
 Society’ (2018). Hull’s seminal working on managing behaviours associated with dementia is the
 subject of an Impact Case Study, “Supporting carers with evidence-based interventions for
 behavioural care-challenges in dementia: tool-kits for service providers”. The cluster has strong
 links with the NHS and attracts research funding (>£2.5M in the REF period) from a range of
 sources including the European Union Horizon 2020, the NIHR, ESRC and relevant charities such
 as Lupus UK. An ongoing Music and Mental Well-being project is using music to make a positive
 impact on the lives of older people. Through the formation of a ukulele orchestra, people come
 together to learn, practice and perform as a group. This Institutional, HEIF-funded, project has
 demonstrated that making music together has powerful and lasting positive effects on physical
 and mental health, particularly in terms of combating loneliness and isolation.
 The Wolfson Palliative Care Research Centre is an important part of this research cluster.
 The recently established centre, part of the Hull York Medical School (HYMS), is one of only
 8 partnerships to receive significant funding (>£400k) from Research England, as part of
 their new international investment initiative (i3funding) in 2019. The centre has a
 collaboration with the Centre for Improving Palliation and Chronic Care through Clinical Research
 and Translation (IMPACCT) group in the University of Technology Sydney, Australia. UK deaths
 associated with multi-morbidities are expected to increase by 40% by 2040 and new models of
 care and treatments are urgently needed to improve quality of life for the significantly increased
 numbers of people living with multiple life-limiting illnesses. Impact Case Study, “Reducing
 inequalities in palliative care for people with non-malignant disease”. The twinning of the groups
 in Hull and Sydney enables cutting-edge interdisciplinary palliative care research. A 5-year
 exchange programme was established in 2019 and UoH provided funding for 2 PhD studentships
 from the strategic investment fund. Professor Jane Phillips, Director of Improving Palliative, Aged
 and Chronic Care through Clinical Research and Translation, University of Technology, Sydney
 (Australia), said: “International collaborations like the one being forged as part of the i3funding are
 critical to building the next generation of international palliative care researchers and to creating
 teams with the capability of tackling the grand challenge of ensuring everyone with palliative care
 needs has access to the services and supports they need to live the best life possible.”
 Cancer-Imaging, Diagnostics & Prognostic Tools. Since the creation of the Postgraduate
 Medical School in 1993, a strategic collaboration between the UoH and local NHS to develop the
 medical research environment in Hull and East Riding NHS Trust, we have steadily built outstanding
 patient recruitment and sample collection procedures. This thematic area has a significant overlap
 in aims with the Primary care, Palliative care & Long-term Conditions cluster, and shares many
 technologies with the Centre for Atherothrombosis and Metabolic Disease cluster.
 1. Cancer Imaging - the University of Hull is the only UK site to have a research-dedicated
 cyclotron for preclinical research. This allows us to focus on new tracer development and the
 delivery of research projects with academic and industrial partners. The University-based Positron
 Emission Therapy (PET) Research Centre is linked with the Jack Brignall PET-CT centre at Castle
 Hill Hospital, a tertiary NHS referral centre for Cancer. This centre has significantly increased the
 screening capabilities for cancer diagnosis with >10,500 patients being seen since opening in
 2014; furthermore, new types of scans that enable imaging of heart conditions and infections have
 been developed improving patient diagnosis. The clinical unit houses a Siemens Biograph mCT
 Flow Edge PET-CT scanner and will soon house a ground-breaking dose-on-demand cyclotron
 facility based around a GE GENTrace cyclotron (opens June 2021, delayed from October 2020

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 due to COVID-19); this is the first such unit in the UK and the only one worldwide using a
 microfluidic device-based dose-on-demand system. Molecular imaging with PET allows
 detection of the molecular processes that underpin disease without the need for invasive surgery,
 meaning that therapy can be personalised to the patients who stand the best chance of
 responding. The collaborative centres have major MRC, EU, Commercial, NHS and Charity
 investment offering a cutting-edge research environment for translational healthcare (>£3.8M in
 REF period). The innovative research has led to the filing of 10 patent applications, covering the
 development of technology, novel radiotracers and delivery. The Unit has become an
 internationally recognised specialist training centre with secondments and visits from staff from
 across the globe, e.g. Southwestern Oklahoma State University (USA) and the Jaber Alahmad
 Center for Molecular Imaging (Kuwait).
 2. Biological microfluidics – the University of Hull supported the first tissue-on-a-chip studies
 reported in 2008 and since then the interdisciplinary group has been at the forefront of the field
 consistently gaining significant funding (>£3 Million since 2014) from the research councils,
 Technology Strategy Board / Innovate UK and the EU. Work has focussed on developing dose-
 on-demand technology for PET-CT and optimising novel microfluidic devices for maintaining
 human tumour biopsies in a viable state. The biopsies are treated with clinically relevant doses of
 chemotherapeutic drugs or external beam irradiation, and the effects are measured by detailed
 analysis of the tissue or effluent; the latter allowing assessment of the temporal effects of the
 intervention. A major body of work over the past decade has shown the clinical utility of
 such devices alongside the benefits in terms of reducing/replacing animal experimentation.
 Finally, with the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been much interest in using integrated microfluidic
 devices for monitoring diagnosis; colleagues in this cluster are already working with Public Health
 England to develop a novel dual-flow model to assess how the virus crosses the endothelial and
 epithelial barriers.
 Centre for Atherothrombosis and Metabolic Disease This group’s innovative work tackles
 several disease areas at the molecular, cellular and patient levels, that are not only major global
 health challenges but are also significant regional challenges, hence the local patient population
 is benefitting from being involved in UoH’s translational research programmes:
 1. Vascular Biology and Haemostasis – Over the past 4 years the group has been awarded
 NIHR-funding for 3 clinical positions (1 clinical lecturer and 2 Academic clinical fellows) helping
 further to bridge the gap between basic science and clinical application; two internationally-leading
 research areas are in the management and treatment of intermittent claudication and varicose
 veins. Both conditions affect large numbers of western populations (5% and 40% respectively),
 with a significantly higher than average prevalence in the Yorkshire and Humber region. Work
 from UoH has underpinned National Institute for Clinical Health Excellence guidelines for the UK
 and informed the European guidelines for both conditions. For Intermittent claudication the team
 in Hull have shown that a supervised exercise programme is more effective than conservative
 medical therapy. Impact Case study, “Supervised Exercise Programmes – a non-invasive,
 clinical and cost-effective intervention for intermittent claudication”. For varicose leg ulcers the
 team show that these are best treated with ultrasound-guided endothermal ablation a minimally
 invasive intervention as compared with surgical ligation which has been used for almost a
 thousand years. Impact Case Study, “Minimally Invasive treatment for varicose veins in the legs
 gives patients a significantly improved quality of life”.
 2. Wound Healing - Chronic wounds are an expanding problem for patients with multi-morbidities,
 with major economic and societal implications. Diabetes, frailty and advanced age are the triad
 causes of wound chronicity; the cost to the NHS is similar to cancer (~£5bn/yr). In collaboration
 with industrial partners (Smith and Nephew and Reckitt Benckiser), our goal is to develop
 innovative treatments for these wounds that will bring clinical and economic benefits. Advanced
 wound care spans the full translational pipeline from discovery science to the clinic. Over the REF
 period there has been substantial investment (a 6 PhD student cluster; see Section 3), HEIF
 funding, 2 new Lectureships) which has delivered strong outputs and strategic partnerships with
 industry. The area has received over £2M of Research and Enterprise Income, including
 competitive funding from the MRC, Innovate UK, National Biofilms Innovation Centre, and British
 Skin Foundation. Hull has been instrumental in directing Smith & Nephew’s new global wound

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research & Innovation strategy, whilst the company have housed state-of-the-art equipment at
 the University driving world-leading research. Furthermore, a first-in-human clinical trial testing a
 simple intervention which promotes skin graft healing, identified in Hull’s laboratories has been
 initiated, and a collaboration with Fourth State Medicine re-purposing space satellite propulsion
 technology for the management of wound biofilm commenced in 2019.
 3. Respiratory Biology - Respiratory diseases are leading causes of death and disability in the
 world. About 65 million people suffer from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma
 is the most common chronic disease in childhood, and cough is the most common reason why
 people seek medical help. Hull’s research focuses on the role of thermo-TRPC proteins and
 purinoceptors in cough and airway inflammation responsible for disease. The group have well
 established collaborations with major pharmaceutical companies including Proctor & Gamble,
 Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline; >£1M funding in the REF period. Novel mechanisms underlying
 chronic cough have been discovered in Hull, and these findings have resulted in both national and
 international guidelines being revised as well as the development of a new class of drug;
 antagonists of the P2X3 purinergic receptor. The first Phase 3 trial undertaken by Merck has
 reported extremely encouraging results with approximately two thirds of patients with chronic
 cough responding. The work is described as an Impact Case Study, “Chronic cough: defining a
 “new” disease and producing a novel class of effective drug”.
 Seminar programmes
 To support postgraduate learning the FHS runs two broad seminar programmes (Biomedical
 science and ICAHR) that provide students and academics with fora to discuss recent advances in
 healthcare. Students are actively encouraged to contribute and develop their critical
 thinking in a challenging, but supportive, environment.
 Each seminar series, held weekly during semester, combines a forum for visiting speakers with
 the opportunity for our postgraduates to present their work. Whenever an external speaker attends
 there are facilitated sessions for the postgraduates to discuss their research and receive valuable,
 external, insight following the session. During the COVID-19 lockdown these have continued
 online through Canvas; presentations have been equally well received and detailed discussions
 took place using the question/answer forum. These interdisciplinary seminars are held every
 second week in addition to regular masterclasses on research methodology, and subject specialist
 areas such as Frailty, Multiple Comorbidities, Alcohol/substance use. Between June and
 November 2019, 18 seminars and masterclasses were held.
 Since 2011 the annual, endowed, Allam lecture series has been held. Prestigious speakers from
 across the breadth of medicine relevant to Hull’s research programmes have been invited to an
 event that attracts an average of 225 attendees (students, academics, healthcare professionals
 and general public). In addition to the plenary lecture there is an extensive series of posters and
 invited oral presentations, making this a vibrant celebration of science and opportunity to
 disseminate Hull’s research widely.
 Speakers include:
 2014 – Sir Magdi Yacoub, ‘The glory and threat of science and medicine’
 2015 – Professor David Leaper, ‘Where I will heal me of my grievous wound’
 2016 – Professor Maria Belvisi, ‘How the lung senses its environment’
 2017 – Professor S Richard Underwood, ‘Cardiac imaging: the next decade’
 2018 – Professor Stephen Shalet, ‘Cancer survivors: the new endocrine epidemic’
 2019 – Professor Keir Lewis, ‘Smoking cessation and tobacco control throughout the ages’
 2020 – Professor I Sadaf Farooqi, ‘Eating too much or too little?’ – postponed due to COVID-19
 Research & Impact Strategy
 Each research cluster produces a 3-year research strategy document, reviewed annually at
 Faculty Research Committee (Chaired by the Associate Dean for Research). These include a
 SWOT analysis that includes equality and diversity and ECRs development. All new research staff



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are required to complete an online Research Integrity course, that covers all aspects of good
 practice, this must be redone on a 3-yearly basis.
 Following the successful UoA3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy
 submission in RAE2014 and UoA12 submissions in 2014 and 2008 respectively, UoH has
 continued investing in major health issues facing society: mental health, cancer, chronic cough,
 heart disease, obesity and multimorbidities; supporting multidisciplinary, translational, research
 with the aim of continuing to make novel discoveries and deliver patient benefits. As described
 above, the recent major reorganisation of the University was undertaken to strengthen the focus
 and multidisciplinarity of its cutting-edge research themes, as well as supporting new Institutional-
 wide innovations, e.g. Project Aura, a catalyst for collaboration that brings together industry
 partners to harness and drive innovation in the offshore wind sector. Project Aura includes the
 EPSRC funded Aura Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) in Offshore Wind Energy and the
 Environment which is based at UoH, with Durham, Newcastle and Sheffield universities as partner
 Institutions. Project Aura has an important healthcare theme in relation to understanding the
 stresses that wind farm workers’ suffer and offering early identification and improved
 training.
 Researchers at UoH, in collaboration with academics around the world and partnerships with
 patients, user groups and commercial entities have continued to work closely with clinicians from
 the local NHS Trusts in developing successful research programmes leading to improvements in
 knowledge and patient care to address many of the major health issues, e.g. mental health,
 cancer, obesity and multimorbidities.
 Interdisciplinarity is fundamental to healthcare research at UoH, with all the research themes
 comprising staff from distinct specialities; the institution has been pursuing this research strategy
 since the creation of the Postgraduate Medical School in 1993. The culture was significantly
 boosted with the establishment of HYMS in 2003 along with the growth in nursing and
 physiotherapy research over the past decade and has culminated in the consolidation of all health-
 related activities into a single Health Sciences Faculty. Since 2017 healthcare research has
 flourished under the consistent and streamlined policies and processes.
 UoH is committed to promoting equality of opportunity for all, giving every individual the chance to
 achieve their potential, free from prejudice and discrimination. The University’s Equality Scheme
 was published in 2017, and in the same year the University committed to ‘Disability Confident’.
 There is an active LGBT Staff Network within FHS, which advises the Faculty leadership team. It
 remains UoH’s aim to use its staff’s diverse backgrounds to enhance professional knowledge,
 bring challenge and new perspectives to all that is done on campus. The goal continues to be to
 build capability and support for all our students and staff. UoH is an organisation that
 wholeheartedly embraces equality, diversity and inclusion believing this will deliver better results,
 greater innovation and impact, more motivated staff, and increased recognition from our partner
 organisations. FHS is fully committed to:
     • Treating all staff and students fairly;
     • Actively creating an inclusive culture for all staff and students;
     • Ensuring equal access to opportunities to enable students to fully participate in the learning
        process;
     • Enabling all staff and students to develop to their full potential;
     • Equipping staff and students with the skills to challenge inequality and discrimination in
        their work and study environment;
     • Making certain that all learning materials and other resources do not discriminate against
        any individuals or groups.
 In addition to the above ethos, supported by relevant codes of practices and statutes, the FHS
 has a network of Dignity and Respect Advisors (DARAs). These are staff from across the faculty,
 who work to support our commitment to equality of opportunity. DARAs are approachable,
 independent, fully trained and ready to help any staff and visitors who may be experiencing
 problems with harassment and bullying if it does occur.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic Aims and Goals 2021-2028
 Having more than achieved the research goals set in 2013, e.g. establishment of the Institute for
 Clinical and Applied Health Research hub (ICAHR); the roll-out of improved cancer imaging
 services (further strengthened during the REF period by substantial investment in the Molecular
 Imaging unit); and classification of breathlessness and chronic cough as diseases; and in both
 cases novel treatments have been developed. The aims are to continue to produce the highest
 quality research that is effectively translated into widespread practice, and to train the research
 leaders of the future. Specifically, during the next REF period the following institutional and
 healthcare specific aims will be addressed:
     • There will be a continued focus on areas of strength within the research themes, i.e.
         cancer, long term conditions, mental health. Specific project will be focused on tackling
         breathlessness, developing novel technologies to deliver bespoke PET-CT agents, and
         improving uptake of the innovative treatment approaches discovered by UoH teams. The
         strategic establishment of new PhD research clusters, continuing to have multi-
         disciplinarity at their core, will provide the impetus for the next breakthroughs. Also, the
         aim is to increase external grant funding through increased collaborative projects with
         commercial partners, end-users and NHS colleagues; new Faculty, Director of Business
         Engagement & Enterprise posts have been created to facilitate this.
     • FHS is committed to providing an inclusive and diverse environment, in line with the
         broader University strategy and intends that all areas are at least Athena Swan Silver by
         2026; to facilitate this Faculty champions have been appointed and given time in their
         workplans and resource to drive these submissions. Secondly, FHS has an aim to remove
         the attainment gap for all students so that there is equity in completion and awards. Finally,
         the mentorship of ECRs will be prioritised with Faculties needing to identify support and
         have monitoring structures in place to develop staff to their full potential, promoting
         Equality, Diversity and Inclusion.
     • Specifically, there are well-developed plans to use Viper, Hull’s high-performance
         computing cluster (see Section 3 Income, infrastructure and facilities) for bioinformatic
         analysis of large RNAseq, metabolomic and proteomic datasets arising from the successful
         Health & Global Data Pipeline PhD research cluster, e.g. pancreatic tumour response to
         chemotherapy (Prof Maraveyas and Greenman) and diabetic patients treated with
         exenatide. In addition, in collaboration with colleagues in Leeds School of Medicine,
         projects have been commenced to study the responses of glioblastoma to treatment using
         single cell RNAseq. The aim in every case is to provide new markers of prognosis and the
         ability to truly personalise treatment through the exploitation of Big Data.
 2. People
 The Faculty of Health Sciences research strategy underpins investment in new appointments and
 facilities, with the explicit aim that staff are empowered to produce outputs of the highest quality.
 All new appointments are placed in existing research teams, or where a new strategic area is
 created this will be led by a Chair appropriately supported by senior positions and junior academics.
 All early career staff members (ECRs) in whichever academic discipline are extensively
 supported. Measures include the allocation of both research and teaching mentors, and support
 in joining PhD clusters to provide studentships, together with start-up funds to pump-prime
 research. Furthermore, all research-active ECRs have a light teaching and administration load
 (<20%) for the first three years of their tenure during which it is expected they submit to the most
 relevant new investigator grant-funding scheme in the second year of appointment, allowing
 refinement and resubmission in year 3 if unsuccessful. The Research Funding Office particularly
 supports these staff in applying to other sources of start-up funding. Plans for study leave of varying
 lengths (up to a semester every 3 years) are encouraged from all members of staff to ensure staff
 develop/remain abreast of advances in their field through collaborative networks of peers, industry
 and colleagues in practice. Longer periods of time can also be requested if necessary and following
 Faculty evaluation may be granted by the Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research & Enterprise).
 During the 2018/2019 academic year the University initiated a Transformation programme, a key
 component of this was a new academic careers’ framework where all staff were aligned to one of
 4 strands that best reflected their job role: Research, Teaching, Entrepreneur, or Transitional. All

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff on the Research domain have at least 40% time for research in their workload, and all are
 returned under the relevant REF Unit of Assessment. The allocation to the most appropriate strand
 was done in consultation with the line manager and allows all staff the opportunity to reflect on their
 current role and future career plans. The Transitional strand is used mainly for ECRs who have not
 yet established their independent research career, or where someone has held significant
 management responsibilities but is moving back to one of the other three categories. Staff on this
 strand will be reviewed after 2 years to assess progress and provide additional mentoring or support
 as required.
 The University is fully committed to the principles of Athena SWAN and a steering committee,
 chaired by the Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research & Enterprise), oversees this and all staff
 development activities. UoH has a Bronze Athena Swan award and HYMS, in partnership with the
 University of York, has a Silver award. The School of Health & Social Work, now part of the Faculty,
 has also achieved the Bronze award. Plans are in place for the entire Faculty of Health, with
 the exception of HYMS, to submit an Athena Swan Bronze application in April 2022, with the
 aim of the Silver award by 2026. In a similar manner that Athena Swan seeks to advance gender
 equality across all aspects of academia, the University recognises the need to value and enhance
 the career development of post-doctoral research scientists. A steering group, comprising
 representatives from all faculties, oversees the adoption of the Concordat supporting the Career
 Development of Researchers; importantly this group has representation from the post-doctoral
 researcher community in FHS. To promote Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, FHS established
 a team of EDI champions, who work to ensure that diversity is promoted throughout all
 curricula, including postgraduate research modules offered by the University’s Doctoral
 College (see below).
 The UoH Staff Development Unit provides a series of comprehensive training packages for all new
 staff, commencing with an induction course and training in research supervision, plus the
 compulsory Higher Education Teaching Certificate for all staff without the necessary teaching
 experience. Furthermore, UoH encourages all staff, however senior, to gain an appropriate
 teaching qualification to enhance the student experience. The Staff Development Unit produce and
 commission an extensive range of on-line courses to complement the practical training delivered
 in person. Each member of staff has an on-line training account that shows which courses have
 been undertaken and when refresher training is required; many of these courses are specifically
 for the post-doctoral community. Staff development is actively monitored by Heads of Department
 as part of the annual appraisal/workload discussion; from these discussions comes an individual
 set of goals for each member of staff.
 Since 2014 UoH has continued to invest in a series of PhD studentships in healthcare. Numbers of
 completed studentship were increasing at the end of the last REF period (28 in 2013 and 32 in
 2014) and have remained at an average of 30/year through the current REF period. This reflects
 a significant increase from REF2014 (where there were 117 successfully completed
 postgraduate degrees), to 210 students in the last 7 years. In a strategic move to concentrate
 research and build critical mass in areas that align with the Institution’s strengths and its important
 local and regional roles UoH changed the way it supports PhD studentships. Thus, since 2016, the
 Doctoral College has operated a scheme whereby academic teams draft bids that combine a series
 of inter-related PhD projects drawing on complementary expertise from across UoH. These
 applications can also include external input and funding from other academic institutions and/or the
 business sector. An internal competition is held, facilitated by external expert panel members, to
 select the best projects and culminates in the award of 5 to 8 PhD clusters (3-6, fully funded
 studentships and/or fee waivers) each year. Details of PhD clusters awarded to staff in UoA3 are
 given in Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities (Table 1). Supervisory teams are
 required to be multidisciplinary and ideally cross-faculty in nature, to promote interdisciplinarity.
 Other key facets of all the projects, in addition to the fit with the strategic themes of the Institution,
 are sustainability and ease of appropriate translation, i.e. device development, incorporation into
 policy or healthcare improvement. Students become embedded in the relevant research groups
 contributing to the PhD cluster, and the cluster itself forms the nucleus of the multidisciplinary
 activity fostering new research ideas and funding, whilst benefiting from the existing research ethos
 in the various groups.


                                                                                                    Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The University’s Doctoral College is both the administrative centre for postgraduate research
 students and a purpose-built resource, with its own 24-hour access IT facilities and common rooms.
 It oversees the monitoring of all research student progress. Monthly supervisory meetings held
 between all full-time postgraduate students and their supervisors (these are held at appropriate
 times for part-time students, e.g. 2 monthly if the student is studying 50% of the time). If progress
 issues are raised by supervisors or students the relevant departmental Postgraduate Research
 Director will attempt to resolve in the first instance, if additional action or support is needed this will
 be done in discussion with the Doctoral college and the Faculty Associate Dean for Research as
 necessary. All postgraduate (MSc, MD, PhD) students produce annual reports at the end of year 1
 and year 2, and academics independent of the supervisory team hold an oral examination providing
 the students with an opportunity to discuss and refine their work. Throughout the COVID-19
 period the research training framework has continued to be provided online. Additional
 measures have been put in place to support PGR students including regular
 communication, financially supported extensions where appropriate, regular assessment
 of COVID-19 impact on research projects and mitigation plans, and increased pastoral
 support.
 Giving postgraduates chances to network and present their data is considered an essential part of
 their training. HYMS runs an annual postgraduate conference bringing students and academics
 from Hull and York together for a series of poster and oral presentations, which also provide the
 students with the experience of organising the event and chairing sessions. This event is open to
 all students within the healthcare field. Another opportunity, since 2014, is through attendance at
 the International Medical Postgraduate Conference in Hradec Kralove (Czech Republic); the event
 hosts between 30 and 40 postgraduates from across Europe. Hull has been able to enter two
 current PhD or MD students for this annual conference. The University runs an internal competition
 to select the best students to represent the University at this event and we have been highly
 successful, winning in 2014, 2015 and 2020, and second in 2019. Students who have attended
 have valued the opportunity to network with contemporaries across Europe, bridging disease states
 and methodologies; “The experience was unlike any other conference, there was such a diversity
 of topics and a willingness to discuss science; I was amazed to see how postgrads undertake their
 projects in completely different research environments.” (HM; Hull winner in 2015).
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 UoH receives approximately £7.5million in QR of which approximately £3.3million is allocated to
 the FHS. The Institution has taken the strategic decision to invest almost half its QR funding
 to support PhD/PDRA clusters to build capacity in priority areas, with the remaining funds
 to be used by Faculties to support new positions and infrastructure. The University has also
 invested in a significant refurbishment and redesign of the library (£27 million). In addition to
 dedicated PhD workspace, there is increased access to fully networked computers and extensive
 journal collections, the majority of these being available online. In 2019 alone, UoH spent £1.75
 million on annual journal subscriptions and full text databases, which has been especially beneficial
 during COVID-19 due to increased remote working. The library is host to a highly regarded art
 collection and regularly hosts cultural events, to which all PGR students have access. UoH is home
 to Viper, a high-performance computing (HPC) cluster, which came online to users as a service in
 June 2016. It is the highest rated HPC in the North of England and is available to all Faculties.
 UoH plays a role as an anchor institution in the region and thus any Faculty investments must align
 with this function. For FHS, there are close collaborations with the local NHS and pharmaceutical
 industries and the broad aim is to improve and apply knowledge in a way that improves patient care
 for national diseases which disproportionately affect the local population, e.g. mental health,
 diabetes, cancer, heart disease, and obesity. An important consideration for investment is
 generating or sustaining critical mass, and the leveraging of additional research funding.
 ICAHR was established to fulfil ambitious plans for research growth in clinical and applied
 health research at UoH. It was designed to provide significant strategic investment in areas
 of research strength and underpin that expertise with a health trials unit and methods
 infrastructure. The overwhelming motivation behind this initiative was to make a difference to the
 health of the local population and to establish UoH as a centre of excellence in clinical and applied
 health research. The vision was that this would enhance research already taking place in Hull and

                                                                                                     Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 would be a helpful way of promoting our research; it was not intended to replace existing structures
 but to become an interactive hub. ICAHR was established through direct UoH investment and the
 award of a peer-reviewed programme grant from Yorkshire Cancer Research (currently £4.9m, but
 available funds of £5.2m), following the return of an endowment held by UoH. In line with its
 research strategy FHS has established three core research teams each focusing on a substantive
 area of research and have invested in clinical (not necessarily medical) academic staff to bolster
 existing areas of strength. The two themes are primary care, palliative care (Primary Care,
 Palliative Care & Long-term Conditions cluster) and peri-natal health (Maternal, Reproductive
 & Sexual Health cluster) and all build on existing research strengths at Hull. The cluster model
 enables us to build additional teams with future investment, for example from the medical school
 expansion budget; i.e. in 2017 HYMS was the most successful of the existing UK medical schools
 in the application for new undergraduate student places.
 The current UoA3 submission is returning 60.17 FTE staff, 66% greater than REF2014 (n=36 FTE).
 This is due to increased investment in all the departments comprising UoA3. There has been a
 concomitant increase in grant income and number of postgraduate student completion /annum/
 academic demonstrating the vibrant research ethos. As is shown in REF4a there is an average
 research spend of £3.5 million/annum from a total of 550 awards over the 7-year REF period. The
 top awards, by spend, are shown in Figure 2. Breaking this down in terms of different funders
 across the whole REF period shows that UoH research has a relatively broad funding base with
 the major sources being:
 •        Research Charities, including Yorkshire Cancer Research, Cancer Research UK and British
          Heart Foundation £8.6M
•         Commercial funding £3.7M
•         NHS sources £4.7M
•         UK Research Councils & Health Research Funding Bodies £4.3M
•         European Union £2.1M
•         Other funding £0.8M
 Figure 2. Grant spend distribution according to value

     No.                  Distribution of largest 110 awards
     60
                                                                  52
     50                                           45

     40
     30
     20
                                    10
     10            3
      0
                > £650K           > £300K       > £100k         £50-99k

 The following exemplify the breadth and nature of awards:
    • 2019-2021 NIHR RfPB £149k. High Intensity Interval Training In pATiEnts with intermittent
         claudication (INITIATE) study. Chetter I (CI);
    • 2018-2020 MRC £135k. Confidence in Concept 2018 - University of Hull;
    • 2018–2022 NIHR HTA £1.2M. A parallel group, double-blind, randomised, placebo-
         controlled trial comparing the effectiveness and cost-consequence and cost effectiveness of
         low dose oral modified release morphine (MRM) versus placebo on the intensity of worst
         breathlessness in people with chronic breathlessness. Johnson MJ (CI), Currow DC, Hart
         SP, Pearson M, Seymour J;


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   2017–2019 NIHR RfPB £235k. A feasibility, randomised controlled trial of a complex
        breathlessness intervention in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. Crooks M (CI), Hart S,
        Johnson MJ, Swan F, Dyson J;
    •   2016–2023 Yorkshire Cancer Research £4.9M. Reducing Inequalities in Cancer
        Outcomes in Yorkshire: Realising our potential for innovation in Patient Management,
        Survivorship and Palliative Care Research. Macleod U & Johnson MJ (Co-CIs), Lind M,
        Mitchell ED, Murtagh F, Currow DC;
    •   2016-2019 Burdett Trust for Nursing £184k. Supporting Transition and Retention of newly
        registered nurses. Watson R, Wray J, Barrett D
    •   2016-2019 Innovate UK/EPSRC £496k Development of a multi-purpose small animal
        phantom for pre-clinical radiotherapy studies. Greenman, J (CI), Green, VL, Cawthorne, C;
    •   2013-2019 European Union FP7 £580k Clarke, J. HOMAGE – Heat “omics” in Ageing;
    •   2011-2018 NIHR i4i £668k. Elliott, B Wadhawan, J., Singh, R., MacFie, J Greenman, J.
        Development of a placement sensing nasogastric tube;
    •   2007–2017 NIHR Programme Grant £ 2.1M. Challenge Demcare Challenging Behaviour in
        Dementia at home and in Care Homes. Moniz-Cook E (CI), et al.
 Postgraduate student completions total 210.4 over the REF period, an average of 30/year, this is a
 30% increase on REF2014 where the average was 23 PGR/year and is in line with the increased
 number of staff submitted in the current submission.
                         2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 TOTAL
  COMPLETED              28      32     27      34.5    37     24.5    27.4   210.4
  POSTGRADUATES

 The strategic importance of the PhD clusters is reflected in the continued financial and academic
 investment planned for PhD clusters in the next REF period. Sustainability is a key factor in all PhD
 cluster cases and credible strategies for the next 5 years are a key part of the selection criteria,
 along with strategic focus and align with UoH priorities. Furthermore, there is an agreed strategy
 (see Section 1 Strategic Aims and Goals 2021-2028) to focus on PhDs jointly funded with industry
 to enhance the translational aspect of UoH’s healthcare programme with strong support for
 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships having recently been put in place to build on REF2021.
 Faculty Research Support Fund
 With the formation of the new Faculty in August 2017, a strategic decision was made to consolidate
 the Departmental Research funds at Faculty level and operate a system whereby 2 or 3 calls/year
 are made for applications; with a total budget of up to £100k. The committee is chaired by the Faculty
 Associate Director for Research and attended by Heads of Department and Research leads. The
 aim of the funding is to pump-prime new initiatives in strategic areas, or build capacity, by allowing
 research visits, conference attendance, purchase of small items of equipment, publication charges,
 etc. Postgraduate students, postdoctoral researchers and ECR are explicitly encouraged to apply
 for support and approximately half of the funding is awarded to these applications. Two examples
 of this funding use are given. A grant of £2,725 was made to Dr Mark Wade, an ECR, to complete
 work on some novel therapeutic agents in breast cancer in Jan 2019. This resulted in a last author
 publication for Dr Wade (Jones et al; Cancers 2019, 11(8), 112) that is included in this UoA3
 submission, and pump-primed his Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard application in 2020.
 Secondly, a grant of £3,500 was given to Dr Victoria Green, a senior PDRA, in Sept 2018 to
 undertake preliminary work on exosome isolation from thyroid tissue and cell culture supernatants.
 Following a successful pilot study she was awarded £15,000 grant-funding from the Get A-
 Head Charitable Trust (Project entitled “Evaluating EV as a therapeutic target in Graves’ disease”
 01/02/2019 – 30/04/2020) to fund a studentship and consumables. This was the first time funding
 has been achieved from this Trust.




                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 1. PhD cluster awards to UoA3 for Healthcare research
   Year
   2016   Cardiovascular &           Cardiovascular &
          Metabolic Disorder         Metabolic Disorder
          Clinical                   New paradigms in
          cardiovascular,            blood platelet biology -
          respiratory and            understanding the role
          metabolic medicine         of platelets in thrombo-
          3PhD                       inflammation
                                     4PhD and 1 PDRA
   2017   Cardiovascular &           Cardiovascular &           Maternal,              Primary care,
          Metabolic Disorder         Metabolic Disorder         Reproductive &         Palliative care &
          Cardiovascular Health;     Advanced Wound             Sexual Health          Long term
          maximising the key         Care cluster; from         Maternal &             conditions
          physiological and          novel therapies to         Reproductive Health.   Improving symptoms,
          biochemical effects of     clinical trials.           3PhD and 1 PDRA        outcomes and access
          exercise and other         6 PhD                                             to care for those with
          novel interventions in                                                       advanced progressive
          atherosclerosis.                                                             long term conditions,
          4PhD and 1 PDRA                                                              multimorbidity and
                                                                                       frailty in primary care.
                                                                                       4PhD and 1 PDRA
   2018   Cardiovascular &           Cancer – Imaging,          Cancer – Imaging,      Cancer – Imaging,
          Metabolic Disorder         Diagnostic &               Diagnostic &           Diagnostic &
          Optimising outcomes        Prognostic tools           Prognostic tools       Prognostic tools
          in diabetic patients       Detection and              PET Healthcare         Health*GDP - Health
          with peripheral arterial   Characterisation of        technologies           Global Data Pipeline
          disease                    Biomarkers for the         4PhD                   for biomedical
          3PhD                       Earlier Detection of                              research and clinical
                                     Chronic Disease                                   applications
                                     5PhD                                              3PhD
   2019   Primary care,              Cancer – Imaging,
          Palliative care &          Diagnostic &
          Long term                  Prognostic tools
          conditions                 Adaptive
          Bridging the Divide:       Radiotherapy:
          Living With                Engineering the
          Multimorbidities           radiobiological tumour
          3PhD                       for improved radiation
                                     success
                                     5PhD
   2020   Cardiovascular &
          Metabolic Disorder
          The Clinical
          Application of Next
          Generation
          Microbiome Profiling
          Cluster
          4PhD

 In addition to the PhD clusters above, awarded to specific research areas, two further clusters
 were awarded to staff returned in UoA3 due to strategic important and UoH priorities:
 2016 Dr Judith Dyson and Dr Fiona Cowdell (FHS) led a cluster entitled, PoWER 360: Programme
 for Women Achieving Excellence in Research – 3 PhD studentships and 1 Postdoctoral Research
 Assistant.
 2020 Prof Joanne Reeve (HYMS) leads a cluster entitled, Homeless Healthcare in Hull - 3 PhD
 studentships




                                                                                                        Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 As exemplified in Figure 1, most healthcare research in Hull has marked external impact both in
 terms of collaborations and the outputs themselves. The following section will take each sector in
 turn and the impact that Hull makes is described.
 Summary of contribution to Journals and grant review
 The staff submitted in UoA3 contribute significantly to a large number of editorial boards (65 in
 total); an average of 1 board/academic. These include for example: Prof Mark Hayter - Editor of
 Journal of Advanced Nursing (2016-); Dr F Rivero-Crespo - Section Editor-in-Chief of Cells (2020-
 ); Prof R Watson - Editor-in-chief of Journal of Advanced Nursing (2012-2021) and Nursing Open
 (2014-2021). Furthermore, staff are heavily involved serving on grant panels, current examples
 include: Prof Mat Hardman (Agence Nationale de la Recherche, Physiopathologie Panel Member,
 2017-); Prof Miriam Johnson (Vice-Chair of the Marie Curie Research Funding Grant Committee,
 2019-); Prof Fliss Murtagh NIHR (Programme Grants for Applied Research panel as a general
 methodologist, 2017-); Prof Tim Palmer (BHF Career Re-entry Research Fellowship panel
 member (2017-), and Dr Chao Huang NIHR (Research for Patient Benefit Yorkshire and North
 East Regional Advisory Panel, 2019-). As expected, staff have reviewed numerous grants from
 all the UK health-related Research Councils and major charities (MRC, NIHR, BBSRC, BHF,
 HR-UK, CR-UK, Wellcome, UKRI-FLP) and many overseas agencies including the EU, NHMRC
 (Australia), Health Research Board of Ireland, Swiss National Science Foundation, Italian Medical
 Society, and Hong Kong University Grants Council.
 Selection of National & International awards:
    • Prof E Moniz-Cook – NHS England Leadership Academy: NHS Quality
        Champion/Innovator of the Year (2014)
    • Dr L Sadofsky - Bionorica Global Research Initiative Prize (Eur50,0000) (2014)
    • Prof D Currow – Winner, Tom Reeve National Award for Outstanding Contribution to
        Cancer Care - Clinical Oncological Society of Australia (2015)
    • The UoH Lab on a Chip research, led by Prof J Greenman, won the “Best Emerging
        Technology” at the inaugural Hull and East Yorkshire Digital Awards (2015)
    • Prof F Murtagh – NHS London Leadership Awards, ‘NHS Outstanding Collaborative
        Leader of the Year’ for the London region (2015)
    •   Prof R Watson - International Nurse Researcher Hall of Fame (2017)
    •   Dr E Wolverson – Alzheimer’s Society’s Dementia Researchers’ Leaders Award (2018)
    •   Prof I Chetter – NIHR Senior Investigator Award (2018-2023)
    •   Prof R Watson - Member of Academia Europea (2019)
    •   Prof M Hayter - Honorary Fellow, University of Genoa Honour Nursing Society (2019)
    •   Dr R Masamha – Young Researcher Prize, Britain Zimbabwe Society Prize (2019)
    •   Dr J Wray – Fellowship (Nursing & Midwifery) Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland
    •   Ms N Clark - Nicky Clark received the Chief Midwifery Officer Gold Award (2020)
    •   Prof F Murtagh – NIHR Senior Investigator Award (2020-2025)
 Research base
    •   Yorkshire Cancer Research (YCR) awarded a £4.9M programme grant in 2017 to a bid
        led by Prof Una Macleod (Dean, Hull York Medical School) at UoH to deliver a series
        of research projects that will improve the experience of cancer patients and ensure
        more people in the city survive the disease. The death rate of cancer is higher in
        Yorkshire than the rest of England resulting in about 200 extra deaths each year, of which
        more than half are in Hull. Other significant cancer outcome inequalities between different
        groups exist; for example, poorer people and older people are more likely to die sooner.
        We will conduct research to understand these differences and develop and test ways to
        reduce the inequalities and improve access to care and best treatments. The investment
        funds 11 research positions in ICAHR. the Primary care, Palliative care & Long-term

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Conditions research cluster and the Cancer – Imaging, Diagnostic & Prognostic tools
        research cluster; the long-term aim is to establish Hull as a centre of excellence for cancer
        research. In 2018, a further £1.4m investment from YCR funded the development and
        testing of a new guide to help GPs and practice nurses identify and manage the needs and
        concerns of people with cancer and their carers. The four-year trial, led by Prof Miriam
        Johnson, Professor of Palliative Medicine at HYMS, is aiming to recruit more than 1,000
        patients living mainly in the Yorkshire and Humber region.
    •   The Daisy Appeal, a local charity that has raised >£20 million since its establishment in
        2000, has significantly improved research and treatment facilities for people in the Hull &
        East Yorkshire region. It has provided modern, well-equipped, scientific laboratory
        facilities, a clinical trials unit, and teaching accommodation; an ideal environment for
        several Hull researchers to base their research groups since July 2008 (Profs Mat
        Hardman and John Greenman, Drs Angela Oates and Lynn Cawkwell). In 2004 the Jack
        Brignall PET-CT Scanning Centre was opened to complement the research laboratories;
        both facilities are on the Castle Hill Hospital site, a tertiary referral centre with the regions
        cancer and heart disease units. The final component of the state-of-the-art imaging
        infrastructure is the opening of a Positron Emission Tomography research Centre (PETRC)
        in June 2021 (delayed due to COVID-19 from Oct 2020), comprising radiochemistry and
        cyclotron units capable of producing extremely short-lived (half-lives in minutes)
        radioactive tracers led by Prof Steve Archibald (clinical advisors include Dr Hoye, Profs
        Michael Lind, Alyn Morice & Anthony Maraveyas). This £8.2M facility offers a unique
        research base in the North-East and allows innovative tracer research to benefit patients
        with malignancies, heart and neurological conditions (including Alzheimer’s disease).
    •   In a similar manner to the Daisy Charity, through a generous philanthropic gift of £8 million
        from Dr Assam Allam (an alumnus of the university and highly successful local
        businessman) a new Diabetes Centre is being built based on local clinical need but
        underpinned by a cutting-edge research programme led by Prof Thozhukat Sathyapalan.
        His main area of interest is on modulation of cardiovascular risk through pharmacological
        and nutritional interventions in diabetes, obesity, and metabolism. Prof Sathyapalan is
        leading the national real-world study on flash glucose monitoring system funded by the
        Association of British Clinical Diabetologists for type 1 diabetes (ongoing) which showed
        substantial benefits in improving diabetes control, reduction of health care resources uses
        and improvement in quality of life (https://doi.org/10.1111/dme.13882 DUK 2019;
        https://doi.org/10.2337/db19-299-OR American diabetes association, 2019). As a result
        of positive outcomes demonstrated in the preliminary analysis of this ongoing
        study, since April 2019 the use of flash glucose monitoring is becoming routine
        clinical care nationally with some areas already prescribing to >40% of their type 1
        diabetes        population       (https://www.england.nhs.uk/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/
        improving-tech-treatment-care-people-with-type-1-diabetes-letter.pdf). This innovation is
        sustainable in the long term as a result of the cost savings, and has made a significant
        benefit to the UK population.
    •   Prof Smith has led a Schools’ Health Project in North Nigeria for the past 2 years. Research
        on health literacy and health behaviours of adolescents in 4 secondary schools in Jigawa
        and Kano states, North Nigeria, has contributed substantially to our understanding of
        the determinants of health and the health needs of adolescents in this region, which are
        applicable to other countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. The research addresses
        sustainable development goals 3 (Good health and wellbeing) and 5 (Gender
        equality) with specific targets within the goals relating to reducing maternal and infant
        mortality, increasing delivery of sexual and reproductive health education, and improving
        access to sexual and reproductive health services, and gender equality. The expected
        impact will be an increase in planned pregnancies leading to a reduction in maternal and
        infant morbidity and mortality.
        There has already been impact through raised awareness and engagement of key
        stakeholders in the region including adolescents, teachers and school principals, and
        partnership with an Oxford-based International Development Organisation (INASP) on

                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        research writing capacity building work with Early Career Researchers at Bayero
        University, Kano. Several policy engagement workshops have been held with key
        stakeholders including international and regional NGOs, parliamentarians, representatives
        from state ministries (Health and Education), religious leaders, and community
        organisations.
    •   Dr Dan Hampshire is on the steering group that oversees the Coagulation Factor Variant
        Databases established by the European Association for Haemophilia and Allied Disorders.
        The combined database portal provides searchable lists of DNA sequence variants and
        information on the phenotype-genotype correlations in patients with inherited clinical
        bleeding disorders. The current portal (http://dbs.eahad.org/) includes databases for von
        Willebrand factor (VWF) and coagulation factors IX, VIII and VII and there is on-going work
        to incorporated further genes. This portal provides a worldwide repository of accurate
        and consistent information about coagulation factors, relevant to those working in
        the clinical and scientific sectors.
    •   As part of UoH’s work in long-term conditions, Dr Andrea Hilton, was a co-applicant
        on a project which focused on the feasibility of a medication review and person-centred
        care for people living with dementia in a care home, involving a pharmacy-health
        psychology dual intervention. Antipsychotics are often prescribed for people who have
        behaviours that challenge but, every year antipsychotics are implicated in 1800 deaths and
        it is suggested that two-thirds of this drug use is inappropriate. Several key messages
        came from this work including, for clinicians, that inappropriate medication is broader than
        antipsychotics, i.e. antidepressants, and that specialist pharmacists can support primary
        care medicine optimisation. Work on multimorbidity and dementia is continuing due to a
        UoH PhD cluster, exploring what multimorbidity looks like in dementia, and how people
        with dementia and their carers live day to day with these conditions.
    •   Hull University researchers (Richfield and Prof Miriam Johnson) have developed and
        validated the Needs Assessment Tool-Parkinson's disease (https://hydra.hull.ac.uk/
        resources/hull:13757), which was used by a research team in Denver, USA as the basis
        to identify their clinical study population in a landmark trial showing effectiveness of
        palliative care for people with Parkinson's disease for the first time world-wide.
        (https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamaneurology/full article/2760511)
 Economy
    •   Hull successfully bid for The STaR project (Successful Transition and Retention) funded
        over three years by the Burdett Trust for Nursing (£183,857) run by Dr Jane Wray and Prof
        Roger Watson. Conducted in collaboration with education providers and the NHS and
        private healthcare employers this is contributing to a better understanding of qualified
        nurse turnover within the first 12-months after registration. This research has led to our
        involvement as one of the UK partners in the recently launched pan-European Centre of
        Excellence for Research into Continuing Professional Development (Faculty of Nursing
        and Midwifery, Royal College of Surgeons Ireland). The work has produced a retention
        toolkit which is being made widely available to NQNs and healthcare providers who employ
        and/or support newly qualified nurses. Nationally, NHS Employers and NHS England
        and NHS Improvement will support the toolkit by hosting this on their website from
        October 2020 as an example of best practice in retention.
    •   In June 2017 a Strategic Research Framework was signed with Smith & Nephew (S&N) in
        the area of "Advanced Wound Care". S&N's Global Wound Care Headquarters are
        based in Hull, where over 30% of their employees are alumni of UoH. S&N have invested
        in research infrastructure on the University campus, e.g. the second ever Livecyte imaging
        suite in the UK, and benefited from University technology capabilities, such as 3D printing
        and augmented reality. The collaboration spans the S&N business portfolio, from
        mechanistic and mode of action studies, through model development, to safety and
        efficacy testing. We are: developing wound technologies of the future, e.g. 50/50 MRC CiC
        and S&N funded wound sensor project; revealing important new insight into the mode of
        action of existing advanced wound care technologies, e.g. Negative Pressure Wound

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Therapy; and delivering innovative investigator led clinical trials, e.g. hair cycle
        manipulation to promote healing. To date we have undertaken over 25 collaborative
        research projects, bringing >£1M of research investment to the University. This
        partnership has formed one of the largest multi-disciplinary PhD student clusters of
        "Wound Care" research in Europe - to date a total of 9 PhD students have been supported:
        five funded by the University, three by S&N and one externally.
    •   Hull is the home of Reckitt Benckiser’s (RB) global research centre, and following extensive
        discussions, in 2019 the University launched a Pharmacology and Drug Development
        MSc. The course director, Dr Simon Calaminus, liaised with colleagues at RB, including
        the Chief Medical Officer, who now contribute to teaching the students on drug
        development and formulation within the pharmaceutical industry. Furthermore, the
        company supplied an industrial tutor for each student to act as a mentor alongside the
        academic input. There are plans for development of additional modules, which will give the
        students the technical laboratory skills required within the pharmaceutical industry.
    •   Work led by Prof Una Macleod and Dr Liz Mitchell has improved GP practice on early
        diagnosis of malignancy through the development and implementation of a Significant
        Event Audit; a tool for GPs to learn from cases when a diagnosis of cancer was made only
        after a delay, or through an eventual emergency presentation. The initial project was
        funded by the Cancer Policy Team, Department of Health (via the NAEDI initiative) in 2008,
        and after further research and development at local and regional level (NAEDI, 2010; North
        East Yorkshire and Humber Clinical Alliance (Cancer) in 2012, and Yorkshire and Humber
        Strategic Clinical Network in 2014), it was subsequently taken up by the Royal College of
        General Practitioners as part of a successful national pilot in 2012-2013. Based on the
        positive feedback received, the toolkit for GPs has been adopted nationally since
        2016 on the RCGP website (https://www.rcgp.org.uk/clinical-and-research/resources/
        toolkits/early-diagnosis-of-cancer-significant-event-analysis-toolkit.aspx). In March 2020,
        it was included in NHS England’s Directed Enhanced Service for early cancer diagnosis.
 Society
    •   The work of the perinatal mental health team has made a major impact at local, national
        and International level across three strands of work. Specifically, the work on Fear of
        Childbirth/tokophobia has resulted in the implementation, in partnership with two local NHS
        Trusts, of a clinical referral pathway for women who may be experiencing fear of childbirth.
        This represents the culmination of 10 years’ work led by Prof Julie Jomeen and Dr Catriona
        Jones with all local NHS trusts and affiliated stakeholders which has involved the leading
        role in the development of a localised perinatal mental health service, pathways for care
        and practitioner training. Further recent work includes the evaluation of an expanded
        clinical service following the receipt of £25k of WAVE 2 government funding in 2019. A
        second strand of work led by Profs Colin Martin and Jomeen, is the development of a suite
        of measures which seek to determine practitioner confidence and knowledge, illness
        perceptions and professional issues in relation to the effective delivery of perinatal mental
        health care (PMHA, PIPS, PIMMHS). These newly developed measures have already
        been adopted in China and Turkey with several other requests for International
        translational currently being processed, e.g. Poland. The third strand is the adoption of
        the Birth Satisfaction Scale-Revised, developed by Prof Martin, as a recommended
        global outcome measure in the International Confederation for Health Outcomes
        Measurement (ICHOM) Pregnancy and Childbirth standard set. Since adoption by the
        ICHOM, the developers in Hull have had more than 100 requests to use the BSS-R as part
        either for outcome monitoring in standard clinical care or as an outcome measure in large
        randomised controlled trials.
    •   In 2018, in collaboration with Humber University Foundation Teaching Trust, a group led
        by Dr Jones began working with maternity providers to develop an evidence based clinical
        pathway for women who experience fear of childbirth/tokophobia. The work was funded by
        Ferens Education Trust and the International Society for Reproductive and Infant
        Psychology and is contributing to the development of services and support for women


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        experiencing severe levels of childbirth related fear. We have implemented a care pathway
        developed from our research, in the local NHS Trust in September 2019, and brought
        together a panel of UK and international experts to develop a consensus statement about
        tokophobia. From this seminal work the priorities for treatment and future research have
        been identified https://blogs.bmj.com/ebn/2019/08/26/fear-of-childbirth-and-tokophobia/).
        A key part of the work was to raise awareness of tokophobia and we used a presentation
        at the British Science Festival in 2018 to this end. This presentation sparked global
        coverage resulting in 139 media hits (including BBC World News, BBC2 – Newsnight, The
        Guardian, The Times, and Daily Mail). Two tokophobia articles published (February 2018:
        Jones, Wadephul, Jomeen; October 2018: Wadephul, Jones, Jomeen) via the
        Conversation articles have had a total of 194,011 reads and have been translated into
        French (45,392 reads) and Indonesian (2,693; all as of 1st May 2020). The articles have
        been further rebroadcast and published by 45 media titles and online sites.
    •   Prof Tom Phillips received funding from NHS England & Improvement to lead a project, in
        collaboration with the University of Southampton, to develop a consensus on the clinical
        competencies for hospital–based Alcohol Care Teams (ACT) which were being developed
        under the NHS Long-Term Plan (NHS England, 2019). The Long-Term Plan had identified
        the need to develop new multi-professional ACTs across the 25 hospitals with the highest
        burden      of    alcohol-related    admissions    (https://www.england.nhs.uk/ltphimenu/
        prevention/alcohol-care-teams/). This consensus framework will be used to develop
        training and support for these innovative teams. Firstly, an expert panel was formed, co-
        ordinated by the University of Hull, and a consensus project using Delphi principles was
        concluded in November 2019 identifying 72 clinical competencies across eight domains.
        Open access funding from NHS England was secured with the results being published in
        April 2020 (Phillips, Porter and Sinclair (2020) https://doi.org/10.1093/alcalc/agaa024).
        The outcomes of this study are currently being used by NHS England to inform the
        following: i) supporting the commissioning of new ATCs, with the first tranche of 12 services
        being located in Barnsley, Blackburn, Ealing, Great Yarmouth, Manchester, Nottingham,
        Oldham, South Tyneside, Southampton, Sunderland, Treliske and Whiston; ii) aiding the
        recruitment of clinical staff; iii) informing the expert group developing training and
        development initiatives for ACTs, which includes NHS England, Public Health England,
        Health Education England, Royal College of Psychiatrists and clinicians; and iv) the
        development of outcome measures for ACTs (see above website).
    •   Prof Lesley Smith was commissioned by the Institute of Alcohol Studies (IAS) in August
        2018 to understand the implementation of alcohol guidelines by midwives across the UK.
        The work has identified the determinants of midwives’ practice behaviour regarding
        addressing alcohol consumption during pregnancy. Following the launch of the report, a
        piece was written for The Conversation which had had 4,400 readers (31.12.20), 55% were
        from outside the UK indicating that the results have international interest. In addition, the
        initial findings have informed the development of a practice-change intervention to
        support midwives implementation of alcohol assessment and advice during
        antenatal appointments. This work has just been funded by NIHR RfPB and started in
        January 2021.
        The study has also resulted in engagement in regional alcohol care pathways in the North
        East. Prof Smith has been invited to be part of the Local Maternity Services Alcohol and
        Pregnancy Working Group. The working group is developing an alcohol care pathway and
        training resources for midwives and health professionals caring for women during
        pregnancy and post-birth. The “All Our Health” framework produced by Public Health
        England is being embedded into the curriculum of nurses and midwives at the University
        of Hull, and this specifically includes an alcohol care pathway based on Prof Smith’s
        seminal study, from 2019.




                                                                                             Page 17
