Institution: University of St Andrews


Unit of assessment: UoA 9: Physics


Section 1. Unit context, research and impact strategy
Unit context
The School of Physics and Astronomy at the University of St Andrews aims to undertake world-
leading curiosity-driven research which both pushes the boundaries of fundamental science and
achieves high impact. The School has 40.8 FTE Category A staff, whose research is focussed in
three areas of excellence:
    •   Astrophysics
    •   Condensed Matter Physics/Physics of Quantum Materials
    •   Photonics
We have invested £15M building research facilities of international distinction to support these
core areas, and accelerate impact through collaborations nucleated in seven interdisciplinary
Centres and Institutes. The School is an active partner of the Scottish Universities Physics
Alliance (SUPA), gaining critical mass, shared facilities and graduate school training. Our formal
research partnerships now extend across the world, providing excellent training for early career
researchers and leading international projects. Our research culture is anchored in an inclusive
and supportive environment that values equality and diversity, reflected in the School’s
achievement of Juno Champion and Athena Swan Silver awards.
Research priorities
Staff listed with a star (*) are attributed to two of our priority areas, with two stars (**) are on joint
appointment with other institutions and with a hash (#) submitted through other Schools.
Appointments since last REF in bold.
Astrophysics
Staff: 12.8 FTE (Bonnell, Cameron, Cyganowski, Dominik, Helling, Horne, Jardine, Scholz,
Tojeiro, Weijmans, Wild, Woitke, Wood, Zhao)
Evidence of vitality: Weijmans (Leverhulme Early Career fellowship) and Tojeiro (STFC Ernest
Rutherford fellowship) have been promoted from advanced fellowships to Reader positions.
Major grants: ERC grants (3), an EU/FP7 grant (1), an H2020 Marie-Curie ITN (1), STFC
consolidated grant
Distinctive facilities: James Gregory telescope (largest operating optical telescope in the UK),
three 1m robotic telescopes in Chile, Australia and South Africa
(SUPAscopes)
Selected research highlights: discovery of the two closest
Earth-analogue rocky planets (Cameron, Nature Astronomy
2017), the first detection of a ring system around an asteroid
(Dominik, Nature 2014), the first detection of relativistic
deflection of light by a star other than the sun (Dominik, Science
2017), role of AGN in star formation (Weijmans, Nature 2016;
Wild, Nature Astronomy 2019), discovery of brown dwarfs in
massive star forming regions (Scholz, MNRAS 2017 (Figure 1)),
use of baryonic acoustic oscillations to test General Relativity
(Tojeiro, MNRAS 2017).
The research strategy of our Astrophysics group is to address           Figure 1: The star cluster RCW
some of the key questions about our Universe and the origin of          38 imaged by ESO’s Very
life, for example what is the nature of dark matter? Are there          Large Telescope as part of the
exoplanets which host or are suitable for life? To achieve this,        brown dwarf survey (Credit:
we combine observational research with advanced modelling               ESO/K. Muzic).
from the largest scales in the universe, galaxy evolution and cosmology, to the intermediate
scales in molecular clouds and star formation, to the small scales in protoplanetary disks, stellar
activity, and exoplanets. In our interdisciplinary Centre for Exoplanet Science, astrophysicists
work with philosophers, biologists, geologists and linguists to identify and characterise new
planets around distant stars, their environmental conditions and the possibility of extra-terrestrial
life. Several of our Astronomers (Cameron, Wild, Scholz) are members of the Institute for Data-
Intensive Research to explore new methodologies in scientific research in the era of Big Data.
Members of the group have leadership positions in several international collaborations (e.g.
HARPS-N, CHEOPS (Cameron); SDSS-IV, MaNGA, WEAVE-Apertif (Weijmans); DESI, eBOSS
(Tojeiro), MiNDSTEp (Dominik), JWST-NIRISS (Scholz), VLT (Wild)).
Condensed Matter Physics
Staff: 12.5 FTE (Braunecker, Cassettari, di Falco*, Grigera**, Höfling*,**, Hooley, Jagadamma*,
Keeling*, King, Lee, J. Lovett*, Mackenzie**, Ohadi*, Rhodes, Rost, Samuel*, Schulz*, Smith*,
Wahl)
Evidence of vitality: Rost joined with an EPSRC early career fellowship. Lovett and King hold
Royal Society URFs and King a Leverhulme Leadership award. Rhodes holds an 1851 fellowship.
Major grants: EPSRC programme grant (1), ERC starting grant (1), EPSRC fellowship (1), Royal
Society URF (2), Leverhulme Leadership award (1), 1851 Fellowship (1), EPSRC standard grants
(3), EPSRC strategic equipment grants (3)
Distinctive facilities: Ultra-low vibration laboratory with a suite of scanning tunnelling
microscopes, Spin- and Angular-resolved Photoemission, Reactive oxide and chalcogenide
molecular beam epitaxy, materials characterization suite (MPMS, PPMS, thin film x-ray,
Nanoprobe)
Selected research highlights: new tools for imaging of
correlated and emergent states in quantum materials at the
atomic scale (Wahl, Science 2014 (Figure 2); Davis &
Mackenzie, Nature 2016), uniaxial strain tuning as a new
method, developed in St Andrews, to control the ground state of
materials (Mackenzie, Science 2014, Science 2017), giant
Rashba spin-splitting at the surface of a correlated oxide (King
& Mackenzie, Nature 2019) and stabilization of magnetism at
molecular interfaces of non-magnetic materials (Lee, Nature
2015).
                                                                  Figure 2: Atomic scale image
Our research strategy in condensed matter physics uses
                                                                  of magnetism in a quantum
fundamental research into quantum materials using advanced
                                                                  material [Science 2014].
spectroscopic probes and bespoke instruments to identify new
ways to control the properties of quantum materials and opportunities for new technologies.
These activities are concentrated in the Centre for Designer Quantum Materials (CDQM) which
hosts world-leading facilities, unique in the UK, benefitting from an overall investment of more
than £10M, all interconnected enabling transformative research into quantum materials in bulk
and thin-film form. The overarching vision of the CDQM is to translate the exciting properties of
quantum materials from research to applications by bringing together researchers from Physics,
Chemistry and Engineering. While the research is fundamental in nature, it has resulted in
successful commercialization of advanced instrumentation, for example through the spin-out
company Razorbill Instruments.
Photonics
Staff: 15.5 FTE (Brown, Dholakia, di Falco*, Gather, Harwell,
Höfling*,**, Jagadamma*, Keeling*, König, Korolkova, B. Lovett, J.
Lovett*, Mazilu, O’Faolain**, Ohadi*, Penedo#, Robertson, Samuel*,
Schubert, Schulz*, Smith*, Turnbull)
Evidence of vitality: new hires Ohadi and Schulz, Jagadamma
has secured a UKRI FLF. J Lovett holds a Royal Society URF,
Schubert a Dorothy Hodgkins fellowship and Harwell an EPSRC
fellowship.
Major grants: EPSRC programme grants (2), ERC grants (3),
H2020 FET and Industrial Leadership grants (2), Royal Society
URFs (3), UKRI FLF (1), JSPS core-to-core grant (1), EPSRC
standard grants (3), Capital for eight great technologies (1).        Figure 3: Zebrafish heart
                                                                      imaged with Lightsheet
Distinctive facilities: 2 clean rooms for nanofabrication and Microscopy [Nat. Meth.
optoelectronic devices, femtosecond spectroscopy facility, 1000 m2 2014] and held using
of photonics laboratories.                                            acoustic confinement [Nat.
Selected research highlights: Light Sheet Microscopy using airy Commun. 2019].
beams (Dholakia, Nature Methods 2014, Figure 3), electric pumping of exciton-polaritons in
carbon nanotubes (Gather, Nature Materials 2017) and observation of non-hermitian behaviour
in exciton-polariton resonators (Höfling, Nature 2015), development of elastic resonator
interference stress microscopy to study cellular forces (Gather&Schubert, Nature Cell Biology
2017), demonstration of photon-mediated interactions in multimode cavity QED (Keeling, Phys.
Rev. X 2018) and of an electric switch based on an optically trapped polariton condensate (Ohadi,
Nature Materials 2016), realization of an organic vortex laser (Dholakia, Samuel&Turnbull, ACS
Nano 2018)
Our photonics research has developed from a core of laser physics to a portfolio spanning
biophotonics, organic semiconductors, nanophotonics, metamaterials, quantum optics, advanced
imaging and metrology, and communications.
We have strategically developed activity in photonic materials and light-matter interactions,
further strengthening this direction following appointments of Höfling, B. and J. Lovett in 2013, by
recruiting Schulz and Ohadi. In the Organic Semiconductor Centre (OSC), with close links to
Chemistry and Biology, we explore organic optoelectronic materials and their applications in
sensing, communications and biophotonics.
Within the Centre for Biophotonics and through the Mackenzie Institute for Early Diagnosis,
we actively pursue interdisciplinary avenues to apply our expertise in photonics to problems in
biology and medicine. We have built strong international links through a partnership with Harvard
Medical School (Gather) and a Global Challenges Research Fund project on using light sources
to kill parasites and fungal infections (Samuel). Our research benefits from a suite of electron
paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectrometers, including world-leading mm-wave
instrumentation (Smith, Robertson) and EPR techniques (J Lovett) for structure determination of
proteins, providing a major facility for the Centre for Magnetic Resonance.
Research and Impact Strategy
The foundation of our research and impact strategy is to capitalize on the agility afforded by being
a small School to undertake excellent world-leading research and promote interdisciplinary
collaborations for accelerated impact. To realize these ambitions, we have organized our
research in multidisciplinary centres to build critical mass and accelerate impact.
Creating Centres of Excellence
Our research activities nucleate around seven
interdisciplinary centres and institutes (see
Figure 4):
   •   The Centre for Magnetic Resonance
       (CMR, founded in 2009)
   •   The Organic Semiconductor Centre
       (OSC, 2010)
   •   Institute for Data-Intensive Research
       (IDIR, 2014)
   •   The Centre for Exoplanet Science
       (CES, 2016)
   •   The Centre for Designer Quantum
       Materials (CDQM, 2019)
   •   The Centre of Biophotonics (CB, 2019)
   •   The Mackenzie Institute for Early
       Diagnosis (MIED, 2019)
These centres and institutes provide a
stimulating research environment and create Figure 4: Interdisciplinary links of the Centres
international visibility and hubs for international and Institutes in the School of Physics and
and interdisciplinary collaboration. They are Astronomy.
core to our research and impact strategy and tie into the University’s interdisciplinary research
priority areas (see Institution-Level environment statement, ILES, 2.5).
The centres build on substantial strategic investment in the research infrastructure (more than
£18M investment since August 2013), strategic recruitments (since 2012 Braunecker, Gather,
Höfling, King, J Lovett, B Lovett, Ohadi, Schulz, Wahl) and have attracted multiple fellows
(Harwell, Jagadamma, Rhodes, Rost, Schubert). The investments include new Ultra-Low
Vibration laboratories, Cleanroom and nanophotonics facilities, a molecular beam epitaxy lab for
the growth of designer oxide heterostructures, and new facilities for spin- and angular-resolved
photoemission and thin-film characterization.
From national leadership to international champion
At the beginning of the REF period, a focal point of our activities was our research partnership
with the School of Physics and Astronomy in Edinburgh (PHYESTA), founded in 2010, with strong
collaborative activities:
   •   the foundation of twin Centres for Exoplanet Science to study the abundance, formation
       and structure of exoplanetary systems.
    • a Doctoral Training Centre (led by St Andrews, with Edinburgh, Heriot Watt) in condensed
       matter physics.
    • major EPSRC-funded research activities through an EPSRC programme grant, hosted in
       St Andrews with Edinburgh as a key partner, and a standard grant (Wahl, Stock, EPSRC)
The research links built through PHYESTA remain an important element of our environment, but
we have grown a wider portfolio of strategic partnerships in line with our strategic vision. Through
our centres, we have built formal collaborations with international peers, including:
   •   an international research programme on new organic light emitting materials funded
       through a JSPS core-to-core programme with Kyushu University (OSC, Samuel)
   •   an International Max Planck Research School in the Physics of Quantum Materials, with
       TU Dresden, the Max Planck Institute (MPI) for the Chemical Physics of Solids and the
       MPI for the Physics of Complex Systems (CDQM).
   •   pan-European training and research programmes funded through a Marie-Curie ITN on
       exoplanets (CES, Helling) and a Quantera consortium (Korolkova), both led by St
       Andrews
   •   participation in major European grants PROSCOPE and DynAMic to use advanced optical
       techniques for diagnosis with partners in Germany, France, Greece, Austria and Ireland
       (CB&MIED, Dholakia)
   •   close collaboration with four Max Planck Institutes (MPIs of Solid State Physics, of Light,
       for the Chemical Physics of Solids, and for Physics of Complex Systems) in an
       International Max Planck Partnership (CDQM)
   •   a collaboration funded by
       the     Human      Frontiers
       Program with Harvard
       Medical      School     and
       University of Cambridge
       (CB&MIED, Gather).
   •   Leadership in the recently
       launched          CHEOPS
       exoplanet space mission
       (CES, Cameron)
Evidence of the increased
internationalization is the number
of joint publications with overseas Figure 5: National and international partners in joint
partners (Figure 5).                  publications of the School of Physics and Astronomy.
Strategic growth
We aim to strategically grow our interdisciplinary centres through targeted recruitments and
attracting independent fellows with a view to enable the transformative technologies promised by
our fundamental research, building critical mass, capitalizing on synergies and strengthening links
between our Centres and to other disciplines. Focus areas for strategic expansion include:
   •    From advanced quantum materials to technology: Creating prototype devices from the
        materials developed in the Centre for Designer Quantum Materials enables entirely new
        science, and is the first step on a route to electronic devices based on these.
    • Use our expertise in biophotonics for applications in early diagnosis and treatment of
        diseases through a joint appointment with the Schools of Medicine and Biology.
    • Link our activities in photonics and energy materials with the University’s new Eden
        Campus (ILES, 2.1), and explore the Physics of Sustainable Energy with direct links to
        the Organic Semiconductor Centre.
Part of this ambitious strategy will be a major refurbishment and extension of the School’s J F
Allen building to create the space and modern research infrastructure for our growth. Through
our strategy, we aim to facilitate excellent research, maximize opportunities to bid for strategic
investments and accelerate impact, while being mindful to sustain and enhance our inclusive and
supportive environment, promoting equality and diversity.
Accelerating Impact
Our interdisciplinary centres encourage translation of results from fundamental research to more
applied disciplines and provide a point of contact for industry. Testament of the success of this
strategy are three of our four impact case studies (ICSs Samuel, Smith and Dholakia) that have
emerged from activities in our Centres. Several of our Centres have dedicated strands that pursue
commercialization and activities with relevance for industry (Figure 6):
   •   The Organic Semiconductor Centre develops new application fields of organic
       semiconductors, and has been highly successful in realizing economic and societal impact
       (e.g. ICS Samuel).
   •    The Centre for Designer Quantum
        Materials works closely with industry
        partners (e.g. Razorbill Instruments,
        Pyreos) to identify routes towards
        commercialization       of     advanced
        instrumentation and applications of
        quantum materials.
    • High-frequency antennas, developed in
        our Centre for Magnetic Resonance, have
        been commercialized (ICS Smith).
    • The Centre of Biophotonics has been
        actively   pursuing     commercialization
        through collaboration and spin-outs
        (Bespoke Photonics, ICS Dholakia).
Our strategy has provided a supportive and fertile
environment for translating our research to           Figure 6: Highlights illustrating the impact of
applications and in realizing technological and       our research: (a) strain cell from St Andrews
economic impact (see highlights in Figure 6),         spin-out Razorbill Instruments, (b) high-
including the following examples that are in          performance reflector antenna for the
addition to the impact case studies:                  TROPICS CubeSat constellation with dual-
                                                      band feed (ICS Smith), (c) side-emitting
   • two       spin-out   companies,       Razorbill fibres for safety applications (PhotoSynergy,
        Instruments Ltd and Bespoke Photonics, ICS Dunn). Image Credits: Razorbill
        making         specialized         scientific Instruments,     Thomas        Keating    Ltd.,
        instrumentation                               PhotoSynergy.
   • long-standing close collaborations with a
        number of companies (M-Squared Life, PhotoSynergy (ICS Dunn), Ambicare Health,
        Thomas Keating Ltd., KP Technology)
   • 355 patent applications filed by or granted to members of the School of which 78% are
        licensed. Our royalty income of more than £2M includes license deals with
            o Elliott Scientific (Dholakia)
            o Sumimoto/Oxford University via Cambridge Display Technology (Samuel)
            o M-Squared Lasers (Dunn, Dholakia and others)
            o Max-Planck-Institute for the Chemical Physics of Solids
Members of the School have been very successful in raising funds from schemes to support
research impact and knowledge exchange with a total value of £833k.
Public Engagement
The School encourages academics, research staff and PhD students to engage with the public
and attract students towards STEM subjects. Highlights include:
   •    an STFC Leadership Fellowship in public engagement held by Weijmans (2018-21)
   •    award-winning Cell Block Science reaching over 630 prisoners and family members
        annually
    • Science Discovery Day, taking place in the School in the British Science Week with more
        than 1300 attendees each year (equivalent to ~10% of the population of St Andrews)
    • Exhibit “A message from afar” at the Royal Society Summer Exhibition 2019 (Dominik)
    • the national programme for the International Year of Light in 2015 of the Royal Society of
        Edinburgh (Lee)
Advocacy and informing policy
Through events highlighting our research and unique facilities we not only advertise St Andrews
to outstanding talent, but also create opportunities to connect to policy makers. In the evaluation
period, we have hosted events in the School with participation of Members of Parliament
(Westminster and Holyrood), the First Minister of Scotland, the Cabinet Secretary for Education
and Life-long learning and the Chinese Ambassador to the UK. Members of the School have
participated in the Royal Society Pairing Scheme (Dominik, J Lovett).
We have taken an active approach to connect with research councils to inform policy. Samuel
sits on EPSRC’s Strategic Advisory Network and has presented his work at the Scottish
Parliament. Members of the School have met with David Sweeney, Executive Chair of Research
England, Sir Mark Walport, the Chief Executive of UKRI (2017-20), and Rebecca Endean,
Director of Strategy at UKRI.
Open Research and Open Data
The School has a strong track record of ensuring open accessibility of outputs and publication of
research data along with them. The percentage of outputs that meet open access requirements
is 97%. School policy is that for any publication, underpinning data is to be made publicly
available. All academic staff have ORCID IDs.
Research Integrity
All academic staff have participated in research integrity training, developed by the University. It
is a mandatory part of the induction for new staff and training of PhD students. The University has
held research integrity training modules at residential workshops of our Condensed Matter CDT.
The University has established procedures to report and investigate allegations of scientific
misconduct (ILES, 2.6).


Section 2: People
Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
Staffing Strategy
The School operates a multi-pronged hiring strategy, aiming to attract emerging leaders to apply
for prestigious independent fellowships, providing a transparent path to a faculty position, and
through targeted recruitment in strategic priority areas. Examples for the success of this strategy
include:
   •    Advanced fellowships secured or held by King, Tojeiro, Weijmans, B. and J. Lovett, Rost,
        Jagadamma, Schubert, Keeling
    • a number of fellows have been promoted to permanent positions (Tojeiro, Weijmans, J.
        Lovett, Rost). Jagadamma secured a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship. Of these five, 80%
        are female.
    • Recruitment in strategic areas: following appointment of Höfling and B. Lovett in 2013 to
        strengthen links between Condensed Matter Physics and Photonics, we have newly
        recruited Ohadi and Schulz in this area. Ohadi studies non-equilibrium condensates and
        exciton-polariton states while Schulz uses non-linear light-matter interactions to tailor and
        control light.
We envision further strategic recruitments in the areas highlighted in the Research and Impact
strategy.
This recruitment strategy has led to an increasingly diverse faculty with well-aligned research
interests and complementary expertise, evidenced through collaborative grant proposals and
publications. The high quality of our personnel is evidenced by the offers our staff receive, which
are at the highest level. Several have turned down opportunities to move to other leading
Universities. Mackenzie has taken on a Directorship at the Max Planck Institute of the Chemical
Physics of Solids, retaining close ties with St Andrews through a joint appointment, an international
Max Planck Research School and an International Max Planck Partnership. Gather has been
awarded a prestigious Humboldt professorship and maintains strong links with St Andrews through
joint research programmes. Davis has secured an ERC Advanced Grant and taken on a joint
appointment at Oxford University and University College Cork.
Since 2014, the number of category A staff has increased
from 36.9 to 40.8 FTE. A breakdown of the distribution by       20
career stage and gender is shown in Figure 7.
                                                                15                          2
Technician Commitment
The University of St Andrews is a signatory of the Technician                    2
Commitment and we support the development of our                10
technical staff and their skills through a variety of                                5      15
mechanisms, including:                                           5              11
                                                                          1
   •    day-release HND (Higher National Diploma) and                    4             5
        HNC (Higher National Certificate) courses                 0
    • internal continuing professional development




                                                                      RA




                                                                                        er


                                                                                         r
                                                                                        er
        training




                                                                                      so
                                                                                    ad
                                                                                     ur
                                                                     PD




                                                                                   es
    • part-time secondments, e.g. to the Fraunhofer




                                                                                  ct

                                                                                 Re

                                                                                of
                                                                          Le




                                                                              Pr
        Centre for Applied Photonics.
    • organisation of the technicians in teams to                          Male     Female
        encourage development of skills and provide a
        pathway for career development to supervisory
                                                               Figure 7: Distribution of category A
        roles.
                                                               staff by gender and career stage.
The success of our staff development strategy is evidenced
by the cleanroom and cryogenics team having been awarded the 2020 IOP Technician Award.
Staff Development
Faculty
All faculty undergo annual academic reviews with the Head of School to discuss their career
development, targets for the next year, workload, grant applications, as well as impact or research
leave. For academics at Lecturer and Reader-level, the
discussion also covers promotion. We have seen a high 20
number of successful promotions since 2014 (4 to Reader,
6 to chair level). Figure 8 shows the distribution of 15
category A staff by age and career-stage.                                     0              7
The School operates a transparent workload allocation 10                      7       1
model that accounts for teaching, admin, research and                                 3      6
impact activities and is overseen by the Director of           5       0
                                                                       1
Teaching in coordination with the Director of Equality,                2      6       6      4
                                                               0       2      0       0      0
Diversity and Inclusion and the Head of School. Newly
appointed academics are assigned a senior member of
                                                                     RA


                                                                                    er

                                                                                   er


                                                                                     r
                                                                                  so



staff as mentor, and are put on a tapered teaching
                                                                                 ur

                                                                                ad
                                                                PD




                                                                               es
                                                                              ct

                                                                             Re




workload. The mentors provide advice and guidance on
                                                                            of
                                                                      Le




                                                                          Pr




funding opportunities, career progression and promotion.
All members of staff involved in recruitment processes are          25-29 30-44 45-54 55+
required to undertake Recruitment, Unconscious Bias and
Equality and Diversity trainings. It is University policy that Figure 8: Distribution of category A
single gender shortlists are not allowed for academic staff by age group and career stage.
recruitment (ILES, 3.1).
Fellows, Research Staff and Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
We are committed to providing a supportive environment for our Fellows and Research Staff (RS)
in line with the principles of the Concordat. Incoming Fellows and RS are assigned an academic
mentor who is independent of their supervisor and who can also serve as role model, ensuring
gender balance and diversity of the mentors. They provide career advice and guidance. Skills
training is provided through our University’s Organisational and Staff Development Services
(OSDS) and Centre for Educational Enhancement and Development (CEED; ILES, 3.2-ii). Fellows
and RS have annual review meetings with the Head of School or their line manager to discuss
progress and define targets for the coming year as well as career progression. RS, like academics,
have a formalized route to apply for promotion as their roles develop. In recognition of the
University’s work in meeting the principles of the Concordat, the University obtained the European
Commission HR Excellence in Research Award in 2012 and retained it successfully at the 6-year
review in 2018.
Nurturing creativity for impact and research
Our philosophy is to treat impact-related activities on an equal footing with research and teaching
and this is reflected in our workload model. For example, sabbaticals can be taken not only for
research but also for impact-related activities (impact leave, ILES, 2.3).
Income generated from licensing fees is distributed to the inventors, recognizing their contribution
and giving them flexibility to further pursue research and maximize impact. Due to the high
percentage of patents licensed, this provides a considerable additional income stream.
We encourage staff to undertake training of their impact-related skills through relevant courses
delivered by OSDS. Staff are made aware of these at the academic review meetings.
Research Students
In the evaluation period, 123 PhD students have graduated from the School, a number that has
increased by about 50% compared to the previous REF period ending in 2013 (20% when
accounting for the length of the evaluation period), commensurate with our vision of strategic
growth in our priority areas.
Funding
UK students are predominantly supported through the EPSRC Doctoral Training Grant (DTG), the
Doctoral Training Centre in Condensed Matter Physics, one of only two DTCs in Condensed
Matter Physics in the UK, the Applied Photonics CDT as well as the STFC DTG. International
students receive fellowships through a variety of schemes, including ERC and Leverhulme grants,
the Chinese Scholarship Council, and the International Max Planck Research School with the Max
Planck Institute for the Chemical Physics of Solids in Dresden. In 2018, the University has
launched a new Physics of Quantum Materials Centre for Doctoral Training that provides
specialised training of and funding for postgraduate students.
Award-winning Research Students
The quality of our PhD students and the education they receive is evidenced by the number of
awards they have received for their thesis. About 10% have been awarded prestigious prizes,
including the Springer thesis award (7), the Otto Hahn Medal of the Max Planck Society (2), the
Richard L. Greene award by the American Physical Society in 2020 (1), the ‘PhD Student of the
Year’ award in 2020 (1) and the IoP Superconductivity Thesis Prize in 2020 (1).
Training & Support – SUPA Graduate School
All our PhD students are part of the SUPA Graduate School, the
largest graduate school for PhD education in the UK, providing a
unique training network with an exceptionally broad course
programme. The SUPA graduate School provides training
   •   For more than 600 graduate students across SUPA
   •   through more than 70 courses offered across the partner
       Universities. These include a variety of formats from courses transmitted via video
       conference to residential meetings and an annual gathering.
Our PhD students benefit from intense training, including
   •   40 hours of courses during the first two years of their PhD. All the courses involve
       assessment, and students are required to gain a passing mark to count towards the
       required 40 hours.
   •   72.5 hours of skills training per year, the majority of which must be transferable skills. The
       University’s CEED offers 370 hours of distinct skills courses, including GRADskills, a suite
       of workshops and activities designed specifically for research postgraduate students. In
       addition, there are 102 hours of distinct skills courses through SUPA, and skills courses
       specifically relevant to Physics and Astronomy students which are run in the school (e.g.
       a School-specific induction, training for public engagement).
   •   All PhD students are required to complete online courses on research integrity before their
       first-year review can be completed.
   • Specific training for students who teach, and for those involved in public engagement.
Progress Monitoring
Monitoring of student progress and training is through annual review. Our review process consists
of
   •     Annual review meetings with two members of staff who are independent of their
         supervisors and discuss the progress of the thesis work, and provide advice and support.
     • A presentation after six months to a group of staff, PDRAs and research students about
         the topic of their research
     • A first year report summarising the background of the intended research, and progress so
         far.
     • 2nd and 3rd year students need to present a talk or a poster, respectively, at an annual
         postgraduate conference, organized by the School (all PhD students and all staff are
         required to attend, and postdocs are welcome to do so)
In addition to annual assessment, there is continual mentoring support by assigning all PhD
students a mentor, visibly independent of their research supervision. PhD students have full
access to the University’s Advice and Support Centre (ASC), providing help with financial issues,
housing, counselling and other student issues. The ASC has dedicated advisors for research
students. Academic staff have been trained on recognising and acting on mental health problems
in the student population and will contact the ASC if further support is believed to be necessary.
Impact-related Training and Activities
Postgraduate students are offered the possibility to undertake internships during their PhD studies,
for example with one of the more than 30 industrial associates of our Centre for Doctoral Training.
Annual career fairs organised by SUPA, the CDT and the School provide opportunities to explore
different career paths. All graduate students have to undertake at least one public engagement
activity per year. For postgraduate students who are enrolled in the applied photonics and data
intensive science (SCOTDIST) doctoral training programmes, industry placements are an integral
part of their course.
Supervision
Supervisors are required to complete training on PhD supervision. No member of staff is permitted
to supervise more than six students and the University requires at least 10 formal supervisory
meetings take place per academic year. In practice, much more frequent meetings occur in the
School of Physics and Astronomy. We monitor quality of supervision in a number of ways:
   •   through the annual progress reviews, where students are asked to comment on whether
       the form of supervision they receive is sufficient and suitable for their needs.
   •   opportunities for give anonymous feedback on their supervision
   •   monitoring of the outcomes of the student annual progress process to identify any
       systematic trends
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ED&I)
The School has a very active ED&I committee with representation from all staff and student
categories, headed by the Director of ED&I, J. Lovett. The chair of the ED&I committee is member
of the School management group, is involved in academic staff hiring, and consulted on
promotions applications. The successes of our ED&I activities have led to us securing Juno
Championship status and an Athena SWAN Silver award, and have made the School a model for
other Schools in the University as well as for other Physics Departments in the UK, who have
sought advice on best practices developed and implemented by us.
Our percentage of female academic staff in Astrophysics already achieves parity at Lecturer and
Reader level. We have welcomed a further increase in the number of female faculty members,
with female colleagues now well represented across all levels in the School, including in the
School’s management group. The number of staff applying for promotions has increased
substantially, with success rates remaining high at ~80%.
Management
The main governing committees (Management Group; Teaching, Research & Impact, Safety, and
ED&I Committees) of the School directly involve a large fraction of academic and support staff in
our decision making. Female staff hold leadership positions in these and other University
committees. The Head of School discusses and encourages such contributions in annual
academic review meetings, including their role and value for career progression and promotion.
The Head of School considers diversity of leadership whenever a position on the Management
Group is due to be filled. We promote participation in mentoring and networking schemes for
female staff, for example the Elizabeth Garrett scheme, which is run by the University and provides
networking opportunities, mentoring and support for women in, or aspiring to, leading academic
roles, and the Aurora scheme, an inter-institutional mentoring scheme to support female research
staff and junior academics in becoming future leaders (ILES, 3.2-ii).
Promoting equality
The ED&I committee has a strong track record in ensuring that the School plays an active role in
the development of best practice, evidenced by a number of notable changes that have been
realised within the evaluation period, including
   •   the University has created a child care facility that meets the specific demands of faculty
       and university staff on initiative of our ED&I committee.
   •   Successful lobbying for changes to the semester breaks to align with local school holidays.
   •   addressing concerns about bias in student evaluation of teaching. The School Director of
       ED&I chaired a University working group to provide guidance on the use of such scores
       for staff assessment, as well as to revise the module evaluation questionnaires.
   •   Development of a Code of Conduct for academic staff and conferences held on campus.
   •   mandatory training for all academics in Equality & Diversity and Unconscious Bias, a
       prerequisite to be on appointment panels and supervise PhD students
   •   listening and ACAS bullying & harassment training for a number of staff, who are now
       available to discuss, e.g., sexuality and gender issues
   •   weekly colloquia with a 50:50 gender balance of speakers.
   •   Development of guidelines for seminar and conference organisers to promote gender-
       balance and diversity in conferences organized on-site. At several conferences organized
       by members of our School, such as EQM2016 and CMQM2019, we have achieved a
       gender-ratio of invited speakers close to parity.
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in REF preparations
In the preparations for REF, we have ensured that those evaluating outputs have a diverse
background and have undergone unconscious bias training. The School’s Research and Impact
Committee, which led the preparation of the submission for UoA9, has a balanced representation
of academics from across the School. Staff have been encouraged to declare any circumstances
to the University’s ED&I review group, who have evaluated these independent of the School.
Supporting flexible working arrangements
The School aims to facilitate and encourage staff to implement flexible working arrangements
which are suited to their circumstances. Five academic staff have benefited from formal flexible
working arrangements since 2014. The School and University (see also ILES, 3.4) facilitate these
through:
   •   a core meeting hours policy (ILES, 4.3)
   •   a caring fund operated by the University to support those with caring responsibilities, when,
       e.g., traveling to conferences or attending training (ILES, 4.3)
    • An initially reduced teaching load for staff returning from maternity leave.
Postgraduate Students
The proportion of female post-graduates has risen steadily in recent years, and currently sits at
37%, more than 10% higher than the national average. All postgraduates receive an introduction
by the Director of ED&I during their induction, including raising awareness of unconscious bias
and imposter syndrome in academia.
Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities
Income
Strategy for generating income
Concentration of our research on our priority areas as well as through organization of our research
in interdisciplinary Centres creates frameworks for larger interdisciplinary consortia combining
areas of excellence from the School and from across the University (ILES, 2.5). Complementary
expertise of the academics encourages collaboration across the School, evidenced by
collaborative grant proposals with multiple investigators from the School. The Centres are
designed to act as a springboard for applications for larger strategic grants and to provide critical
mass, a stimulating environment and the infrastructure to maximize our chances for success. The
Centres further support accelerating the impact, and provide a basis for funding applications to
support realization of these. With the additional recruitment of staff, we expect to grow critical
mass and grant income in our priority areas. We support and encourage researchers in the
development of grant applications at School-level through strategic grant planning meetings with
groups of academics to identify new directions and internal reviewing of grants. Our workload
allocation model accounts for percentage time covered by grants.
Income from Industry
The School has been very successful in securing licensing deals and royalty income from industry
partners who are using the IP generated in the School with a total value of more than £2M, linked
to activities in our research Centres (for example the Centre of Biophotonics and the Centre for
Organic Semiconductors).
Funding obtained
The School has been highly successful in raising funds to support the research. Our research
has during the period since 2014 been supported through
   •     8 ERC grants (5 Starting Grants, 1 Consolidator Grant and 2 Advanced Grants, Bonnell,
         di Falco, Gather, Helling, King, O’Faolain, Samuel, Wild)
    • more than seven advanced fellowships (e.g. Rost (EPSRC Early Career Fellowship),
         Jagadamma (UKRI FLF), Schubert (Dorothy Hodgkins), King (URF), J and B Lovett
         (URF), Tojeiro (STFC), Keeling (EPSRC), Di Falco (EPSRC))
    • a Leverhulme Leadership award (King)
    • 4 EPSRC programme grants (3 held in St Andrews: Dholakia (2), Wahl (1), total budget
         >£15M; programme grant on hybrid polaritonics with Höfling, Keeling, Samuel, Turnbull)
    • 2 EU FET grants (Korolkova, Dholakia), an Industrial Leadership grant (Dholakia)
    • 2 Marie Curie ITNs (Helling, Dholakia)
    • postdoctoral fellowships (Marie Curie, 1851, Leverhulme, EPSRC)
    • a portfolio of EPSRC standard grants, as well as grants from the Leverhulme trust, DARPA
         and the NSF
    • successive STFC consolidated grants.
The average funds raised per FTE is greater than £1M over the evaluation period. Nine members
of staff, more than 20% of our current FTE count, have either held or been awarded an ERC grant
during the REF period, with a total of 16 staff (~40% of FTE) on fellowships (ERC, Royal Society,
UKRI, EPSRC, STFC, Leverhulme, 1851).
We have secured major strategic equipment grants with a combined value of more than £10M,
funding unique infrastructure for characterization of advanced functional and quantum materials:
   •   a suite of electron microscopes and characterization suite for advanced materials
       (EP/L017008/1)
   •   a reactive oxide Molecular-Beam Epitaxy system (EP/M023958/1)
   •   a spin-resolved Angular-Resolved Photoemission setup (EP/R025169/1)
   •   bespoke instrumentation for thin film characterization (EP/T031441/1).
Members of the School have received a total amount of £833k for impact-related activities through
our impact acceleration accounts, GCRF funding and knowledge exchange and impact funds.
Local infrastructure and facilities
An important factor shaping our research environment in the last decade has been the Scottish
Universities Physics Alliance (SUPA), which has provided crucial underpinning research
infrastructure through significant investment, and led to a number of strategic appointments
(Braunecker, Gather, Höfling, B. and J. Lovett, King, Wahl).
Our research across the priority areas benefits from access to a high-performance computing
cluster, Kennedy, operated jointly with the Schools of Mathematics and Statistics and Chemistry.
It is used for materials prediction, calculation of entangled properties of quantum states, and
simulations of galaxies and star formation.
Astrophysics
For time-domain astrophysics experiments, St
Andrews owns three 1m robotic telescopes, the
SUPAscopes, located in South Africa, Chile, and
Australia (Figure 9). These are fully integrated with
the Las Cumbres Observatory (LCO) global robotic
telescope network, on which we receive proportional
time allocations, including 2m, 1m and 0.4m robotic
telescopes. This unique UK facility enables our
research       programmes        on     discovery     and Figure 9: Locations of the three 1m robotic
characterisation of extrasolar planets, black hole telescopes (SUPAscopes) owned by the
accretion flows in active galactic nuclei, identification University.
of rapid transient events, and variability studies in young stellar objects. The SUPAscopes secure
our role in international collaborations through which we receive major awards of time on space
telescopes for parallel X-ray and UV monitoring. The telescopes also provide observing time for
astronomers across Europe, including researchers in Cambridge, Queens (Belfast), Warwick,
Southampton and Heidelberg, as an OPTICON facility and through other funding streams.
St Andrews, with Edinburgh and Belfast, paid for and fabricated key parts of the HARPS-North
spectrograph, a high-precision radial-velocity instrument located in the Northern hemisphere (La
Palma) to allow for synergy with the NASA Kepler mission for the characterization and discovery
of terrestrial planets. It is operated in collaboration with Harvard and led by Geneva. In exchange
for the instrument, St Andrews has guaranteed observing time on the 3.5m telescope. To date it
has produced 60% of the mass determinations for transiting super-Earth and mini-Neptune
planets discovered with the NASA Kepler/K2 mission. Further guaranteed time has been awarded
by the Italian Institute for Astrophysics (INAF) which operates the facility to characterise planets
transiting brighter stars from the NASA TESS mission and the Swiss-led ESA CHEOPS satellite
following their respective launches in 2018.
The School has the largest operational optical telescope in Scotland and one of the largest in the
UK which is used to study exoplanets.
Condensed Matter Physics and Photonics
Since August 2013, the School has seen major investments linked to the University’s priority area
“Materials for the Modern World”. The newly founded Centre for Designer Quantum Materials
encompasses
   •    ultra-low vibration laboratories in a
        dedicated building that is unique in the
        UK (Figure 10), hosting a suite of four low
        temperature       scanning        tunnelling
        microscopes with unique capabilities
        (magnetic fields up to 16T, vector
        magnetic fields up to 5T, and
        temperatures down to 10mK)
    • a dual chamber Molecular Beam
        Epitaxy system for the growth of
        chalcogenide- and oxide-based quantum
        materials
    • two angular resolved photoemission
        systems (one commissioned before
        August 2013), including a setup for spin- Figure 10: The ultra-low vibration laboratory in
        resolved measurements that is unique in St Andrews, a facility dedicated to scanning
        the UK.                                       probe     microscopy      characterisation    of
    • A bespoke nanoprobe system currently            advanced   quantum   materials.
        under development for in-situ transport and physical property measurements of thin films
        down to single monolayers and at the nanometre scale
These facilities enable growth and advanced characterization of thin films of quantum materials,
a crucial step to bring their exciting properties from bulk crystals to technological applications.
Our activities in the Organic Semiconductor Centre and the Mackenzie Institute benefit from
access to two class 10,000 cleanrooms, one of which has been commissioned in this REF period,
extending our total clean room floor area to 175m2. The cleanrooms enable a wide range of
research in photonics, condensed matter, materials and nanoscience. They provide crucial space
for equipment purchased via EPSRC programme and ERC grants, as well as accommodating
the growing number of researchers funded by these grants.
Our research benefits from a £7M investment in infrastructure through the Capital for Eight
Great Technologies programme, which has provided nanostructuring and characterisation tools,
including a new electron beam lithography system, focussed ion beam, nanostructural
characterisation tools (transmission and scanning electron microscopes, atomic force
microscopy) as well as tools for nanofunctional characterisation (femtosecond spectroscopy).
As part of the infrastructure developed since before August 2013, the Centre for Magnetic
Resonance has developed and now operates a world-wide unique mm-wave electron
paramagnetic resonance instrument.
The School runs Scotland’s only helium liquefier with recovery system, crucial to a large part of
our research and teaching labs and with a sustainable recovery rate of more than 95%.
This infrastructure underpins a compelling vision for materials research at St Andrews, and
supports a large portfolio of active research grants.
Technical Infrastructure
The School of Physics and Astronomy has a well-equipped and staffed mechanical workshop
which through close collaboration with our industry partner Sodick Europe Ltd. features advanced
manufacturing equipment, including an ultra-fast 5-axis milling machine, wire eroder and an
electric discharge machining die sinking machine. These and a variety of precision computer
numerically controlled tools, integrated with advanced computer aided manufacturing, enable in-
house manufacturing of prototypes of advanced research instrumentation, including
measurement heads for low temperature scanning tunnelling microscopes, evaporation sources
and antennas for advanced radar applications.
Infrastructure to support Research
Our academic staff are supported in their research activities by a range of facilities at School
level:
   •   The School’s Research and Impact Committee (RIC), chaired by the Director of Research,
       with members including the Director of Impact and representatives from all priority areas,
       ensuring diverse representation. The RIC provides advice on
            o the School’s research strategy
            o recruitment of new staff
            o opportunities to attract major awards
            o internal demand management
            o identification of academics for awards
       It supports staff in applying for grants, undertakes internal reviewing of grants, mock
       interviews and provides advice on how to write successful grant and fellowship
       applications.
   •   A dedicated research secretary, working as part of the School’s admin team to support
       research and the RIC.
   •   A workload model that accounts for grant income and supervision of research students
   •   Discussion of grant applications as part of the annual review process
   •   A dedicated Business Development manager, who regularly visits the School and meets
       with staff to assist in the writing of grant applications, and alerts staff to funding
       opportunities.
   •   Organization of meetings in the School to promote networking and highlight our research
       to a national and international audience.
   •   Our unique research infrastructure.
   •   Access to research facilities across the University and across Scotland through SUPA
   •   An early career researcher forum, creating opportunities for networking and information
       exchange
   •   Organization of our research in Centres, creating critical mass, vitality, interdisciplinarity
       and attracting talent as well as creating opportunities for strategic funding bids.
Further support comes from the University through dedicated courses by Organisational and Staff
Development Services on writing grant applications and publications, as well as networking
events.
Infrastructure to Support Impact, Knowledge Transfer and Business Development
The strategic plan of the University of St Andrews highlights “Entrepreneurial St Andrews” (ILES,
1) as a key theme to promote entrepreneurship and create opportunities and space for spin-out
and knowledge transfer.
Infrastructure to support Impact
Impact-related activities take a central role in
the School and University strategy (Figure 11).
The School supports impact-related activities
through:
   •   Recognition of research, teaching and
       impact in academic reviews and
       promotion processes (ILES, 3.2-iii)
   •   the School’s Director of Impact, who
       actively supports staff in realizing
       impact
   •   the Research and Impact Committee, Figure 11: Infrastructures to support impact at
       which provides advice on the School’s School and University level.
       impact strategy
   •   A discretionary impact fund (£10k annually) overseen by the Head of School and Director
       of Impact to support impact.
   •   Sabbaticals that can be taken as impact leave (ILES, 2.3).
   •   Workshops and joint meetings with industry to showcase our research and for networking
   •   Our photonics research and teaching programme (Applied Photonics CDT; an EPSRC
       Prosperity Partnership project with M-Squared Lasers; InnovateUK, EU and IBioIC
       projects; spin-outs and IP licensing).
   • a dedicated Ogden Trust officer in the School supporting public engagement activities.
Impact activities are further supported through a number of University Units (ILES, 2.3):
   •     The Technology Transfer Centre
   •     our dedicated Business Development Manager
   •     provision of funds to support impact-related activities (EPSRC and STFC Impact
         Acceleration Accounts, the University’s Knowledge Exchange and Impact Fund)
    • a new Sustainable Power and Research Campus with £30M investment by the University
         and the Scottish and UK Governments.
    • the public engagement team for the STEM subjects.
Facilities for an inclusive environment
Our ED&I committee has worked with the management group of the School to ensure that our
facilities support an inclusive environment. New relevant facilities include gender neutral toilets,
a wellbeing room for breastfeeding and expressing milk, and baby change facilities. Breastfeeding
staff members are provided with fridges to store expressed milk in their offices. A multi-faith prayer
room is available to staff and students within 500m from the School.
Facility sharing
Our major research facilities are listed in equipment sharing databases. The Centre for Designer
Quantum Materials, the SUPAScopes and the Centre for Magnetic Resonance have entries in
the UKRI infrastructure roadmap, ensuring awareness of these facilities and providing access for
external researchers. Through SUPA, our facilities are easily accessible to researchers across
Scotland, while at the same time SUPA enables access to facilities at other Scottish Universities.
The SUPAscopes are listed as a resource in the OPTICON portfolio of telescopes, providing paid
access to telescope time for external users and generating an income of more than £400k.
External facilities
Members of the School have used a range of high-performance computing facilities (tier-0: Fermi
(Italy), ca. 6M CPUh; tier-1: Archer (ca. 1M CPUh); tier-2: Dirac (ca. 2.4M CPUh). Further HPC
usage has been on Cirrus.
Astrophysics
For our wide-ranging observational programs, the rights to observe and to use data from a
multitude of world-leading telescopes is crucial. Access to telescopes is granted either through
competitive peer-reviewed applications (usually 3-10 times oversubscribed) or through buy-in or
in-kind contributions which results in guaranteed time or access to large-scale databases. We
make use of different paths to access telescopes covering the entire electromagnetic spectrum.
Over the past five years, our astronomers have been extraordinarily successful in acquiring
telescope time, which greatly enhances our ability to carry out an impactful and leading research
program and a testimony to the quality of our work. Here, we only list the most prominent
examples of this success story.
Members of our group have guaranteed access to
   •   the latest versions of the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (Weijmans)
   •   the dark energy survey DESI (Tojeiro)
   •   the planet search program at HARPS-N at the Telescopio Nazionale Galileo (Cameron)
   •   the Las Cumbres network of telescopes (Horne, Dominik et al.).
   •   the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope and the Vera Rubin Observatory through two
       consortia of UK universities of which we are members.
   •   guaranteed time at the James Webb Space Telescope through a collaboration (Scholz).
Through peer-reviewed applications, we have been granted observing time
   •   at the space telescopes Hubble, XMM, Swift (Horne), Kepler, Spitzer (Scholz); access to
       these is highly coveted by astronomers around the world.
   •     at some of the largest ground-based telescopes, including ESO/VLT and Gemini. We are
         involved in two large-scale public surveys with the ESO/VLT (Wild).
     • with successful bids for telescope time, leveraging our guaranteed access to Las Cumbres
         (Horne, Dominik).
     • access to ALMA data through observing time granted to Cyganowski, Scholz, and Woitke.
Access to all these observing programs is aided by the involvement in large international
collaborations.
The value of the observing time is difficult to estimate and highly dependent on the business
model of the observatory. As an approximation, the observing time acquired by our group through
peer-reviewed applications or as guaranteed time for 2014-2019 corresponds to a monetary value
of ~£20M.
Condensed Matter Physics
Our condensed matter group has been highly successful in obtaining competitively awarded
measurement times at synchrotrons (King: Diamond (£2M equiv.), Astrid (Denmark, £253k
equiv), Soleil (France, £781k equiv), Suisse Light Source (Switzerland, £110k equiv.), ELLETRA
(Italy, £1.2M equiv.), HiSOR (£156k equiv.), MAX-Lab (Sweden, £1.1M equiv.; equiv. estimate
from £6.5k per 8h shift) as well as muon sources (Lee: Paul Scherrer Institute (Switzerland), ISIS
(£77k)). The external facility access totals to an in-kind value of more than £5.7M.


Section 4: Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society
Collaborations
The School of Physics and Astronomy is part of the Scottish Universities Physics Alliance (SUPA),
which through major investment by the Scottish government and the partner Universities has
created a unique brand for research in physics in Scotland with recognition beyond the UK. SUPA
provides integrated training across the Scottish Universities through video-conferenced lecture
courses, funding for exchange and a global distinguished visitor programme. SUPA has been
featured in APS TV, the conference television programme of the March meeting of the American
Physical Society, one of the largest international physics conferences. We have further a close
research partnership with the School of Physics and Astronomy in Edinburgh (PHYESTA),
evidenced through joint grants, residential meetings and collaborative publications.
The organization of our research in Centres encourages and facilitates interdisciplinary
collaborations within the University and with national and international partners (ILES, 2.5). Our
Centres create the critical mass and platforms for exchange of ideas to build strategic
partnerships and foster collaborations.
Astrophysics
Research in Astrophysics strongly benefits from the involvement of our staff in a number of major
international collaborations, which also often provide access to data crucial to our research.
These include:
   •   Sloan Digital Sky Survey - Reverberation Mapping (SDSS-RM)
   •   Space Telescope and Optical Reverberation Mapping (STORM)
   •   SDSS-IV (Tojeiro and Weijmans are members of the SDSS-IV management team, Wild)
   •   SDSS-V Black Hole Mapper (Weijmans is data products manager and member of the
       management team, Horne co-chair of a working group)
   •   Las Cumbres Observatory (LCO)
   •   ROME/REA - a window to planets beyond the snow line
   •   Transiting Exoplanet Characterisation (TECH)
   •   Active Galactic Nuclei (AGN) Echo Mapping.
Helling leads a Marie-Curie integrated training network based at the Centre for Exoplanet Science
on virtual laboratories to study exoplanets, with partners in the Netherlands, Denmark, Belgium
and the UK, funding a total of 15 PhD students.
Condensed Matter Physics
Several investigators (King, König, Korolkova, Rost, Wahl) of the School of Physics and
Astronomy are members of the International Max Planck Partnership, which has formalized
collaborations with several Max Planck Institutes. There are now a number of direct
collaborations, evidenced through joint publications, with the Max Planck Institutes for Solid State
Research (Stuttgart; King, Wahl, Rost), for the Chemical Physics of Solids (Dresden; King, Wahl),
for the Physics of Complex Systems (Dresden; Hooley) and for the Physics of Light (Erlangen;
König, Korolkova). The School of Physics and Astronomy is a member of an International Max
Planck Research School (IMPRS) with the Max Planck Institute for the Chemical Physics of Solids
and TU Dresden, the first one of its kind in the natural sciences in the UK. The IMPRS covers
research into quantum materials, building directly onto one of our priority areas and linking to the
Centre for Designer Quantum Materials and the St Andrews Centre for Doctoral Training in
Quantum Materials. It provides a route to recruit excellent international students to undertake their
PhD studies on co-supervised projects between researchers at Max Planck Institutes and the
University of St Andrews.
The condensed matter research group has attracted strategic collaborative funding, including an
EPSRC-funded programme grant (TOPNES) with Oxford, UCL and University of Edinburgh and
a CDT in Condensed Matter Physics with University of Edinburgh and Heriot-Watt. The Centre
for Designer Quantum Materials has built collaborations and attracted international researchers
via the Global Fellowship programme of the University (awardees include Prof Alexander Balatsky
(Nordita) and Prof Peter Hirschfeld (University of Florida)).
Photonics
Our photonics group benefits from a range of strategic grants which support international
collaborations. Linking to activities in the Centre of Biophotonics, Gather is part of an international
biophotonics consortium working on “Lighting up the brain” with investigators at Columbia, Yale
and U Texas Austin using optogenetics to control and read-out neuronal activity with light. This
collaboration develops implantable photonic devices for use in animal models and ultimately in
patients. Gather is part of a Human Frontiers Program to use techniques from biophotonics to
image neurons with Harvard Medical School and University of Cambridge. Dholakia leads an
EPSRC programme grant in biophotonics with collaborators at University of York and a network
of international partners, including at Max Planck Institutes and the Massachusetts General
Hospital to use light to image, manipulate and control matter on multiple scales. He further
participates in FET-OPEN and Industrial leadership grants with a Europe-wide network of
collaborators funded through Horizon 2020.
The Centre for Organic Semiconductors has a number of formalized collaborations, including
through a JSPS core-to-core programme (Samuel) supporting a cooperation of physicists and
chemists from Japan, St Andrews and Germany, where knowledge of optical and device
properties will feed back into molecular design, and through rapid cycles of this process, new
organic-semiconductor devices will be created while also developing the human resources to
drive the next generation of organic optoelectronics.
Turnbull works as part of a NATO-funded program on developing techniques for demining with
partners in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Korolkova leads an EU project as part of the Quantum Flagship programme to create light sources
with sub-Poissonian noise characteristics for entanglement-enhanced imaging and atomic clocks,
with partners in Germany, Belarus, the UK and Switzerland.
Contributions to the Research base, Economy and Society
Members of the School have made significant contributions to the research base in all areas. A
selection of these is provided below.
Contributions to the Research base
Prizes, honours and personal fellowships
Prizes and honours: Cameron (2018, Docteur Honoris Causa, Université Toulouse II – Paul
Sabatier), Davis (2016 Medal of Science of the Science Foundation of Ireland), Dholakia (2016
R.A. Wood Prize by the Optical Society of America, 2017 Thomas Young Medal and Prize, 2018
SPIE Dennis Gabor Award), Gather (2016 Patterson Medal and Prize by the Institute of Physics,
2019 Humboldt professorship), King (2015 Philip Leverhulme Prize), Samuel (2015 Clinical PDT
research prize, 2016 RSC Chemical Dynamics prize), Jardine (2019 Suffrage Science Award for
the Engineering and Physical Sciences), Korolkova (2015 Eugen Lommel Award), Zhao (2018,
Kavli long-term visiting professorship at Cambridge; 2019 Gutenberg Chair in Strasbourg)
ERC grants: Bonnell (Advanced), di Falco (Consolidator), Gather (Starting), Helling (Starting),
King (Starting), O’Faolain (Starting), Samuel (Advanced), Wild (Starting)
Fellowships: Dholakia (Leverhulme Trust Senior Fellowship), Jagadamma (UKRI Future Leaders
award), Keeling (EPSRC), King (URF, Leverhulme Leadership award), B Lovett (URF), J Lovett
(URF), Rhodes (Royal Commission of 1851), Rost (EPSRC), Schubert (Dorothy Hodgkins
Fellowship), Tojeiro (STFC Early Career Fellowship), Weijmans (STFC Leadership Fellow in
Public Engagement)
Leadership positions: Jardine (Scientific Advisory Board for the Leibnitz Institute for Astrophysics
(Germany), Institute of Astrophysics and Space Science (Portugal)), King (Champion for a new
NanoARPES flagship beamline at Diamond), Smith (President of European Federation of EPR
groups, vice-president Europe of the International EPR Society)
Learned Societies: Höfling (Fellow of the Optical Society of America, 2019), Mackenzie (Fellow
of the Royal Society, 2015)
Key invited talks: Davis (Perimeter Institute Distinguished Lecture, 2014; Simons Foundation
Lecture, 2015), Dholakia (International Year of Light Lecture, 2015; OSA International Day of
Light Festival, 2019), King (Lange lecture, 2017), Samuel (RSC prize talk, 2015), Tojeiro (Invited
Keynote talk, XIII Meeting of the Spanish Astronomical Society, 2018)
Service to the Community
Dominik initiated and led a Working Group of the Global Young Academy (GYA) on Scientific
Excellence and participated in the GYA Working Group on Open Science. He contributed to policy
recommendations by GYA on consultations on research metrics and open science by the
European Commission and on Plan S.
Policy advice: Samuel (EPSRC Strategic Advisory Network), Dominik (Global Young Academy)
Review panels: EPSRC Physical Sciences prioritization panel (di Falco, Lee, Hooley, Keeling,
König, Samuel, Wahl), Bonnell (UKRI FLF prioritization panel, RSE fellowship panel), Dholakia
(chair of EPSRC panels), Gather (ERC starting grant panel), Jardine (co-chair of ERC advanced
grant panel, chair of RSE Fellows panel), Lee (RSE grants committee), B Lovett (Royal Society
Grants panel), Rost (EPSRC mid-term review panel programme grant), Wahl (EPSRC Statement
of need panel, chair of mid-term review panel programme grant, chair of interview panel for
platform grants), Wild (STFC Astronomy Grant Panel)
Conference organization: MQT2014 (King, Mackenzie, Wahl), EQM2016 (King, Wahl), ICSCE8
2016 (Höfling, Keeling), JEMS2016 (Lee), Cloud Academy I (2018) and II (2020, postponed to
2022, Helling), CMQM2019 (Braunecker, Hooley, King, Lee, Ohadi, Rost, Wahl), Frontiers 2019
(King), SPIE PAMMWI 2017-2020 (Robertson), ICSM 2020 (postponed to 2021, Jagadamma,
Samuel)
Journal editorships: Cameron (Scientific editor (exoplanets and stellar magnetic activity) for
MNRAS), Brown (Scientific Reports), Cassettari (Scientific Reports), di Falco (Photonics and
Nanostructures: Fundamentals and Applications), Dholakia (J Phys (IOP); Advanced Photonics
(SPIE)), Jardine (Living Reviews in Solar Physics), Mazilu (Frontiers in Physics; Optics and
Photonics), O’Faolain (Nanomaterials and Nanotechnology; Photonics and Nanostructures),
Samuel (editor in chief “Synthetic Metals”)
Contributions to the Economy
Through the organization of our research in interdisciplinary Centres, we have been very
successful in realizing economic impact through a number of channels, including:
   •   successful participation in the Converge Challenge that supports commercialization of
       research (Ward and Barraclough (Razorbill Instruments), Gillanders)
   •    St Andrews spin-out company Razorbill Instruments has commercialized bespoke
        research instrumentation developed as part of an EPSRC-funded programme grant based
        in St Andrews to apply uniaxial strain to quantum materials
    • High growth spin-out company Bespoke Photonics has secured funding from Scottish
        Enterprise (to launch 2021) to commercialize 3D volumetric imaging through scattering
        tissue (TRAFIX, Science Advances 2018).
    • Commercialization of Airy Beam Light Sheet Microscopy with M Squared Lasers (ICS
        Dholakia)
    • Innovative treatment for skin cancer using light (commercialized by St Andrews spin-out
        Ambicare, founded in 2004; ICS Samuel)
    • Development of high-performance feedhorn antennas (ICS Smith)
    • Spin-out company PhotoSynergy, founded in 2001 (ICS Dunn)
    • Handover of a volcano monitoring radar developed in the School to Montserrat Volcano
        Observatory as an operational monitoring tool (2019) and basis for an early warning
        system.
    • Development of compact, low cost drone detection radar prototypes for
        commercialisation.
    • 355 patents and patent applications of which 78% are licensed out.
    • Joint meetings with industry, e.g. EMSIG UK Radar Society annual meeting 2017-2019,
        IET Colloquium on Millimetre-wave and Terahertz Engineering&Technology 2016&2019,
        KTN Intelligent Imaging 2018&2015, IET Colloquium on Antennas, Wireless and
        Electromagnetics 2016, CENSIS/MarCE Subsea Sensing for Defence and Security 2014;
        University’s EPSRC IAA Showcase 2015&2017
Contributions to Society
One of the primary impacts of our research is the education for highly-trained individuals,
including training of PhD students and PDRAs.
A range of projects pursued by our academics have direct implications for public health and
safety, for example:
   •   The use of Optoelectronics to purify water (Samuel) and detect water quality (Turnbull),
       potentially solving water quality issues in developed countries
   •   Radiation calculations for optimized cancer treatments (Wood)
   •   Phototherapy to treat skin cancer using light from wearable light sources (ICS Samuel)
   •   Award-winning and patented Lightpath technology, commercialized by spin-out
       PhotoSynergy, to facilitate and secure work in subsea marine environments (ICS Dunn)
   •   explosive detection using optical spectroscopy as well as bees for demining, funded by
       NATO (Turnbull)
   •   use of radar to monitor volcano activity and implement early warning systems (Robertson)
   •   Drone detection using mm-wave radar, e.g. for airport safety (Robertson)
   •   Development of secure quantum communications (Korolkova, with MPI Erlangen)
Response to Covid-19
In reaction to the Covid-19 pandemic, a number of projects have been either reprioritized or
started afresh. These include the use of UVC light to deactivate the SARS-CoV2 virus (Wood), a
project which featured in questions in parliament to Secretary of State for Health and Social Care,
Matt Hancock, on 19.10.2020, as well as the development of surfaces which deactivate the virus
as part of the Centre for Designer Quantum Materials (Wahl, King, di Falco) and funded by UKRI-
NIHR.
Public engagement
The School has actively sought to engage with the
public through a range of high-profile activities:
     •   Lee led the national programme of the
         Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) to
         celebrate the UNESCO International Year
         of Light (IYOL) in 2015, including the IYOL
         National Launch Event and a number of
         public meetings with renowned speakers
         including Prof Peter Higgs and television
         and radio presenter Prof Jim Al-Khalili.
     •   Stand at the Royal Society Summer
         Exhibition 2019 “A message from afar”
         (Dominik)                                       Figure 12: Neon spectrum at the University
     •   European          Researchers           Night Observatory added as part of the Shine
         (Explorathon) which around Scotland project. During Open Nights art exhibits
         interacted with 17,600 people and is are on display inside this otherwise empty
         particularly successful in reaching new and dome. Image credit: A. Scholz; artwork by
         hard to reach audiences.                        Tim Fitzpatrick.
     •   Science Discovery Day (as part of the
         National Science Week)
     •   The James Gregory Telescope is regularly open to the public and attracts about 1000
         visitors every year.
     •   a regular programme at local secondary schools to increase the uptake of physics and
         other STEM subjects
     •   an STFC leadership fellowship (Weijmanns) to pursue public engagement activities,
         exploring the properties of light and its use in modern astronomical research (see, e.g.,
         Figure 12) through science, art and music. This project, Shine, demonstrably reaches
         new audiences for science events.
     •   The Centre for Designer Quantum Materials that has been covered in several television
         features, shown on BBC television and radio channels and on STV (King, Wahl).
     •   An Ogden Trust Outreach Officer who works with staff and secondary schools in Fife to
         widen participation and increase interest in (astro)physics.
