Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Staffordshire University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA15 Archaeology

 Note: Names that have submitted outputs in this UoA are bold. Names not bolded include
 individuals from other UoAs, non-eligible staff and practice-oriented staff supporting our research
 environment.

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
a. Overview
In line with our institutional commitment to building research capacity and capability, over the last
seven years Staffordshire University (SU) has developed from having minimal provision in
archaeology to being internationally recognised as a centre of excellence in archaeological research
and practice. UoA15 combines three inter-connected disciplinary areas: archaeology, physical
geography and forensic science. Together, they constitute a vibrant environment that has generated
world-leading research on: (1) resolving the fate of missing persons, in particular individuals killed
during the Holocaust and other genocides, (2) environmental change and (3) the archaeology of
William Shakespeare’s life and times.

We submit to UoA15 for the first time due to the unit’s growth, sustainability, and substantial research
footprint. Since 2014, the UoA has generated £772,405 of research funding (HESA reported) and
an additional £415,492 for consultancy and research-informed teaching activity. It has responded to
challenges across the academic, professional and public sectors by achieving a balanced portfolio
of funding. The vigour of our research is evidenced by publication metrics and the delivery of
conference papers and public engagement activities underpinned by innovative interdisciplinary
research. During this REF cycle, UoA15 staff have published 154 outputs including 8 books and
monographs, 84 refereed journal articles, 33 book chapters, 5 papers in conference proceedings
and 24 other outputs, in addition to grey literature. In the sub-fields of forensic archaeology and
Holocaust archaeology, we have had more publications than any other institution worldwide since
2015 (source: SciVal). Staff have presented at >170 conferences and public events, curated 4
exhibitions, received 17 awards, prizes and fellowships, and reached ~27 million viewers through
TV documentaries. Impact is focused through a strong portfolio of social action projects, with the unit
developing expertise in building sustainable relationships with volunteers, NGOs, civic bodies and
governmental officials. We have established a vibrant community of 72 PhD and Masters students
who contribute to our research themes. We have attracted 19 visiting researchers and interns. Our
work is supported by cutting-edge facilities and equipment including a dedicated Centre of
Archaeology (CoA) workspace hosting £85,000 of survey equipment, Forensic Science laboratories
within SU’s £30m Science Centre, a cartography laboratory, a Crime Scene House and Garden and
a £1.3m Smart Zone with Virtual Reality (VR), laser scanning, photogrammetry and 3D printing
equipment.

b. Unit context and structure
SU promotes interdisciplinary and impactful research through 9 interdisciplinary Research Centres
and 8 Research Groups. The Centre of Archaeology (CoA) - one of these Research Centres - is
the hub of UoA15. The CoA connects with our research on environmental change and burial studies,
strengthening our interdisciplinary commitment and capacity. The CoA and forensic science
researchers sit in the School of Law, Policing and Forensics (LPF), whilst physical geography
researchers are based in the School of Life Sciences and Education (LSE). Unit staff are specialists
in forensic and conflict archaeology, geophysical methods, archaeological excavation,
photogrammetry, laser scanning, ethical approaches to genocide investigation, forensic science,

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
landscape geography, environmental change, earth surface processes and anthropology. All unit
researchers are committed to i) using cutting-edge techniques to investigate human interactions with
the landscape and ii) finding novel ways to disseminate our research beyond academia through
engaging and innovative community projects and participatory research.

The CoA was formed in October 2013 in recognition of the University’s contribution to applied
archaeology. It has become an international centre of research and knowledge exchange and
emphasises engagement beyond academia. It is dedicated to developing research excellence and
professional practice with a focus on using novel techniques to investigate recent and historic crimes
while responding to the unique ethical challenges that these circumstances pose. International
expert in conflict archaeology and genocide investigation Caroline Sturdy Colls leads the Centre.
Much of her research focuses on landscapes connected to the Holocaust and Nazi persecution.
Kevin Colls contributes high-profile research projects centred on uncovering Shakespeare’s
residences in Stratford-on-Avon and manages our portfolio of archaeological consultancy services.
Will Mitchell provides expertise in field and community archaeology for the growing range of
research and consultancy projects. Rachel Bolton-King (forensic science) undertakes primary
research on forensic ballistics and its application to the investigation of military landscapes. Eight
researchers and technical staff from other departments (geography, fine art, games design, and film
and TV) also support the CoA’s work e.g., Branthwaite (Fine Art, UoA32), Graham (Film and TV,
UoA34), Tweed and Swetnam (below). An emerging community of postgraduates (n=72), and
fellows, interns and research assistants (n=29) have contributed to the research environment (see
below).

Since 2005, SU has supported research in human identification under the umbrella of the Burial
Research Group (BRG). Most BRG members work within LPF (John Cassella, Kirsty Squires,
Sturdy Colls, and Davidson). Cassella is an expert in forensic pathology and taphonomy. Squires
is an osteoarchaeologist with expertise in studying cremated human remains. BRG inquiry focuses
on decomposition and associated detection of body fluids, laboratory analysis of skeletal remains,
and funerary archaeology of the recent and distant past.

Research in environmental change is undertaken by internationally recognised experts in ecosystem
services, glacial processes, natural hazards, pollution and landscape change. Ruth Swetnam
applies her expertise in Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and associated skills to the
management of natural field and farm resources through national and global-level assessments.
Fiona Tweed’s research focuses on increasing understanding of the processes and impacts of
glacier outburst floods worldwide, particularly in the context of deglaciation. As a forensic scientist,
Claire Gwinnett applies original, state-of-the-art forensic techniques to the investigation of micro-
plastics as environmental pollutants. She manages the Microplastic and Forensic Fibres
Research Group and, from 2021, the newly formed Centre of Crime, Justice and Security. Whilst
Tweed and Swetnam maintain distinctive research profiles, they have developed collaborative
research with international collaborators on the visual assessment of landscape quality. Swetnam
has worked with Sturdy Colls to supervise and publish research on geospatial- and archaeologically
derived data from sites of mass violence.

c. Research and impact strategy
Aligned with the University Research, Innovation and Impact Strategy, we have sought to develop a
stronger, more focused research profile regionally, nationally and internationally (see REF5a). Since
the creation of the CoA in 2013, we have focused on:




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(1) building a world-leading, interdisciplinary staff base
(2) acquiring research funding to increase capacity for research on Holocaust and genocide
investigation and ethical approaches to archaeological practice
(3) increasing the number of postgraduate students aligned to archaeology
(4) delivering impact, building relationships with partners and research users within and beyond
academia, and providing innovative public-focused dissemination of our research.

We have embedded SU’s strategic goals of building capacity and capability, enhancing collaboration
and enabling and facilitating impact into our internal structure. We prioritise opportunities for
interdisciplinary research collaboration and for using co-working to develop staff research profiles,
particularly for Early Career Researchers (ECRs). All unit researchers are supported in finding novel
ways to disseminate our research beyond academia through engaging and innovative community
projects and participatory research, a key strength across SU.

Our delivery of impact is best reflected in the two case studies we are submitting in 2021: Global
Impacts of Holocaust Archaeology and Searching for Shakespeare – Impact of Archaeology on
Local, Regional and Global Communities. The case studies reflect two of our flagship research
programmes. Both programmes have informed new memorial and museum installations, contributed
to the global development of professional practice across disciplines, delivered novel community
archaeology and educational programmes around the world, and extended the reach of
archaeologically derived knowledge via engagement with the media. We have benefitted from an
institutional commitment to expanding impact in our area via internal Impact Acceleration Funding
(totalling £10,451; 10% of SU’s overall allocation over 2 years) and Global Challenges Research
Funding (£7,660).

Achievements: 2014-2020
Since 2014, the CoA has won grants for 22 internationally significant research projects, leading to
52 associated publications. We have pioneered new research in the sub-field of Holocaust
archaeology, which has led to the development of innovative methodological approaches that
respond directly to, and highlight the necessity to engage with, the ethical challenges involved in
investigating mass graves, camps and killing sites (Sturdy Colls, Colls, Mitchell). This research
has furthered understanding about Holocaust landscapes and sites of Nazi persecution as well as
about the experiences of victims, perpetrators and bystanders. It has resulted in the first
archaeological investigations at sites including the Nazi-German extermination and labour camps in
Treblinka (Poland), concentration and labour camps and cemeteries in Alderney (UK), Semlin
concentration camp (Serbia) and killing sites in Ukraine and Poland. It has produced detailed and
new surveys of camps in Germany, Norway, the Netherlands and the Czech Republic. The “Finding
Treblinka” and HERA-funded “Accessing Campscapes” projects have led to new spatial
understandings of extermination and internment sites as well as novel interdisciplinary
understandings of cultural memory, identity, necropolitics and religion during and after genocide.
The “Recording Cultural Genocide and Holocaust Killing Sites in Jewish Cemeteries” project, funded
by the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance, opened new research avenues on the causes
and consequences of racial hatred and genocide, and the role the built environment played in the
persecution of Jewish communities during World War II.

With our commitment to applying new technologies and interdisciplinary methods, we have produced
publications that have increased knowledge about using non-invasive archaeological methods at
Holocaust sites. Topics include the first uses of Light Detection and Ranging (LiDAR) in this context
(Sturdy Colls, Colls, Mitchell, Abate), contested Holocaust and Nazi-era heritage (Sturdy Colls,
Mitchell, Weston), Holocaust material culture (Sturdy Colls), digital Holocaust memory and 3D

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
visualisation (Sturdy Colls, Colls, Swetnam, Kerti) and the role of art in widening engagement with
Holocaust history and addressing difficult histories (Sturdy Colls, Branthwaite). Sturdy Colls’ book
Holocaust Archaeologies has been recognised as a seminal text in this field (see Impact Case Study,
5.8). Aside from work on the Holocaust, our theoretical and methodological contributions extend into
forensic and conflict archaeology, archaeological practice, genocide studies, material culture
studies, fine art, heritage and memory studies, professional ethics and visual effects. Our “Digital
Forensic Archaeology Project” resulted in new methodological approaches to the investigation of
crime scenes and socio-historic conflict sites (Abate, Sturdy Colls). Notably, it responded to falling
clandestine burial detection rates in Cyprus via the application of remote sensing technologies and
photogrammetric methods for recording crime scenes. Forensic scientists within the unit have
generated new research regarding contemporary and historic firearms and ballistics (Bolton-King)
and the detection of clandestine graves and geochemical dynamics within them (Cassella, Blom,
Davidson).

Beyond our work on the recent past, researchers from the CoA have pioneered research into William
Shakespeare’s life and times (Colls, Mitchell). Since 2013, the research has revolutionised
knowledge of Shakespeare’s life. It has completed multiple innovative archaeological projects,
including work at Shakespeare’s family home, New Place, and at his grave site. At New Place, this
research led to the search and subsequent excavation of this important residence. It discovered
structural remains that revealed the property’s form and function. Resulting from this success, the
team was approached by Holy Trinity Church to undertake the first archaeological investigation of
Shakespeare’s tomb. By using bespoke Ground Penetrating Radar (GPR) equipment, this research
demonstrated that, contrary to popular belief, Shakespeare was buried in a simple earth-cut grave.
This cross-disciplinary approach to investigating the life of an individual and his immediate family
has enlisted experts in archaeology, forensic investigation, geophysical survey, archive studies,
Shakespearean studies, facial reconstruction, English studies, and building historians, teachers and
educators representing universities and institutions from across Europe, community and school
groups, and fundraising professionals

Our environmental change research emphasises methodological innovation. It develops new
approaches to solve problems and investigate environmental processes. Swetnam’s research
expertise lies in land-use science, landscape ecology and conservation. It is underpinned by her
high-level technical GIS skills. In 2014, Swetnam was finishing research on the Leverhulme-funded
project “Valuing the Arc”, which involved modelling ecosystem services in the mountains of
Tanzania. This work resulted in highly cited outputs in Conservation Letters, Global Environmental
Change, Global Change Biology, World Development and Carbon Balance and Management.
Swetnam’s current research focuses on landscape evaluation. She led a landscape workstream as
part of the £6 million Glastir Monitoring and Evaluation Programme (GMEP), funded by the Welsh
Government. Recent collaborative work between Swetnam and Tweed centres on developing
methodologies for assessing landscape visual quality. It has produced article outputs in Ecosystem
Services, Land Use Policy and Landscape Ecology. Tweed’s research seeks to better understand
the processes and impacts of glacier outburst floods, on which she is a leading expert. This research
is timely because of the devastating impacts of such floods and the expectation of their shifting
patterns due to climate change. Recent research with Carrivick (University of Leeds) has led to new
insights into the development of proglacial lakes, ice-dammed lake drainage mechanisms and the
socio-economic impacts of glacial outburst floods globally, with outputs in Global and Planetary
Change, Earth Surface Processes and Landforms, Quaternary Science Reviews and
Geomorphology. Tweed’s research with colleagues at Lancaster University investigates subglacial
drainage processes in Iceland. This work has i) identified temperate glacial methane production and
release as a potential contributor of greenhouse gas to the atmosphere and ii) developed new

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
understanding of subglacial volcanic activity by using sulphate isotopes as a fingerprint of
geothermal processes occurring beneath an ice cap. Key outputs include papers in Nature Scientific
Reports and Chemical Geology. Gwinnett has led projects that employ interdisciplinary approaches
to improve analysis and interpretation of particulates for environmental and forensic work. In the
“Forensic Fibre Freshwater” project, Gwinnett applied forensic science methodologies to
microplastics to improve characterisation and understanding of their source and prevalence in
marine, freshwater and terrestrial systems. Gwinnett’s research with Woodall (University of Oxford)
on the rapidly escalating global challenge of marine microplastic pollution has led to highly cited
publications in Nature Scientific Reports, the Marine Pollution Bulletin and PLoS ONE.

d. Future strategic aims
We will enhance our current standing by continuing to lead and champion the development of
interdisciplinary and cutting-edge research and methodologies to solve problems within and beyond
the fields that we work in. In line with SU’s aims of being a Connected University, we will build on
our successful record of innovative and impactful public engagement and outreach activities. We
have developed a five-year strategic plan that defines the following research performance targets
to:

(1) focus on research connected to genocide, mass violence, and missing persons (within the CoA)
and microplastics, the impacts of climate change and post-disaster responses (within the wider unit);
then we will maintain our position as a centre of excellence in these fields, respond to contemporary
societal challenges and broaden our impact within and beyond academia
(2) shift the income strategy to the acquisition of larger UKRI and Horizon Europe grants and
fellowships to build greater capacity, expand our research impact and ensure the continued
professional development of our researchers, achieving a 230% increase from average REF2021
income per annum by year 5 for the unit
(3) expand our postgraduate community incrementally over the next five years via four new courses
and pathways relating to forensic archaeology, genocide investigation and environmental change
(4) develop new collaborative research opportunities between the Schools of LPF and LSE
(5) expand the unit’s staffing base with an additional five international researchers by 2025 to
diversify our portfolio of specialisms.
All staff work under the SU Code of Practice for Research which sets out expectations in relation to
research integrity. Accessibility of our research is essential to fulfilling both our impact aims and the
requirements of the SU Open Access Mandate.

 2. People

a. Staffing strategy and staff development
In keeping with institutional commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers (REF5a), our staffing strategy aims to sustain and develop existing research excellence
and diversity, and to be responsive to opportunities that strengthen interdisciplinary working and
address contemporary societal challenges.

SU has clear career pathways that recognise and reward research success, and that support
progression through co-working and mentoring (REF5a). The unit has strong academic staff capital
for its size, with 5 Professors, 2 Associate Professors, a Senior Lecturer and a Lecturer. Several of
these staff achieved promotion in the assessment period. Their career progression evidences our
support for the development of their research profiles, expertise and external standing. Via an Annual
Professorship Call, Sturdy Colls and Swetnam were promoted to Associate Professor in 2014 and
were subsequently conferred Professor in 2017 and 2019 respectively; Gwinnett was promoted to
Associate Professor in 2016 and Professor in 2019; Bolton-King and Colls were promoted to
                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Associate Professor in 2017 and 2019 respectively. Appointed in 2016 to grow SU’s provision in
bioarchaeology and due to the expanding portfolio of grant funding acquired by the CoA, Squires
was promoted Lecturer to Senior Lecturer in 2017. Mitchell (an ECR) was initially an Archaeological
Project Officer. He was promoted to Lecturer in recognition of his research, integral role within the
CoA team and teaching track record. Abate joined the CoA as an EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow
researching digital forensic archaeology (2016-2019).

Supported by, and as part of our commitment to, SU’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
Framework (REF5a), we seek to maintain a balance between career stage, subject expertise and
gender within the unit, whilst supporting research development and employing individuals with long-
term potential. Support for female researchers is notable. 6 of our staff are female, 3 are male. 70%
of our submitted outputs are by women in our team. All researchers within the unit have benefited
from e.g., SU’s flexible approach to blended working arrangements in 2020 and Sturdy Colls
undertook maternity leave during the REF period. As members of the Professorial Conferment
Committee, our researchers have contributed to work to improve gender balance across SU and
participated in mandatory organisational EDI Training.

As explained in REF5a, the unit has benefitted from several other University-wide initiatives and
commitments that have enhanced our research culture. All staff have undertaken research ethics,
leadership and development training as part of SU’s Academic Development Framework. SU has a
formal Performance and Development Review (PDR) system, with full staff participation.
Workloading is established and reviewed using a workload planning model. Use of research time is
monitored via reporting and the PDR system. All staff submitted to this UoA are given a minimum
20% of their time for research.

The CoA hosts a seminar series offering staff, PGRs and external speakers the opportunity to
present their research in a supportive, rigorous environment. Other, School-level, seminar series
enrich the research environment and facilitate cross-disciplinary networking. Staff and PGRs are
encouraged to participate in SU’s Annual Research Conference and in external meetings and
conferences, with School-level funding available to support them. Our partnerships outlined in
Section 4 have facilitated mutual external speaking opportunities, fellowships and CPD
opportunities. Impact case study authors have worked closely with SU’s Impact Manager,
participated in training (e.g., for the VV Impact Tracker), delivered and attended central seminars
focused on impact enhancement, accessed Impact Acceleration funding and benefited from
Research Assistant placements to support impact literacy in PGRs.

Research staff have secured significant posts following the end of their work within UoA15. Abate
went on to lead the 2D/3D Documentation and Multi-Spectral Imaging Laboratory at the APAC
Laboratories of the Cyprus Institute (2019). Harrison-Curran became a GIS Consultant at ESRI UK
(2015). Prochorskaite secured a research manager’s position at Sheffield University (2019). Smith
took a senior post at Public Health England (2017).

b. Research students
Postgraduate community and research culture:
The unit’s postgraduate community has grown considerably over the last 7 years. Our PhD cohort
rose from 4 PhD students in 2013/14 to 33 students across the REF period. Likewise, 39 students
have completed our Masters’ programmes and we have developed a successful research placement
programme that has attracted 16 students to the CoA, whilst also facilitating several external
internships.


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Doctoral Students:
Recruitment of doctoral students has taken place through open calls, a University-level PhD
scholarship scheme in 2017 (resulting in 3 of 15 scholarships being awarded to PGRs in archaeology
and physical geography, 2 of which were international students) and annual School-level partial
scholarship schemes since 2014. Between 2013-2020, 6 students supervised by UoA15 staff have
competed PhDs and 27 are currently supervised by staff within the unit (20 as principal supervisors
and 7 as secondary supervisors). This includes 3 University technical staff (1 complete, 2 ongoing),
demonstrating our commitment to continued professional development and interdisciplinary working.
One student has received a Young Scholars Fellowship from Yahad In-Unum, a French organisation
working to record Holocaust killing sites. Another has worked with Skopje University during an
extensive collaborative fieldwork programme. A further PhD researcher was awarded a grant from
the Fund for Women Graduates (2019).

PGRs are integrated into our research teams via shared workspaces and alignment with our
research themes. 6 students were/are jointly supervised by staff within the unit, often by scholars in
different fields e.g., Kerti was supervised by Sturdy Colls (archaeology) and Swetnam (physical
geography), and Kruszelnicki is supervised by Gwinnett (microplastics) and Bolton-King
(ballistics). Students have benefitted from the unit’s research and professional networks via
collaborations with the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum, several Holocaust memorials
across Europe, the Netherlands Forensic Institute, Staffordshire Police, Spheron and the Cyprus
Institute. The CoA provides additional fieldwork opportunities on research projects for PGRs beyond
those directly connected to data collection for their theses. These opportunities are led by Professors
and Associate Professors within the unit, helping PGRs to develop their practical skills in landscape
archaeology and their understanding of the challenges involved in working at ethically complex and
contested sites. Our PGRs have published 24 peer-reviewed journal articles and book chapters and
presented at >30 conferences during the REF period. Many have gone on to successful research
careers within and beyond academia. Examples include a Lecturer at Liverpool John Moores
University, a User Experience Researcher at Capita Education Software Solutions and several
Senior Laboratory Specialists.

Support and Training:
The unit actively supports PGR training that upholds SU’s expectations of research supervision. PhD
students are supported by two supervisors and optional advisors, some of them external. Progress
is recorded and monitored via (1) meeting records that are reviewed by SU’s Graduate School, and
(2) a clearly defined progress review in each of the three years of study. The progress review is
accompanied by a skills appraisal via the Research Development Framework and interview. The
Graduate School provides PGRs a year-round training programme that complements their subject-
specific training. Students undertaking PhDs in Holocaust and forensic archaeology, and forensic
science can study existing Masters’ and undergraduate modules from across our forensics and
policing programmes to acquire practical field and laboratory skills, and knowledge of ethical issues.

Masters’ and undergraduate research:
We encourage research-informed curricula, and research-engaged co-learning permeates through
our Masters’ and undergraduate courses. The unit has extended its successful postgraduate
community through a Masters’ course in Applied Research. Students embark on unique research-
engaged programmes of study which equip them with specialist knowledge and technical skills for
careers in archaeology and heritage. These programmes draw upon and use the CoA’s cutting-edge
expertise, equipment and facilities.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We integrate research Masters’ students into our professional environment. Students undertaking
the MSci Forensic Science have also completed research projects in forensic archaeology, forensic
anthropology and decomposition studies, whilst 3 Masters’ students have undertaken month-long
placements at the CoA. In total, between 2014-2020, 39 students supervised by unit members have
completed their studies on these programmes.

UG students in Forensic Investigation, History and Geography have also undertaken research
placements at the CoA (ranging from 1 week to 1 year; 8 students). UG students in Forensic Science,
Forensic Investigation and Policing have undertaken internships with Staffordshire Police and the
Netherlands Forensic Institute connected to missing persons research and the documentation of
outdoor crime scenes (commonly for 6 weeks). Since 2014, 5 UG students from Avans University
(Netherlands) and 1 from Ghent University (Belgium) have undertaken research placements under
the supervision of unit staff. The Geography Research Assistantship module, which enables final-
year UG students to act as research assistants to staff and external collaborators, has been
commended nationally as at the forefront of creative research-engaged curriculum development. It
has generated publications in The Journal of Geography in Higher Education. Our commitment to
these endeavours is reflected by several awards: Tweed (2016) and Bolton-King (2019) were
awarded HEA/Advance HE National Teaching Fellowships for innovative approaches to
incorporating undergraduate provision into research activity.

 3. Income infrastructure and facilities

a. Income

Due to the rapid growth of SU’s international reputation and a commitment to seeking grants to
expand research activity, we have won funding totalling £1,187,897 between 2014 and 2020 for a
total of 57 projects (£772,405 HESA returned and £415,492 non-HESA returned). Wins have
included 2 Horizon 2020, 1 UKRI, 3 Heritage Lottery (HLF) and 3 UK Central Government grants
and have led to the development of two Impact Case Studies. As described in detail in Section 4,
these 57 projects have involved extensive international collaborations, including 8 institutions in QS’s
top 30 world-leading research universities.

The CoA’s performance is measured using the acquisition of collaborative research funding and
other income streams, research outputs, public engagement and impact metrics, all of which are
regularly reviewed by the CoA’s director, Archaeological Project Manager, the Dean of School and
the Deputy Vice-Chancellor. Individuals in the unit are set income targets through the PDR process.
These targets are linked to individual bidding strategies and associated support. They are designed
to contribute to the CoA performance metrics.

Our flagship projects include:

(1) for resolving the fate of missing persons, in particular individuals killed during episodes of
    genocide and conflict research: “Digital Forensic Archaeology” (Sturdy Colls and Abate,
    Horizon 2020 MCSA, EUR183, 454, 2016-2019), “Accessing Campscapes: Inclusive Strategies
    for Using European Conflicted Heritage” (Sturdy Colls, Humanities in the Research Area
    (HERA) EUR176,992 of a total of 1.2 Million Euro grant, 2016-2019), “Recording Cultural
    Genocide and Killing Sites in Jewish Cemeteries” (Sturdy Colls, International Holocaust
    Remembrance Alliance EUR67,089, 2016-2019), “Finding Treblinka” (Sturdy Colls, [text
    removed for publication], £59,344, 2014-2015).


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(2) for environmental change research: “Glastir Monitoring and Evaluation Programme” (GMEP)
    (Swetnam, NERC, £247K of a £6 million grant), “European Forensic Education Network”
    (Gwinnett, Erasmus+ Strategic Partnerships, 96,000 Euros of a 325,901 Euros grant, 2014-
    17), “Forensic Fibre Freshwater” (Gwinnett, Aquacosm Transnational Access Fund 20,000
    Euros of 60,000 Euros)

(3) the life and properties connected to William Shakespeare: “Searching for Shakespeare” (Colls
    and Mitchell, £101,655 of a £560,000 grant, Shakespeare Birthplace Trust, HLF, Channel 4
    and Arrow Media, 2013-2018)

(4) for community archaeology research projects “St Giles Community Archaeology Project” (Colls,
    HLF, £48K, 2016), “The Lake District Holocaust Project Archaeological Dig” (Sturdy Colls and
    Colls, £20,000 of a £68,000 grant, HLF, 2019).

The unit has accessed funding from different sources for a further 46 research, staff-development,
and impact projects. Notable examples include: two Winston Churchill Fellowships (Gwinnett and
Bolton-King, both £9,000) and a fellowship from the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum
(Sturdy Colls, $15,200).

Gwinnett has achieved US and European patents in this REF cycle: ‘Apparatus and Methods for
the Optical Examination of Birefringent Specimens’ (Patent no. US 8961727 B2, USA, 2015 and
10735037.3, European, 2014).

b. Infrastructure and facilities

The unit operates across SU’s campuses. It benefits from a range of infrastructure and facilities and
the central technician support service. All new institutional facilities are subject to equality impact
assessments and equipment/facilities can be booked through a centralised system, with extended
open hours to facilitate flexible working.

Since 2013, CoA has received £85,000 of equipment, including GPR, GPS, Total Station,
photogrammetry and drone technologies which have been deployed during our research on the
Holocaust, missing persons and Shakespeare. We are supported by a £1.3m Smart Zone, which
offers cutting-edge Virtual Reality (VR), laser scanning, photogrammetry and 3D printing equipment.
The Smart Zone has empowered us to expand our research capabilities regarding the 3D
visualisation of landscapes and objects, broaden collaborations with colleagues in Games and Visual
Effects, and extend our impact.

Specialist laboratories enabling skeletal remains analysis, archaeological finds processing,
decomposition studies and ballistics/firearms analysis are housed within our £30m Science Centre.
The Forensics subject area also has its own dedicated Crime Scene House which has facilitated the
creation of simulated graves and mock crime scenes, which have been investigated using
geophysical technologies, laser scanning and photogrammetry.

Specialist IT facilities provide our staff and students with GIS and geophysical-processing
capabilities. Research support for the unit is provided by SU’s centralised Research, Innovation and
Impact Services covering bid development, impact, civic engagement, governance, ethics and post-
award management. Our PGRs have access to centralised Graduate School resources. The
Graduate School both fulfils an administrative role and provides PGRs access to SU’s broader
research community.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base economy and society

Contribution to the Research Base


 i.   Interdisciplinary research and collaborations (including non-academic institutions)
Since 2014, while a third of our publications [38%] have been in social sciences and humanities
journals, we have published in leading environmental science, earth science, biological sciences,
computer science, engineering and physics journals (Source: SciVal). We have co-authored papers
with colleagues located in 17 different countries and from 35 UK universities, many of whom are
specialists in fields beyond archaeology/landscape research. We have also collaborated with
colleagues from NHS England, the Police Service, NERC, the RSPB, the World Wildlife Fund and
the United Nations.

Since 2014, 89% of our outputs listed on SciVal have been published in Q1 journals, including some
of the leading journals in our fields e.g., Current Anthropology, Antiquity, European Journal of
Archaeology, Journal of Archaeological Prospection, Earth-Science Reviews, Marine Pollution
Bulletin, Journal of Community Archaeology and Heritage, and Forensic Science International.

Sturdy Colls, Colls and Mitchell have undertaken a range of research projects with world-leading
experts from academic, public and private sector organisations across the world. The “Accessing
Campscapes” project (2016-2019) brought together specialists in cultural memory studies from the
University of Amsterdam, archaeologists and historians from the Norwegian University of Science
and Technology, archaeologists from the University of West Bohemia, oral historians from Frei
Universitet Berlin, digital humanities specialists from University Pompeu Fabra Barcelona, historians
and artists from the Vienna Wiesenthal Centre (Vienna, Austria) and memorial centres located in 7
different countries (also with Branthwaite from SU [UOA32]). Other projects have involved
collaborations with The Cyprus Institute (MOU) (“Dig-for-Arch”); Jagellonian University and the
International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (“Recording Cultural Genocide”), Goldsmiths,
University of London (The Living Death Camps and Forensic Architecture Advisory Board), the
United Kingdom Holocaust Memorial Museum (“Bergen-Belsen Archaeological Project”), The
Wiener Library (“Finding Treblinka”) and several television producers, including the Smithsonian
Channel.

Sturdy Colls has co-authored publications and edited volumes with colleagues from Cambridge
University (Dr Gilly Carr), Harvard University (Dr Gabriel Pizzorno), San Jose State University (Dr
Stephen Morewitz), California State University (Professor Eric Bartelink, Dr Colleen Milligan), and
the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum (Dr Robert Ehrenreich, Dr Jane Klinger). She has
worked with University College London (UCL) for six years, informing their Beacon Schools
Programme for Holocaust Education. Colls and Mitchell have collaborated with Shakespearean
scholar and president of the Shakespeare Birthplace Trust, Sir Stanley Wells, and scholars from the
Folger Library in Washington DC, the University of Birmingham, UCL, University of Warwick, Historic
England and University of Oxford as part of the “Searching for Shakespeare” project, and the
Archaeology and Shakespeare Research Advisory Board. Bolton-King has collaborated with Aston
University, the National Ballistics Intelligence Service, the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences,
the National Firearms Centre, the Netherlands Forensic Institute, Interpol and several police forces
and forensic service providers globally, including in the USA, UK and South Africa. Cassella has
long-standing research collaborations with Keele University, University of Huddersfield and the
Potteries Museum and Art Gallery. Squires has undertaken research and published with scholars
from Cranfield University (Dr David Erikkson, Dr Nicholas Márquez-Grant).

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Tweed’s international professional network includes scientists from Newcastle, Leeds, Lancaster,
Sheffield, Aberystwyth, Reykjavík, Copenhagen, Potsdam and New York. Tweed’s main
collaborators comprise Dr Jonathan Carrivick and Dr Duncan Quincey (University of Leeds), Prof.
Andrew Russell (University of Newcastle), Dr Matthew Roberts and Dr Tómas Jóhannesson
(Icelandic Meteorological Office, Reykjavík) and Dr Peter Wynn and Dr Hugh Tuffen (Lancaster
University). Swetnam’s international professional network includes scientists from the universities
of Cambridge, Newcastle, UEA, Leeds, York, Reykjavík, Skopje, Copenhagen and Dar es Salaam;
from conservation bodies including the RSPB, the British Trust for Ornithology, and the WWF; from
UK research institutes including the NERC Centre for Ecology and Hydrology, the British Geological
Survey and the British Antarctic Survey; and from organisations including Natural Resource Wales,
the NFU and Cadw. Gwinnett’s network spans across Europe and North America and includes the
Home Office’s Centre for Applied Science and Technology, the Netherlands Institute of Ecology,
Avans University, Lunz Mesocosm Infrastructure and the Rozalia Project.

 ii.  Awards
Sturdy Colls was awarded the European Archaeological Heritage Prize in 2016 for her pioneering
contribution to the investigation of twentieth century conflict, with specific reference to Holocaust
archaeology. In 2016, the “Digital Forensic Archaeology Project” (Sturdy Colls, Abate, Colls)
received the O2 NextGen Digital Challenge Award for Novel Digital Application. This award was
presented at the House of Lords. Bolton-King, Cassella and Squires received a Partnership Award
in recognition of their School’s contribution to the Staffordshire Police Partnership. Internally, the
CoA and Gwinnett have been awarded SU’s “Research with Impact Award” (2016, 2018 and 2019).

iii.  Membership of professional bodies and learned societies
The CoA is a Registered Organisation (RO) (2014-2020), and Sturdy Colls and Colls have been
Members of the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists for over 10 years. Sturdy Colls was a
Committee Member of the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists Research and Impact Group (2011‐
2016) and a founding member of the UK Forensic Archaeology Expert Panel (2009-present),
endorsed by the UK Home Office. Staff are long-term Members of the Chartered Society of Forensic
Sciences (Sturdy Colls, Cassella, Bolton-King, Squires, Gwinnett) and hold posts with this
organisation, e.g., Assessor for the University Accreditation Scheme (Sturdy Colls, Bolton-King,
Cassella). Tweed is a Member of the Glacier and Permafrost Hazards in Mountains (GAPHAZ)
Standing Group of the International Association of Cryospheric Sciences, a Member of International
Permafrost Association (IPA) and a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society (RGS). Swetnam is a
Chartered Geographer (CGeogGIS) and an RGS Fellow; she is also one of few RGS Chartered GIS
Specialists teaching in UK HE. Bolton-King is a Technical Advisor for the Association of Firearm
and Tool Mark Examiners and an Associate Member of the Royal Society of Chemistry. Gwinnett
is a Member of the UK Forensic Fibres Group and the UK Microplastics Network. Squires is a
Member of the Society for American Archaeology, the British Association for Biological Anthropology
and Osteoarchaeology, the Society for Medieval Archaeology and Student and Outreach Officer of
the Society for the Study of Childhood in the Past. Cassella and Squires are Associate Members of
Kenyon International Emergency Services.

iv.    Fellowships and Visiting Positions
Sturdy Colls held the Fred and Maria Devinki Memorial Fellowship at the Jack, Joseph and Morton
Mandel Center for Advanced Holocaust Studies at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum
(USHMM), Washington DC in 2016. She was the first archaeologist to be awarded a fellowship under
this programme. Abate joined the CoA as a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Experienced Research Fellow
(2016-2019) to work on the “Digital Forensic Archaeology” project. Bolton-King is a Visiting

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Fellow at the School of Engineering and Applied Science, Aston University and received
a Winston Churchill Travelling Fellowship in 2019 to evaluate new technologies to improve the
timeliness and outcomes of firearms investigations. Gwinnett received a Winston Churchill Travelling
Fellowship for a project entitled “International Best Practice in Microplastics Pollution Sampling,
Analysis and Removal” in 2018. Cassella is a Visiting Professor at Avans University and Squires is
a Research Associate at the Observatory for the Mummified Heritage of Sicily.

 v.   Conferences, seminar series and keynote addresses
In 2014, the CoA organised and hosted the international conference What Britain Knew in
partnership with the International Holocaust Remembrance Alliance (IHRA). The conference was
delivered to >150 international delegates, including ministers and representatives from 28 countries.

Staff within UoA15 have convened 12 sessions at international conferences. Notable examples
include the European Association of Archaeologists Conference in Maastricht 2017 (Sturdy Colls
organised the first Holocaust Archaeologies session); the World Archaeological Congress in Kyoto
2016 (Squires, Sturdy Colls); and the European Geophysical Union General Assembly in Vienna
in 2016 and 2017 (Tweed). Staff have delivered 36 keynote addresses and invited lectures, given in
the USA, UK, Poland and the Netherlands. They have presented at >170 conferences in the USA,
South Korea, Brazil, Canada, Japan, Australia, Egypt, Singapore, Poland, Lithuania, Germany, Italy,
Spain, Croatia, the Netherlands, Norway, Iceland, the UK, France, Austria and the Czech Republic.
This total includes several notable presentations relating to Holocaust Archaeology delivered by
Sturdy Colls. These include the prestigious USHMM Joseph and Rebecca Annual Meyerhoff
Lecture in 2020, recognizing ‘excellence in research’ relating to Holocaust studies (USA), the
Material Culture and the Holocaust Symposium (USA), the British Association of Holocaust Studies
and 3rd Annual Corpses of Mass Violence and Genocide Conferences (both UK). Our presentations
on Shakespeare’s life include papers delivered to New Place Revealed at the Folger Library, the
National Women’s Institute and the American Shakespeare Centre (all USA; Colls); the British
Shakespeare Association Conference, Shakespeare Birthplace Trust’s Shakespeare Congress and
News from the Past, Council for British Archaeology (all UK; Mitchell). Swetnam has presented at
the RGS-IBG Annual International Conference. Notable presentations from Tweed include the
Geological Society of America Fall Meeting, RGS-IBG Geography and Employability workshop, the
Glaciological Society Nordic Branch Meeting, the RGS-IBG Annual International Conference and the
IGS British Branch Meeting. Tweed has been invited to deliver the keynote ‘Frost Lecture’ at the
British Society for Geomorphology Annual Meeting, 2021.

vi.   Editorial positions
We serve on the editorial boards of 23 international peer-reviewed journals. These include the
Icelandic geosciences journal Jökull (Tweed), Landscape and Urban Planning (Swetnam) and the
Journal of Forensic Social Sciences (Sturdy Colls). Bolton-King is editor-in-chief of Science &
Justice and an advisory board member for the Journal of Forensic Science & Criminology. In the
assessment period, team members have been reviewers for >25 Q1 journals across archaeology,
geography, forensic science and Holocaust and genocide studies.

 vii.   Membership of peer review groups, boards and steering committees
Swetnam was an invited member of the Steering Committee for a €75 million German Research
Ministry programme on “Sustainable Land Management” in 2016. In 2017, she was an invited expert
to the German Aerospace Center Project Management Agency on behalf of the German Federal
Ministry of Education and Research, helping to shape research into ecosystems and biodiversity.
Sturdy Colls is Archaeological Advisor to the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local
Government with regards to the UK Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre development (2020+).

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As part of a commitment to enhancing knowledge beyond archaeology, she is a board member of
the Forensic Architecture programme at Goldsmiths, a Founding Member of the Forensic Social
Sciences Association and a member of the European Jewish Cemeteries Advisory Network (all
2016+). She has also held posts on the UK Holocaust Memorial Foundation Education Advisory
Group (2015-2017) and as Scientific Advisor for Kamp Westerbork Archaeological Project in The
Netherlands (2011+). Colls is a committee member of the Archaeology and Shakespeare Research
Advisory Board, which brought together a group of cross-disciplinary experts to locate, evaluate and
disseminate information about Shakespeare’s New Place in Stratford-Upon-Avon (2010-2018).
Gwinnett is an invited member of several global strategic groups including the Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institute “Microplastics in the Ocean” initiative. Cassella sits on a Defence Science
and Technology Laboratory group for Search Techniques Development and is work stream lead for
‘rapid services and custody suites’ for the Staffordshire Forensic Partnership.

 viii. External supervision and examiner roles for research degrees
UoA15 staff have supervised and been advisors for external PhD and Masters’ students at Keele
(Cassella), Nottingham Trent (Cassella), Cranfield (Bolton-King, Sturdy Colls), and Leeds
(Tweed) Universities. They have also examined research degrees at: Bournemouth University, York
University and Institute of Technology, Sligo (Sturdy Colls); Dundee University (Tweed); Kings
College London and Reading University (Swetnam); University of Huddersfield (Bolton-King); UCL,
Glasgow-Caledonia University, University West of England, Nottingham Trent University and
University of Technology, Jamaica (Gwinnett).

Contribution to the economy and society

In keeping with our commitment to being a Civic University, staff from across SU collaborate with
the CoA to generate innovative interdisciplinary research-based public engagement outputs with
societal impact locally, nationally and internationally.

 i.    Community engagement and public outreach
Sturdy Colls co-curated the “Finding Treblinka” exhibition, which has been permanently installed at
the Museum of Struggle and Martyrdom in Treblinka since 2015 (which now receives >60,000 visitors
per year) with an accompanying six-month exhibition at The Wiener Library in London in 2016. These
exhibitions included historical and archaeological research at Treblinka alongside the work of five
artists (including Branthwaite from SU [UoA32]). Sturdy Colls has delivered an average of 5 public
lectures per year since 2014 for religious communities, local history groups and charities, including
the Holocaust Educational Trust (annually reaching >400 young Ambassadors tasked with sharing
information about the Holocaust with their peers), the Association of Jewish Refugees and the
Auschwitz Jewish Center.

Staff from UoA15 have been partners in 7 HLF projects demonstrating our commitment and
reputation for community engagement and public outreach, with the communities themselves
approaching us to participate in the work. One of the CoA’s flagship projects at New Place, Stratford-
Upon-Avon, saw 575 individuals (including 250 school children) assisting, and 223,500 visitors
engaging, with the work over a five-year period (including 3,500 children from 40 schools in deprived
areas). The re-telling of New Place’s story based on the archaeological findings was enacted through
a site transformation and the installation of a new permanent international exhibition in 2016/17.
Visitor numbers to New Place increased by 40% to 142,000 in the exhibition’s first year, followed by
a 32% increase in 2018. New information boards at Holy Trinity Church provided access to the
results of this project to 250,000 visitors annually. Two digital exhibitions were launched in 2018
(“Shakespeare Connected by SBT” with UoA team input) and 2019 (“Objects of Shakespeare’s New
                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Place 3D”, UoA team). Other community archaeology and participatory research projects have been
undertaken at St Giles’ Church (Newcastle-under-Lyme, UK - 25 participants) (Colls, Mitchell,
Sturdy Colls, Squires), the Calgarth Estate (Windermere, UK - 73 participants) (Colls, Mitchell,
Sturdy Colls), Redfern Cottage (Uttoxeter, UK - 13 participants) (Colls, Mitchell) and various
Jewish cemeteries (Oświęcim, Piaski and Wąwolnica, Poland; described more fully below) (Sturdy
Colls, Colls, Weston). These projects have enabled new reflections on relationship-building,
engagement and sustainability in community-led fieldwork, and engaging diverse audiences.

Swetnam was selected to be a speaker at “Soapbox Science Stoke-on-Trent” in July 2019, on the
theme of “Valuing the View”. As part of the GMEP research project undertaken for the Welsh
Government, Swetnam ran a stand at the Royal Welsh Show in 2015 and 2016, enabling visitors to
engage with online landscape surveys (242,726 visitors in 2015; 236,758 in 2016). Gwinnett
collaborated with artists and scientists in a public exhibition showcasing the ‘laundry monster’ and
microfibre pollution at Keele University (2,000 visitors, 1-month 2019). Tweed co-led the Geological
Society of America’s “Dynamic Iceland” GeoVenture in 2014 and 2015, alongside researchers from
the State University of New York. For the last decade, Tweed has been a headline speaker at Hodder
Education National ‘Tectonic Hazards’ Student Conferences, translating research for “A” Level
audiences of up to 2500 people yearly. She is also one of the Geographical Association’s
“Recommended Geography Speakers in the UK”. Bolton-King is Technical Advisor to the
Association of Firearm and Tool Mark Examiners. She has also provided expert advice to the UK
Government’s Chief Scientific Advisor in preparation for the Annual Report on Forensic Science.

Several staff have translated their research findings into articles to engage wider readership.
Gwinnett and Mitchell have contributed articles to The Conversation with > 136,700 and >95,000
reads respectively (by December 2020). Tweed’s 2019 article in Geography won a Geographical
Association Journal Excellence Award.

 ii.   Social action and regeneration projects
As part of the CoA’s shift towards projects with social impact in the present, “Recording Cultural
Genocide and Killing Sites in Jewish Cemeteries” (Sturdy Colls) enhanced understanding of where
racial hatred and intolerance can lead, increased engagement with Jewish heritage across 103
countries and raised awareness of the causes and consequences of cultural and physical genocide.
The project reflected SU’s commitment to EDI, bringing together participants from a variety of
different countries, age demographics and religious backgrounds. SU worked alongside our partners
The Matzevah Foundation (USA), Fundacja Zapomniane (Poland) and Rohatyn Jewish Heritage
(Ukraine) to develop and implement a unique interdisciplinary engagement methodology, using
techniques from history, archaeology, digital humanities, games technology, conservation and
community engagement. During “social-action projects” at four Jewish cemeteries, > 400 volunteers
and 20 NGOs and museums worked together to locate unmarked killing sites, graves and
tombstones, and to restore the sites. The project team built long-lasting relationships with political
and educational decision-makers within the Polish, Ukrainian and British governments, mayors, civil
servants, police, educators, and religious and community leaders to develop strategies to protect
sites and develop further opportunities for sustainable education centred on Jewish heritage and
social cohesion.


iii. Research with impacts on society (including memorialisation and commemoration), policy
     and practice
As outlined in our Global Impacts of Holocaust Archaeology Case Study, our work has led to the
memorialisation and commemoration of Holocaust sites across Europe. The “Finding Treblinka”

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
project marked and commemorated 6 unmarked mass graves at the Treblinka labour camp.
Similarly, the “Protecting Memory Project” (Sturdy Colls, Colls, Mitchell) resulted in the
identification of 16 mass graves, the erection of 10 memorials and information panels and 9
publications by our project partners. The “Adampol Archaeology Project” (Poland) led to the
expansion of an extant memorial to more accurately reflect the location of Holocaust-era burials and
generated new local educational initiatives for schoolchildren in the region (Sturdy Colls). Our
collective work in this area has impacted upon family and community life across the world by
providing survivors, descendants and religious communities with new information and
commemorative opportunities. It has also led to collaborations with those working in the Arts (theatre,
fine art, poetry, creative writing etc.) to produce new works about our research, reaching new
audiences.

Across the unit, Tweed’s collaborative research on the societal impacts of glacier outburst floods
was cited in the United Nations' Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change report on “The Ocean
and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate” (September 2019) and a Scientific American video and
report. The Welsh government have applied Swetnam’s landscape evaluation research to evaluate
their agri-environmental programme Glastir. This was the main programme through which tax-payer
support was directed to landowners and a key policy instrument to maintain and enhance the Welsh
environment.

iv.    Media outputs; factual documentaries
The CoA has been involved in several high-profile media outputs. These include “Treblinka: Inside
Hitler’s Secret Death Camp” (Channel 5) and “Treblinka: Hitler’s Killing Machine” (Smithsonian), both
of which followed Sturdy Colls’ pioneering archaeological investigations (reach: UK, 2014-2019
2.77 million; re-runs still reaching 1.39 million in the US in 2019, estimated global reach 2014-2019
10 million); “Shakespeare’s Tomb” (Channel 4 and PBS), which followed Colls’ examination of
Shakespeare’s grave (reach 2016-2019: UK 3.24 million, US 2.3 million); and ‘National Treasures
Live’ (reach: UK 4.6 million) and ‘Time Team’ (reach: UK 2.1 million), which presented Colls’ and
Mitchell’s work at Shakespeare’s final home. In 2019, the global Smithsonian Channel aired “Adolf
Island”, which followed the CoA’s search for a Nazi SS camp on the British Channel island of
Alderney during World War II (reach 2019: US 3.35 million, UK 1.1 million).

CoA staff regularly appear on local and regional radio and TV, and national channels (e.g., BBC
Crimewatch and BBC Breakfast News).




                                                                                              Page 15
