  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Institution: University of Cambridge

Unit of Assessment: 6 Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Sciences


1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
1.1 Structure and context
The Department of Veterinary Medicine at the University of Cambridge offers an outstanding environment
for world-class research that maintains a portfolio of excellence in veterinary science, fully integrated with
the wider University. The Unit’s 57 researchers (51.9 FTE) are drawn from a breadth of disciplines,
encompassing human and veterinary medicine, fundamental biology, translational research and
mathematics. Since 2014 our Unit has continued to develop, with a research strategy that builds on
existing strengths and research priorities leading to a substantial growth in research activity, evidenced
by increases in research income, industrial collaborations, new spinout companies, key appointments,
and new investments in research infrastructure.

The majority of researchers are housed on our West Cambridge Site with others based across the
Schools of Biological Sciences, Physical Sciences and Clinical Medicine as part of intra-university
collaborations and interdisciplinary research.



Box 1 Unit research themes and researchers:

Infection and Immunity (21 individuals): This theme includes research groups (individual PIs
listed in brackets) in Bacteriology (Grant, Mastroeni, Tucker, Patto and Holmes), Virology (Heeney,
Blacklaws, Tiley and Frost until 2019), Immunology (Bryant, Schwaeble and until 2020 Kaufman),
Parasitology (Cantacessi), Biominerals (Powell), and Prion disease (Bujdoso and Thackray).

Disease Dynamics (18 individuals): This theme encompasses mathematical and big data
approaches to understanding and controlling disease at the population level including research
groups in Epidemiology (Wood and Trotter), Mathematics (Restif and Conlan), and Microbial
Genomics (Parkhill and Weinert).

Systems Pathology (18 individuals): This broad theme brings together research groups working
on the Musculoskeletal system and Orthopaedics (Allen & Radke), Veterinary & Comparative
Pathology (Archer, Constantino-Casas, Watson and Williams), Animal Behaviour & Welfare
(Pearce), Oncology (Dobson and Murchison), Neuroscience (Káradóttir), Mammary Gland Biology
(Hughes), Red Blood Cell Physiology (Gibson), Soft Tissue Surgery (Owen), and Comparative
Genetics (Sargan).


Research themes
Research activity is presented across three broad themes (see box above and Figure 1) that represent
core research strengths and critical mass. However, since projects frequently cover innovative basic
studies through to translational research, work often involves collaborative activity in a range of
interdisciplinary areas. We have attempted to illustrate the diversity and interdisciplinarity of our research
                                                                                                    Page 1
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
through the Venn diagrams in Figure 1. This shows how our researchers have defined their own research
interests in terms of our primary themes and a number of cross-cutting sub-themes.




Figure 1. Venn diagrams show how our 57 individual UoA6 researchers describe their own
research in terms of our three primary themes, and according to five cross-cutting sub-themes
illustrating the broad range and interdisciplinary nature of our research. The numbers reflect
concentration of interest.


The Unit sits in a rich collaborative environment both on campus and across the wider University. Our
researchers are supported in their pursuit of external opportunities for interdisciplinary and comparative
biomedical research, and are strongly encouraged to integrate with the excellent local research
laboratories in cognate disciplines. An example is the 2019 cross appointment of Bryant’s research
activities and large research group between the Department of Veterinary Medicine and School of Clinical
Medicine. In this way, she promotes the two-way flow of expertise, strengthening opportunities in
comparative biomedical research for both Units. Similarly, T. Williams undertakes joint research in the
Cambridge Institute of Medical Research and Hughes in the Department of Pathology. These satellite
laboratories provide access to additional state-of-the-art equipment and infrastructure, relevant expertise
and mentorship, and opportunities to develop further interdisciplinary collaborations.




                                                                                                 Page 2
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  A supportive environment for collaboration

  University Strategic Interdisciplinary Research Centres (IRC) and Initiatives.
  Within the Unit researchers have membership in the following IRCs, Initiatives and Networks,
  which support cross-city meetings and collaboration: Infectious Diseases (28), Food Security
  (2), Public Health (9), Immunology (9), Neuroscience (3), Stem Cells (1), Cancer (5), Global
  Challenges (3), Reproduction (1), Data Driven Discovery (1), Conservation (2), Musculoskeletal
  Sciences (2) and Physical Biology (1). Bryant is co-Chair of Cambridge Immunology Network,
  Wood is co-Chair of Cambridge Infectious Diseases IRC and Grant and Tucker are members
  of the steering committee for the Global Food Security IRC. Membership of these initiatives has
  led to greater involvement in University-wide academic activities in general, access to a broader
  range of scientific facilities and direct support for knowledge exchange and government policy-
  relevant discussions.

  Centre for Science and Policy (CSaP) Visiting Fellows programme
  Policy makers visit Cambridge to meet with leading researchers in their field of interest. Since
  2014 our researchers have hosted 39 visits from policy fellows from HM Treasury, Veterinary
  Medicines Directorate, Food Standards Agency, Defra, Abcam, and GSK. Since the beginning
  of the pandemic, CSaP, Cambridge Infectious Diseases and Cambridge Immunology have
  collaborated to present both a University-wide weekly COVID-19 relevant seminar programme
  and to provide detailed policy briefings for senior government civil servants.

  Collegiate Cambridge
  Thirty members of the Unit have College associations including research fellowships, directors
  of studies, and tutorships (providing pastoral care). Links between the Unit and the Colleges are
  often exploited to help with accommodation and to help integrate visitors more fully into the
  social networks that Colleges offer. Senior visiting researchers (e.g. PIs on sabbaticals from
  their home universities) are provided with visiting or overseas fellowships by Colleges which,
  again, broaden collaborative opportunities.


A rich environment for interdisciplinarity
The Unit’s buildings are located on a primarily physical sciences and technology campus, and so the
Unit’s scientists and clinicians are well situated to develop cross-disciplinary collaborations with
Engineering, Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics. For example, Bryant has built on collaborations with
Chemistry and Physics to apply state-of-the-art imaging to identify important innate immune signalling
processes that have implications in the development of inflammatory diseases such as Alzheimer’s and
Parkinson's disease. Holmes & Patto work with the Department of Physics developing a low-cost
culture-based system to determine the microbiological quality of water sources for use in low-income
countries. Gibson has collaborations in Chemistry examining surface damage of sickle cells, Cantacessi
collaborates with Chemical Engineering and Biotechnology in development of an in vitro system for
parasite-microbiome-host interactions. Allen has extensive collaborations with Engineering in the areas
of skeletal biomechanics and robotics. Pearce collaborates with behavioural ecologists in Zoology on the
epidemiology of TB infection in wildlife.




                                                                                               Page 3
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Engagement with stakeholders
We strive to promote a culture that actively exploits new methodologies, developing expertise to address
the priorities and ambitions of stakeholders in animal health, agriculture, public health, and veterinary
medicine for the benefit of society. The Unit’s strong links to policy makers, combined with the
international reputations of our scientists, underpin impact cases on bovine tuberculosis (Wood and
Conlan) , meningitis vaccination (Trotter, case study submitted to UoA 5), sustainable international pig
meat production (Tucker, Maskell and Weinert), antimicrobial resistance (Holmes) and equine welfare
(Maskell). This is illustrated by engagement at the national and international levels: Wood and Conlan
on UK and Ethiopian tuberculosis policy, Tucker on Myanmar pig health policy; Trotter and Jephcott
on global public health with the World Health Organisation; the number of spinout companies set up by
Unit staff (6); industry collaborations (e.g. Bryant Glaxo Smith Kline research fellowship, Mastroeni and
Grant with Astra Zeneca, Weinert and Tucker with Pig Improvement Company-PIC and Ceva Animal
Health), as well as extensive engagement with breed clubs and owners to raise awareness of canine
health conditions (Sargan, Dobson, Ladlow, Liu, Kalmar, Skelly). The extensive research partnerships
and collaborations that are the foundations of the Unit’s success are described more fully elsewhere,
including in collaborations (Section 4.1).

1.2 Strategic priorities from 2014
Our priority, as it was in REF2014, is to deliver outstanding research around the theme of “One Health”.
Some highlights since REF2014 are shown in a text box in this section. Our strategic priorities from
2014 also included building a world-class postgraduate education programme both for basic research,
applied research and clinical research (as part of our clinical training programme, which is described in
detail in 2.3 below).




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Some Research highlights

 Infection and Immunity:
  • Development of a Clinical MALDI-ToF Mass Spectrometry Assay for SARS-CoV-2. Heeney
  • Development of a novel approach to diagnose transmissible neurodegenerative diseases in
     humans and animals. Bujdoso & Thackray
  • Development of a vaccine that works for Streptococcus suis infection in pigs. Weinert,
     Wells & Tucker.
  • Discovery of the H17N10 bat influenza receptor (MHC-11) the receptor on our immune cells
     that this virus uses to enter/infect them. Carnell
  • Discovery of the susceptibility of major MRSA lineages to simple penicillins in combination
     with beta-lactamase inhibitors. Holmes
  • Establishing that pathogenic bacteria tend to have smaller genomes than their closest non-
     pathogenic relatives and the potential reasons for this. Weinert & Murray
  • Genomic variations leading to alterations in cell morphology of Campylobacter spp. and
     other fundamental studies on Campylobacter. Grant and Mastroeni
  • Discovery that human placenta has no microbiome but can contain potential pathogens.
     Helping to establish quality control standards for the investigation of metagenomes from
     ‘clean’ samples. Parkhill
  • Identifying the negative impact of parasite infections on the health and homeostasis of the
     gut microbiome of herbivore species. Cantacessi
  • Discovery of new mechanism which co-ordinates a number of cell killing pathways in
     inflammation. Bryant
  • Development of a novel trivalent Marburg, Ebola and Lassa fever virus vaccine. Heeney.
 Disease Dynamics:

 •   Using a combination of field studies, experiments and mathematical models to understand
     drivers of zoonotic virus epidemics in bats and to other species. Restif & Wood
 •   Epidemiological work informing international vaccine policy for both meningitis vaccines
     and rabies vaccines. Trotter
 Systems pathology:

 •   Discovery of the cancer genes and driver mutations involved in initially causing the
     mammalian transmissible cancers, and which favour their adaptation. Murchison
 •   Non-invasive assessments and diagnosis for brachycephalic obstructive airway syndrome
     (BOAS), validation of new surgical techniques, conformational risk factors, and genetic
     causes. Sargan, Liu and Ladlow
 •   Showing that oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs), the stem cells that carry out
     myelination, acquire ion-channels, and become differentially heterogeneous with age and
     region. Karadottir
 •   Development of novel approaches to using technology to improve the technical precision of
     orthopaedic surgery in patients. Allen
 •   Developing the use of the world’s first deep water ultrasound machine to monitor breeding
     activity and ecology of the endangered species of Reef Manta Ray (M. alfredi) in order to
     better inform international conservation management plans. Pearce




                                                                                         Page 5
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Strategic review and planning
In June 2017, we invited leading peer researchers to undertake a thorough independent external strategic
review of research in the Unit as part of a University-wide programme. The review panel were very
positive about research in the Unit and made recommendations which led to the implementation of a
number of organisational changes. These have included: an investment of over £500k annually in
additional clinical staff time to provide dedicated research time for clinicians; improvements to our internal
communications structures, as well as a revision of our research strategy; and relocation of social space
to a more central location within the Department with additional catering provision and the organisation
of more regular informal networking events (‘happy hours’).

Our strategic planning process is undertaken on a five-year cycle to provide the framework for our
allocation of resources and research support activities. Recent examples of strategic support include the
integration in 2018 of the Biomineral Research Group from the MRC Human Nutrition Unit, laboratory
upgrades funded by a Wolfson Royal Society Refurbishment Grant in 2017 with matching funding from
the University, and the commitment of funds for a new £1.3M 3T magnetic resonance imaging facility. A
sustained effort and investment in targeted support has led to a substantial increase in research funding
from £4.4M in 2014 to £6.34M in 2020 (exceeding £7M in 2019), with large awards in areas of
international strategic importance from BBSRC, DfID, MRC, Innovate UK, Wellcome Trust, and industry.


 Our future strategic research priorities:
 • To develop a critical mass of expertise in genomics and big data, building our
    bioinformatics capabilities. The appointment of Julian Parkhill FRS to the Marks and
    Spencer Professorship brings the opportunity to build on existing capabilities and interests in
    this area, in particular the further expansion of whole genome sequencing to veterinary
    research and medicine.
 • To establish a centre of excellence in quantitative imaging, from microscopy to
    MRI. We have recently made substantial investment in state-of-the-art imaging equipment
    that will allow us to develop advanced imaging techniques from the molecular scale (mass
    cytometry, confocal, bioluminescence imaging) up to the whole animal (3T MRI). This is a
    long-term plan which we expect to grow with colleagues in physical, mathematical and
    engineering sciences over the next 10 years facilitated by our location on a predominantly
    physical sciences campus.
 • To strengthen research support allowing for growth in veterinary clinical and
    translational research. There has been strategic investment in developing a veterinary
    clinical trials infrastructure (including the recent employment of a dedicated clinical research
    coordinator) and a tissue biorepository that can serve as a route to enable future One
    Health-focused clinical research. We are investing in a state-of-the-art medical records
    system integrated with a network of local veterinary healthcare providers to improve our
    capacity for epidemiological and clinical research.


1.3 Research Culture
Our researchers have a strong track record of sharing research outputs and providing open access to
our data and software tools. This openness promotes non-discriminatory access to research
(scholarships, posts, samples, data, reagents, software etc.), promoting equality and diversity. We
strongly encourage the publication of research data alongside our outputs.




                                                                                                    Page 6
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Disease Dynamics sharing highlights
 • Trotter and Conlan developed a transmission model for norovirus suitable for evaluating
     possible vaccination strategies delivered as an open source model and inference
     framework.
 • Conlan’s work on novel contact data sets, has been shared with the research community
     and contributed to the crowd-shared data collection associated with the BBC Four
     documentary “Contagion! The BBC Four Pandemic” (Feb 2018). That dataset has
     subsequently been used to parameterise spatial models to understand the spread of
     COVID-19 and measures to leave lockdown.
 • Frost published models and code on GitHub, used by research groups worldwide. He led
     Epirecipes, a three-day workshop in 2018 aimed at implementing different epidemiological
     models and mathematical models of infectious disease transmission. The result has been
     the publication of an Open Source textbook of computer models.


 Infection and Immunity sharing highlights
  • Routine deposition of whole genome sequence data in open access databases such as the
      primary sequence repositories (EMBL / GenBank / DDBJ).
  • Genomic data and more enriched metadata have also been made available through
      bespoke databases, including Enterobase, MicroReact, Pathogen Watch and BIGSdb. We
      also contribute to MicrobesNG.
  • Novel bacterial species or significant strains have been placed in international culture
      collections such as NCTC and ATCC.
  • Parkhill led the community resource NCTC3000 project, the largest collection of complete
      genomes for type and reference strains in the world.
  • Cantacessi launched MICHELINdb in 2019, an open access resource for mining of
      sequence data and associated metadata linked to available literature on helminth-
      microbiota interactions (http://helminthsandmicrobes.vet.cam.ac.uk/).

 Systems pathology sharing highlights:
 • Anatomic pathology share research material generated through their activities across
     UoAs. For example, Hughes maintains an archive of formalin fixed blocks from mammary
     glands at all developmental stages.
 • Work undertaken by Powell and Wills has led to the publication of software and algorithms
     for state-of-the-art tissue imaging.


The Unit operates an Ethics and Welfare committee (Chaired by Gibson) which reviews approximately
50 applications each year for clinical research not involving human participants, including many student
elective projects. The committee includes the University’s Named Veterinary Surgeon alongside clinical
specialists. Specialist ethical review operated through other departments in the University is used for
research involving people or research involving NHS patients when appropriate. Multiple university
training sessions, some obligatory, for all staff and students, deal with issues of research integrity, legal
and ethical obligations, data protection, record keeping and professional standards. This ethos is
cascaded through the research teams and forms part of the progression training for post-docs and
graduate students. Further specialist training and continuity training on research ethics and integrity (e.g.
the implementation of the Nagoya Protocol) are included in research staff meetings and seminars.




                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy
 Our staffing strategy adheres to the overall Cambridge ethos of seeking research excellence in
 alignment with a commitment to equality and diversity (E&D), our research profile and teaching
 needs. For established or already-funded posts that have become available, the recruitment net
 is cast wide through open advertising. All staff involved in selection during recruitment undergo
 mandatory training in improving recruitment and E&D, including the recognition and management
 of implicit bias. Attention is given to ensuring that individuals from under-represented backgrounds
 are encouraged to apply for positions at all levels.

 Since 2014, three PIs have joined the Unit in evolving areas of strategic importance. Matthew
 Allen was recruited from The Ohio State University, USA in 2014 to establish a new Surgical
 Discovery Centre, focused on applying state of the art robotics, imaging and 3D printing
 technology towards the development of better orthopaedic treatment options. The appointment of
 Julian Parkhill FRS in 2019 to an endowed Professorship has enhanced our critical mass in
 genomics and bioinformatics capabilities. Jerry Wells from Wageningen, funded through a
 collaborative EU project, has added strength in bacterial genomics and pathobiology, building on
 collaborations with Tucker and Weinert.



  Integrating substantial new research groups into the Unit
   • Jonathan Powell’s Biomineral Research Group (Ravin Jugdaosingh, Rachel Hewitt
      and Katharina Kessler) arrived in 2018, with substantial funding, from the MRC Human
      Nutrition Unit. It has established new analytical capabilities for the Unit in quantitative cell
      imaging and elemental/isotope analysis and led to exciting new internal collaborations.
   • Powell and Singh’s collaboration with McCrone has resulted in the development and
      testing of antimicrobial wound barriers based on materials pre-approved for use in food
      animals.
   • Hewitt and Watson have collaborated to obtain Petsavers funding for a Master's
      research project on the detection of autoantibodies in feline and canine samples.
   • Schwaeble enhances the Unit’s fundamental research on immunology, delivering
      pioneering work in the discovery of a new activation pathway of the complement system,
      and leads an industry funded group working to develop new therapeutic reagents and
      technologies for clinical applications, including new antimicrobial agents.
   • Schwaeble and Powell both bring substantial experience in IP development and
      licensing, and in addition to championing the commercial exploitation of research in the
      Unit, have enhanced our competitiveness in novel therapeutic and diagnostic
      developments.


 Strategic junior academic appointments have supported career development and development of
 talent in key areas. Weinert, currently a Sir Henry Dale Fellow studying the ecology and genomics
 of bacterial pathogens, has received a proleptic faculty position. Five of our early career
 researchers hold University or College-based Junior Research Fellowships (JRFs: Jephcott,
 Murray, Hardwick & Wills), which represent an excellent opportunity to undertake independent
 research demonstrating their potential as future PIs. Patto is a Borysiewicz Biomedical Sciences
 Fellow undertaking entrepreneurial, interdisciplinary research in imaging and microbiology in
 collaboration with Holmes.

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.2 Staff development and support
 The expansion of our HR team with 2 additional posts has enhanced our ability to develop and
 support all staff. Unit research staff are allocated local mentors to help them with their personal
 development and to assist with difficulties that they may encounter at all stages of their careers.
 Research staff take part in an annual review and development process which appraises them
 against agreed performance targets and is focused on helping them to prepare for submission to
 internal promotion schemes. Discussion of impact strategy forms part of the annual staff review
 and development process, in which all academic staff are invited to identify the potential impact
 and stakeholders of their research, and steps towards achieving this.

 The review process also identifies specific training for personal development for each individual to
 deliver their agreed research and other personal objectives. Since 2014, four of our staff have
 been promoted to Professor (one woman, three men), four to Reader (two men, two women), and
 nine to Senior Lecturer (five women, four men). Professional development and management
 training is offered to all staff with management responsibility and this programme will be extended
 and repeated for continuing professional development and for incoming faculty members.

 Support for early career researchers
 Our thriving postdoctoral community has been much strengthened by the establishment of the
 Postdoc Academy (https://www.postdocacademy.cam.ac.uk/). All postdoctoral researchers have
 access to the resources provided by membership of the Postdoc Academy. The Academy offers
 direct support to postdocs, including induction and orientation advice on arrival for all postdocs,
 and access to a comprehensive range of relevant professional development and training activities,
 for example in knowledge exchange and commercialisation. The Academy also works with and
 supports the three grassroots postdoctoral organisations in the University (Postdocs of Cambridge
 Society, Entrepreneurial Postdocs of Cambridge and the Postdoc Chairs’ Network).

 Locally there is a postdoctoral committee which meets regularly to feed back on their requirements
 for a supportive working environment. We introduced monthly postdoc “Happy Hours” linked to
 seminars from internationally recognised external speakers to facilitate networking skills and to
 encourage them to develop new collaborations as well as to explore career development
 opportunities. Postdocs are represented on relevant Departmental committees to encourage their
 engagement in all aspects of governance. Our postdocs are supported through postdoctoral
 mentoring schemes offered through the University Postdoc Academy.

 Appointing the highest calibre scientists has to be combined with appropriate institutional support.
 Newly appointed clinical academic staff are given protected research time across their 5 year
 probation period to enable them to develop their research programmes. Many of our clinicians are
 in the early stages of their careers so we further support them by embedding them within
 established research groups able to provide mentorship in their chosen field of interest. For
 example, T. Williams has embedded links with Professor Fiona Karet’s nephrology research
 group at the Cambridge Institute for Medical Research, and Kate Hughes has active research
 links with the Department of Pathology. This early support helps new staff to develop relevant
 research skills and collaborations to produce publications, draft grants and to gain mentorship in
 their chosen research area.




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Equality and Diversity
 Our commitment to equality and diversity is illustrated in our approach to the REF staff
 selection process, which took a highly inclusive approach: PIs (and individuals themselves)
 were asked to nominate (or encourage to self-nominate) all eligible research staff possibly
 meeting the criteria for research independence.

 We received 6 applications from early career researchers (4 men and 2 women) supported by
 PIs. All applications were approved. Overall the split within the Unit was 55% men and 44%
 women.

 All research outputs were reviewed twice, and output selection undertaken by means of a
 computer algorithm that allocated outputs based on internally assessed quality scores.


 New staff are also supported to secure funding to help them develop their research for grant
 proposals, and the University offers internal funding schemes for new and established staff to
 support basic science research and translational work. Over the REF period we have averaged a
 60% success rate for applications for project and bridging funding supported by one of the
 university’s internal funds, the Isaac Newton Trust (awards to Williams, Weinert and Cantacessi)
 and from the University’s Returning Carers’ Scheme (Cantacessi, Murchison, Weinert,
 Peachey).

 Sabbatical Leave
 All members of Faculty have access to, and are encouraged to take up, our fully paid sabbatical
 leave (one term for every two years worked). Since August 2013, six members of staff have taken
 seven periods of sabbatical leave between them. Significant developments in research
 programmes have emerged from recent sabbaticals including organoid usage (Watson, Hughes),
 educational research (Brearley), murine mutagenesis and industrial collaboration (Bryant), and
 owner-reported clinical outcomes assessment (Radke).


  Supporting families
  • Eligible staff are encouraged to apply for the Returning Carers Scheme, which funds
     career- and professional development following career breaks or a period of leave with
     caring responsibilities.
  • Staff in the Unit have received 14 awards between 2014 and 2019, which may extend to
     funding short term RA employment to complete specific projects.
  • Returning staff are offered additional career mentoring.
  • Staff with urgent family needs are encouraged to apply for emergency leave, flexible
     working or other support measures.



 The Department of Veterinary Medicine holds an Athena SWAN Bronze award (July 2017). The
 Department’s E&D committee have been working with academic leadership and there is good
 evidence for positive advancements relating to E&D. The 2019 University staff survey indicated
 that the three most improved areas were “I am satisfied with the support and flexibility offered to
 help me balance my work and home life”; “I believe that individual differences are valued in my
 area of the University” and “I have the opportunity to discuss my development needs and
 performance regularly”. Within the Unit, there is strong support for the University’s wellbeing

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 initiatives. Department-wide social events are organised throughout the year, including
 celebrations of International Women’s, Men’s and Families’ Days and Mental Health
 Awareness coffee mornings, as well as smaller ‘coffee clubs’ that offer a discussion forum for
 staff with particular areas of concern: e.g. working parents and clinical staff. Staff are also able to
 take advantage of the University Staff Counselling Service and are encouraged to use the on
 campus University Sports Centre, which supports students, staff and the wider community in
 pursuit of their health and wellbeing.

 Staff are encouraged to access networks integrating and supporting staff with protected
 characteristics: the LGBT+ Staff Network provides support and advice to LGBT+ staff; the BAME
 Staff Network for staff who identify as BAME or have an interest in BAME matters to come
 together to support the development of race equality at the University; SPACE, a network for
 members of the University with caring responsibilities for children and the Women’s Staff
 Network for all female staff.

 2.3 Research students

 The approach to recruitment of doctoral research students and evidence of studentships
 The Unit recruits 8-12 research students per year, some as members of institutional cohorts
 funded by the BBSRC, the MRC and the Wellcome Trust; and others directly into the Unit.
 Postgraduate students leaving the Veterinary School are well placed to guide research, industry
 or government policy in “One Health” issues. We have expanded opportunities for postgraduate
 training in comparative biomedical research as part of our previous strategic planning cycle,
 ensuring that we are at the heart of the BBSRC DTP and have provided the academic director for
 the University’s DTP. We are fully represented on the Wellcome Trust Clinical PhD programme,
 which involves UEA and the Welcome Trust Sanger Institute, and contribute to the Wellcome Trust
 Infection, Immunology and Inflammation PhD programme. Holmes helped found and contributes
 to the management of the Medical Research Foundation funded Antimicrobial Resistance DTP.
 The integration of research into our undergraduate teaching was acknowledged in our 2019 RCVS
 accreditation visit, which especially commended us on the excellence of our integrated research
 and teaching strategy. A number of our alumni have won significant research fellowships, including
 Dr Sarah Caddy (a research fellow at the Cambridge Institute for Therapeutic Immunology and
 Infectious Disease) and Dr Eleanor Raffan (who now holds a faculty position in the Department of
 Physiology, Development and Neuroscience). In addition to research mentoring and supervision
 for clinical scholars, we also offer a dedicated introductory clinical research training course in
 collaboration with the AO Foundation for incoming interns, residents and clinically-oriented PhD
 students.

 We work hard to widen participation in our postgraduate education by encouraging early informal
 approaches to potential supervisors (through our website) and participating in both intramural and
 extramural summer research placement schemes. A standardised scoring system has been
 developed for the whole University to allow cross-comparisons to be made and ensure that the
 most promising research students are fairly chosen. During the assessment period, we have had
 75 PhD students. An overview of our current students, and those graduated during the assessment
 period, are provided in Table 1.

 Although not on full-time research programmes, our trainee veterinary clinical fellows all make
 research contributions as required by the discipline-specific European Colleges.

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



       Funding source             No.         %                Origin           No.     %
       Independent                14          18               UK               24      32
       Wellcome Trust              6          8                Europe           19      25
       BBSRC                      16          21               N. America        7      9
       Cambridge Trust            12          16               S. America        6      8
       UK charity                  3          4                Africa            9      12
       Intramural                  4          5                Asia              8      11
       Gates foundation            6          8                Other             2      3
       Industry                    2          3
       Overseas agencies           5          7                Gender           No.     %
       MRC/MRF                     5          6                Male             30      40
       NIH                         2          3                Female           45      60

                                                               Full/Part        No.     %
                                                               time
                                                               Part time        6       8
                                                               Full time        69      92

  Table 1. Summary of funding sources and demographics of current and graduated PhD students




 Monitoring and support mechanisms linked to evidence of progress and of successful
 completions
 Monitoring of progress is achieved mainly through feedback from supervisors and additional
 advisors or supervision teams. Supervisors are required to meet students regularly in one-to-one
 meetings. Wider supervisory teams meet with students twice per term, and supervisors provide
 termly written reports. College tutors also meet with students at least once per year to discuss
 progression and wellbeing. The CamSIS reporting system is used by the departments and
 Colleges to record progress and share reports for both academic progress and pastoral care.
 Formal progression from probationary status for PhD students includes the production of a first-
 year report, which is orally examined by at least two examiners. A further brief report is required
 at the end of the second year. Our completion rates average > 95%.

 Evidence of the effective progress of students in this UoA includes research outputs, prizes and
 other markers of esteem won by students. The cohort of research students registered during the
 assessment period have published 118 papers as a result of their PhD work and hold or share in
 4 patents. Two current students have been accepted as Residents in the European College of
 Veterinary Public Health. They have won six external conference platform or poster prizes. Three
 have won major international prizes (the Kennel Club Charitable Trust Postgraduate Student
 Inspiration Award, 2017, 2019 & 2020; Harold M. Weintraub Graduate Student Award 2020 from
 the Fred Hutch Institute), and six others have added to their research impact through winning
 external grants. The Colleges have also awarded numerous small grants.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Details of the support provided to research students in terms of skills development and
 preparation for their future career
 Students are required to take skills-based courses in personal effectiveness, engaging others,
 career progression and research expertise, through a combination of online and in person courses.
 All research students and junior clinical staff are required to contribute to the Unit’s weekly seminar
 series of speakers. In addition, our students and postdocs present a poster or give a blitz (5’) talk
 at our biannual research afternoons. Expert talks at these events have recently included
 entrepreneurship, working in industry, and ensuring research impacts government policy.
 Students are further prepared to communicate their science through being taught the
 fundamentals of scientific writing, platform speaking in short talks or longer presentations, and
 scientific poster presentation by academic staff. Our students are able to engage with mixed
 academic audiences through their colleges, learning to communicate complex ideas to critical
 audiences in lay terms.

 Students have opportunities for contact with industry and other external working environments
 through the BBSRC DTP’s “PIPs” internships, through various inter- and intra- University
 programmes such as Enterprise TECH PhD+, Innovation iTeams, through CASE studentships or
 their projects. Our students have gone on to success in this area, including one who founded a
 company based on their work that already has obtained £15M of investment.




                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1    Funding Strategy
 The Unit’s research income for the assessment period was £39,554,636 and annual income
 increased, markedly from the start of the assessment period (£4.4M in 2014) to its completion
 (£6.3M in 2020).

 We have vigorously pursued opportunities for expansion and development internationally. Our
 longstanding research strengths in infection dynamics, especially zoonoses, coupled with
 established collaborations with partners in the UK and in low-to-middle income countries (LMICs)
 have led to an increasing numbers of large collaborative projects addressing One Health
 issues funded in China, India, USA, Ethiopia, Myanmar, Nigeria and Ghana. This is particularly
 exemplified by flagship programmes in Myanmar and Ethiopia. With a commitment to capacity
 building, Wood actively sought philanthropic funding to establish the Cambridge-Africa Alborada
 Research Fund (£4M over ten years with additional £1M for a programme manager), co-ordinated
 under the Cambridge-Africa programme directed by Trotter. This fund supports research across
 all schools in the University and links a Cambridge researcher with a sub-Saharan African
 academic or researcher, with £400k available annually.

 A commitment to knowledge exchange has underpinned the strategic development of industry
 partnerships. With support from a dedicated research facilitator, researchers have been supported
 to develop collaborative relationships, resulting in a number of successes. Our researchers work
 closely with Cambridge Enterprise to facilitate the commercialisation of research, activity that is
 greatly enhanced by the entrepreneurial ecosystem that Cambridge offers, with access to advice
 from Entrepreneurs in Residence, and programmes to support business development in the
 Judge Business School.

 Researchers including Heeney and Allen have benefited from ‘Enterprise Tech’ a programme at
 the Judge Business School in which early career researchers develop their entrepreneurial skills
 by undertaking commercial feasibility assessments of developed technology. They also receive a
 commercial feasibility report prepared by their allocated team of Cambridge students. The Unit
 has taken a positive approach to the hosting of collaborative University spinout companies and
 currently hosts researchers from four such companies (Polypharmakos, Diosynvax, Waterscope
 and Entomics).

 Workshops are held throughout the year to offer researchers the opportunity to engage with
 business, industry and public or third sector bodies, alongside training in effectively communicating
 with different sectors. These are supplemented by research exchange schemes, which offer
 opportunities for exploratory work with industry. We have taken advantage of the University’s
 membership of EIT Food, a European Knowledge and Innovation Community, which provides
 access to collaborative funding with industry (including SME) and academic partners from across
 the food sector.

 Activities within Clinical Research are coordinated by the Clinical Research Committee, chaired
 by Allen in his role as Director of Clinical Research, and projects within the Queen’s Veterinary
 School Hospital are overseen by a dedicated 1.0 FTE Clinical Research Coordinator. Current
 clinical research projects within surgery include ongoing work from the BOAS group (Ladlow, Liu,

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sargan); several studies exploring novel technologies for assessing lameness in dogs (Allen);
 the use of machine vision and neural networks to derive 3D motion patterns from simple 3D video
 footage in dogs (Allen, in collaboration with the Department of Engineering); development of a
 Big Data approach to veterinary clinical trials (Radke); and the development of a 3D virtual
 environment for preoperative planning of orthopaedic and other surgeries (Allen). Medicine
 projects include studies on a novel digital stethoscope (Watson) and a clinical trial on the use of
 circulating tumour cells as predictors if disease progression in canine osteosarcoma (Allen and
 Dobson). Within Neurology there are new projects looking at clinical outcomes following
 intervertebral disc surgery and also on the role of proinflammatory cytokines as prognostic markers
 in disc disease in dogs (Freeman).




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2  Organisational Infrastructure for Impact
 Support personnel and activities


  Research Support and Facilitation
  • A Research Facilitator (0.8 FTE, appointed 2015) provides dedicated support to Unit staff
     in identifying opportunities for strategic collaboration and knowledge exchange as well as
     advising and providing support for grant applications and impact development.
  • A full time Grants and Graduate Students Administrator assists in preparing the
     financial aspects of grant applications, and undertakes all administration for graduate
     students.
  • Research support staff based within the Unit are particularly valuable in supporting
     collaborative work, providing rapid costing of complex multi-institutional grants, and
     interfacing with the University Research and Contracts offices and Legal Services,
     essential for effective collaboration agreement development.
  • These posts relieve PIs running grants, or applying for grants, from most of the
     administrative work involved with obtaining costings and setting up contracts.
  • Our research administration also play a key role in promoting stakeholder interactions with
     appropriate governance and oversight. Relevant opportunities for stakeholder interaction
     (e.g. vacancies in UKRI panels, calls for evidence etc.) are publicised as they arise, and
     suitably qualified researchers encouraged to respond.
  • Investment in a local support team allows Unit researchers to host visiting researchers while
     ensuring the legitimacy of visitors and their welfare (including health and safety).
  • The Unit hosts a specialist veterinary library with electronic and/or paper subscriptions to
     every major journal covering the field. Our librarian (0.6FE) provides training and
     support to help with literature searches, obtaining copies of articles not otherwise
     available, training for database searching etc.

  Impact and translation support
   • The Bioscience Impact team based within the School of Biological Sciences and the
     Office for Translational Research based in the School of Clinical Medicine provide
     additional support in impact development and to Unit researchers.
   • These groups administer University impact acceleration awards, support Unit staff in impact
     development strategy, help with the development of industry partnerships, and manage
     liaison with the strategic partners of the University, in particular GSK and Astra Zeneca.
   • Cambridge Academy of Therapeutic Science (CATS) is a strategic research initiative
     established to facilitate the development of new therapeutics and support the education
     and training of the next generation of world-leading researchers. Unit staff benefit from
     access to Industry Experts in Residence as part of CATS who offer researchers advice on
     the applicability of specific ideas to drug discovery, diagnostics and device, as well as
     translational grant applications.
   • We are well connected to other excellent technology development and transfer support
     within the University, including Cambridge Enterprise, via its network of Department and
     Institute-based knowledge exchange facilitators.


 In addition to formal termly staff meetings in which staff discuss research and impact plans, we
 also host regular informal research discussion meetings, which provide an opportunity for more
 long-term planning for collaborative research ideas. With the Bioscience Impact Team we run a
 regular ‘drop in’ clinic for discussion of impact plans, to develop ideas and identify potential
 external collaborators and support funding. An optional internal peer-review panel is available for
 all grants, which benefits from the interdisciplinary makeup of our staff, and provides the

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunity for further improvement in grant applications. Capitalising on our expertise in
 mathematics and modelling, our Unit offers an in-house statistics consulting service to all its staff,
 which, since its inception in 2017, has advised on appropriate statistical design and analysis of
 over 40 projects.

 Biannual research afternoons attended by the whole Department, feature outstanding plenary
 speakers, sessions on impact, open access, research integrity, as well as research presentations
 and posters from within the Unit in order to foster and encourage discourse and collaboration
 within the Unit. The Unit regularly hosts visiting researchers and PhD students from other
 universities and research institutes so that they can develop or cement research collaborations.
 We host two weekly seminar series, one for invited speakers (external to the Unit), and an internal
 seminar series, which each week features a mixture of clinical and non-clinical research and offers
 opportunities for early career researchers to present. A number of additional collaborative lab
 meetings and special interest groups are organised to offer researchers with complementary
 interests the opportunity to discuss ideas and develop grant proposals: monthly lunchtime
 ‘Shetland Seminars’ run by Powell, ‘Worms and Bugs’ talks involving the Infection Dynamics team
 and the ‘Extracellular Vesicles Special Interest Group’ run by T.Williams. All these are coordinated
 locally but membership is open University-wide. Researchers are also encouraged to access to
 the wide range of thematic seminar series and talks offered on a daily basis across the University.

 3.3     Operational Infrastructure
 The Unit has a number of physically discrete research laboratories, each with different core
 functions and facilities that include a specially equipped BSL-3 laboratory suite that offers cell
 sorting capabilities, extensive BSL-2 facilities and more general molecular biology, microbiology,
 biochemistry and chemistry laboratory suites. The Unit also benefits from access to facilities
 across the University through collaborations and linkages enhanced by our commitment to cross
 university initiatives. For example, core genomics facilities at the CRUK have been used by Grant,
 Holmes, Kalmar and Allen to perform next generation sequencing. Similarly, the Cambridge
 Advanced Imaging Centre has been used heavily by Wills, T. Williams and Hughes, although
 the advanced microscopy in our local imaging centre has now allowed freer access to advanced
 confocal microscopy.

 We have substantially enhanced wet and dry lab access opportunities for scientists and clinicians
 across the Unit, with new staffed facilities established for state-of-art PCR analysis, elemental and
 isotope analyses and cell culture and quantitative imaging, and a flow cytometry facility for use
 with containment level 3 pathogens. The integration of the Powell Group from the MRC brought
 with it the establishment of a world class trace element and particle analysis facility within the Unit,
 including two advanced ICP mass spectrometers (total market value ~£2M ) and a £250K upgrade
 of laboratory environments. In 2019, we began the establishment of a £1.6M 3T large animal MRI
 facility and £750K investment in quantitative microscopy and cell imaging and tissue microscopy
 suite that will drive the use of A.I. approaches to enable quantitative image analysis, digital
 pathology and tissue mapping.

 The award of a Wolfson Royal Society Refurbishment Grant to Bryant in 2017 enabled a £187K
 upgrade of a key microbiology and immunology laboratory block. Support for whole genome
 sequencing and bioinformatics has been enhanced within the Unit with the provision of Oxford
 Nanopore Technologies and Illumina Miseq sequencing facilities on site. Genomics research also



                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 benefits from the proximity of CRUK Core Genomics facility and the Wellcome Sanger Institute
 (see 4.1).

 Every PI in the Unit is also able to access processor time and storage on the University’s High
 Performance Research Computing cluster. A nominal annual budget of up to £3k is allocated to
 each PI in the School of Biological Sciences and may be used for storage, processor time, or the
 provision of virtual machines. Dedicated processor clusters have also been installed locally for
 individual research groups. The Unit has an on-going investment policy ensuring that state-of-the-
 art networking is maintained to provide the high speeds and bandwidths needed for ‘big data’
 research. The Unit’s IT infrastructure is serviced by five dedicated IT support staff based within
 the Unit contracted from the University IT Service. Microbial genomics also makes considerable
 use of shared bioinformatics resources. Collaborative projects led by PIs in this Unit studying AMR
 in India and China are using the MRC CLIMB bioinformatics computing resource which enables
 researchers in the Unit and collaborators from developing countries to undertake training and
 analyse sequence data.

 The Unit maintains and hosts a number of unique databases on local hardware including: BOAS
 database, IMS for obesity studies, dog genomics, metagenomic datasets for pigs and humans,
 ovine mastitis data (tissue samples and microbiology results; in collaboration with investigators at
 NMBU) clinical databases, a tissue/tumour archive, and the clinical pathology archive.

 Other more specialised shared facilities that are used include Enterobase and Pathogenwatch that
 enable sequence data from bacterial isolates to be analysed in a broader population context. The
 Unit also benefits from an extensive, online scheme to ensure cross-University access to shared
 equipment.




                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 From Strategic planning to infrastructure improvement to research innovation
 • The Unit maintains a veterinary clinical research facility together with funding for a
     research nurse to help with clinical research. The Unit has pioneered the use of Whole-
     body barometric plethysmography (WBBP) as a method of assessing BOAS severity
     (see impact case study). We were the first UK Vet School to obtain a plethysmography
     chamber to develop a testing scheme and now offer a regular assessment clinic for
     owners, which has allowed us to build up our own dataset which we are working towards
     making open access. The testing also provides a quantified and evidence-based
     justification for surgery to ameliorate the condition in the worst affected individuals (see
     Impact Case Sargan/Ladlow) and also feeds into a jointly administered programme with
     the Kennel Club.
 • We established our Surgical Discovery Centre in 2015 (Allen) and appointed a dedicated
     Clinical Research Coordinator to oversee clinical trials activities within the clinics. The
     Centre includes a state-of-the-art clinical gait laboratory that allows for detailed
     investigations of both normal locomotion and of lameness in small animals. The Centre is
     also home to a dedicated robotic joint simulator that can be used to recreate walking
     patterns in dogs and other species - using this robot, it is possible to evaluate the
     effectiveness of new veterinary implant systems, without the need to undertake testing in
     animals. Current focus areas include the knee, elbow and tarsus joints in dogs.
  • We have world-class clinical pathology, with purpose-built labs completed in 2014
     containing state of the art equipment such as flow cytology which are used extensively
     both for clinical and blue-skies research.
  • The Unit has a long history of clinical research in canine cancer, which is enhanced
     through the availability of a linear accelerator machine for research into cancer
     therapeutics.
  • The University Farm provides a 300-ewe flock and a 180-cow dairy farm for research
     access. The dairy has a robotic milking parlour and a computerised recording system
     that has greatly assisted research on mastitis, antimicrobial resistance (Holmes– see
     impact case study), metagenomics, and the development of new anti- lameness
     therapeutics (Powell/McCrone).




                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy
 and society
 Research in this Unit is enhanced by substantial intra- and extra-mural collaborations. Of the 1300
 papers published by our Unit during the assessment period, over a quarter involve intra-unit
 collaboration. (Intra-mural and other individually driven multi-disciplinary collaborations, central to
 the Unit’s strategy, are captured elsewhere in the document, especially under staffing). Genomics
 research particularly benefits from the proximity of the world class sequencing facilities. For
 example, the CRUK Core Genomics facility offers next generation sequencing capability (used by
 Allen, Grant and Kalmar) and the Wellcome Sanger Institute is a world leader in sequencing
 (used by Murchison, Cantacessi, Holmes, Wood, Sargan, Parkhill and van Tonder). As noted
 above (staffing), several researchers embed some of their research in other Cambridge
 departments.

 In addition to engagement with the University’s Strategic Research Initiatives, Networks and
 Centres, there is active participation in many other cross-university initiatives. Trotter is Director
 of the Cambridge-Africa Programme and, with Wood, she sits on the University of Cambridge–
 Public Health England Academic Liaison Committee. Allen participates in the steering committee
 for the Paediatric Cancer Programme, based out of the Cancer Centre at the Biomedical Campus.
 Wood chairs the West Cambridge Communications Group and sits on the West and North West
 Cambridge Academic Board, which are working to enhance collaboration and improve sharing of
 equipment and other resource around the growing West Cambridge campus. All of these roles
 allow key leaders to identify opportunities that exist around the Cambridge network that can be
 exploited in developing research activities, which contributes towards the growing levels of
 research grant income in the Unit.

 Researchers in the Unit have extensive collaborations within the national network of veterinary
 institutions. Grant is part of the Quadram Institute’s strategic research programme ‘Microbes in
 the Food Chain’, supported by the BBSRC. Wood, Conlan and Parkhill have extensive
 collaborations with scientists across the APHA network. Locally, there were strong and long-
 standing collaborations with the Animal Health Trust, especially with Sargan in canine genetics
 and Parkhill and Maskell in microbiology. Wood and Tiley have long standing collaborations with
 the Pirbright Institute in virology. Holmes is co-Investigator on the Antimicrobial Resistance NIHR
 HPRU at Imperial. Parkhill is co-Investigator on two NIHR HPRUs (Imperial and Warwick), which
 are jointly managed with PHE and Trotter is co-Investigator of Immunisation HPRU at LSHTM.

 The Unit has had active collaborations in a number of major international programmes in Vietnam
 (Oxford University) and Malawi (Liverpool University), as well as with institutions linked through
 the Cambridge-Africa Programme, including the University of Ghana and Makerere University in
 Uganda. There are many other national and international, overseas collaborations that are central
 to individual investigators’ work, including in Ethiopia, Myanmar, India and China, based around
 more individual collaborative approaches, for example, Heeney developing a trivalent Lassa,
 Ebola and Marburg vaccine with collaborators in Nigeria.

 Since 2014, researchers from the Unit have received funding totalling £228,302 from the
 Cambridge-Africa Alborada Research Fund for 17 collaborative projects with researchers from
 Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Rwanda, Tanzania, Uganda and Botswana. Weinert, Bryant, Wells and

                                                                                                Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tucker are playing a significant role in a 4.5-year €4.9M H2020 programme ‘PIGSs’, exploring
 Streptococcus suis: interactions of pathogen, host and environment. Three of our investigators
 have been awarded prestigious Wellcome Trust fellowships, with Murchison receiving an
 Investigator Award in 2014, Weinert a Sir Henry Dale Fellowship in 2015, and Bryant a Senior
 Investigator Award in 2016.


 Research addressing global challenges
 Many of our projects contain significant training and capacity building elements designed to
 increase the quantity and quality of research undertaken in partner countries. We lead two
 seven-year multi-funder, multi-partner Zoonoses and Emerging Livestock Systems (ZELS)
 programmes. Both projects are focused on achieving real local impact through a combination
 of research, anthropology and policy engagement. Both were awarded funded extensions to
 develop greater impact from the research.
        o ‘ETHICOBOTS’ (£3.4M) led by Wood and Conlan with partners in the UK and
            Ethiopia – a project focused on developing controls for animal and zoonotic bovine
            tuberculosis in Ethiopia;
        o Myanmar Pigs Partnership is an integrated management-based approach for
            surveillance and control of zoonoses in emerging livestock systems in South East
            Asia, (£2M) and has been led by Tucker in collaboration with partners at the
            Institute for Development Studies, University of Oxford Clinical Research Unit,
            Vietnam, and Myanmar Livestock Breeding and Veterinary Department.
            Specifically, this explores livestock management practices in Myanmar.
   • Work on bovine tuberculosis control strategies (Wood and Conlan) with ETHICOBOTS
       has been expanded through two awards from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
       and DfID in collaboration with Penn State University, to extend the focus from Ethiopia
       to include India and specifically to develop cattle vaccination approaches.
   • NEOSTAR, a collaborative RCUK - India DBT project (£1.35M) led by Holmes is
       investigating the contribution of antimicrobial resistance in livestock to human disease in
       North East India, in a joint social science and microbiology study.
   • Holmes is also a partner in the DETECTIVE consortium working on transmission of
       AMR in China (Birmingham/Cambridge/China) (£2.68M) and the lead in a UK-China
       AMR Partnership Initiative investigating livestock-associated MRSA in China and the UK
       (£780k).


 4.1     Knowledge exchange
 The city of Cambridge is home to a vibrant ecosystem of SMEs and large pharmaceutical
 companies, and many of our researchers are engaged in active collaboration with commercial
 entities or in establishing spin outs from the University. For example, Bryant holds a Genentech
 Visiting Professorship and, from 2016-20, held a Fellowship with the GSK Immunology
 Catalyst, which embedded her within their laboratories three days per week; she maintains strong
 and active links with both companies. Grant has a researcher embedded within the GSK-
 supported Tres Cantos Open Laboratory Foundation in Spain using their high throughput
 screening capabilities to study enteric pathogens. Grant, Bujdoso and Thackray have been
 awarded impact acceleration funding to explore opportunities for collaboration on the safety of
 Black Soldier Fly larvae for food waste processing with a local start up, Entomics which has
 involved hosting researchers from the company in our laboratories. The Unit has also been
 successful in obtaining substantial translational funding. Bryant obtained awards from the Apollo
 Therapeutics Fund (a collaborative venture between Imperial College London, University College
 London, University of Cambridge and AstraZeneca, GSK, Johnson & Johnson Innovation) for the

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of selective Toll-Like Receptor 4 (TLR4) antagonists for Alzheimer’s Disease.
 Heeney leads on several projects totalling £4.7M from Innovate UK and BBSRC, focused on
 developing and trialling a novel trivalent Ebola, Marburg and Lassa vaccine, and a further $2M
 from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation to apply similar technology for the development of a
 universal influenza vaccine.

 Researchers act in an advisory capacity to numerous industry partners: e.g. Cantacessi is
 veterinary consultant for Bayer Animal Health and Boeringher Ingelheim Animal Health (small
 animal parasiticides); Pearce advises Vetsonic (UK) Ltd: on the development of new veterinary
 products, Trotter and Conlan advise Takeda Pharmaceuticals on vaccination models for
 norovirus, Tucker consults for Genus PIC and for Carthage Professional Swine Management
 (PSM). Allen leads the global canine total knee replacement for BioMedtrix (UK). Commercial
 sponsorship from Omeros Corporation (USA, £2.5M) also funds Schwaeble’s Complement
 laboratory.

 Open data, open research
 As part of our commitment to encouraging best practice in allowing research to be replicated, we
 ensure that full datasets are placed into the public domain and that any software developed as
 part of a study is deposited in standard code repositories such as GitHub. We routinely publish all
 mathematical and statistical models to make them available for peer-testing. There are a number
 of examples of research outputs returned from the Unit that promote best practice in the field,
 including Parkhill’s work on contamination of reagents in sequencing, Conlan on fitting dynamic
 models to data in bovine TB using Bayesian methods, Frost on developing functional molecular
 clock dating in phylogenies for fast evolving viruses, and Allen incorporating structured reviews of
 animal protocols as part of the manuscript review processing orthopaedic research. Hughes is a
 member of the International Harmonization of Nomenclature and Diagnostic Criteria (INHAND)
 working group for description of rabbit pathology lesions in a consistent and reproducible manner.

 Stakeholder engagement for impact
 Individuals within the Unit have wide-ranging relationships with research user stakeholders and
 beneficiaries. The Unit encourages and promotes membership of governmental, industry and non-
 governmental panels and management bodies. Collaborations with external bodies include the
 WHO, DHSC, Defra, EU-FMD, the European Food Safety Authority, the Food Standards Agency,
 industry bodies and companies, the Fleming Fund, APHA, PHE, the Roslin Institute, GO-Science,
 MSF, BVA, BSAVA, BEVA and the Kennel Club. As evidenced in their impact case study, Conlan
 and Wood have been commissioned by Defra to address specific policy-relevant questions on
 bovine TB control, Wood is a member of Defra’s TB Eradication Advisory Group, sat on the panel
 for the Godfray review of the government’s 25 Year Bovine TB Strategy and via the ETHICOBOTS
 collaboration interacts with policy makers in Ethiopia. Wood works closely with the NFU around
 the development of bovine TB policy and Wood and Conlan are frequent speakers at events
 organised by NFU and other organisations on bTB policy. In addition Wood has sat on a GO-
 Science live outbreak contingency planning exercise, chaired the Defra-Science Advisory Council
 sub-committee on exotic diseases, sits on the Fleming Fund Technical Advisory Group and was
 nominated by the Chief Veterinary Officer to join the EU Foot and Mouth Disease Standing
 Technical Committee. In line with the Unit’s commitment to One Health focused research impact,
 Jephcott’s anthropological research on disease outbreaks of unknown origin has led to her
 contributing     data     collection   tools    for     WHO’s     disease     outbreak    toolkit
 (https://www.who.int/emergencies/outbreak-toolkit). Trotter has continued to advise the WHO and

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance on rabies and meningitis vaccination which has led to changes in
 international vaccine strategy and on outbreak response (impact case study submitted to UoA5).
 Trotter, Conlan and Parkhill advise Public Health England (PHE) on meningitis vaccination,
 genomics, bioinformatics, AMR and infectious diseases, through holding honorary contracts and
 sitting on specific advisory boards, including PHE Genomics Implementation Working Group and
 Department of Health Chief Medical Officer’s genomics advisory panel. Holmes and Parkhill sit
 on the management board of a National Health Research Unit (NHRU) on Antimicrobial
 Resistance (based at Imperial College), and Parkhill is a Co-I on an NHRU in Genomics and
 Enabling Data based at Warwick. Tucker works nationally and internationally on pig health
 through the Food Standards Agency, sitting on its Advisory Committee on the Microbiological
 Safety of Food (ACMSF), as well as through Defra. The result of these has been research that
 has had profound policy implications globally: on the UK strategy for TB control and EU policy for
 antibiotic use in livestock (both impact case studies). As part of our commitment to the 3Rs for the
 use of animals in research, Bujdoso and Thackray’s work on transgenic fruit flies has led to the
 development of a low cost, fast and efficient Drosophila-based blood test to diagnose variant
 Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD), which is being transferred to the APHA, and has led to an NIH
 grant application, through a collaboration with Colorado State University, USA, to implement a
 blood test for human and animal prion diseases.

 We interact closely with important client/owner stakeholder groups for companion and farm
 animals, an approach that is promoted throughout the Unit’s work wherever possible. For example,
 our BOAS team (Liu, Sargan, Ladlow, Kalmar) spent substantial time engaging with breed clubs
 and animal charities to raise the profile of the issue in affected breeds. This engagement also
 helped determine how best to deliver the results of their research in order to maximise its impact
 (see impact case study). This has led to the formal establishment of the University of Cambridge
 - Kennel Club Respiratory Function Grading Scheme and to changes in breed standards which
 will encourage breeders to select for healthier dogs. Similarly, the work undertaken by Tucker and
 Maskell in developing better diagnostics and therapeutics for pig pathogens, has been
 successfully implemented through well-established relationships with some of the largest pig
 breeders worldwide. Allen is a member of the Veterinary Advisory Committee for the Horserace
 Betting Levy Board. As evidenced in their impact case study, Holmes’ engagement with Dairy UK
 and the National Milk laboratories has helped inform discussions within the industry that has led
 to considerable reductions in this sector’s use of antibiotics. Parkhill and Holmes research
 involves collaboration with local and national PHE staff.

 4.2    Contribution to Society and Economy
 Our Unit is fully committed to supporting public engagement and outreach activities. In
 collaboration with the University’s Office of External Affairs and Communications, research in the
 Unit has attracted considerable media interest, with over 2000 references to our research made
 by news providers worldwide since 2014 (source: Altmetrics). Particular attention has focused on
 research on transmissible tumours in Tasmanian devils (Murchison), studies of Ebola
 transmission and detection (Restif, Jephcott and Wood), work on brachycephalic dog breeds
 (Sargan and Ladlow), bovine TB control (Wood and Conlan) and research on antimicrobial
 resistance (Holmes and Parkhill), which have been featured by numerous leading news
 organisations, and in television news or documentary items.




                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Public engagement activities
 Researchers are encouraged to actively engage the public with their research, supported by a
 central Public Engagement team. Unit researchers regularly give research talks at local schools,
 and the Unit hosts events and open days during the annual Cambridge Science Festival, ranging
 from interactive sessions on modelling disease transmission in populations to how we use
 molecular biology to help us understand antibiotic resistance. A citizen science research project
 led by Conlan has involved the recruitment of local schools to collect data on social networks
 within the school while swabbing the noses of the students to obtain isolates of Staphylococcus
 aureus. Whole genome sequencing was used to indicate whether there had been transmission of
 S. aureus between students. The students and their teachers were closely integrated into the
 research team to provide an exciting educational experience, with the students themselves
 analysing and presenting the data collected in their schools to scientists in the Unit. The complete
 set of data from multiple schools has provided a substantial data set helping to answer questions
 about likely transmission pathways and frequency of transmission events informing
 epidemiological models. In 2018 Kessler ran a nutrition workshop in the Gambia aimed at training
 staff and field workers of the MRC The Gambia Unit and local community members to help address
 nutrition deficiencies and undernutrition in populations exposed to high infection rates, and in 2019
 a workshop in agriculture and nutrition for female smallholder farmers in West Kenya.


  Spinout companies arising from this Unit
  • DIOSynVax is a company specialising in novel and rapid approaches to vaccine
      development, led by Heeney. In 2020 the research switched to developing a COVID-19
      vaccine during the lockdown.
  • Polypharmakos is a collaboration between the Royal Botanic Gardens at Kew and
      Holmes, Bryant and Maskell that has raised funding for the discovery of novel
      antimicrobial therapies from plant extracts.
  • Waterscope is the delivery arm of work by Patto and Holmes developing a low-cost
      system for determining water quality.
  • NextGen Diagnostics is a genomics-based diagnostics company co-founded by Parkhill
      and Professor Sharon Peacock (Department of Medicine) with a US-based entrepreneur.
  • Univursa is an early career researcher led start up that builds on the anthropological
      research undertaken by Jephcott and modelling skills of Restif and Russell to create
      analytic tools for rapidly detecting and diagnosing disease outbreaks, including in
      resource-limited and emergency settings.
  • NoBACZ Ltd founded by Powell and colleagues in 2020 delivering metal-based, spray
      on antimicrobial dressings for better wound management.
  • Omeros Center for Complement and Inflammation Research (OC3IR) established by
      Schwaeble aims to characterize further the role and response of the complement system
      in endothelial injury, implicated in a wide range of diseases including thrombotic
      microangiopathies, kidney diseases and central nervous system disorders.




                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  Response to the COVID-19 pandemic
  When normal research activity was curtailed in early 2020 members of the Unit responded to
  calls for help.
   • We contributed RT-PCR equipment to the Lighthouse Labs.
   • Members of staff were co-opted to help with Heeney’s work on a COVID-19 vaccine.
   • Other staff members volunteered to assist with COVID-19 testing at the Lighthouse Lab in
       Milton Keynes, the AstraZeneca/GlaxoSmithKline testing lab and the testing facility run
       within the Department of Medicine.
   • Surplus PPE stocks were donated to the Dept of Medicine and a local hospice.


 4.3     Contribution to sustainability of the discipline
 One of our main stakeholder groups is the body of the veterinary profession in clinical practice.
 Staff are encouraged to join, engage with and become officers of the British Veterinary Association
 and its specialist divisions, including the British Small Animal Veterinary Association (BSAVA),
 British Cattle Veterinary Association and British Equine Veterinary Association, as well as
 European colleges responsible for the award of specialist qualifications (i.e. European and
 American Specialist Boards) leading to six staff members serving as officers for nine professional
 bodies including: Watson as honorary secretary of BSAVA (2014) and president of the Board of
 ECVIM (2017-19), Williams as a BSAVA council member 2013-19, director/trustee 2013-19 and
 chair (2013-16) of the Metropolitan regional committee, and sits on the BSAVA Education
 committee (2019-). Wood is publications officer at BEVA, Hughes is current President of the
 British Society of Veterinary Pathology, and member of the Royal College of Pathologists Special
 Advisory Committee for Veterinary Pathology and RCPath Research Committee. At the European
 level, Williams is treasurer and board member of the European College of Veterinary Clinical
 Pathology.

 The Unit also organises continuing professional development meetings held at the Veterinary
 School where members of the Unit are able to present findings of research they have conducted
 and contributed to when describing current best veterinary clinical practice to practitioners. Since
 2014, Herrtage, Dobson, Henson, Owen, Allen, Radke, Ladlow, Freeman, Watson, Reading,
 Skelly and Holmes have contributed to CPD events on topics including: Cushings and Addisons,
 canine osteoarthritis, BOAS, wound management, cardiology, evidence based veterinary
 medicine and small animal medicine. Our interactions with practitioners provide valuable insights
 into the areas of clinical research that are of greatest concern to them and their clients.

 The Unit makes a considerable contribution to the management and editing of academic journals
 in our diverse fields of research. Some 20 Unit researchers hold editorships and editorial board
 memberships for over 43 journals, including Biology Letters, Equine Veterinary Journal, FEMS
 Pathogens and Disease, Frontiers in Veterinary Medicine, Genome Research, Immunobiology,
 International Journal for Parasitology, Journal of Biological Chemistry, Journal of Immunology,
 Journal of Orthopaedic Research, mBio, Microbes and Infection, Microbial Genomics, Parasites &
 Vectors, PLoS Computational Biology, PLoS Neglected Tropical Diseases, PLoS One, PLoS
 Pathogens, Scientific Reports and Vet Record. In addition, members of the Unit have undertaken
 peer review for over 280 different journals which is encouraged and recognised within the Unit.
 The organisation and delivery of academic conferences is another important element of sustaining
 a cohesive discipline. Seventeen members of the Unit have been chairs or members of organising

                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 committees for 46 different national and international conferences over the review period, and
 given over 230 keynote addresses. Conlan and Restif developed and sustain an internationally
 recognised two-week course, teaching infectious disease dynamics as part of the annual
 programme of Wellcome Trust Advanced Courses. There are places for 20 individuals to attend
 each annual course which are consistently oversubscribed.

 Membership of funding body grant awarding panels, and peer review of submitted grants
 represents an important contribution to the scientific community. Unit researchers serve on grant
 panels for the BBSRC, MRC, Horserace Betting Levy Board and the Wellcome Trust in addition
 to 67 other national and international funding bodies active in our disciplines. Unit researchers
 have also been invited to contribute to reviews of peer institutions: Bryant was invited to join a
 review of INSERM, France; Wood of OUCRU for the Wellcome Trust, Glasgow Vet School and
 veterinary research at the University of Nottingham. Within the UK, Grant sits on Quadram Institute
 Bioscience advisory groups, Wood sits on the Science Advisory Boards of the Roslin Institute and
 APHA and Parkhill is on the board of the Pasteur Institute.

 4.4    Broader Indicators of Contribution
 Parkhill is a Fellow of the Royal Society (2014), EMBO, the American Academy of Microbiology
 and the Academy of Medical Sciences and is a visiting professor at the University of Oxford and
 LSHTM. In 2016 Bryant was awarded a prestigious fellowship within the Immunology Catalyst at
 GSK, as well as a visiting professorship at Genentech and Fellowship of the Society of
 Pharmacology. Karadottir was elected as a 2014 FENS-Kavli Network of Excellence Scholar (one
 of 20 in Europe) and the 2015 Allen Distinguished Investigator Award in 2015 (one of five
 worldwide, the first time a UK scientist was selected.) Many faculty members have been awarded
 Fellowship of RCVS due to meritorious contribution to knowledge and practice, including Holmes,
 Wood, Dobson, Watson and Herrtage. Maskell was awarded an honorary associateship of the
 RCVS in 2017 for his contribution to pathogen research and animal-focused science.

 In 2014 Murchison was awarded the Philip Leverhulme Prize in Cancer Research, UK Future
 Leaders in Cancer Research Prize, and British Association for Cancer Research-AstraZeneca
 Young Scientist Frank Rose Award. Karadottir won the 2015 Lister Institute Research Prize and
 the 2017 biennial Fabiane Carvalho Miranda International Prize for MS-related research and
 myelin biology. Herrtage won the 2018 European Board of Veterinary Specialisation Award for
 ‘outstanding contributions to veterinary specialisation’. Watson won the Woodrow Award by the
 BSAVA in 2017 for outstanding contribution to small animal veterinary medicine, Parkhill was
 awarded the 2020 Marjory Stephenson Prize for outstanding contribution of current importance in
 microbiology by the Microbiology Society. Gibson won the 2018 Oman Research Award.
 Thackray won the 2018 Abcam Postdoctoral Research Prize for research above and beyond her
 service years. Cantacessi was awarded the Odile Bain Memorial Prize for excellence in
 Veterinary Parasitology Research.

 We regularly nominate researchers for impact/public engagement awards (e.g. Sargan and
 Ladlow’s work on BOAS won a Vice Chancellor’s Public Engagement award, whilst Dan Tucker
 was nominated for BBSRC innovator of the year). Jephcott was runner up in Cambridge
 Enterprise’s Postdoc Business Plan Competition alongside a graduate student of Restif’s, Emma
 Glennon.




                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research excellence is a key metric of success within the Unit and all of these individual awards
 are celebrated within the Department and are widely publicised.




                                                                                           Page 27
