Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Liverpool

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 9 Physics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Our vision is to be at the forefront of major breakthroughs in physics over the coming decades.
 Through a programme of physics exploration and discovery, we are addressing the most
 fundamental questions in physics. We ensure that the detector, accelerator and other
 technologies that we develop have wide-ranging applications for societal benefit, and we share
 our enthusiasm for physics with broad and diverse audiences.

 1.1 Unit Structure

 The Department of Physics is part of the School of Physical Sciences, within the Faculty of Science
 and Engineering. Our research is structured across four clusters: Accelerator Science, Condensed
 Matter, Nuclear Physics and Particle Physics. We also play a key role in a number of
 interdisciplinary institutes and initiatives (Fig. 1).




       Figure 1: Research and impact structure. Connections to clusters are colour-coded.

 1.2 Research and impact strategy

 Progress since REF2014 includes several new appointments (§2.1), substantial increases in PhD
 numbers (§2.3) and total research income (§3.1), new investment in infrastructure (§3.2, §3.3),
 and a broadening of impact generation activities (§4). Acronyms refer to projects familiar to the
 physics community; names of staff contributing to REF appear in bold.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.1 Achievement of REF2014 research and impact strategies

 Our REF2014 research strategy articulated three principal aims:

     (i) To lead and contribute to research on questions of national and international significance;
     (ii) To create excellent teams of researchers focused on both long-standing and emerging
           research areas;
     (iii) To develop and maintain the technical expertise and instrumentation base necessary for
           our programme.

 This strategy has delivered many important outcomes: in this REF period 2,024 papers have been
 published attracting 58,593 citations (Scopus) with 90% involving international collaborators.
 Prestigious awards include the Breakthrough Prize in Physics, the Rutherford Medal, the Rosalind
 Franklin Medal of the Institute of Physics and the Altarelli Prize. We are ranked among the top 25
 institutions globally who collaborate with CERN. During this REF period we have employed 56
 academic staff including 2 Fellows of the Royal Society, and 136 doctoral degrees have been
 awarded. In 2020 we had 85 PDRAs, 128 research students and 20 technical support staff.
 Research income over the REF period increased by 81% from £33M in REF2014 to £60.4M for
 REF2021. Research income-in-kind was £84.5M.

 Our REF2014 impact strategy concentrated on energy, health, security, and society. Overseen by
 our Research and Impact Board,
 • Energy impact includes: development of novel transparent conducting oxide coatings in
     collaboration with Nippon Sheet Glass/Pilkington and collaborations with Mirion in nuclear
     energy and CapeSym in nuclear waste.
 • Healthcare impact includes: dose verification in radionuclide therapy; treatment of retinal
     detachment; sensors for proton therapy; infrared imaging for early detection of cancer and low-
     cost ventilators for OECD countries in response to COVID-19.
 • Security impact includes: imaging sensors for explosive devices and drug screening.
 • Societal impact includes: outreach activities for non-traditional audiences and engaging
     visually impaired adults and children.
 Impact is further discussed in section §4.2. Cluster research achievements include:

 Accelerator Science
 • As a key member of the High Luminosity Large Hadron Collider (HL-LHC) UK collaboration,
    jointly funded by STFC and CERN, we have pioneered a novel gas jet-based beam profile
    monitor, which will be used for characterisation of the HL-LHC beam and the Hollow Electron
    Lens. We also had a central role in measurements at CERN’s Super Proton Synchrotron,
    where crabbing of a high-energy proton beam was demonstrated for the first time.
 • We initiated and led four pan-European research and Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative
    Training Networks (ITNs) on Accelerator Optimisation (oPAC), Laser Applications at
    Accelerators (LA3NET), Optimisation of Medical Accelerators (OMA) and Accelerators
    Validating Antimatter physics (AVA), (details in §3.1) and trained more than 70 Fellows.
 • We are a key partner in the AWAKE collaboration, which has successfully demonstrated
    electron beam acceleration in a proton-driven plasma.

 Condensed Matter Physics
 • We have focused on advanced low-cost materials and device concepts for the next generation
   of photovoltaic products, by identifying opportunities for increasing efficiency and improving
   fabrication and characterisation of advanced solar cells. This work has been supported by
   significant EPSRC funding (£2.91M), the EPSRC CDT in New and Sustainable Photovoltaics
   (£5.26M) and two EU Marie Skłodowska-Curie ITNs, “NanoEmbrace” and “INDEED”.
 • We have developed specialist capabilities in single crystal bulk growth and thin film growth,
   particularly of transparent conducting oxides and ferroelectric materials. As part of the
   Leverhulme Centre for Functional Materials Design we have developed new capabilities in
   materials synthesis and characterisation methods. In partnership with Warwick University we


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     lead the EPSRC National Research Facility, XMaS, based at the ESRF in Grenoble (total
     funding of £7.2M during REF2021).
 •   We are developing new tools for cancer diagnostics and image analysis for medical and
     biological applications. We were a founder member of the UKRI Physics of Life Network and
     the Rosetrees Physics of Medicine Network. Aspects of this work have been patented
     (European Patent: PCT/GB2019/050998).

 Nuclear Physics
 • We have focused on the structure of exotic nuclear systems and the properties of QCD matter
    at high temperatures. Highlights include investigating octupole deformation and collectivity of
    radium and radon isotopes to guide future studies of CP violation; elucidating the origins of
    shape coexistence in mercury isotopes; and using charge radius measurements to probe the
    nuclear shape change at doubly magic 132Sn. We have established that flerovium is a volatile
    metal, performed the first optical spectroscopy of nobelium and independently confirmed the
    discovery of element 117 (tennessine). We have observed enhanced production of charmed
    baryons in proton-proton, proton-Pb and Pb-Pb collisions and of multi-strange hadrons in
    proton–proton collisions, as well as an enhanced J/ elliptic flow in Pb-Pb collisions, shedding
    light on complex hadronization mechanisms and the properties of the quark-gluon plasma
    (£6.5M of STFC funding during this REF period).
 • We have continued to lead the development of new instrumentation through STFC-funded
    projects. In this REF period we led the design and construction of the ISOLDE Solenoidal
    Spectrometer (£1.2M); upgraded the ALICE Inner Tracking System (£1.2M); developed the
    Segmented Inverted Coaxial Germanium Detector (SIGMA) for gamma-ray spectroscopy and
    imaging (£0.6M); and embarked on the next phase of the Advanced Gamma Tracking Array
    (AGATA) project (£0.8M).
 • We have used our expertise in silicon detector systems to construct and operate the vertex
    detector for the ALPHA antihydrogen experiment at CERN, which led to the first
    characterisation of the 1S-2S transition in antihydrogen and reduced the upper limit on the
    charge of antihydrogen by a factor of 20 ( EPSRC funding totalling £1.4M).
 • We have worked with external partners to apply our gamma-ray detection and imaging
    techniques for impact (described in §4).

 Particle Physics
 • Within the ATLAS experiment on the LHC at CERN, we have made seminal measurements of
    the Higgs boson properties and other Standard Model parameters. We have led searches for
    new physics including new heavy particles and dark matter candidates. We are a key institution
    in the design, prototyping and building of the upgraded detector trackers of both the ATLAS
    (£3.1M) and LHCb (£0.3M) experiments for the High-Luminosity phase of the LHC.
 • Through LHCb at CERN we have contributed to precision quark flavour physics as well as
    searching for new physics through violation of lepton universality. We have delivered milestone
    results such as the first observation of dimuon B-decays. We extended our STFC-funded
    flavour programme in this REF period to include the precision muon experiments, g-2 (£0.6M),
    Mu2e (£0.3M) at Fermilab and Mu3e (£0.2M) at PSI.
 • Our neutrino physics programme has set the first limits on the CP violating parameter  in the
    neutral lepton sector with the T2K experiment in Japan, and we are leading activities towards
    next-generation experiments, DUNE (USA) (£1.7M), SBND (USA) and Hyper-K (Japan)
    (£0.4M). The SNO+ experiment (Canada) has commenced data taking.
 • We search for evidence of dark matter interactions in the Lux-Zeplin (LZ) experiment (SURF,
    South Dakota) and are developing new technologies to search for axion dark matter at lower
    masses (MAGIS100, AION).
 • Our silicon detector R&D, performed jointly with Fondazione Bruno Kessler (FBK) (§4.1),
    focusses on the development of low mass detectors, compatible with operation in high rate
    and high radiation environments. We also conduct R&D on the readout of future underground
    neutrino and dark matter experiments. We are part of the WATCHMAN consortium and we
    pioneered a novel optical readout technology through the ERC-funded ARIADNE project



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (£1.7M). We also developed an optical calibration system for future use in Hyper-K and already
    deployed in Super-K and Lux-Zeplin.

 1.2.2 Evolution of research and impact strategies during the REF period

 Research and impact strategies have been refined through external review and internal
 consultation.

 International expert advisory panel established in 2015
 To assess our strategy, an international external review panel (Äystö, Friend, Knight, Rowan,
 Stewart Smith and Wark) was convened in October 2015. The panel endorsed our aim of
 achieving leadership in physics questions of international importance, and recommended some
 key supporting strategies, including strengthening partnerships and looking at interdisciplinary
 opportunities.

 Departmental consultations
 Inclusive research and impact away-days were held in June 2015 (to review outcomes of
 REF2014) and July 2019 (to plan strategy for REF2021 and beyond). Strategic discussions are
 held at monthly Research and Impact Board and cluster-level meetings. Evolving strategies are
 presented at monthly staff meetings.

 1.2.3 Future plans for research and impact

 Following the processes described above, we have refined our strategic priorities as follows:

 SP1    further develop and lead research on physics questions of international significance;
 SP2    grow cross-cluster collaboration and promote interdisciplinary research initiatives.
 SP3    build and enhance a research environment which develops our people and embodies
        Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, including Juno and Athena SWAN principles;
 SP4    develop impact as an integral outcome of our research activities in our focus areas of
        Energy, Health, Security, and Society;

 Plans for achieving SP3 and SP4 are principally described in §2 and §4, respectively. These are
 also underpinned by supporting strategies for academic recruitment and funding described in §2.3
 and §3.1. SP1 and SP2 priorities are addressed via the following departmental and cluster-level
 actions:

 Achieving SP1 - research leadership

 International community consensus prioritises the scientific questions that are being addressed in
 major international facilities. We proactively engage with national and international community
 consultations that define these priorities including UK prioritisation exercises, the European
 Strategy for Particle Physics, the European Long-Range Plan in Nuclear Physics and the US
 Snowmass process. We align our research programmes based on these outcomes.

 Cluster plans

 Accelerator Science
 In the next decade we will focus on the LHC at CERN, where we lead work on the development
 of gas jet monitors for the high luminosity upgrade; on R&D into the exploitation of the CLARA
 facility on Daresbury campus to explore next-generation FEL technologies; and on optimization of
 low energy beam transport and efficient injection into traps at the Antiproton Decelerator.

 As part of the AWAKE project, we will continue our efforts on novel (high gradient) acceleration
 techniques. Following the successful demonstration of proton-driven wakefield acceleration in
 2018, we are leading the development of novel diagnostics that will give more detailed insight into


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the physics of the acceleration process. We will expand simulation and experimental studies into
 micro-accelerators using carbon nanotubes and dielectric structures.

 For impact, we will carry out R&D into least invasive beam and dose monitors, to help reduce
 exposure times hence improve patient treatments. We will continue to develop digital radiography
 systems with Adaptix Ltd. and study different operational scenarios that help optimize image
 quality. We will grow our spinout company D-Beam, targeting a product portfolio that benefits
 accelerator facilities around the world.

 Condensed Matter Physics
 Our activities align with the EPSRC research themes of Energy, Physical Sciences and Research
 Infrastructure and with the University research themes of Advanced Materials, Climate Futures
 and Personalised Health.

 In energy, our aim is to develop means for supplying sustainable energy whilst reducing CO2
 emissions. This includes solar fuels, solar photovoltaic materials and devices including novel
 earth-abundant solar cell materials, transparent conducting oxides, materials for thermoelectrics,
 and materials for energy conversion and storage.

 In nanoscience and materials, we will investigate the physics of matter and processes on the
 nanometre scale. This includes surface physics, spintronics, electrochemical interfaces, hybrid
 nanomaterials and functional materials. Operando studies using well-characterised thin films
 incorporating novel artificial materials will further our understanding of structure-stability-reactivity
 relationships across multiple length-scales.

 Our activities will make extensive use of the growing shared equipment base at Liverpool (the
 Stephenson Institute for Renewable Energy (SIRE) and the Materials Innovation Factory (MIF),
 Chemistry, Engineering, Microscopy, see also §3.6) and synchrotron radiation sources such as
 Diamond Light Source, the ESRF and other facilities worldwide.

 Nuclear Physics
 Using AGATA we will study neutron-rich nuclei in the vicinity of the highly-deformed double mid-
 shell nuclide 170Dy that are predicted to have a frozen internal structure persisting up to high spin,
 search for ultra-high spin bands in Lu nuclei, and investigate the predicted band termination in the
 super-deformed bands.

 At CERN we will exploit detector systems including the ISOLDE Solenoidal Spectrometer to
 investigate how nuclear pear shapes evolve as a function of the number of neutrons and protons,
 and we will measure the properties of odd-A Ra isotopes relevant to atomic EDM studies. We will
 continue collaborating with three atomic physics groups (Michigan/TRIUMF; Argonne/FRIB; and
 MIT/ISOLDE) involved with searches in these Rn and Ra systems.

 We will pursue studies of exotic nuclei, investigating new proton emitters to understand how decay
 properties and level energies are influenced by deformation and the evolving occupancies of
 valence orbitals; characterising chemical, atomic and nuclear properties of super-heavy elements;
 and charting the evolution of ground-state shapes and single-particle states towards self-
 conjugate nuclei below 100Sn where anomalous isomer shifts have been observed. These
 endeavours will exploit instrumentation we have developed at the international laboratories
 Jyväskylä and GSI/FAIR.

 Using the upgraded ALICE experiment in LHC Run 3 we will study the quark-gluon plasma by
 means of inclusive and, for the first time, exclusive heavy quark flavour production and decay.

 We will deliver impact through our leadership of the STFC Cancer Diagnosis Network+, and work
 with partners such as the Clatterbridge Cancer Centre to develop novel medical imaging
 technologies for cancer diagnosis and therapy. We will continue to work with key stakeholders in


                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the nuclear energy sector (Mirion, Sellafield) to deliver solutions for characterisation of nuclear
 waste.

 We will continue collaborating with the Condensed Matter and Particle Physics clusters in the
 development and deployment of radiation detectors and digital signal processing techniques. We
 will contribute to high-profile particle physics experiments in the USA by characterising and
 integrating High-Purity Germanium detectors for the LEGEND and Mu2e experiments.

 Particle Physics
 The physics programme at the LHC will remain a key focus. We continue to analyse LHC data,
 developing new searches and analyses, setting stringent limits on BSM models and making
 precise SM measurements. We are building major components for the LHCb and ATLAS detectors
 to ensure our programmes continue to be competitive. We have joined the FASER experiment at
 CERN, which will look for new physics in hidden sectors.

 In the neutrino sector we will exploit T2K/Super-K and have a major involvement in the future long-
 baseline neutrino programme in Japan (Hyper-K) and the US (DUNE). We will deliver results on
 sterile neutrinos and neutrino interactions through the Fermilab short-baseline programme and we
 will also continue to search for neutrino-less double beta decays (SNO+, LEGEND).

 We will search for dark matter in direct search experiments (LZ, Darkside), with the Cerenkov
 Telescope Array and, in an entirely new way, with the MAGIS100 large atom interferometer
 experiment, which we co-initiated. Magis-100 is also sensitive to gravitational waves in the cross-
 over region between LIGO and e-LISA.

 In our precision muon programme key results on the muon magnetic moment and electric dipole
 moment will be delivered through the g-2 experiment. In parallel we are currently building two
 experiments searching for charged lepton flavour violation in muon decays (Mu2e, Mu3e).

 Finally, we collaborate on the development of future experiments and facilities, including proton
 and muon-EDM experiments, LHeC, and the Future Circular Collider. Our physics goals will be
 underpinned by our detector development programme, focussed on silicon sensors and liquid
 argon detectors (see §3.6).

 1.3 Achieving SP2: collaboration and interdisciplinarity

 In line with our strategic priority SP2 (collaboration and interdisciplinarity), and following advice
 from our 2015 external review panel (see §1.2.2), we have engaged strongly with a number of
 University and multi-institutional interdisciplinary initiatives. We are members of SIRE and MIF,
 both described in §3.6. The Cockcroft Institute, also described in §3.6, is a multi-institutional
 interdisciplinary institute for accelerator science, with Liverpool input from Physics, Engineering
 and EEE. Our STFC-funded Centre for Doctoral Training LIV.DAT is a cross-cluster initiative which
 also involves computer science and Liverpool John Moores University. Several of our activities
 are conducted in collaboration with University cancer research groups and the University theme
 of Personalised Health. These are described in §4.1. These initiatives have established critical
 mass and expertise to address key questions in our research and impact portfolio.

 1.4 Open research environment

 Research data
 Research code and data that we produce are deposited in open access repositories. Much of our
 research involves usage of international facilities which have their own data curation facilities. For
 locally generated data, the University provides DataCat, which allows researchers to create
 records of information about their research data, and to save those data in a secure on-line
 environment. We also use the DataCite service to assign digital object identifiers to these datasets.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Outputs
 We ensure all outputs of our research are at minimum green open access level by depositing them
 in our institutional repository upon acceptance for publication via Liverpool Elements. This online
 tool helps manage information about all research and impact activities. It collects a range of data
 from multiple sources (including existing internal systems and web resources such as Scopus)
 and offers a single web-based interface. All of the work published in particle physics collaborations
 is open access via the SCOAP3 consortium.

 1.5 Research integrity

 The University’s Research Ethics Policy mandates that all research is conducted in accordance
 with ethical principles. D’Onofrio is a member of the University Responsible Metrics Advisory
 Group and Martin is a member of the Faculty Ethics Committee and acts as liaison from this group
 to the Department, to ensure compliance with Ethics policy. Our academic staff and researchers
 complete on-line modules ‘Research Integrity’ and ‘Research Ethics Training’ covering Research
 with Human Participants, Ethics and Regulation, Informed consent, Confidentiality, Liability and
 inducement. Researchers also take mandatory training courses on GDPR and information security
 essentials, the Bribery Act 2010 and Managing Safety.

 Our postgraduate researchers receive ethics training through the Liverpool Doctoral College. This
 covers ethical approval for healthcare technology projects, and safeguarding in delivery of public
 engagement activities.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Recruitment
 We appoint staff whose research focus aligns with one or more of our clusters and who provide
 complementary expertise. ED&I considerations are embedded into all aspects of the recruitment
 processes; advertisements include ED&I statements, panels for short-listing and interviews are
 gender diverse and members have received unconscious-bias training; candidate visits are
 arranged with balanced gender representation, and start-up discussions are aimed at parity of
 support.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Table 1: Academic staff during the REF period:

                                            Accelerator Physics
                    P,D              D
  Chattopadhyay               Hock                 NewtonD           WelschP           WolskiP
                                         Condensed Matter Physics
                                    A,D,E
        Alaria              Clark                  DhanakP           DuroseP          GrunderF
       Jaeckel               LucasP                 MajorF            Martin          McGrathP
       O'BrienE              Sharma                  VealP          WeightmanP
                                             Nuclear Physics
      A. BostonP            H Boston               ButlerP,D         ChartierP          ChealP
                            Harkness-
     GaffneyA,E,F                                 HerzbergP            JossP           NolanP,D
                             Brennan
        PageP                  Paul                  Pusa
                                             Particle Physics
       AllportP,D         AndreopoulosP            BowcockP            Burdin         CasseP
      ColemanF              DaintonP,D            D'OnofrioP          GaoA,D,E      GreenshawP
      Hutchcroft             M. KleinP             U. KleinP        Kretzschmar     Mavrokoridis
      McCauleyP               MehtaP                ShearsP         TouramanisP        Rose
                              Vilella
     RompotisA,E                                  VossebeldP
                           FiguerasA,E,F

 Key: Orange: female, A: Appointed during REF period, E: Early Career Researcher, F: Fellowship
 holder, P: Professor, D: Retired/departed during REF period.

 New appointments
 Mavrokoridis (Lecturer/ERC Grantee) and Andreopoulos (0.5 FTE, Reader, now Prof.) were
 appointed to strengthen the neutrino research group in the particle physics cluster. Other recruits
 in particle physics were Gao to work on ATLAS and Rompotis to contribute to both ATLAS and
 Mu3e. Involvement in the Materials Innovation Factory was strengthened by the appointments of
 O’Brien and Clark (joint Chemistry/Physics).

 Staffing profile
 We are returning 47 staff (44.35 FTE). There has been a positive change in gender balance in the
 Department for REF-eligible staff over the course of the REF period from 6 to 8 female staff (13%
 to 17%). 40% of our submitted staff are non-UK. 5 independent researchers have been included
 (11%) of which 2 are female.

 Supporting researchers to win Fellowships
 These include Major (EPSRC), Mavrokoridis (ERC), Alexandrova, Murdoch and Schnellbach
 (Royal Society of Edinburgh/STFC Enterprise Fellowship), Gaffney and Ruggiero (STFC Ernest
 Rutherford Fellowships), Farry (Royal Commission of 1851 Fellowship). Others with Fellowships
 within this REF period were Cheal and D’Onofrio, (STFC Advanced), Veal (EPSRC Career
 Acceleration). Gründer and Coleman have held Royal Society URFs and were supported in
 achieving fellowship extensions in this REF period. Vilella-Figueras won a prestigious UKRI
 Future Leaders Fellowship (2019).

 Support for new academic staff
 New staff have a phased-in teaching load during their three-year confirmation in appointment
 period. They are assigned a PhD studentship and offered a comprehensive induction
 programme, including discussions of their role, responsibilities and aspirations with the Head of
 Department and their cluster leader. A departmental mentor is assigned; new staff can also
 access the University’s Mentoring Network and are supported to complete the Postgraduate

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Certificate in Academic Practice or a higher qualification. Welcome events hosted by the School
 of Physical Sciences promote networking with other new staff.

 Support for academic staff at other career stages
 An annual Professional Development Review (PDR) discussion is held between every staff
 member and the Head of Department. This covers achievements, training and facility
 requirements, future plans, and career aspirations. Promotion opportunities and training needs
 identified in this process are actioned by the HoD. Many CPD opportunities are available via the
 University’s training Academy, such as Head of Department programmes (Veal, Welsch), and the
 Heilbron leadership programme (Harkness-Brennan).

                                  Research and impact leave particularly supports mid-career
                                  staff and gives individuals time to reformulate their research and
                                  impact goals and activities. D’Onofrio had two years leave in
                                  conjunction with her STFC Advanced Fellowship to convene the
                                  ATLAS Supersymmetry group (~350 members) and then the
                                  Physics Modelling group (~150 members) and was promoted to
                                  chair in 2017. Kretzschmar had a two-year leave to convene the
                                  ATLAS Standard Model group (~400 members) and was
                                  promoted to senior lecturer in 2019. Mehta had a year period of
                                  research leave at CERN, he was promoted to chair in 2018.
       Figure 2: Ken Durose       Touramanis was at CERN (2016-18) taking international
   (right) with colleagues at IIT leadership of the technology evaluation programme for future long
                Delhi.            baseline neutrino detectors. McGrath was on research leave in
                                  2018-19 developing a collaboration with engineering on
 quasiperiodic metamaterials. Bowcock had research leave at CERN(2019-20) to oversee the
 installation and commissioning of the LHCb upgrade detector. Durose had leave in 2018-19 in
 India, the US and Australia to develop collaborations on photovoltaic materials and devices and
 wrote a successful EPSRC grant application during this time. McCauley was a visiting professor
 at the University of Tokyo in 2018, helping to develop the Hyper-K project, and was promoted to
 chair in 2018.

 Supporting our research staff
 Currently the department hosts 85 research staff. We implement the principles in the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers in supervision of these staff. They have annual
 PDR meetings with their supervisors, and have access to the same parental leave and flexible
 working arrangements as academic staff. We engage in the School’s Researcher Forum, which
 facilitates consultation and information exchange with the University. The Forum chair sits on the
 School’s leadership team and the role rotates among Departments; Samantha Colosimo (Physics)
 was Chair from 2016-2018. University-level support for post-doctoral researchers is described in
 §3.3.2 of the Institutional environment statement, including the Research England-funded
 “Prosper” project, which provides researchers with the broader attributes needed to thrive in
 diverse careers.




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researcher Development awards and events
 The Researcher Forum has helped create the School of
 Physical Sciences Postdoctoral Development Awards,
 introduced in 2016 to provide funding of up to £2,500 to
 support development opportunities. Four of the awards
 have been held by early stage researchers in the Physics
 Department (two male/two female). For example,
 Alexandrova spent 5 weeks at Adaptix Ltd, a sensor and
 imaging company.

 Half-day researcher development events are co-
 organised in the School on a two-year rolling basis.
 These include: “Applying for Fellowships”, “Taking Part
 in a Grant Panel”, “Transitioning from Academia to
 Industry”, “Research Grant Writing” and “Career             Figure 3: Alexandra Alexandrova
 Coaching”.                                                  was seconded to Adaptix in 2018.

 Facilitating academia-external engagement
 A keystone of our industry engagement has been the recruitment of STFC Innovation Partnership
 Fellows (Palumbo 2012-2016; Astreos 2018-). The Fellow sits on the Department Research and
 Impact Board and develops and maintains industry partnerships. A number of academic and
 research staff members have been recruited from industry: Harkness-Brennan from leading
 detector company Kromek; this link resulted in an STFC IPS project (2019) to develop an
 optimised system for low dose molecular breast imaging; Cheetham from NSG-Pilkington who
 are now project partner on grants, contribute to PV CDT training and fund PhD students. Mumtaz
 (co-founder of Enecsys, a solar PV micro-invertor company) works to commercialize PV research
 in SIRE.

 Recognition
 The achievements of staff and PhD students are highlighted in a fortnightly e-mail bulletin to all
 staff and students, in monthly staff meetings and via the department website and social media.

 Promotion
 Cluster leaders offer advice on application materials, and the Head of Department gives pre-
 interview briefings on promotion cases. Since 2014 there have been 28 promotions:12 to Chair
 (25% ,17% ethnic minority); 5 to Reader (60% female); 11 to Senior Lecturer (27% female, 9%
 ethnic minority). We have 4 female chairs compared to only 1 in REF2014 (increase to 15% from
 6%).

 2.2 Achieving SP3 - Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 We seek to address gender and other protected characteristic imbalances at all career levels. We
 are partners in the School Equality, Diversity and Inclusion group, which is chaired by McGrath.
 In this REF period this group has promoted joint events with the staff BAME, LGBT and Disability
 networks. As part of the School of Physical Sciences we have held Athena SWAN Bronze (April
 2013) and Athena SWAN Silver (November 2016) awards. We have considerably improved our
 gender and ethnic balance at senior levels since REF2014 (see §2.1 ‘Promotions’, above).

 Other initiatives include annual visits (2015-2020) to the XMaS beamline at the ESRF for sixteen
 year 12 schoolgirls (“XMaS Scientist Experience”); the “Liverpool Women in Physics” network
 established in 2019; and a “Girls and Women in Science” day social media campaign that reached
 more than 100,000 people. With LMU (Munich) and CERN, we co-organised Marie Skłodowska-
 Curie Day in 2017; the European Commission’s Director General, Martine Reicherts, contributed
 a message and the event reached more than 500,000 people. Our HoD Welsch is one of 5 invited
 UK representatives to the International Conference for Women in Physics in 2021.



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                       Arrangements for supporting flexible working
                                       Staff may declare when they are unavailable for teaching
                                       duties for caring reasons.

                                       Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff
                                       The University has a redeployment scheme, which includes
                                       research staff; for example Birkett moved to a PDRA
                                       position in MIF following a three-year position in SIRE
                                       (2019). Career progression and development are a
                                       particular focus in PDR discussions with fixed-term staff.

                                      Support for staff and research students returning from
                                      periods of leave
                                      The school has a “flexible working” adviser to help staff
                                      prepare for maternity and paternity leave. Two staff
                                      members (one male, one female) have recently used the
 shared parental leave scheme (Harkness-Brennan, Jaeckel). Staff and PhD students can also
 take advantage of a Parents’ Network. Ten “keep-in-touch days” are provided for staff on maternity
 leave. Those returning from extended leave are offered phased-in teaching, PhD studentships,
 and mentoring. PhD student leave for maternity, paternity, illness or other extenuating
 circumstances is arranged through the suspension and extension provisions within the University’s
 PGR Code of Practice. The School provides additional funds for PhD students whose contracts
 do not include maternity pay.
 Wellbeing
 We offer advice and support to new staff on practical issues such as housing and schools prior to
 their arrival. Social events for staff and students include a monthly coffee morning, a summer
 barbeque, graduation party, special events for major staff anniversaries and awards, and an end
 of year celebration. Our School Wellbeing group organises workshops and activities.

 Equality and diversity in preparation of the REF submission
 The departmental REF panel had oversight of all of all REF selection activities and ensured
 compliance with the University REF Code of Practice. Everyone involved in formal preparation
 undertook Advance HE half-day training on equality, diversity, inclusion, and unconscious bias.
 Particular attention was paid to ethnic and gender diversity in our selection panels.

 2.3 Research students

 There has been a significant increase in the number of PhD students since REF2014 with a view
 to supporting our strategic goals. We have recruited an average of 30 students per year with 136
 PhD students graduating in this REF period.

 Funding and partnerships
 The Department receives Doctoral Training Programme funding from STFC and EPSRC, a total
 of approximately 8 studentships per year. The School of Physical Sciences has funded an
 additional 5 PhD studentships per year in Physics since 2012. We have utilised these studentships
 to attract matched funding from strategic research partners, including universities, research
 centres, and industry. The Department has also coordinated and participated in several Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie ITNs (Welsch, Durose). Eleven Fellows funded through these ITNs also
 registered as PhD students in Liverpool (see §3.1). A number of CASE studentships have been
 established with industry, for example with the Defence Academy of the United Kingdom for
 submarine reactor monitoring with anti-neutrinos, and with NSG-Pilkington as part of the EPSRC
 National Productivity Investment Fund scheme.

 The Department leads the Big Data Science STFC Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT) LIV.DAT
 (Welsch), which currently has 36 students, and the EPSRC CDT in New and Sustainable
 Photovoltaics (2014-2020) (Durose), with 62 students nationwide. Many LIV.DAT students have
 supervisors in other Departments including Computer Science and EEE, the National Nuclear

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Laboratory, and other partner organisations. They undertake a 6 months placement in industry. A
 LIV.DAT Fellow, Kukstas, specialising in Data Intensive Science and Machine Learning/AI,
 supports LIV.DAT research and training activities and industry partnerships, including IBM
 Research, ATOS, NVIDIA, Ultra Electronics and Amey Ltd. Involvement in other CDTs includes
 the EPSRC Risk and Uncertainty (two students) and Next Generation Nuclear (six students)
 CDTs, as well as the STFC CDT ASHE (one student).

 Strategic collaboration agreements on joint PhD projects with partners such as CERN (2019),
 GSI/FAIR and TRIUMF (2020) have defined a programme where students spend their first and
 final year in Liverpool and middle two years at the partner organisation. Students may benefit from
 short visits and long-term attachments: 4-18 months at international facilities or up to 2 years in
 co-funding overseas partner institutes including CERN, FBK (Italy), DESY (Hamburg), JPARC and
 RIKEN (Japan), FNAL (Illinois), LIP (Coimbra), Soleil and LAL (France), and Jyväskalä (Finland).
 Students co-funded with the University of Jyvaskyla enrol in a dual doctorate scheme.

 Recruitment
 Projects are advertised via the University’s central PhD project website and external sites, such
 as findaphd.com and international facility newsletters. We also nurture a pipeline of PhD students
 from our undergraduates; final year students conduct a project in one of the research clusters. We
 organise bi-weekly Principal Investigators show their amazing activities (PIZZA) Nights, where
 academics present their research and highlight PhD opportunities.

 Personal and business skills development
 Each student initially undertakes a Development Needs Analysis, which leads to a bespoke
 “Training and Assessment Plan”. We offer training opportunities in physics, instrumentation,
 computing, statistics and research integrity, provided by the research clusters, ITNs, CDTs and in
 the case of Accelerator Science, the Cockcroft Institute. First year students have a week-long skills
 training programme focussing on project management, presentation skills, commercialisation,
 entrepreneurship and industry-academia collaboration. The Higher Education Academy (HEA)
 considered this as outstanding and sponsored a workshop to disseminate the scheme to other
 HEIs in June 2014. In their final year, students attend a two-day workshop on ‘Advanced
 Researcher Skills’, which focuses on CV writing, interview skills, international networking, grant
 writing and international career avenues, a two-day workshop on ‘Technology Transfer’ which
 looks at the market potential of specific project outcomes, and a one-day ‘Researcher Careers’
 workshop.

 Research students also attend national and international summer schools. Particle Physics
 students attend the Rutherford Summer School in their first year and the CERN Summer School
 in their second or third years. The Photovoltaics CDT training programme has showcase and
 summer school events. As part of the ITNs oPAC, LA3NET, OMA and AVA we have organized
 dozens of international workshops, schools and conferences.

 Support, monitoring and completions
 At least two supervisors are assigned to every PhD student. Early career academics are paired
 with experienced academics. Progress of PhD students is assessed annually. Support
 mechanisms for PhDs include drop-in sessions to signpost support services such as counselling
 and the mental health advisory service, described in §4.5 of the Institutional Environment
 Statement.

 Awards
 Outstanding PhD students are nominated for awards. Examples include Whittles, Springer thesis
 prize, 2018 and IOP Thin Films and Surfaces Woodruff prize; Norman, ALICE thesis award, 2018,
 Gaffney, the EPS NP Division Dissertation Award 2015. A prize is presented after each graduation
 ceremony to the best PhD graduate following nominations by supervisors.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Funding

 Liverpool’s Physics Department is consistently in the top three UK departments in terms of STFC
 awards. In this REF period, we doubled our EU research income to around £2M per annum.

 Funding strategy
 We aim for a portfolio of longer-term consolidated grants supplemented by individual project
 awards. This is achieved by:

 •   Applying for STFC consolidated grants to support core research programmes in Particle
     Physics, Nuclear Physics and Accelerator Science;
 •   Exploiting our expertise and infrastructure in applications for STFC project grants to develop
     and participate in the most exciting experimental programmes;
 •   Engaging with EPSRC strategic initiatives to supplement the Condensed Matter cluster
     responsive mode and framework programme funding, such as the Photovoltaics Network+;
 •   Engaging with collaborative interdisciplinary initiatives, such as the Leverhulme Centre for
     Functional Materials;
 •   Support of ECRs in Fellowship applications and external Fellowship applicants;
 •   Seeking further funding opportunities beyond UKRI as appropriate such as EU programmes,
     Leverhulme Trust, and the Royal Society.

 Support mechanisms
 With the University Research Support Office comprehensive support is offered for research
 funding applications, with particular emphasis on support for ECRs and Fellowship applications.
 This includes peer review of draft grant applications and mock interview panels. Discussion of
 grant writing plans forms part of the PDRs of all academic staff. Specific calls from UKRI and other
 funders are highlighted at staff meetings and the internal biweekly Physics Bulletin newsletter.
 Horizon-scanning of new areas is facilitated through feedback from colleagues engaged with the
 research councils (see §4.4) and from the University’s Research Policy unit.

 Funding Profile
 The total value of grants awarded in the REF period was £52.5M (distinct from research income
 of £60.4M). Figure 5 shows the breakdown of total awards by all funders (left), and (right) by the
 individual funding councils.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




      Figure 5: (left) Breakdown by funding source for awards to UoA staff; (right) Breakdown
      of UKRI awards to UoA staff by research council and other UK funding bodies. For
      collaborative awards, only the % owned by UoA staff is included.

 Large awards include:

 STFC:
 • Particle Physics Consolidated Grant (2015) £8.6M and (2019) £9.2M.
 • Nuclear Physics Consolidated Grant (2017) £3.1M.
 • ATLAS Upgrade Production (2018) £2.2M.
 • LIV.DAT CDT (2017) £2M
 • Cockcroft Institute (2017), £1.9M
 • DUNE Development and Production Grants (2017) £1.7M
 • ATLAS Upgrade Development (2014) £1.4M total.
 • ALICE (2015) £1.2M
 • ISOL-SRS (2015) £1.1M
 • AGATA (2020) £0.9M

 EPSRC:
 • CDT in New and Sustainable PV (2014) £5.3M.
 • XMaS beamline at ESRF (2018) £3.8M.

 Other:
 • ARIADNE Starter Fellowship (ERC, 2016) £1.5M.
 • Accelerators Validating Antimatter physics (EU, 2017), £1.4M
 • HV-CMOS UKRI-Future Leaders Fellowship (2019) £1.2M

 European Training Networks in Accelerator Physics
 In this REF period we have coordinated four pan-European Marie-ITNs (oPACLA3NET, AVA and
 OMA). In total, more than €18M (€6M directly to Liverpool) of EU-funding has allowed coordination
 of the training of more than 70 highly skilled early stage researchers. 11 of the funded Fellows
 registered as PhD students in Liverpool in this REF period, either with staff in the Department or
 based at collaborating institutions. By organizing a large number of international workshops,
 schools and conferences, we have had significant impact on the global accelerator science
 community.

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Funding for impact and industry engagement
 To support impact, we have used STFC Impact Acceleration Awards (£455k), EPSRC Impact
 Acceleration Awards (£53k), Knowledge Exchange and Impact Vouchers (£29k) and Higher
 Education Structure Funds (£17k). This funding has supported projects with industry partners
 including the development of a strategic relationship with Adaptix on 3D X-ray imaging, Bioclough
 Consultants, Canberra, Ecodynamics, Mirion Technologies, Micron Semiconductor, D-Beam,
 IKONICS, Proxivision, NSG-Pilkington, Sensor City, and Rutherford Health Partners (thin solid
 state dosimeter charge integrators for proton beam therapy). Alexandrova was awarded a Royal
 Society of Edinburgh/STFC Enterprise Fellowship (2015) to commercialise beam diagnostics
 prototypes through establishing the spin-off company D-Beam Ltd with Welsch. STFC selected
 the D-Beam spinout project on “Next generation Particle Accelerator diagnostics” as an STFC IAA
 success story 2020. The company was invited to the STFC-CERN Business Incubation Centre
 and subsequently attracted funding from Horizon 2020 and STFC. We received Proof of
 Concept funding from the EU ARIES scheme (Welsch, £50k), and have had an MRC Proximity
 to Discovery award and an InnovateUK/Cancer Research UK "Innovation to Commercialisation of
 University Research" (ICURe) award.

 We have hosted a number of industrial engagement events. Physics Innovate (June 2016) was
 part of the International Festival for Business. EuPRAXIA Symposium and industry exhibition (July
 2018) saw over 20 companies discussing opportunities for joint R&D in the area of novel
 accelerators. Particle Colliders: Accelerating Innovation (March 2019) included keynote talks; an
 industry exhibition; careers fair; an industry-academia co-innovation workshop (100 participants).
 More than 900 participants joined the event.

 Funding for outreach
 We employ an Outreach officer who provides coordination and support of outreach activities
 undertaken by our staff and students. The position is funded jointly by the University and the
 Ogden Trust (Sapple, 2012-2016, Annand since 2016).

 3.2 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Our Research and Impact Board oversees strategy and recommends resource allocation (e.g.
 PhD studentships) to the Management Committee and HoD. The Chair sits on the Department’s
 Management Committee. We have a unique research support environment with five project-
 funded administration staff, including several experienced project managers, and a
 communications expert. We also benefit from University and School professional services
 research support teams, who offer peer reviewed demand management for selected calls (such
 as Fellowships), training courses on accessing funding, research professional membership, and
 circulation of relevant calls (see Institutional statement §5.1).

 Support to achieve research funding
 As outlined in §2, we offer support for all staff, and particularly new staff unfamiliar with the UK
 funding landscape.

 3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact

 Strategic priorities are underpinned by our technical expertise and equipment and instrumentation
 base. These facilities are also a key pillar of the national infrastructure in detector development.

 Technical staff
 Research activities are supported by 7 technical staff in our mechanical workshop, 4 mechanical
 design draughtspersons, 4 electronics engineers and 5 software engineers. In addition, we have
 typically 15 UKRI-funded staff dedicated to the detector development programme. Many of these
 staff have been with us throughout their careers. The workshop also offers apprenticeships in
 collaboration with local training agencies. We supported our workshop apprentice, Liam Boynton,
 to win University “Apprentice of the Year” awards in 2016; we have also supported two technical
 research staff onto PhD programmes.

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Computing facilities
 The Particle Physics cluster runs a STFC-funded Tier-2 Grid cluster with over 568 cores and 1.5
 TB of RAM as well as a Tier 3 cluster with 9 dedicated 64-bit 8-core nodes and 60 shared Linux
 PCs for interactive analysis and batch processing.

 Oliver Lodge Laboratory
 The Oliver Lodge Laboratory is our main location on campus, and has undergone a major
 refurbishment (£7M) between 2016-2020 that significantly improved the general working
 environment, office accommodation, learning and teaching spaces, accessibility and inclusivity of
 the building, including gender-neutral toilet facilities.

 Research and development facilities
 We host R&D facilities which are of national and international importance, underpinning large-
 scale projects in particle and nuclear physics.
 • The Liverpool Semiconductor Detector Centre comprises over 100 m2 at ISO Class 5, and
    roughly 300 m2 at ISO Class 7. Major projects have included the construction of straw trackers
    for g-2 and pixel modules for the ALICE ITS upgrade, the design and build of the inner Si
    detector for the ALPHA anti-hydrogen experiment, the ongoing construction of the LHCb VeLo
    upgrade and preparations for the construction of the Mu3e pixel tracker and the ATLAS ITk
    upgrades; the protoDUNE DAQ design, optical calibration systems for Hyper-K and LZ and a
    novel optical readout for Liquid Argon detectors and the design and construction of the
    ISOLDE Solenoidal Spectrometer at CERN.
 • The Physics Workshop manufactures precision components and support structures for the
    detector systems for local and external experiments.
 • The Advanced Materials Laboratory manufactures carbon fibre reinforced composite
    components for experiments including the ATLAS tracker upgrades, R3B and the Cerenkov
    Telescope Array.
 • The Liverpool Germanium Characterisation Laboratory is one of only three laboratories
    worldwide that can characterise position sensitive Ge sensors for use in spectrometers such
    as EXOGAM at GANIL, AGATA (currently at GSI), together with position sensitive Si detectors,
    for AIDA at FAIR and GREAT, SAGE and LISA at Jyväskylä.

 3.4 Equality and diversity aspects of funding and infrastructure

 Accessing specialist infrastructure
 Access to departmental facilities is offered to all members of the department through regular open
 calls by facility leads. As part of their induction process, new staff are briefed on the facilities and
 how to access them. Access is granted on a case-by-case basis with particular emphasis on
 supporting impact activities, ECRs and PhD students.

 3.5 Utilising infrastructure, facilities and expertise for impact

 Our approach to all aspects of impact including the use of technical assets is described in §4.2.

 3.6 Specialist research infrastructure and facilities

 There are several specialist facilities that we lead or are partners in:

 Stephenson Institute for Renewable Energy
 SIRE opened in 2013 as a Physics-Chemistry centre (£13M University investment) and consists
 of five purpose-built laboratories equipped to support the broad spectrum of research into energy
 materials, including photovoltaics (Durose, Major), energy materials (Alaria, Jaeckel and Veal),
 battery research in collaboration with the Faraday Institution (Dhanak and Veal), fundamental
 electrochemistry (Lucas and Gründer) and Nanomaterials Characterisation (Dhanak) which
 underpins activity with Electrical Engineering funded through the ESPRC, GCRF and UKIERI-III.
 In 2016, Alaria won a £0.5M EPSRC grant for a Rigaku multipurpose X-ray Diffraction System as


                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a Faculty-wide facility. Durose was SIRE Director from 2015-2018; the current director is Hardwick
 (Chemistry).

 Materials Innovation Factory (MIF)
 Founded on strategic partnerships between the University, Unilever and UKRI, the £81M MIF is
 dedicated to accelerating and transforming academic and industrial R&D for computer aided
 materials science and opened in 2018. MIF houses a large range of shared equipment and
 facilities for synthesis and characterisation (£20M), and is available to academics in the Faculty
 though a ticketing scheme. Alaria and O’Brien are members. This facility also incorporates the
 Leverhulme Centre for Functional Materials Design, (£10M, 2017-2027) where Alaria and Veal
 are co-Is.

 Cockcroft Institute for Accelerator Science and Technology
 We are partners in the Cockcroft Institute alongside Manchester, Lancaster, Strathclyde and
 STFC’s Accelerator Science and Technology Centre (ASTeC). The focus of Cockcroft is on
 combined physics/engineering solutions to accelerator challenges. The Liverpool accelerator
 science cluster is led by physicists, but has also recruited academic staff in Engineering (Corner,
 Dearden) and Electrical Engineering and Electronics (Bradley) to take a holistic approach to
 accelerator science, as endorsed by the 2015 external advisory panel (see §1.2.2). Shared laser
 facilities were established (£0.5M) providing a basis for the Dielectric and THz Acceleration
 (DATA) programme which enables R&D between the Cockcroft stakeholder universities and
 ASTeC. We run several optics and beam diagnostics labs on Daresbury campus.

 Spintronics
 A new laboratory (£0.3M) was established by O’Brien to study the applications and development
 of magnetic nanostructures, thin film magnetic materials, and spintronic devices. Specialist
 equipment includes a dual-purpose MOKE magnetometer that performs both spatially resolved
 surface magnetometry and wide-field-of-view MOKE microscopy; and a SQUID magnetometer.

 Faculty shared research facilities
 Departmental researchers have access to a range of Faculty supported facilities for specialist
 measurements. These include the Albert Crewe microscopy centre at Liverpool (~£10M asset
 base), which houses Transmission and Scanning Electron Microscopy instruments, and focussed
 ion beam. McGrath is the academic lead of the steering group. Alaria is the academic lead for
 the x-ray diffraction facility and O’Brien is the lead for the recently-funded nanolithography facility.

 3.7 Shared/collaborative use of research
 infrastructure including major facilities

 Most of our scientific activity requires the use of
 specialist accelerator facilities. UKRI research
 income-in-kind for use of facilities was £84.5M, the
 majority being for access to CERN. This income is
 supplemented by peer-reviewed access to other
 non-UKRI-funded facilities. Such facilities do not
 normally quote a cost for access, so in Table 2 we
 list the approximate number of days awarded. Not
 included in this table are LHC test beams; beam-
 line access at FNAL, DESY and PSI; JPARC beam
 for T2K/SK and Fermilab beams for g-2 and the
 long and short baseline neutrino programme.

 Free Electron Laser Facility (FELIX)
 Weightman is the UK lead on the FLUENCE
 project (£0.5M) to facilitate access by UK scientists
 to the FELIX suite of accelerator-driven light
 sources in the Netherlands.


                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Support mechanisms for developing collaborations include:
 • Resource: The Research and Impact Board allocates PhD studentships (5 per annum)
    strategically to develop and support collaborations (priority is given in allocation to projects
    with matched funding from external sources). A base of facilities which can be used free of
    cost to individual investigators to develop new collaborations is available (Workshop,
    electronics support, X-ray diffraction). Our IT infrastructure includes a virtual reality suite in the
    MIF and physical space for hosting networks, workshops and conferences.
 • Training and Advice: Skills training workshops are offered by the University central training
    team (the Academy) and by the School of Physical Sciences to ECR and PDRA staff
    (teamwork, project management, scientific writing, collaboration, grant writing, and peer
    review). We have a dedicated team of 5 professional services staff in our department to
    manage and promote network activities funded through EU and UK training programmes. The
    role of the STFC Innovation Partnerships Fellow (§2.1), is to grow our industry and impact
    activities.
 • Time: As discussed in §2, research and impact leave is available to develop new
    collaborations.
 • Legal: Support from the Research, Partnerships and Innovation and Legal departments is
    available to establish formal links where appropriate: Memoranda of Understanding (MoU) are
    established which facilitate joint research activities and collaborative exchange of researchers.
    These are in place with TRIUMF, GSI/FAIR, CERN and others.

 We have entered into the following strategic collaborations:

 CERN
 Liverpool physics is listed by Nature in the top 25 of institutions globally who collaborate with
 CERN (Nature 575 (2019) S29). We top the list of UK institutions for STFC CERN-related funding
 (STFC/Technopolis report 2020). UKRI income-in-kind for access to CERN totals £81.3M. We are
 exploiting the potential of the LHC through ATLAS, ALICE and LHCb and developing new
 technologies for its upgrade. We are also working on the antiproton decelerator, protoDUNE with
 Touramanis as spokesperson, and have joined the FASER project. M. Klein was ATLAS
 collaboration board chair and is spokesperson for the LHeC and newly formed PERLE
 Collaboration to build a new generation 10 MW power ERL facility. Welsch is the scientific project
 manager of AWAKE-UK. We led the development of the ISOLDE Solenoidal Spectrometer and
 lead exploitation of Miniball and the ISOLDE Decay Station. A strategic MoU forms the basis for
 collaborative R&D and both staff and student exchanges.

 STFC Daresbury Laboratory
 The Nuclear Physics cluster has a joint STFC consolidated grant with Daresbury; together we host
 almost all of the STFC support “cross community staff”. Recent jointly awarded project grants
 include AGATA, NUSTAR, ALICE (CERN) inner tracker upgrade, ISOL-SRS-project for ISOLDE
 CERN, joint work on the DUNE APA frames. Applied R&D joint projects include ProSPECTus
 (medical imaging spectrometer), PGRIS (security imaging) and SIGMA (specialist detector for
 future research). The Accelerator Science cluster is primarily based at the Cockcroft.

 Fermilab
 Particle physics collaborations centred at Fermilab include DUNE, SBND, g-2, and mu2e. We
 constructed key components and lead the physics preparations for the SBND experiment, and are
 a leading member of the DUNE Far Detector collaboration. Through a MoU, we are now also
 targeting shared PhDs that are jointly funded. These US-based collaborations are facilitated by
 membership of the Universities Research Association (URA); Liverpool is one of very few non-US
 members.



                                                                                                  Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University of Jyväskyla, Finland
 In this long-standing partnership we have developed instruments for nuclear spectroscopy such
 as the JUROGAM gamma-ray spectrometer, the GREAT spectrometer and the SAGE gamma-
 conversion electron spectrometer, which are permanently deployed at the University of Jyvaskyla
 Accelerator Laboratory. We have a joint doctoral programme, with the first PhD student having
 graduated in 2020.

 ESRF
 We lead the UK Materials Science CRG synchrotron beamline, XMaS, at the European
 Synchrotron Radiation Source (ESRF) in Grenoble, France. This is an EPSRC National Research
 Facility in operation since 1997 and is funded (£7.2M 2018-2023) primarily to support the UK
 Materials Science community. It is run by four on-site staff and is directed by Lucas. The beamline
 comprises a unique combination of instrumentation for x-ray diffraction, scattering and
 spectroscopic techniques. XMaS has leveraged additional funding with participation in two
 European metrology research programmes (Nanostrain 2013-2016, ADVENT 2017-2020). A
 collaboration between XMaS and Huber Diffraktionstechnik GmbH has resulted in joint
 commercialisation activities under eight separate licence agreements (REF2014 Impact case) with
 additional projects in monochromator design under development.

 Fondazione Bruno Kessler
 We have a strategic partnership with the FBK Centre for Materials and Microsystems (Milan). The
 Director (Casse) holds a 0.2 FTE appointment in the Department. The technical and applied
 physics expertise at FBK in the area of industrial R&D complements our own expertise in detector
 systems.

 4.2 Impact: relationships with key research users and beneficiaries

 Our impact strategy SP4 as outlined in §1 is to concentrate on Energy, Health, Security and
 Society. We have significant activity in each of these areas:

 Energy
 • Photovoltaics: we are collaborating with NSG-Pilkington in the development of novel
    transparent conducting oxide coatings and in photovoltaic devices. Paul Warren of the NSG-
    Pilkington European Technical Centre is a visiting Professor.
 • Training: we are collaborating with Mirion in developing software and hardware to train
    employees from the nuclear energy industry with skills for digital measurements and have
    undertaken collaborative research projects with Mirion funded by the STFC IPS scheme.
 • Nuclear Sector Training: we are collaborating with Mirion in developing software and
    hardware to train nuclear energy sector employees with skills for digital measurements and
    have undertaken collaborative research projects with Mirion funded by the STFC IPS scheme.
    James Cocks, Division President at Mirion, is a visiting Professor.

 Health
 • Novel tamponade agents: we have developed novel tamponade agents to prevent fluid flow
    through retinal breaks as a treatment for retinal detachment in partnership with Clinical
    Engineering at Liverpool and with Fluoron GmbH; this forms a REF2021 case study.
 • Grid computing for healthcare services: AIMES Grid Services was founded on the basis of
    our particle physics research and the IP we generated in the development of the MAP2
    computer for CERN. Since 2014, AIMES has generated economic impact as well as
    improvements to health service design and commissioning, and improvements for NHS
    practice and operations; this is a REF2021 case study.
 • Optimization of Medical Accelerators (OMA): We coordinated this £3.5M research network
    developing novel accelerating techniques, sensors for beam and patient imaging, as well as
    underpinning beam physics and dose delivery simulations to improve proton and ion beam
    therapy.
 • Ventilators for OECD DAC patient care: We are leading the software development to control
    and operate new low-cost ventilators as part of a UKRI GCRF/Newton Fund Agile Response
                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     award. The team are working with clinicians in Brazil and regulators in the UK. Bowcock is
     part of the CERN against COVID task force and a member of the World Health Organisation
     (WHO) expert respiratory panel.
 •   Advances in cancer detection and therapy: Funding from the STFC IPS scheme is being
     used to develop algorithms to improve breast cancer detection for patients with dense breast
     tissue, in collaboration with Kromek. We obtained funding in the 2014/2015 STFC CLASP
     competition for two projects: Quantitative SPECT for Dosimetry in Molecular Radiotherapy,
     and Imaging on Gamma Emissions during Proton Cancer Therapy. Both are in collaboration
     with medical institutions and OEM manufacturers (Royal Marsden NHS Trust, Clatterbridge
     Cancer Centre, and Kromek). We are leading a multi-institute, multidisciplinary STFC Cancer
     Diagnosis Global Challenges Research Network and are members of The North West Cancer
     Research Centre and the EPSRC-funded Centre for Mathematical Sciences in Healthcare.
 •   New sensors for proton therapy: we have contributed to sensor systems for proton
     computed tomography (PCT), based on those developed for LHCb, and carried out research
     with FBK on deep learning to improve pattern recognition for PCT.
 •   Commercialising detectors: A project on sensors for proton therapy developed in our
     radiation detection laboratory has received support from the Wellcome Trust. We have
     delivered prototype detectors based on ATLAS sensors, to estimate energy deposition in the
     human body, and signed a contract with Rutherford Health Plc in 2017 to build a commercial
     version, and an optical beam loss monitor for machine protection and optimization supported
     by STFC IPS in 2020.

 Security
 • Compton gamma ray imaging systems: we are accelerating the development of a hand-
    held prototype system for security applications in collaboration with the Metropolitan Police,
    Kromek, STFC and Canberra.
 • The development of an antineutrino detector: We are collaborating with the National
    Nuclear Laboratory (NNL) on the design and in-situ testing of novel measurement devices to
    support the UK nuclear industry. This project has secured funding from Innovate UK (£0.4M)
    in collaboration with JCS Ltd and support from NNL.

 Society
 • Exhibitions at museums and festivals: We showcased our particle physics research and its
    history in the University’s Victoria Gallery; developed a Royal Society Summer Exhibit on
    antimatter (Shears) that has toured science and education fairs; donated LHCb detectors, built
    at Liverpool, to the London Science Museum’s collection, seen by 5 million people around the
    world as part of a travelling exhibit (COLLIDER) and donated detectors to the updated CERN
    Microcosm exhibit. At local level we have exhibited at festivals such as the Big Bang North
    West and Liverpool’s Africa Oyé.
 • Inspiring school pupils and engaging teachers: the annual Physics of Star Wars event
    offers hands-on themed activities to explain accelerator physics in an accessible way to pupils
    and has generated media interest around the world (REF2021 case study). Hundreds of
    pupils attend the annual Liverpool Physics Olympics events, nuclear physics and particle
    physics masterclasses. In 2020, we developed teaching material for remote learning during
    the COVID-19 national lockdown that was used by over 800 school pupils nationally. We have
    built partnerships with local teachers over many years by hosting the Physics Teachers
    Conference and visiting schools. Overall, we have reached >20,000 school-children during the
    REF period.
 • Communicating our research: we have given over 100 talks and interviews locally, nationally
    and internationally to explain our research through major print, radio and broadcast media
    including BBC Radio 4, The Guardian, Financial Times, New Scientist, BBC Breakfast, and
    ITV News (REF2021 case study).
 • Collaboration with the arts: we have explored concepts with musicians, philosophers,
    novelists, and artists: for example, a collaboration of CERN, FACT, and the University of
    Liverpool won Collide International awards from Arts at CERN for three years, culminating in
    an exhibition at FACT which is now touring internationally and has been visited by over

                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     200,000 people (REF2021 case study). In 2017, we co-hosted a public poetry event by
     physicist/poet Prof. Iggy McGovern on the life of William Rowan Hamilton.
 •   Short science films: Working with the Royal Institution (October 2013 - 2020), Shears co-
     created and presented six short videos about major LHCb research developments including
     antimatter, the Standard Model, and pentaquarks, which have been viewed online 877,275
     times during the REF period. We created films about our research with Peter Higgs and Rolf
     Heuer, former CERN DG, which were shown at public events in Amsterdam, Brussels and
     Vienna. They received extensive media coverage including BBC, NBC, Nature, Frankfurter
     Rundschau, Die Welt and others, as well as social media promotion by CERN, STFC, the
     Ogden Trust, and the European Commission. We collaborated with CERN on a film “Busy
     bees and mighty magnets” which presents an unexpected example of knowledge transfer: how
     accelerator technology is helping to verify the authenticity of honey. The European
     Commission identified our public engagement activities as best practice.
 •   Regional engagement: McGrath was the University academic lead for the development of
     the Liverpool City Region Science and Innovation Audit published in 2017 and has acted as
     University representative at the Local Enterprise Partnership Innovation Board.

 4.3 Engagement with diverse communities

 Tactile Collider: this multi-sensory experience aims to
 communicate accelerator science to visually impaired
 audiences and was developed at the Cockcroft Institute
 in 2017. In July 2019 this project won the European
 Physical Society High Energy and Particle Physics prize
 for outreach and a “See Differently” award from the RNIB
 in November 2019 (REF2021 case study).

 Science Jamboree: aimed at young people (Beavers,
 Cubs and Brownies) the event enables young visitors to
 earn science badges through science activities             Figure 6: Chris Edmonds (left)
 developed by staff/student teams. 1,500 young people      demonstrating  the tactile collider
 have participated since 2016. We received a Community
 Partner Award from Merseyside Scouts and were invited to join a national collaboration
 investigating mentoring between UGs and local GCSE pupils (£0.5M, the Education Endowment
 Foundation).

 4.4 Contributions to the discipline, national and international leadership and service

 International leadership roles
 For ATLAS, M. Klein was chair of the Collaboration Board. Kretzschmar has been Standard
 Model working group convenor; D’Onofrio has been SUSY working group and Physics modelling
 convener. U. Klein was a Member of the Speakers Committee and then of its Advisory Board. For
 ALICE, Chartier is deputy chair of the Collaboration Board, and member of the Operations Board.
 Shears was the LHC Electroweak working group convenor. Casse is co-spokesperson of the
 RD50 project. In T2K and Hyper-K, McCauley convened the ND280 calibration group. Vossebeld
 is UK PI and Pixel Tracker Project lead for Mu3e. Burdin is responsible for LZ outer detector
 calibration system delivery. Touramanis was spokesperson for ProtoDUNE and co-lead in DUNE,
 and Chair of the CERN LHC Resource Scrutiny Group. Mavrokoridis is TPC manager, and
 Andreopoulos physics coordinator, in SBND. Andreopoulos is also co-spokesperson of the
 Genie collaboration. Page is the spokesperson of the ISS Collaboration and member of the
 ISOLDE Decay Station steering committee. Roles in AGATA include PSA team-leader (Harkness-
 Brennan), member of the management board (A. Boston), member of the collaboration council
 (H. Boston). Herzberg is spokesperson of the SHE@NuSTAR collaboration. Gaffney is a
 member of the ISOL-SRS Management Committee. Greenshaw is UK PI for the Cerenkov
 Telescope array and the Small Sized Telescopes project lead. McGrath is secretary-general of
 the 25-member European Network on Complex Metallic Alloys. Lucas leads the UK-CRG
 beamline XMaS at the ESRF.

                                                                                        Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 National Advisory Roles
 We have had national leadership roles include STFC Science Board Chair (Shears), and STFC
 Accelerator Science Board chair (Wolski). We have also contributed to national committees in
 STFC: PS&EAP (Gründer), Fellowships (D’Onofrio, Harkness-Brennan, Joss, Page, Shears),
 PPRP (D’Onofrio, Harkness-Brennan), PPGP (Vossebeld), PPAP (Burdin), UKCC (Shears),
 CERN UK Fellowships, ETCC (Shears), PPE programme (D’Onofrio), NPGP (Joss), NPAP chair
 (Boston, then Page), NuPECC (Nolan, then Herzberg), Small Awards Panel (Greenshaw),
 Newton Malaysia and GCRF (Harkness-Brennan). We have six Members of the EPSRC College
 and have participated in EPSRC panels, including Chair roles (Lucas, Veal, Weightman, Major).
 We have been members and chairs of facility review panels (Diamond, ISIS) (Clark, Gründer,
 Lucas, Veal), Shears is a member of the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship panel and also a
 member of the IOP nominations committee.

 International advisory roles
 Internationally we are represented on review activities in: ECFA (M Klein), CERN LHC Resource
 Scrutiny Group (Touramanis), US-CMS oversight (D’Onofrio), ESRF and Swiss Light Source
 beamline and proposal review panels (Lucas); Greece (Demokritos, and University of the Aegean
 - Touramanis), Spain (CSIC Particle Physics Panel - Casse); Academy of Finland (Shears), FCT
 Portugal (Shears, Butler), Foundation for Polish Science (McGrath, Dhanak), France (GDR
 Neutrino Scientific Council, Touramanis) , Australian Renewable Energy Agency (Durose), Qatar
 National Research Fund (Durose), and the Germany (GSI FAIR programme, Touramanis).
 Wolski sits on the DESY advisory board. Welsch coordinated 4 Marie Skłodowska-Curie ITNs
 during this REF period.

 Conference and other contributions
 Our researchers have given > 300 invited talks at national and international conferences, of which
 > 50 were plenary or keynote talks, and >200 invited colloquia at UK and non-UK universities and
 research institutes. Our staff have chaired >40 conferences during the REF period, served on >10
 editorial boards for academic journals and on IOP Group committees and supported the
 Merseyside branch of the IOP.

 Awards and Prizes
 Nolan was awarded the Rutherford Medal of the Institute of Physics in 2014. In 2016 members of
 the neutrino group shared the Breakthrough Prize for T2K. Kretzschmar was awarded the Altarelli
 Prize in 2016. Durose and Major were awarded the Institution of Chemical Engineers Global
 Award for Energy 2015. Weightman was a co-recipient of the IOP 2020 Rosalind Franklin Medal
 and Prize as a member of the Physics of Life steering group. Dainton is a Fellow of the Royal
 Society. Butler was awarded an honorary doctorate by the University of Jyväskylä (2019) and
 became a Fellow of the Royal Society in 2019.




                                                                                           Page 22
