Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northumbria at Newcastle
 Unit of Assessment: UoA 12 Engineering
 1. Unit context, structure, and research and impact strategy
 1.1. Overview
 The unit is composed of 125 staff (121.41 full-time equivalent (FTE)) from the departments of
 Mechanical and Construction Engineering (68 staff), Mathematics, Physics and Electrical
 Engineering (50) and Applied Sciences (7). This represents more than a fivefold increase in the
 number of staff members returned to the engineering unit of assessment in REF2014 (23 FTE),
 and it builds directly on the foundations of the University Strategy set up in 2013 (REF5a, section
 2).
 Our long-term vision for achieving research excellence in engineering has been to transform
 ourselves from an academic community of exceptional teaching and islands of research
 excellence into a unit renowned for its distinctive, pervasive and exceptional research. In order to
 achieve this, we have employed a strategy centred on (i) growing the extent (in both size and
 capacity) and the diversity of the research staff base, developing existing strengths in renewable
 energy, smart materials and communications, and driving new research agendas in civil and
 construction engineering (sections 1.2 and 2); (ii) creating complementary and connected
 research facilities through structured capital investment in our research infrastructure (section 3);
 and (iii) developing new, tailored processes and financial systems to grow, foster and sustain an
 ambitious, vibrant and engaged research community (sections 2, 3 and 4). Particularly noteworthy
 evidence for the success of the unit’s strategy is shown below.

  Evidence
  • Our leadership in setting research agendas is exemplified in the award of an EPSRC Centre
    for Doctoral Training in Renewable Energy Northeast Universities (CDT in ReNU) as a lead
    institution (£5.5M), involving 36 partners.
  • The impact of our research excellence in building information modelling (BIM) was
    recognised by the Times Higher Education, receiving the title of the ‘most innovative
    contribution to business–university collaboration 2017’ for our spin-out BIM Academy
    Enterprises Ltd.
  • Research innovation and working in partnership within the Unit are evidenced in a new Hub
    for Biotechnology in the Built Environment (HBBE), one of only thirteen such hubs,
    nationally awarded under the Research England Expanding Excellence initiative (£8M).
  • Our growth in research quality is reflected in an increase in the number of outputs published
    in journals with benchmark refereeing standards such as Nature stable journals, Science
    and PNAS (2 in REF2014, 27 in REF2021).
  • The relevance of our research to UKRI and other funders has resulted in awards in excess
    of £28M, by comparison with £5.3M during REF2014.
  • Our cohort of junior academics has secured 9 EPRSC First Grant and New Investigator
    Award schemes, by comparison with 1 during REF2014.
  • Our investment and prioritisation in developing future research leaders has led to a rise in
    PhD completion, which has grown to 145 from 33 during REF2014.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To support our growth, we have developed aspects previously highlighted by the REF2014 panel
 as ‘world-leading’, namely ‘advanced materials and manufacturing’ and ‘communications’,
 reconfigured our estate, and introduced exciting new interdisciplinary communities.
 1.2. Unit structure and achievements
 The unit is organised as shown in Fig. 1. In order to develop progressive, productive and engaging
 research communities with both identity and freedom to innovate and adapt, we have enlarged
 the number of our interdisciplinary research groups from three to five since REF2014. The
 research groups Renewable Energy Technologies and Materials and Photonics,
 Communications and Nonlinear Systems remain, while a new Civil and Construction group
 has emerged from close collaborations between construction project management and civil
 engineering teams. The former group Advanced Materials and Manufacturing has increased
 and branched out into two distinctive research entities: Smart Materials and Surfaces and
 Manufacturing and Engineering Materials.




   Figure 1: Unit organisation and alignment to university structure and global challenges (see
  REF5a, Fig. 1). The numbers designate the number of staff members. ‘Challenges’ are aligned
 to the North East Local Enterprise Partnership (NELEP) areas of strategic importance, the UKRI
  Industrial Strategy Grand Challenges and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
                                            (UNSDG).


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Growth was enabled through strategic university-wide investment in multidisciplinary research
 themes (MDRTs; REF5a, section 2.2) designed to address key regional, national and global
 societal challenges (see Fig. 1). Our MDRTs specifically aim to enhance the interdisciplinarity of
 our research while strengthening our core research groups through the development and strategic
 recruitment of staff. We underpin and lead the MDRT Energy Futures and actively contribute to
 the MDRTs Human & Digital Design, Extreme Environments and BioDesign for the
 Bioeconomy (section 1.3 and 4.3.3).
 Our research groups foster inclusive and engaging collaborations and have registered major
 achievements, a far-reaching influence and sustained growth across the unit, as exemplified in
 the following subsections.
 1.2.1. Renewable Energy Technologies and Materials
 The group focuses on renewable and sustainable solutions to meet energy demands. Areas of
 excellence include developing new photovoltaics and photocatalytic materials (#1); phase change
 materials and thermal energy storage and systems (#2); and power and control systems (#3).
 #1: Our innovations and leadership in energy materials have been enhanced through EPSRC core
 funding designed to advance research in photovoltaics and in fuel cells and through our role on
 national programmes such as NECEM (North East Centre for Energy Materials, EP/R021503/1)
 and PVTEAM (Photovoltaic Technology based on Earth Abundant Materials, EP/L017792/1). We
 lead Northumbria’s first EPSRC CDT (EP/S023836/1), which offers a pioneering training
 programme encompassing small-scale renewable and sustainable distributed energy, and we co-
 deliver the first international renewable energy postgraduate training programme in China (see
 section 4.2).
 #2: We have developed new phase change materials for latent heat storage systems for domestic
 heating via organic Rankine cycle turbines, which use accumulated thermal solar energy. Our
 expertise in concentrated solar thermal plant and storage for combined heat and power systems
 has produced a prototype in Spain (H2020 Innova MicroSolar €4.0M) and new product lines at the
 Aavid Thermal Division of Boyd Corporation for high temperature heat pipes and thermal storage
 and at Strategie SRL for a new control system.
 #3: Our power and control systems researchers have developed sector-leading models and
 solutions for the transition to net zero carbon emissions. These include how to (i) best integrate
 renewable energy, electric transport and electricity grids; (ii) develop smart chargers for electric
 vehicles (KTP009331 with Sevcon); and (iii) develop optimal controllers for sustainable energy
 management in order to achieve an efficient and stable operation for future microgrids. These
 projects define the route to future green and sustainable energy and transport systems.

  Examples of funding successes and partnerships
  • EP/N024389/1 (Zoppi), EP/T005491/1 and EP/R014884/1 (Beattie) for photovoltaic
    materials; EP/S032886/1 (Liu) for fuel cells;
  • EU ENTAS 622883 (Mahkamov) and THERMOSTALL 705944 (Costa, Mahkamov) for
    phase change materials;
  • The Royal Society ICA\R1\191201 and GCRF 414707599 (Mahkamov) for solar storage;
  • SEEV4-City EU Interreg (Putrus) and British Council IND/CONT/GA/18-19/22 (Putrus,
    Marzband) for energy systems and management.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.2. Photonics, Communications and Nonlinear Systems
 We have strengthened our research excellence in the area of communications and made exciting
 new developments in the areas of nonlinear and complex systems and photonics. Exemplified
 areas of success include optical wireless communications (OWC) (#1); nonlinear waves and
 photonics (#2); and complex and random systems (#3).
 #1: Our research in the fields of OWC technologies for ultra-fast and secure communication
 systems includes both indoor and outdoor environments as part of the 5G/6G wireless networks.
 We have developed (i) OWC systems for smart environments; (ii) novel polymer light-emitting
 diodes in OWC for both illumination and data communications; (iii) a higher data rate OWC link
 for delivering high-speed internet for rail passengers, in collaboration with the Network Rail
 Infrastructure Ltd and Tethir Ltd; (iv) a high-speed OWC link for the ‘last mile access’ network with
 ISOCOM Ltd; and (v) a simulator for future extraterrestrial free-space optical links with the
 European Space Agency.

 #2: We have developed specific research, which targets advancing dispersive hydrodynamics and
 its applications to optical and water wave systems. Our applications in nonlinear photonics have
 resulted in significant breakthroughs in both extreme compression of light pulses in fibre lasers (in
 partnership with LumOptica Ltd) and in the control of optical rogue waves in telecommunication
 systems for defence and security. We have recruited talented early-career researchers (ECRs) to
 form an exciting new photonics strand, with a focus on nano-, quantum and molecular optics:
 Sathian (co-inventor of the room temperature maser, Nature 2018); Ho and Zhu (optical vortex,
 micro optics and nanomanipulation techniques, e.g. Nature Photonics 2014); and Etherington
 (organic display, e.g. Nature Communications 2016).

 #3: Our research into modelling complex and random systems has led to (i) the introduction of
 novel paradigms for the use of complex networks in machine learning and artificial intelligence
 and (ii) the study of non-equilibrium and nonlinear magnetic phenomena aimed at the development
 of advanced data storage systems (Nature Nanotechnology 2016, Nature Physics 2017).

  Examples of funding successes and partnerships
  • H2020-MSCA-ITN VISION 764461, EU COST Action IC1101 and 19111 (Ghassemlooy)
    and EP/P006299/1 (Ghassemlooy, Le Minh) for OWC;
  • Innovate UK 6926 and EU ERDF (Ghassemlooy) for high-speed internet;
  • EP/R00515X/2 (El) and Royal Society IES\R2\170116 (Moro) for hydrodynamics and water
    wave systems;
  • DSTLX1000116851 (El) for nonlinear photonics in telecommunication systems;
  • Leverhulme Trust Grant RPG-2017-228 (Moro) for complex networks.


 1.2.3. Smart Materials and Surfaces
 The group develops functional-structural materials and fabrication strategies, including the
 directed assembly of complex, micro-constructed soft materials systems and their
 nanocomposites. We study how micro-structured surfaces can shape liquids and create super
 liquid-repellent, super slurp and super slippery surfaces (#1); how to manipulate droplets or liquid
 films (#2); and the production of sensing or actuating structures and micro-devices (#3).




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 #1: We have elucidated the process of dewetting (Science Advances 2016) and are applying this
 principle to liquid–liquid systems activated by electric fields. Our research has improved the flow
 of liquids in pipes and textured surfaces; and the subsequent development of slippery liquid-
 infused porous surfaces is being used to develop medical diagnostic applications, in partnership
 with QuantuMDx (KTP10797 and patent WO2019072940).
 #2: The discovery of the ‘Leidenfrost engine’ (Nature Communications 2015), which was both a
 mechanical engine achieving rotation and the first ever demonstration of a sublimation-based heat
 engine, offers new ways of controlling and creating Leidenfrost turbine surfaces. This research
 focuses on exploiting extreme environmental conditions, such as found in deep drilling and outer
 space, for the purpose of harnessing the vaporisation of liquids and ice at high-temperature
 differences. Achieving droplet control during evaporation has application in a broad range of fields
 (printing, heat transfer, cleaning), and we are investigating new mechanisms for controlling droplet
 motion during evaporation on the basis of hygrotaxis (Nature Communications 2018).
 #3: We use microfluidic channels to develop microgel systems (patent US20150294805) and
 surface acoustic waves to develop bio- and wearable sensors. The technology is further being
 developed through two KTPs – one with Epigem Ltd, rated as ‘outstanding’ by Innovate UK, and
 used for the diagnosis of infectious disease, the other with Hart Biological Ltd, used for the
 monitoring of patient drug levels (patent GB2577073A). By exploring soft matter mechanics, we
 have also developed a new optical sensing technology (Nature Communications 2020).

  Examples of funding successes and partnerships
  • EP/R036837/1 (Ledesma, McHale, Wells) and EP/L026899/1 (Xu) for dewetting and flow
    on texture surfaces;
  • EP/P026613/1 (Wells) and EP/S036857/1 (Semprebon) for slippery liquid infused porous
    surfaces;
  • EP/P005896/1 (Ledesma, McHale, Wells) and EP/N007921/1 (Xu) for Leidenfrost turbines
    and microfluidic systems;
  • EP/P024408/1 (Ledesma) and Royal Society RG150470 (Ledesma, Wells) for droplet
    motion;
  • EP/P018998/1 (Fu) and 3D-MIPS Attract-EU (777222) (Torun) for sensing.


 1.2.4. Manufacturing and Engineering Materials
 The group focuses on (i) developing the next generation of cutting-edge manufacturing
 technologies and processes; on (ii) improving manufacturing systems, organisation and
 sustainability; and on (iii) advanced materials such as nanocomposites, lightweight or functional
 materials. Areas of excellence include composite and polymer materials (#1), additive
 manufacturing (#2) and coatings (#3).
 #1: Our research on composite materials focuses on delivering new solutions for the automotive
 and aerospace sectors. This is evidenced by our leading position in research into composites for
 structural applications within the EU’s Graphene Flagship. Our research combines novel ‘concept’
 materials with the latest safety design approaches and aims to reduce the environmental impact
 of future structures through advanced, ultra-light graphene-based polymer materials, efficient
 fabrication and manufacturing processes, and life-cycle analysis.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 #2: Rapid prototyping research via sand casting and additive manufacturing allows the production
 of prototypes at a fraction of the time and cost required by established methods. This research
 has led to new [text removed for publication].

 #3: We have developed new bulk and thin-film coatings (i) for medical applications such as joint
 replacement; (ii) for [text removed for publication]; and (iii) for both subsea applications and shape
 memory alloys for microactuators used in hydraulic and pneumatic systems. Our research impact
 has opened multiple new product lines, factories and jobs (see section 4.1).

  Examples of funding successes and partnerships
  • EU Graphene Flagship (604391, 696656 and 649953) (Elmarakbi) for new composites
    research;
  • KTPs with Lear Corporation Ltd (11215) (Hackney, Unthank), Platinum Electrical
    Engineering Ltd (11021) (Hackney) and Cheaperwaste Ltd (12061) (Dai, Hackney) to
    increase manufacturing output via rapid prototyping;
  • Leverhulme Trust Grant RPG-2018-344 and EU-HePULSE (885534) (Birkett) for thin films;
  • EP/P019889/1 (Gonzalez Sanchez) for shape memory alloys.


 1.2.5. Civil and Construction
 This group supports a strong interdisciplinary team, which spans researchers in civil engineering,
 project management, construction, building information modelling and bioengineering. Areas of
 excellence are advanced structures and materials (#1), civil and geotechnical engineering
 challenges (#2); and digital environment informatics (#3).
 #1: A new research hub – the Hub for Biotechnology for the Built Environment (£8M; Research
 England), underpinned by EPSRC funding into computational colloids and ‘thinking soils’ – is
 producing buildings constructed from living engineered materials and responsive to their
 environment. Our research into microbe-based self-healing concrete supports a European test
 standard for RILEM. We lead the international working groups on cold-formed aluminium
 structures and off-site construction that led to policy development for Eurocodes 3 (steel) and 9
 (aluminium) and to four successful KTPs.
 #2 Our research into visualisation approaches has resulted in new live streaming sensor networks,
 processed through artificial intelligence and funded through collaborations with national agencies
 (Transport Scotland; Highways England), local authorities (South Tyneside Council), industry
 (Avametrix; Costain Group; Global Digital Systems Instruments) and utilities providers
 (Northumbria Water, subsequently solicited as a government research case study). In addition,
 our NERC-funded work, namely seven projects awarded since 2016, has underpinned decision-
 making on natural hazard threats to people and infrastructure (see section 4.3.3).
 #3 Our research into the digital environment has redefined digital transformation policies in
 national construction sectors (e.g. Brazil, Ireland, Mexico, Canada, Hong Kong) and has been
 central to major high-profile developments [text removed for publication]. We have developed a
 new building informatics digital toolkit, xBIM (extensible building information modelling), which has
 seen industry-wide uptake (21,486 users, as of November 2020), and our research successes
 have resulted in a multi-award-winning spin-out company: BIM Academy Enterprises Ltd.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Examples of funding successes and partnerships
   • EP/N005791/1 and EP/R003777/1 (Zhang) for thinking soils;
   • KTPs on steel structures with Intelligent Steel Solutions (11533) (Hackney, Nagaratnam,
     Poologanathan); Extraspace Solutions Ltd (123771) (Khaliq, Nagaratnam, Poologanathan),
     Redbrookes Ltd (12399) (Nagaratnam) and Project Advisors International (10761) (Benghi,
     Greenwood);
   • NE/T005653/1 (Lim, Martin, Torun); NE/P000010/1 (Lim); Scottish Road Research Board:
     Science and Innovation fund (2017; 2019) (Lim) for decision-making on natural hazards;
   • EU H2020 RINNO (892071) (Kassem) and Innovate UK (105882 and 105438) (Kassem,
     Greenwood) for digital building informatics.


 1.3. Impact strategy and interdisciplinary research
 Within the overarching approach of research power with quality (REF5a, section 2.1), the unit’s
 strategy for research impact is to stimulate significant beneficial changes that endure and grow,
 and to do so through meaningful, effective working relationships with research beneficiaries and
 by developing a specifically interdisciplinary focus. Building lasting collaborations with our external
 partners, research users and stakeholders has been a central feature of our pathway to an impact
 strategy (examples are given in section 4). This feature has been sustained through structured
 strategic investment in impact – which involves people, processes and funding streams – by
 tailoring and targeting support across four themes:
 (i)   deriving direct industrial benefits from scientific advances as a result of product development
       or improvement (e.g. impact case studies (ICSs) led by Birkett, Hackney, Shyha);
 (ii) consolidating, developing and expanding partnerships with non-academic users and
      beneficiaries at international, national and local levels (e.g. ICSs led by Kassem, Corradi);
 (iii) embedding greater interdisciplinarity, efficiency, resilience and sustainability into changing
       working and operational practice, then actively fostering these features (e.g. ICSs led by
       Greenwood, Lim);
 (iv) targeted promotion of and investment in engaging with beneficiary communities in order to
      facilitate the uptake of research innovations (e.g. ICSs led by Davenport, Mahkamov).
 Our impact strategy has been realised through (i) active research group communities that foster
 and develop coherent, ambitious and productive collaborations and research agendas; (ii)
 research-focused industrial advisory boards that refine and address business-critical and timely
 research problems; (iii) MDRTs that transcend conventional boundaries in order to achieve
 significant impacts beyond academia; and (iv) impact support infrastructures.
 Our ICSs reflect our achievements in transformative research-led change. For example, our
 continued advances in manufacturing technologies and new materials have led to the creation of
 19 jobs and new multimillion-pound production lines (ICSs led by Birkett and Hackney). New
 international and regional policies, along with the training of professionals, have arisen from our
 advances in research with digital data (ICS led by Kassem). Our leading research into new
 retrofitting methods has generated both new methods, which have been implemented
 internationally, in 8,650 restoration projects, alongside 75 new jobs (ICS led by Corradi). Our long-
 standing excellence in digital built environments has provided new open-source tools, which have
 contributed to dramatic increases in sector-wide productivity and in the accessibility of digital
 technologies (ICS led by Greenwood); more effective and potentially life-saving tools have been

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 introduced to reduce the threats of geotechnical instabilities (ICS led by Lim). Our pioneering
 concept development in the Theory of Change for science, technology, engineering and
 mathematics (STEM) education has impacted over 90,000 children from non-affluent areas and
 our resources and approaches have been widely adopted, for example by organisations from
 across North East England and in primary schools in Nigeria (ICS led by Davenport).
 This approach to impact has also been supported by the university’s investment in people (i.e. by
 the impact support team; see REF5a, section 2.3), and in processes (i.e. by the inclusion of impact
 activities as part of both the annual personal development objective setting and the promotion
 criteria, with their associated evidence base). We have created a unit academic impact lead (Lim),
 who works closely with colleagues and have a dedicated impact development fund. The lead
 delivers both regular training and tailored support, in impact and related activities, for members of
 staff at all career stages (e.g. when accounting for the needs of diverse and protected staff
 groups), fostering proactive and continuous engagement in the impact agenda. This engagement
 is reinforced for all staff members at appraisal (section 2).

  Example of developing impact through strategic support for staff
  Lim received support from the unit in the form of a high-specification processing machine
  designed to stimulate a new area of research in geohazard analysis. This led to a
  transformational advance in processing large datasets for wide-scale 3D monitoring surveys.
  The direct results were four consecutive years of UKRI funding, award-winning international
  collaborations, multiple high-impact publications in collaboration with indigenous Arctic
  communities, and [text removed for publication].


 Our impact strategy guarantees sustained support for and focus on (i) continuing and developing
 current successes and (ii) creating new areas of impact after REF2021. Maturing research areas
 are setting current impact agendas and addressing key national and international challenges.
 Examples include Le Minh in optical wireless data communications, Fu in cattle disease
 diagnostics, and Poologanathan in fire-resistant building materials.
 Interdisciplinary research has been integral to the unit’s successes and will be the cornerstone of
 future research growth. Interdisciplinary research is specifically supported by departmental
 directors of Research & Knowledge Exchange (Xu, Zoppi), and further enhanced by our drive to
 address global challenges such as climate change, clean growth, large-scale natural hazards and
 sustainability of resources and buildings. Such goals drive our involvement and investment in the
 MDRTs and are core to our leadership principles within the Energy Futures MDRT (led by Beattie).
 While our organisational structures and unit leadership provide strategic frameworks, targeted
 workshops and seed-corn funding to facilitate cohesive research, it is the drive and vibrancy of the
 unit’s staff that have defined the successful functioning, growth and empowerment of MDRTs (see
 further examples in section 4.3.3).
 1.4. Research integrity, open research and open data
 The unit builds on institutional policies (REF5a, section 2.5) to enhance the reach and significance
 of selected outputs. Financial support is provided for gold open-access article processing charges,
 resourced through both university- and unit-level funding.

 Data and analytical codes are now routinely made available as part of outputs using discipline-
 relevant Distributed Active Archive Centres (e.g. the UKRI Centre for Environmental Data


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Analysis). In addition, free to access data repositories such as ‘figshare’ (institutional license) and
 code-sharing platforms such as GitHub are actively promoted and widely used within our research
 groups. Providing access to our published data and analytical codes has enhanced the
 reproducibility, robustness and impact of our research outputs.
 No research project can be undertaken in the unit without an ethical audit having been conducted
 and approved. Our approach of intentionally incorporating open and inclusive ethical evaluations
 into formal training, research group discussions, mentoring and supervision processes firmly
 embeds good practice, with all its associated benefits, into the unit’s identity and effective
 operation.

   Evidence
   • An exemplar of code sharing is Warren’s gprMax, an open-source software released on
     GitHub that stimulated new user communities with a recent free training event attended by
     44 countries. The code has been used by Google Fiber, DSTL and the US Army Engineer
     Research and Development Center and implemented in the NASA Radar Imager for Mars.
   • All CDT supervisors are registered practitioners in Responsible Research & Innovation
     (RRI, a framework accredited by ORBIT-RRI) and subsequently train postgraduate
     researchers (PGRs) and colleagues, embedding RRI within the unit. This model has been
     presented as good practice to all UK CDT directors (September 2020, Beattie).


 1.5. Summary of transformation since REF2014
 After REF2014, our strategy has been to grow high-quality research. This has produced an
 orchestrated step change in the capability and capacity of the unit. The successes related to our
 strategic objectives (marked here in italics), as stated during REF2014, for the 2014–2021 period
 are as follows:
 (i)   Increase our research capacity and academic base through the appointment of high-quality
       staff. Our academic staff base has grown from 73 in 2013 to 133 in 2020, and there has been
       a >5-fold increase in submitted staff, from 23 in REF2014 to 125 in REF2021 (details in
       section 2).
 (ii) Increase our research capability through capital investment in state-of-the-art equipment and
      laboratories. We have more than doubled our investment in research-focused capital projects
      by doubling our engineering laboratory space and developing new specialist laboratories
      (details in section 3).
 (iv) Increase the number of research students with timely completion. Postgraduate researchers
      (PGR) completions have increased from 33 during REF2014 to 145 during the REF2021. The
      new figure includes 47 collaborative partner-funded PhDs that span industry (e.g. JC
      Consulting) and national authorities (e.g. Transport Scotland).
 (v) Expand our international collaborative network. The proportion of journal articles with
     international co-authors has increased from 54% in 2014 to 79% in 2020 – a percentage
     spread across 45 countries (data from SciVal October 2020).
 1.6. Future strategic aims and sustainability (2021–2028)
 Building on our current trajectory of expansion and enhancement of the staff base, sustained
 investment in state-of-the-art facilities, and innovative supporting processes, the unit aims to
 consolidate its advances and drive excellence by setting ambitious yet achievable goals, thus

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 realising the university’s wider strategic vision for 2030 (REF5a, section 1.2). We anticipate that
 global and national challenges such as responding to climate change, achieving net zero
 emissions and sustainable and efficient buildings, or exploring manufacturing and quantum
 technologies will dominate our research agenda. Our objectives for the next REF period are:
 (i)   to enable and diversify impact by engaging with industry and stakeholders in identifying
       engineering challenges and solving them to the benefit of society. We plan to drive growth
       around the themes of Manufacturing the Future, Energy and Healthcare Technologies;
 (ii) to empower our research groups so that they achieve self-sustaining research quality. We
      will also develop a nascent group in quantum and molecular photonics through further
      appointments, designed to support our recent intake of exciting ECRs, to enhance cohesion
      in the team and to secure dedicated laboratories and equipment for a new area of research
      excellence;
 (iii) to use our recent investments of both intellectual and infrastructure capital (section 3) in
       transport and aerodynamics to design multiscale engineering materials and systems for
       resilient applications in extreme environments;
 (iv) to nurture our large pool of ECRs so that they transition into research leaders, and to provide
      mentoring for our more junior staff members, helping them to gain recognition through
      (associate) professorships;
 (v) to continue to promote the theme Women in Engineering and ensure an appropriately diverse
     contribution to the future directions of the research agenda within the unit (see section 2). We
     will upgrade our Athena SWAN award to Gold (the first submission is due in late 2021) and
     continue our pioneering work with Northumbria University STEM (NUSTEM) towards inspiring
     the next generation of engineers.

 (vi) to further develop our excellence in digital construction through initiatives such as the
      proposed International Centre for Connected Construction (IC3), a £44M partnership with
      UKRI and North East Local Enterprise Partnership to maximise the impact of digital
      technology for safer, higher quality and better performing built assets.

 2. People
 2.1. Academic staff strategy and development
 To achieve the unit’s aim of ambitious but sustainable and structured growth in both research
 capacity and research capability, our staffing strategy relies on (1) creating conditions of inclusive
 development for our staff and PGR community; and (2) pursuing the rigorous and targeted
 recruitment of both internationally excellent research leaders and dynamic and exciting ECRs in
 emerging research areas.
 Our academic staff base has increased from 73 in 2013 to 133. Even more significantly, 93% are
 now independent researchers – academics with a significant responsibility for research, as defined
 in our code of practice (see REF5a, section 3.1.5) – by comparison with 34% in the last REF
 period (Fig. 2a). This increase includes 19 staff members not submitted to REF2014 who
 are now independent researchers. A strength of our strategy has been to exploit flexibly the
 diverse research expertise within the unit. Where possible, we work together to develop exciting
 and productive new collaborations within a supportive and inclusive research environment.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




    Figure 2: (a) Step change in our staff base. ‘Non-ind.’ designates academic staff without
  significant responsibility for research; ‘researchers’ designates postdoctoral researchers and
  KTP associates who are not independent. (b) Staff base in engineering, by grade and by REF
 ECR status of the 125 submitted staff. P stands for professor, AP for associate professor, SL for
                 senior lecturer, L for lecturer and VCF for vice-chancellor’s fellow.

 Fig. 2b gives an overview of our staff base, organised according to academic title and career
 stage. Since 2014 we have expanded and revitalised the academic staff base through the
 appointment of 83 research leaders and ECRs with an intentionally interdisciplinary perspective
 on research excellence, who recognise both its academic and its practice-based forms. The
 introduction of video conferencing screening interviews has enabled a truly diverse worldwide
 recruitment catchment, 22 out of the 83 new members being drawn from outside the UK. Fifteen
 professors and associate professors have been recruited over the period, providing an agenda-
 setting culture of research leadership.
 We have strategically developed staff capacity on the basis of current and emerging engineering
 challenges: we aimed for a critical mass that can achieve global recognition but is also sustainable,
 being matched with state-of-the-art facilities (section 3), and cohesive across multifaceted cross-
 disciplinary research groups. The development of the research environment has been further
 driven by structured research support (e.g. financial enabling funds of circa £50k per annum for
 the unit and internal output/proposal review panels).
 These initiatives are open to all, but particularly targeted at ECRs and staff members with less
 developed research profiles, as they aim to ensure inclusivity and access to resources for all staff.
 Examples include travel, collaboration-focused funds and specialist training, for example EPSRC
 mock panel events and internal review panels. This approach has been particularly successful in
 supporting new staff or ECRs to achieve a step change in the significance and reach of their work
 (see section 2.1.2).
 The allocation of financial support is considered by a mixed-gender, multi-career-stage panel that
 considers (i) the diversity and spread of funding across the unit, (ii) the applicant’s engagement
 with the wider support structures in place (research mentors, research development manager and



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research groups), and (iii) significance and potential rewards – which range from initiating a first
 research activity to leading large collaborative international funding proposals or networks.
 2.1.1. Recruitment, probation, mentoring and promotion
 All new appointees to the unit follow a standardised selection and interview process (REF5a,
 section 2.2) and a probation period is mandatory for all new starters, although the timing and
 delivery methods are flexible enough to allow for equality and fairness and to accommodate
 different expectations. A probation plan is agreed between the new starter and the head of
 department that links appropriate research objectives and career progression with support
 mechanisms (funding, mentoring and guidance) for achieving them. Progress against the plan is
 reviewed and supported thereafter by the research mentor on a monthly basis.
 Probation panels have independent representation from other units; this ensures parity and
 transparency. Individual circumstances such as extended periods of leave, or evolving situations
 such as cover for other staff, or change of roles, may dictate when various research objectives are
 assessed. Examples include supporting [text removed for publication] throughout a career break,
 and [text removed for publication] was given extra time to meet probation objectives after taking a
 leading role in developing the new Geotechnics laboratory.
 All members of staff are given (i) a research mentor focused on research output quality
 enhancement and research plan development, either progressively or supportively (in the case of
 researchers returning from leave), and (ii) a Higher Education Academy (HEA) mentor focused on
 teaching practice development and on progress towards becoming an HEA fellow. A key role for
 our research mentors is to challenge mentees’ level of ambition, so that they aim for the most
 prestigious outlets for their research and achieve the greatest international reach. Research
 mentors are also responsible for supporting researchers through probation, a long-term illness, or
 personal circumstances such as caring responsibilities.
 Mentors are expected to help staff members map themselves against the promotion criteria and
 create a personalised route map for promotion (REF5a, section 3.4). During the REF period, the
 unit achieved 7 promotions to professorship, and 20 senior lecturers were promoted to associate
 professorships. The unit has used this rigorous and supportive process to balance internal
 progression with the recruitment of exceptional external scholars.
 2.1.2. ECRs
 In REF2014 we submitted 10 staff members who met the REF2014 ECR definition. Since then the
 unit has invested significantly in the development of this cohort of researchers, not least by
 appointing 54 new ECRs.

  Example of ECR support and career development
  Liu joined the unit in 2015 as a lecturer, receiving tailored support in grant preparation from
  the unit. He was mentored through the process by Xu and his underpinning research was
  enabled through unit funds (equipment, consumables and travels). As a direct result of this
  investment, guidance and support, Liu has successfully achieved several grants, including an
  EPSRC New Investigator Award in 2019 (EP/S032886/1). He received due recognition
  through the title of associate professor in 2020.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The appointment of ECRs via the VCFs scheme (REF 5a, section 2.2.3) has been essential to the
 development of exciting research areas that are emerging. Examples include Sathian, Ho, Zhu
 and Etherington in photonics and Longo, Walley, Tiwari, and Hutter in energy materials.
 ECRs have benefited from targeted infrastructure and equipment funding and from larger group
 investment. Alongside all new staff, they are supported with a PhD studentship if they are in a
 position to capitalise on this support) and a flexible budget on arrival that helps them to establish
 research directions, develop collaborations and integrate fully into the unit’s research culture.

  Example of supporting VCFs to become established academic staff
  Zabiegaj joined the unit in 2017 as a VCF and was awarded £30k to purchase a tensiometer
  for the characterisation of absorbing foam and nanoparticles in order to reduce pollution from
  transport. Her research is now expanding into pulmonary surfactants via a unit-sponsored PhD
  student in 2018. She successfully transitioned to senior lecturer in 2020.


 ECRs receive collegiate support in the form of highly restricted administrative duties and lighter
 teaching loads; VCFs start with 10 teaching credits in their first year, building up to 30 by the third.
 This gives them the time they need for intellectual development and the physical resources,
 infrastructure and guidance for building a strong research profile. Several VCFs have already
 transitioned to senior lecturer during the REF period after successfully completing their probation
 (e.g. Kirillov, Semprebon and Warren).
 The university runs an ECR Forum, and the ECRs’ voice is influential through both Research &
 Knowledge Exchange committees and the implementation of feedback from the Careers in
 Research Online Survey. Representatives of the unit’s self-organised ECR network, which is led
 by Zabiegaj and Iacocca, attend (i) departmental management groups, to ensure that inclusive
 perspectives and ideas are considered in the running of individual departments, and (ii) MDRT
 steering groups, where they contribute to defining wider research directions at an institutional
 level. ECR events supported by central research services have included, for example, a ‘world
 café’-style event devoted to improving our research culture, and researcher resilience events
 facilitated by external consultants.
 2.1.3. PDA and sabbaticals
 A biannual performance and development appraisal (PDA) system is used for formulating and
 reflecting on an individual’s ‘research and innovation plan’. Researchers are encouraged to specify
 stretching but achievable objectives related to publication, research grant applications, impact,
 enterprise or knowledge exchange, and public engagement. Set alongside teaching and
 administrative objectives, this plan is facilitated through engagement with our clearly defined
 support structures to continually raise grant application and output quality.
 The unit runs a research sabbatical scheme. Sabbaticals for one semester are allocated through
 a competitive application process, informed by a track record of high-quality publications and
 external funding, along with plans for external engagement and impact and for the strategic and
 inclusive development of the unit. All staff members are encouraged to apply every seventh
 semester, regardless of their FTE hours. Incoming colleagues, so long as they have navigated
 probation, can access the scheme more quickly, and sabbatical opportunities are especially
 promoted for staff members on return from career breaks or other periods of leave. Examples of
 the diverse work that has been achieved across all career stages through sabbaticals include the
 development of successful proposals such as a responsive flagship CDT call (Zoppi); starting

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 grants (Ledesma) and a new research fellowship followed by a period of research at leading
 European institutions (Gao); focused research time devoted to underpinning impact development
 (Benghi, Fu, Shyha; Hackney); and personal and mentored development towards research
 independence (Li; Osborne).
 2.1.4. Postdoctoral researchers (PDRAs)
 The unit upholds the principles set out in the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers (REF5a, section 3.4). On the date of the census, it has 32 PDRAs, in comparison to
 8 in 2013. We deliver independence mentoring to PDRAs and allocate project time for work
 towards achieving personal research outcomes. We introduced mandatory training for principal
 investigators to support an appropriate developmental culture for PDRAs. PDRAs are also part of
 the developmental PDA system and have access to the same training portfolio as our academics.
 Our policy is to actively invest in fixed-term members of staff, assisting them in their applications
 for permanent contracts. For example, Agrawal, Benassi and Congy transitioned from PDRAs to
 lecturers after competitive recruitment processes.
 2.2. Postgraduate researchers (PGRs)
 We have 117 postgraduate students registered for a doctorate degree in engineering in 2019/20;
 and 145 PhDs have been awarded since 2014 (see Fig. 3 for distribution and postgraduate output
 contributions).

 Funding for PGRs within the unit is divided between university-funded studentships (see strategy
 in REF5a, section 2.2), industry, the EPSRC CDT in ReNU, the European Regional Development
 Fund (ERDF), the NERC-funded One Planet Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP), Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Networks (ITN Kestcells and Vision), the Defence Science
 and Technology Laboratory in the Ministry of Defence (DSTL/MoD), overseas governmental
 organisations, and self-funded students. During the REF period, 52% of our PGRs received
 external funding to cover their fees and stipend. Additionally, we provide doctoral studentships as
 part of match funding for large grant applications, integrating postgraduate students into strong,
 agenda-setting programmes and networks. We have supported five staff members – Harrington,
 Edmondson, Ponton, Tindall, Weirs – to undertake a PhD, enabling skills enhancement and the
 expansion of high-quality research within the unit.




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




       Figure 3: Number of PGR completions by year (columns with numbered totals) and
              postgraduate output generation (red line). Source: Web of Science.

 2.2.1. Student progression
 Each student meets regularly, at least monthly, with his or her principal supervisor and has at least
 one other internal academic supervisor. Monthly meetings are documented and record progress
 and objectives with our online e:Vision tool, which also allows for the monitoring of student
 engagement and progression. The process is overseen by the Graduate School (REF5a, section
 3.5) and assessed at an initial project approval stage in month 4, then two progression reviews
 follow for full-time students, in months 11 and 23. Milestones include a written report and a viva
 with an internal examiner, both designed to formally review progress, set the objectives and
 identify training and resource needs. We aim to foster the highest quality level in our graduates’
 work through research group support and through inclusion in the development of research
 projects (e.g. Qu, Xu, Ruiz-Gutierrez, Orme and Campbell were successfully appointed to PDRA
 positions).
 Challenges faced by students throughout the COVID-19 pandemic have been acknowledged and
 responded to with increased flexibility in the adaptation of research plans, extension of deadlines
 for internal reporting, and provision of a suite of mental health and well-being support measures
 including counselling.
 2.2.2. Student training and support
 All PGRs enrol on the university’s Professional Development and Researcher Training
 Programme, which is mapped onto the four Vitae domains: intellectual abilities, personal
 effectiveness, research governance, and engagement. Training involves unit-specific sessions,
 often delivered through research group workshops or presentations and online interactive courses.
 Students who are part of CDTs, DTPs or ITNs access additional advanced training, which is built
 into programmes designed to equip future research leaders in their field; some of this training is
 open to all PGRs.




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All PGRs can attend a three-day course on introduction to teaching that enables them to get
 involved in academic activities with undergraduates, equipping them for careers beyond the
 successful completion of the thesis.
 2.2.3. Postgraduate environment and engagement
 PGRs in the unit are based in research suites located adjacently to staff offices that allow access
 to common spaces shared between students and staff. Postgraduate offices offer individual
 workstations with further hot-desking facilities within laboratories. Since 2018 our students are
 also able to access (i) dedicated areas within the new Research Commons in the City Library; (ii)
 collaborative and networking space for digital and open scholarship, with bookable rooms for
 reading, meetings and consultation; and (iii) expert face-to-face support across the research
 spectrum.

  Examples of PGR development
  • Aggarwal (Northumbria’s IEEE Student Branch lead) received the Region 8 Regional
    Exemplary Student Branch Award in 2019. Aggarwal also chaired the Women in
    Engineering Affinity Group 2015–2018 and in 2017 organised the first Women in Research
    event, which was followed by an International Women’s Day.
  • Angelis received specific IT support to set up a Google group for ground-penetrating radar
    (GPR) modelling that now assists 275 researchers worldwide; and he co-led the
    organisation of an online workshop on GPR processing funded by the unit.
  • Ranaweera joined the Brilliant Club’s Scholars Programme and tutored in school and sixth
    form colleges to help pupils from underrepresented backgrounds to access university.
  • Hayes was supported in an application to the European Network INTERACT for equipment
    funds and travel to Arctic Canada, where he hosted a Reddit ‘Ask Me Anything’ session on
    his research on the impacts of permafrost degradation on communities, under climate
    change, and attracted c.37,000 views and 200 questions in 24 hours.


 All PGRs have access to a budget designed to cover their research expenses and travel (the
 amounts depend on the funder). Students are also encouraged to be proactive and organise their
 own specialist conferences and training events. Additionally, it was a collective and coordinated
 request from the postgraduate community within the Civil and Construction research group that
 led to our institutional membership of the Construction Industry Research and Information
 Association. Supervisory teams give advice on how to access external research funding from
 EPSRC networks, the Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal Society of Chemistry or the
 Institute of Physics; the applications of Amirkhalili, Campbell, Nwankwo, Qu, and X.Xu have been
 successful. PGRs in the unit are supported by our staff to become actively involved with
 professional bodies in the Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET), the Institute of
 Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE), the Chartered
 Institution of Building Services Engineers (CIBSE) and the Institution of Mechanical Engineers
 (IMechE) – and their local branches (section 2.3).
 Attendance at relevant research group meetings and seminars is mandatory for all PGRs in
 engineering, as it embeds them into the unit’s research practices. Students are also required to
 present their research at a dedicated annual postgraduate conference, to provide a supportive
 and inclusive research culture, and to foster cross-disciplinarity. Student conferences are
 organised by a postgraduate student planning committee, under the guidance of the unit’s


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 postgraduate leads (Jovanovic and Rahmati) and postgraduate director (Shyha), who secure
 inclusive representation and additional development opportunities for PGRs.
 2.3. Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
 The unit recognises that diversity, addressing inequality and creating vibrant and inclusive
 research environments is fundamental to our success and sustainability. We are strongly
 committed to an equality and diversity agenda that fosters mutual respect and an inclusive and
 empowering culture for all. Athena SWAN departmental self-assessment teams led by Gao and
 Burluka are actively working towards award submissions in 2021, while Penlington is co-leading
 a Northern Power Inclusion Matters initiative (EP/S012206/1) that aims to shape an actively
 inclusive culture in the Engineering and Physical Sciences community. This initiative sustains
 greater equality for all, including people of different genders, ethnicities, sexual orientations and
 (dis)abilities.
 A pervasive strategy throughout the unit’s growth and development has been to diversify
 engagement within the discipline, both directly, through the growth of our own staff base (Fig. 4),
 and indirectly, through focused initiatives. This strategy is reflected in a threefold approach: (i) a
 continued investment of efforts and resources into redressing, through our NUSTEM initiative
 (section 4.2), the imbalance that affects young people from Black, Asian and minority ethnic
 (BAME) and disadvantaged socioeconomic backgrounds who choose engineering as a career; (ii)
 a consciously flexible and inclusive strategy for recruitment and working practices that is overseen
 by Athena SWAN departmental committees; and (iii) compulsory and accessible professional
 training for all staff, designed to raise awareness and reduce the occurrence of unconscious bias
 (REF5a, section 3.6).




  Figure 4: (a) Gender, (b) nationality and (c) ethnicity diversification in the unit during the REF
       period. Our REF2 attribution profile of outputs closely aligns to this diversification.

 In our recruitment process we take appropriate positive action, wherever possible, to address the
 under-representation of women in the unit. We look to advertise posts across a wide range of
 recruitment websites, and we promote options around flexible working arrangements and benefits
 in order to increase our appeal to a broader pool of candidates. All adverts for staff and
 postgraduate     positions    are     checked   for    gender-coding     words     (http://gender-
 decoder.katmatfield.com); all interviews are conducted by mixed-gender panels whose members
 – of diverse backgrounds, wherever possible – have completed a fair selection and unconscious
 bias training. Whenever possible, research seminars and committees are scheduled during core
                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 hours (10 a.m. to 4 p.m.), to facilitate the attendance of staff with caring responsibilities, and out-
 of-hours emails are discouraged. Where institutional timetabling protocols allow, we aim to keep
 one day per week free of teaching for each member of staff – and more than one where timetable
 constraints allow.
 The unit supports university-wide engagement with the Race Equality Charter and its BAME staff
 network (REF5a, section 3.6) and has taken a proactive approach to the theme Women in
 Engineering by reducing gender inequality and showcasing the contributions of female engineers.
 In 2014 we did not submit any female academics as part of our submission to General
 Engineering. For REF2021, by contrast, a fifth of our submission is composed of female staff. Unit
 funds and resources have supported new initiatives to increase diversity in engineering and in
 STEM professions more broadly. Our rich diversity and our ability to make recruitments with a truly
 global reach are reflected in the fact that more than half of our staff consists of members who hold
 non-UK citizenship (Fig. 4b) and contribute to our multicultural environment.

  Examples of leading EDI initiatives
  • Edmondson organised and led an ICE200 event involving a series of workshops in order to
    explore the challenges and strengths of diversity. It culminated in the launch of a
    longitudinal research project designed to track the progression of 200 female and 200 male
    engineers at 3-year intervals, which provided unique insights by identifying both barriers to
    career advancement and ways to address them.
  • Costa and Zabiegaj are working with IMechE, leading and delivering keynote addresses at
    the International Women in Engineering Day, which has been hosted and organised by our
    unit for the past three years.
  • Combrinck was supported by the unit to train in the Cross-Institutional Action Learning for
    Women programme, which focuses on career enhancement and networking opportunities
    and has since been nominated by the IMechE for the 2020 Karen Burt Memorial Award.
  • Ponton was supported to establish a mentoring scheme for Women in Construction, linking
    the unit’s staff and students with industry, so as to provide female leadership, mentoring
    and help retention in the sector.


 The unit recognises that good physical and mental well-being is fundamental to our vitality and
 delivering sustainable research. A well-being hub provides a range of supporting materials,
 including access to a Health Advantage app that supplies proactive well-being tools, and additional
 guidance for navigating the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic (e.g. guides to remote
 working). Mental health is supported through training programmes and guided sessions and a
 well-being calendar of all relevant events, and the Employee Assistance Programme provides
 guidance and tools for achieving work-life balance (see REF5a, section 3.6), as well as 24 hour
 counselling service and tailored support and networks for new staff arrivals.




                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Examples
  • [text removed for publication], a scientist specialising in computational materials and
    defects in them, was offered additional office space in order to create a physically separate
    research environment. This has prompted us to reconsider the needs of our unit’s
    computational specialists more widely.
  • After a career break, [text removed for publication] was mentored by Beattie and
    subsequently awarded a Daphne Jackson Fellowship (2014–16), and she is now pursuing
    an academic career.

 The construction of our REF submission was compliant with all the EDI principles and practices
 set out in our Code of Practice. Research outputs were judged on the basis of quality, regardless
 of an author’s protected characteristics. The best outputs from each staff member were identified
 through a combination of personal and double internal and external peer assessment. All staff
 members were invited to take part in internal peer review and calibration exercises, the unit lead
 (Zoppi) acting as a moderator. While eligible outputs of former staff were considered, those of
 current staff were prioritised for submission when peer reviews were of equal quality. All available
 EDI data were taken into account to ensure that the selected outputs were representative of the
 submitted staff pool and research topics.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1. Research income and organisational strategies
 The unit’s strategy of developing communities of high-quality researchers, who work at the
 forefront of global challenges, has resulted in a substantial increase in awards and expenditure.
 During the REF period we have successfully secured over 170 research grants and contracts
 exceeding £28M.

  Evidence
  Income: We have increased the quantity and diversity of awards and the overall size of
  research income (RGCI) from £2.9M in REF2014 to £10.2M for REF2021 (yearly trajectory
  shown in Fig. 5).
  Knowledge exchange: Our dedicated team of business development managers has helped
  colleagues to achieve a 100% success rate in knowledge transfer partnership applications,
  securing 16 KTPs (and another 5 since the census date) during the period, in comparison to
  4 during REF2014.


 Highlight projects from the unit’s research income include:
    •   EPSRC CDT in ReNU (£5.5M, Barrioz, Beattie, Zoppi) as a lead institution, with Durham
        and Newcastle Universities and 35 supporting partners;
    •   Hub for Biotechnology in the Built Environment (Research England, £8M total, £3.7M to
        Northumbria, Zhang). Driving major growth, further supported via the BioDesign for the
        Bioeconomy MDRT;
    •   EU H2020 Innova-Microsolar (€4.0M, Mahkamov lead), designed to enhance the
        application of solar thermal energy in domestic and small business sectors for power and
        heat production;


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   EU H2020 ITN Vision (€3.8M, £455k to Northumbria, Ghassemlooy, Le Minh) a training
        programme for visible light communication research for smart cities and homes,
        transportation, and medical applications;
    •   EPSRC Photovoltaic Technology based on Earth Abundant Materials – PVTEAM (£2.0M,
        £478k to Northumbria, Forbes), which aims to develop resilience and sustainability in
        energy materials;
    •   EU H2020 RINNO (€4.8M, £265k to Northumbria, Kassem), designed to increase building
        energy efficiency for renovation projects;
    •   EU Interreg North Sea Region SEEV4-City (€5.0M, £270k for Northumbria, Putrus), that
        aims to develop the uptake of electric vehicles by integrating renewable energy sources;
    •   Leverhulme Trust Research Project Grant (£225k, Birkett), which developed superhard
        biocompatible coatings.
 Improvements in grant success rates within the unit are underpinned by our research structures
 and culture. Processes of grant application development and grant management are coordinated
 by the university’s Research and Innovation Services (RIS) office. Funding calls, tailored
 newsletters summarising current opportunities, and UKRI and UKRO funding-related news are
 disseminated via email, call briefing events and workshops, social media, and dedicated intranet
 pages accessible to all staff. Additional resources are available to all members on the intranet and
 include funder information packs, templates for letters of support, bite-size guides and examples
 of previous successful grants on a range of funding topics and sources.




   Figure 5: Transformation of grant success culture in our engineering unit. Evolution in the
 number of awards (blue line), as well as growth in RGCI (columns) and RGCI per FTE (red line).

 To enhance success rates for funding applications, departmental directors of research, supported
 by MDRT and research group leaders, are alerted once prospective applications are uploaded to
 our Agresso management systems, so that internal peer review by an appropriate subject expert
 can be arranged. Our emphasis on personal, career stage-appropriate support recognises the




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 diversity of our staff base and ensures equitable access to support for funding applications. The
 results of our income strategy can be seen in Fig. 5.

 The unit’s experience and proven practice, shared through research groups, has been a vital
 element in the increase of our RGCI across the staff base. We also acknowledge that many of our
 ECRs have yet to fully contribute to the growth of RGCI (given the lags between recruitment,
 awards and RGCI), and therefore provide a strong platform for further growth. Recent successes
 from our ECRs post-census date confirms this trend and sustainable strategy, e.g. Tiwari (£607k,
 EP/V008692/1), Ho (£373k, EP/V040030/1), Khaliq (£223k, Innovate UK), Qu and Rasul (£236k
 and £50k, respectively from British Council), and Sathian (awards from Research England and the
 Royal Society).

  Examples of support for the development of winning grant applications
  • ECR Writing Retreats allow dedicated space and time for continued formative feedback on
    proposals in development.
  • The ‘impact in funding bids’ initiative supports principal investigators (PIs) in developing
    frameworks for pervasive impact throughout the proposal.
  • ‘Fellowship Ready’ sessions support ECRs and the Next Generation of Large Award
    Holders programme helps researchers who have already won small to medium-sized grants
    to transition to larger-scale applications.
  • Our research development managers in RIS work closely with researchers, providing
    bespoke support to PIs through pre-award and post-award officers, and our business
    development managers work alongside researchers to build and foster relationships with
    non-academic partners (section 4.1).


 In 2014 the unit also revised its internal finance models in order to invest quality-related funding
 directly in postgraduate activities aligned with research quality enhancement, and developed a
 new overhead-sharing financial model (Research & Enterprise Rewards Scheme) designed to
 incentivise, reward and sustain new areas of impact, success and growth.

  Examples of benefits from the Research & Enterprise Rewards Scheme
  • Xu used the scheme to hire Wang after thesis submission in order to explore a new
    phenomenon that arose from the PhD research. This led to a high-impact publication in
    Advanced Functional Materials and a third place at the EPSRC photo competition in 2017.
  • Beattie commissioned high-quality renderings for a successful Advanced Manufacturing
    interview panel (EP/T005491/1).


 All staff members can apply for unit-managed funds to support networking, data collection,
 presentations of significant esteem, or the hosting of workshops. The outcomes from this outward-
 looking resource are tracked by the unit lead (Zoppi) and applied reflexively and responsively, in
 order to continually raise the unit’s profile, embed our researchers in world-leading networks, and
 ultimately support high-quality impact and income generation. Sabbatical leave plays a key role
 here by providing the time for staff to write grants (see section 2.1.3).




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Evidence
  Our ECR support via unit funds, research development managers and probation objectives
  has resulted in a 1 to 9 increase in the number of ECR awards since REF2014, all coming
  from EPSRC First Grant and New Investigator Award schemes.


 3.1.1. Technical research support
 In parallel with increasing the numbers and the potential of its academic staff, the unit has
 restructured its technical team, which has 22 permanent technicians supported by 2 technical
 managers and by PhD qualified experimental officers. The technical team oversees health and
 safety in the laboratories and provides researchers and PGRs with training on specialised
 equipment. The experimental officers manage capital-intensive specialist hardware and complex
 apparatus, so as to ensure maximum utilisation, efficient productivity, and high quality of data. For
 example, Maiello is responsible for our materials characterisation suite, overseeing all electron
 microscopy, ion beam and X-ray work. Our experimental officers contribute to the generation and
 analysis of research data and actively (co-)author research outputs. They are complemented by
 an IT team of seven that provides dedicated support to staff and PGRs.
 3.2. Infrastructure and facilities
 The engineering unit is located in two adjacent buildings on the university city campus; all
 laboratories are within the Ellison building, totalling approximately 1,500 m2. During the REF period
 we have invested over £11M in our estates and facilities (more than twice as much as during
 REF2014); this figure includes a £3.2M contribution from HEFCE. Expenditure was split between
 equipment (55%) and estates (45%). This investment has been used to renew and update
 essential equipment, extend the capacity and equipment base of existing research groups, and
 support exciting new research activities, opportunities and progressive developments. We have
 refurbished over 90% of our engineering laboratory space and have nearly doubled the physical
 footprint of our laboratories. A few notable investments are described below.
 The Smart Materials and Surfaces Laboratory (SMSL), setup in 2013/2014, has now doubled in
 size, to accommodate the rapid growth of the Smart Materials and Surfaces group. It is a state-of-
 the-art laboratory, fully equipped with dark space, fume hoods and high-specification equipment
 such as contact angle goniometers, tensiometers and fluorescence microscopes used to
 understand and exploit the fundamental physics and engineering of liquid–solid interactions. We
 have also created an adjacent specialist lithography room for the design and manufacture of
 surfaces (£460k).

  Evidence
  The capital investment in the SMSL has supported eight EPSRC grants (a total of £2.2M)
  during this period and directly led to collaborative KTPs with QuantuMDx and Hart Biologicals.


 We have fully refurbished and extended the Communication Laboratory, which now integrates
 both visible light and cellular network communication teams within a dedicated space (£410k). We
 have acquired new deposition systems to cope with the increased demand from our research
 groups for thin film and coating fabrication (£300k).
 A new Material Characterisation Laboratory, housing our electron-, ion- and photon-based
 equipment, now provides cutting-edge facilities for all our research group activities. We have

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 invested in a new high-resolution scanning electron microscope and in a new powder X-ray
 diffractometer (£1.4M). The facilities are also used by industry, [text removed for publication].
 We have extended our machining and prototyping facilities through the addition of 5-axis computer
 numerical control machining and a range of 3D printers, forming machines and laser cutters that
 total over 30 individual tools available to all staff and students (£970k). This inclusive approach
 fosters a research community that can benefit from access to cutting-edge equipment and from
 knowledge transfer and consultancy opportunities; it also ensures that sought-after specialist skills
 are developed from undergraduate through to postgraduate level, to produce high-skilled ECRs.
 We have invested in new Geophysics, Hydrology, Structures, Geotechnics and Highways
 Engineering Laboratories and redesigned and expanded the Concrete Laboratory, equipping it
 with a new 3D concrete printer and a large-scale covered outdoor working space with a closed
 system designed to remove contaminants for safe disposal; this development underpins our
 collaborative research with Lynx Precast, MMC Engineer Ltd, and Extraspace Solutions Ltd. The
 unit’s researchers now have access to the latest large-scale flumes and rainfall simulators for
 collaborative research with utilities companies, urban planners and dam construction projects.
 They use ground-penetrating radar systems, 3D vibrometers, seismic detection equipment, 3D
 laser scanners, drones and geomatics equipment to monitor natural hazards and to alert national
 and international agencies about their imminent threat; and they test and analyse new road
 materials in collaboration with [text removed for publication] (£1.3M).
 We have refurbished all existing wet processing laboratories and created new ones, nearly
 doubling our capacity to support the unit’s expansion into new areas such as nanomaterials and
 printed electronics. We have also created multiple flexible-space laboratories in order to allow the
 rapid deployment of experiments, develop prospective collaborations and facilitate
 multidisciplinary projects (£460k). We have undertaken an overhaul of our space for PhD students,
 with a view to creating a friendly and productive atmosphere, giving direct access to laboratories
 and promoting interactions between research groups that share common agendas (£210k).
 To address an increasing demand, from our researchers, for large data processing, informatics,
 and sophisticated modelling, at the end of the last REF period we invested £460k in a high-
 performance computing (HPC) Oswald cluster. We have further upgraded the HPC (£360k), which
 now contains two clusters with 1,216 cores for processing, a graphics processing unit (GPU) node,
 dedicated visualisation nodes and 571 TB parallel storage and allows the unit to address
 increasingly computationally demanding research problems (e.g. Whalley, Rasul, Tiwari).
 Additional GPU and CPU power has been accessed at national facilities (e.g. Warren: EPSRC
 Jade Tier-2 HPC and HPC-Europa3).
 3.2.1. External facility access and collaborations
 To foster external networks and access to high-quality instrumentation and data sources not
 available internally, we proactively encourage and target collaborations and partnerships. We
 routinely access X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy at Newcastle NEXUS (formerly a national
 facility), as well as their ion beam facility (Fu, Rasul, Liu). Zoppi worked with Surrey’s Ion Beam
 Centre for implantation and reference specimens and with the Horiba France SAS R&D centre in
 Saclay-Paris, France for mass spectroscopy (EP/N024389/1), while Etherington accessed the
 Diamond Light Source (RAL) for crystal structures.
 A formal collaboration has been established with Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
 (EP/R014884/1 and CDT in ReNU), allowing access to in situ and operando electron microscopy



                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 techniques (Beattie, Qu) that complement those available at the York JEOL Nanocentre and at
 Durham’s GJ Russell Microscopy Facility (Barrioz, Hutter, Qu, Zoppi).
 We have routinely used (i) the Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems (Beattie) to perform
 concentrated sunlight measurements; (ii) clean room facilities at Durham University (Agrawal,
 Woods) and at ETH Zurich (Torun EU-COST-MP1407 and EU-ATTRACT_3D-MIPS-ID270); and
 (iii) radionuclide research facilities at the Institute of Energy and Climate Research at
 Forschungszentrum Julich, Germany (Lewis EP/P004873/1 and Royal Society of Chemistry
 Researcher Mobility Grant KE2466).

  Example of impactful collaboration
  Our collaborations with AkzoNobel (Unthank) yielded two industrially funded PhD students,
  two patents and the sharing of research facilities and equipment across the university and
  industrial sites, as well as the donation to the unit of thermal analysis equipment for polymer
  and materials studies.


 3.3. Future estates plan
 To drive research excellence and support our researchers, we will make further investments in
 our estates. Key priority items for the unit’s five-year strategic plan to 2025 are a redevelopment
 of the thin-film fabrication laboratory (£1M, partly funded by the North East LEP’s Energy for
 Growth fund); new wet laboratories for research on nanomaterials; and a new space for the
 International Centre for Connected Construction (IC3, see section 1.6).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, the economy and to society
 The unit promotes both fundamental and applied research in order to advance the frontiers of
 engineering and offer effective solutions to partners and collaborators. We have achieved this
 through sustained investment in new international research networks; strategic developments to
 support research groups with specialist capital and spaces; and protected, research-focused time
 for our staff.
 The unit’s research has created new systems that aim to drive economic growth (section 4.1),
 educate and transfer knowledge, reduce inequalities, and prompt influential networks to engage
 with diverse communities and publics (section 4.2). Our interdisciplinarity is forging exciting new
 developments in engineering and achieving academic reach that is now demonstrably global
 (section 4.3).




                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Evidence
  Across the unit we have achieved:
  • industrial influence and impact – through new products that arose from contributions to 41
    patent awards; 44 externally funded collaborations with industry; and leading roles in 15
    professional body networks;
  • new policy and process definitions – by having key roles in more than 20 international
    networks and by influencing national-level decision-making in more than 10 countries;
  • academic significance – through 64 academic honours and awards; 98 memberships of
    industrial, governmental or international advisory boards; more than 152 invited
    presentations and keynotes; the organisation of 76 conferences; and 45 editorial positions
    secured.


 4.1. Major industrial collaborations and economic stimulus
 Contributing to and working with industry is core to research activities carried out within the unit,
 and hence to the support structures and processes designed to make collaborations flourish and
 endure (section 3.1). In recognition that effective relationships require time and concerted effort to
 grow and maintain, the unit typically invests 25% of its budget in supporting collaborative research
 across the full spectrum of partnerships. We enable targeted risk-taking ventures by establishing
 new embryonic relationships, priming them, developing them, or taking them in new directions.
 The research group platforms (Fig. 1) and their strong links with industrial advisory boards have
 supported an inclusive progression and expansion of successful collaborations, using a networks
 of networks approach to enriching the research environment.
 Our business development managers (section 3.1) have been instrumental in helping academics
 to work effectively with industry by proactively creating opportunities, mentoring, and even acting
 as mediators in early meetings, so as to focus the agenda on achieving productive new economic
 impacts. The unit’s support structures have facilitated cross-cutting collaborations, which range
 from nurturing some emergent opportunity to realising the full potential of our engineering
 advances. We enabled a new collaboration with Technip FMC Plc to provide solutions for subsea
 umbilical systems for oil and gas platforms (Gonzalez-Sanchez), and this led to an industry-funded
 PhD partnership designed to generate new areas of research. Shyha developed [text removed for
 publication].
 Supported by the unit’s travel funds and then speculative investment in new 3D printing
 innovations, our research on additive manufacturing and sand-casting products led to new tooling
 processes [text removed for publication]. Our work with the automotive sector includes a
 collaboration with the Lear Corporation UK Ltd (Unthank, Hackney, KTP11215) in synthesising
 new polymers for foam seating products to reduce production time, operating costs and
 environmental impact; and, recently, a collaboration with [text removed for publication].




                                                                                               Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Example of growing new areas of industrial collaboration
  Our strategic investment of resources and leadership in materials engineering and analysis
  have led to a partnership, unique in the UK, with Ansys Inc., a company that has sponsored a
  new computational fluid dynamics research laboratory in the unit (2019; the laboratory is led
  by Penlington and Xu). This collaboration and contribution to the research base is already
  revolutionising our capabilities, primarily in propulsion and turbines research. Wider benefits
  have also accrued to the structural researchers of the Civil and Construction group, who have
  secured three KTPs. Additionally, this themed support for materials analysis in civil
  engineering has led to a new formulation, independently recognised as ‘leading’ in Advances
  in Engineering Civil Engineering Significance Statement (Richardson), and has stimulated
  award-winning high-impact geotechnical monitoring research papers and collaborations with
  Global Digital Systems (GDS) Instruments (Materials and Structures Outstanding Paper 2018
  Award, Mendes).


 Enabling support from the unit is used strategically, to develop successful and sustainable
 relationships with research beneficiaries. The unit’s workload provision for staff and match-funding
 of a collaborative PGR have been essential to the progress registered in the study of [text removed
 for publication].
 4.2. Contributions to society, community and public engagement
 The unit has sought to maximise societal impacts by generating vibrant and sustainable initiatives
 that reflect the diversity of wider society, by breaking down conventional boundaries and by
 achieving inclusivity, which is at the heart of our vision of external engagement. Our approach has
 made significant contributions throughout society, from inspiring primary school pupils to
 addressing global gaps in skills, improving equality and access through the transformation of
 international intellectual capital in renewable energy, and driving step changes in sustainability
 through digital construction and monitoring technologies.
 Our NUSTEM initiative has reimagined STEM outreach to engage with diverse communities,
 working both nationally and internationally. The unit’s dedicated team – supported by our wider
 research community, which delivers specialist sessions – works to address the gap in academic
 progression in physical and environmental sciences education for students with protected
 characteristics, specifically targeting the under-representation of females and the need to engage
 young people from disadvantaged areas. Our innovative Theory of Change approach has
 facilitated work directly dedicated to educating and empowering over 90,000 young adults and key
 influencers, demonstrating a nearly 30% rise in children’s desire to pursue engineering careers
 (the rise was 80% in young girls). Our People Like Me approach has been adopted internationally.
 For example, 2,400 education kits have enabled critical early-stage exposure to STEM activities,
 learning resources and aspirational career paths for pupils across 45 schools in Nigeria. As part
 of the unit’s response to COVID-19, the rapid translation of ‘STEM at Home’ activities has provided
 a vital and resilient engagement resource, now widely accessible to potentially vulnerable
 communities.




                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Evidence of societal uptake and reinvestment
  In addition to attracting over £1M in external funding, NUSTEM has provided oversight,
  steering and guidance to organisations such as the Institute of Physics, the Reading Agency,
  and the UK Government STEM Strategy Team on how our Theory of Change approach can
  be used to generate quantifiable changes in various communities’ engagement with STEM
  skills and applications. The £1.25M North of Tyne Combined Authority STEM and Digital Skills
  programme is based directly on our research.


 Our efforts to embed inclusion and diversity in engineering through research-led initiatives are also
 making quantifiable differences to global skills shortages. For example, our long-standing research
 expertise in photovoltaics and energy conversion (Forbes, Putrus, Beattie) has been central to
 training over 560 postgraduate students at the Institute for Clean and Renewable Energy (ICARE)
 at the Huazhong University of Science and Technology, China. Originally established through EU-
 China funding (EuropeAid/128796/L/ACT/CN) and now supported mainly through workload
 provision and travel funds from the unit’s resources, this institute is the first international
 multipartner training programme in renewable energy in China, addressing a gap in skills in a
 growing industry and providing access to specialised energy education and professional training
 for minority groups. The ICARE Initiative was praised by the Ministry of Education as ‘a flagship
 project of Sino-foreign cooperation’ and has catalysed new investments into photovoltaic
 infrastructure as a result of workforce upskilling and advancement of education–industry
 partnerships.
 Our leadership in energy growth and development has developed regionally through Beattie, who
 sits on the North East Energy Catalyst – a group facilitated by the North East Local Enterprise
 Partnership for delivering the ‘energy for growth’ strategy in the region. We have also created a
 new international training platform for Nigerian engineers to develop transformative skills and
 knowledge in renewable energy, green materials, sustainable agriculture and waste-to-energy
 systems (Azimov; the platform is funded by the Royal Academy of Engineering). The initial pilot
 has equipped hundreds of local engineers to adopt environmentally conscious, effective, and
 sustainable practices and, once the process is complete, the unit’s leadership will look to develop
 and exploit these successes still further.

  Example of investing in and realising the impact of transformative practice
  • Unit funds initially supported research on BIM and digital construction, which resulted in the
    establishment of BIM Academy Enterprise Ltd, a joint venture with Ryder Architecture. The
    unit subsequently supported the work of Kassem and colleagues with funds for a dedicated
    research assistant to provide policymakers with actionable road maps to BIM
    transformation; these have now been adopted into national policies on digital construction
    in Canada, Ireland, Mexico, and Latin America (among other places).
  • The unit funded Corradi’s early development of innovative reinforcement techniques for
    historic masonry. These techniques have subsequently been adopted [text removed for
    publication]. The research has also informed RILEM and American Concrete Institute
    international guidelines.


 In addition to supporting the reach and significance of existing areas of excellence such as our
 renewable energy technologies research, the unit has set up and fostered new research groups
 and focus areas. For example, unit funds were allocated to resource Greenwood and Benghi’s

                                                                                              Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 creation of an open-source xBIM Toolkit (section 1.4) for the automated transfer of accurate and
 complete information throughout the design, construction, operation and maintenance phases of
 the building lifecycle. Additional business support from the unit then enabled engagement with
 over 100 international users, including new partnerships with Project Advisors International (UK)
 Ltd and major social housing provider Your Homes Newcastle (KTP10761, Greenwood) to use
 the xBIM toolkit to extract geometric and semantic data for performance monitoring of buildings.
 The significance of research on visualising the live sensor-based results from the toolkit on a
 dashboard has also been recognised through best paper awards at the 2018 Sustainable
 Ecological Engineering Design for Society Conference and in the 2019 BIM Show Live.
 We now partner with Lucion Environmental Ltd (KTP10293, Benghi) to develop a new way of
 completing safety and risk management assessments in buildings using 3D BIM. The unit is
 actively working to develop this expertise in digital construction through the leadership of a
 consortium that brings together industry, academia and the public sector, championing the use of
 digital technologies to influence long-term productivity and safety improvements via our IC3
 consortium (see section 1.6).
 We have embedded bespoke public engagement in major funding applications in order to make
 engineering more relevant and accessible to the public, improve communication and promote the
 unit’s research. We provide design and training clinics for our staff and for researchers who make
 presentations to the general public and to younger audiences. During the REF period we have led
 over 50 showcase events in non-scientific communities.

  Examples of public engagement
  • Our renewable energy team created exhibits and demonstrator products for events such as
    Street Scientist during ‘Dippy on Tour’ at the Great North Museum (2019), the Beamish
    Museum (2015) and the Big Bang Fair North East (2017).
  • Our smart materials and surfaces team contributes to ‘Nature’s Raincoats’, a public
    engagement collaboration between the universities of Edinburgh, Northumbria, Nottingham
    Trent and Oxford, and regularly performs at local and national events (e.g. Big Bang Fair
    2018, 2019, Maker Faire 2018).
  • We showcased our control and power engineering research at the regional Maker Faire
    throughout the period 2012–2018, during the Great Exhibition of the North (2018), the
    Beamish Museum’s Wind in Your Sails (2016–2018) and the BBC micro:bit (2016).


 4.3 Academic significance
 4.3.1. International academic collaborations
 Our research groups provide dedicated forums for the dissemination and development of
 collaborative ventures, optimising and expanding successful working relationships and exploiting
 emerging opportunities. International academic collaborations account for 13% of our funded
 research projects during the REF period.




                                                                                           Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Examples of leadership in multi-institution partnerships
  • Mahkamov (i) leads Erasmus+ programmes in (a) renewable energy upskilling for
    undergraduate        and     postgraduate         students     from     Latin    America
    (http://www.thecruxproject.eu) and (b) PhD upskilling in clean thermal power systems
    (http://www.asiaxis.eu/index.html) and (ii) co-leads with Azimov a programme that focuses
    on engineering skills enhancement in South East Asia (http://www.skybelt.eu). All projects
    are valued at €1M each and involve 23 individual institution partners in Europe, America
    and Asia.
  • Our work on visible light communications was part of the Centre of Excellence for Learning,
    Innovation, Networking and Knowledge (cLINK, EU Erasmus Mundus) (Le-Minh and
    Ghassemlooy), and Ghassemlooy was vice-chair of EU FP7 cost Action IC1101.


 4.3.2. Contributions to the discipline
 Our engineering unit has sought to enrich the discipline and advance its sustainability by
 contributing to new knowledge through high-quality papers and by establishing future directions
 through keynote addresses, industrial speaker events and involvement with selection panels for
 external funding. We have disseminated current advances through conferences, seminars and
 practitioner workshops and improved the quality and standards of research via our editorial and
 reviewer roles. We also prioritise discipline development through the leadership of professional
 and regulatory bodies (e.g. Corradi chairs the Northern Counties Committee of the Institution of
 Structural Engineers). The procedures (section 2) and research group communities (section 1) set
 up within the unit have helped to grow these metrics, but the embedded interdisciplinary focus has
 also transcended traditional boundaries, providing more reflexive and innovative approaches to
 making progress in the discipline.
 Our researchers also support the essential work of funding bodies by both reviewing and selecting
 projects for funding. Among our colleagues in the unit, 11 are registered EPSRC Associate College
 members, while 8 serve as Full College members and 25 have reviewed proposals for EU Horizon
 2020, UK research councils, charities and international funding agencies. Beattie, El and Xu have
 served as panel members for EPSRC and NERC, while Torun served as vice-chair for the H2020
 FET OPEN Programme in 2015 and 2017. Our junior staff members also make important
 contributions to the discipline, for example Shahzad has received numerous awards for his work
 on solar desalination and air-conditioning including Energy Globe Saudi Arabia (2019 and 2020),
 the Global Water Award 2020 (Innovative Individual Award for Youth) and the MEED Sustainability
 Medal (2020).
 The unit supports its staff in organising events and conferences; it does so both financially and
 through strategic optimisation and detailed content assistance. Our seminar series brings
 engineers and scientists from across the UK and beyond to promote research collaborations and
 widen cross-discipline perspectives. A high-profile example was the visit of Dr Henk Jonkers,
 world-leading expert on bio-based self-healing concrete. The visit involved a workshop with our
 biotechnology research hub and culminated in a public seminar, followed by an interview with the
 BBC that involved Jonkers and Richardson as Northumbria’s lead.




                                                                                           Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Examples of international events organisation
  • The 24th Annual Conference of the Chinese Society of Chemical Science and Technology
    in the UK and of the Society of Chemical Industry’s Chinese UK Regional Group (Xu, Li,
    2017, 240 participants);
  • The ground-penetrating radar modelling workshop across the MDRTs of Energy Futures
    and Extreme Environments (Warren, 2020, 330 participants). The unit is now supporting
    the production of continuing professional development (CPD) resources to address
    community requests for additional training;
  • Azimov led international workshops funded by the British Council on Future Low Carbon
    Propulsion (2018) and autonomous vehicles (delayed to 2021 at our partner institution, the
    Central Scientific Research Automobile and Automotive Engines Institute in Russia).


 We also encourage our staff to improve data accessibility to all (section 1.4). Etherington is
 working with the Royal Society Archives to make publicly available, online, hundreds of
 transcriptions from Sir John Herschel, as part of the Epsilon project (https://epsilon.ac.uk); this is
 a virtual space allowing users to navigate the history of scientific discoveries through a repository
 of nineteenth century letters.
 Further disciplinary and scholarly contributions have been made by those among our staff who act
 as (associate) editors for scientific publications such as the Journal of Automotive Composites and
 the Journal of Vehicle Engineering (Elmarakbi editor-in-chief), the International Journal of
 Computer Application in Technology (Dala), Frontiers in Physics: Mathematical and Statistical
 Physics (Kirillov), the Journal of Intelligent Industrial Systems (Busawon), IEEE Transactions on
 Industrial Electronics (Gao) and Fluids MDPI (El). Across the breadth of our research activities,
 our researchers are supporting and promoting the scholarship of others through peer reviewing
 for leading journals in the field.
 4.3.3. Beyond disciplinary boundaries
 The unit’s interdisciplinary research practice has fostered strong themes that focus on our use of,
 interaction with, and threats posed by natural resources and phenomena. Our visible light
 communication team, led by Ghassemlooy, and thin-film photovoltaic team, led by Beattie, are
 working with Northumbria’s Solar Physics group to develop SULIS (Solar cUbesats for Linked
 Imaging Spectropolarimetry) – not only the first UK-led space science mission, but one envisioned
 to provide unprecedented measurements of the magnetic field of the corona and answer
 fundamental questions that underpin the sources of space weather. SULIS was recently awarded
 £360k by the UK Space Agency for laser communications for CubeSats.
 Field, recognised as a leader in interdisciplinary research (Royal Society APEX award), is working
 to understand and pre-emptively improve policymakers’ and the public’s reaction to the
 implementation of wastewater reuse for human consumption (a project supported within our
 Energy Futures and Human and Digital Design MDRTs). Our civil and electrical engineers
 (Edmondson, Lim, Torun) collaborate with computer information scientists and geomorphologists
 to address threats to arterial transport networks and city utilities posed by costly and complex
 natural hazards – namely to address them through the development and operationalisation of
 sophisticated new digital information alert systems (an initiative funded by NERC, NE/T005653/1,
 NE/P000010/1 and by Northumbrian Water; also advancing the Extreme Environments MDRT).
 In addition to new research-led policies and processes (section 1.3), the unit provides
 technological solutions to the dramatic impacts of climate change on vulnerable Arctic

                                                                                               Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 communities and vital infrastructure through funded collaborations with geochemists,
 geophysicists and national agencies that aim to develop new passive seismic sensors capable of
 monitoring permafrost thaw processes for the first time (this is funded by the NERC Arctic Office;
 Extreme Environment MDRT, Lim, Martin, Warren).
 4.4. Summary
 Our unit has driven a transformative change in research capacity and capabilities during the REF
 period. It has overseen the creation and evolution of productive and dynamic research group
 communities; new procedures, virtuous circles of support, and reward systems; and an ambitious
 and enabling expansion of facilities (more than £11M invested in space and equipment). These
 changes have afforded an exceptional growth in the strength and diversity of our staff base and
 its performance (increases larger than fivefold in submitted staff and research awards, larger than
 threefold in RGCI); and this growth is supported by targeted global recruitment, dedicated
 professional support teams and ambitious strategies designed to enhance the impact, inclusivity
 and accessibility of our work. We end the REF2021 period as a coherent and exciting unit, with
 interdisciplinary innovations and advances central to our vision of sustained research excellence
 and lasting impacts on the economy, society and the discipline.




                                                                                            Page 31
