Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Leicester

Unit of Assessment: 17

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The stated vision and purpose of the University of Leicester School of Business (ULSB) is “to
make a distinct and positive contribution in the world by offering insights from all angles and by
being a School renowned as having a strong sense of social purpose”. Research and impact for
the 99.2 FTE staff within UOA17 are driven by a commitment to ask challenging questions and
develop engaged, creative and socially responsible approaches to business, management and
economics. Diverse perspectives and methods are encouraged, and our approach to the
evaluation of research outputs ensures researchers are not constrained by journal rankings.

The School has been on a path of growth and development over the REF census period. Our
research draws on established strengths and international reputation in theoretical economics,
critical management studies and labour market studies, which formed the basis of our
submissions to REF2014 in the Business & Management and Economics & Econometrics Units
of Assessment. REF2021 sees us move forward strategically following the formation of ULSB in
2016, bringing together the former School of Management and Department of Economics within
the College of Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities (CSSAH). A further School reorganisation
into three departments (Economics, Finance & Accounting; Marketing, Innovation, Strategy &
Operations; and Management, Organization, Work & Employment) followed in 2020. The School
is well-balanced in faculty numbers between the economics/finance and management fields
(47% and 54% of teaching and research staff respectively).

The merger provided new opportunities to enhance research contribution and impact whilst
maintaining pre-existing strengths. In REF2014, while our outputs and environment were
focused on critical management, it was noted by the reviewers that this was not reflected in the
research units or grants. Developments within research groupings and staff recruitment
associated with the formation of ULSB have addressed this, leading to stronger synergy
between types of research that staff are engaged in, research communities that exist within the
School and outputs and funding associated with these activities. Moreover, institutional
positioning within CSSAH has facilitated interdisciplinary research collaborations with, for
example, the Schools of Law, Media and Communication and Museum Studies, whilst also
bringing the benefits of greater research support. ULSB has therefore been well-placed to make
a significant contribution to the University’s strategic objectives around interdisciplinarity and
enhanced research impact and reach (Institutional Environment Statement (IES), 2.2 & 2.3).

The collective research identity of ULSB has been significantly aided by the £15.8m investment
in a new, dedicated campus at Brookfield. This provides a physical hub for staff and PGRs to
come together in a way that was not possible in the dispersed estate on main campus. Easier
access to colleagues for research seminars, conversations, meetings and advice, as well as
designated research workshop/presentation spaces, are of particular value. There is also
considerable symbolic value in bringing together the new merged School within one location.

Alongside structural change, there has been stability in research areas within ULSB, and we
continue, as we did in REF2014, to adopt a ‘cluster’ approach. The heart of our research
                                                 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
strategy continues to be the facilitation of the bottom-up development of research. The freedom
for individuals and for research clusters to make their own decisions about what and how to
research, is an important part of the heritage of the former School of Management and
Department of Economics. This informs our approach to governance, culture, performance
management and resourcing of research. Developing from existing areas of strength and
reputation, research now coalesces around seven research clusters. These are:

      Centre for sustainable work and employment futures (CSWEF)
      Centre for management and organization studies (CMOS)
      Innovation, entrepreneurship and environment (IEE)
      Consumption, markets and society (CMS)
      Responsible accounting, society and accountability (RASA)
      Theoretical and applied microeconomics (TAM)
      Macroeconomics and finance (MEF)

These clusters act as a stimulating and supportive research environment for academic staff and
PGRs working in each area and run across the three departments. They facilitate collaboration
and interdisciplinarity and promote and disseminate research through events involving internal
and external speakers. While the interdisciplinarity of much of our research means that a
considerable number of our researchers engage with more than one cluster, each academic and
PGR is a member of at least one. Reflecting legacy development, CSWEF, CMOS, TAM and
MEF are larger clusters with between 48 and 51 members in each (including PGR students),
whereas CMS, IEE and RASA are smaller clusters, with between 21 and 38 members. The size
of the clusters is large enough to facilitate viable communities and small enough to facilitate
communication and collaboration.

We also have four active research groupings, each of which sits within the governance of the
research clusters, but with some deliberate separation from them, reflecting subjects and
interests crossing cluster boundaries, involving members external to the University and
facilitating focused research collaboration around discrete sets of issues. Some reflect long-
established interests, while others have emerged more recently:

      Centre for Philosophy and Political Economy (CPPE) est. 2003
      Innovation and Creativity in Transformational Economies (INCITE) est. 2018
      Tourism and Place Making (TAPLAM) est. 2017
      Centre for Quantum Social and Cognitive Science (CQSCS) est. 2017

As evidence of contribution to the University strategic objective of interdisciplinarity, ULSB
researchers are centrally involved in two cross-University research initiatives. CAMEo (Institute
for Cultural and Media Economies) is one of the five interdisciplinary Research Institutes
receiving institutional investment (IES, 2.3), co-founded and directed by academics within ULSB
and Media, Communication and Sociology. In addition, the Leicester Artificial Intelligence
Network (LAIN), supported by the Leicester Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS) has been
founded by academics in ULSB, Engineering and Informatics and involves staff from ten
different Schools across the three University Colleges.

Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact

                                                 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In REF2014 we set six objectives, aligned to University and College strategy, to develop and
enhance our research environment. All have been met (Table 1).

Table 1: Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact over the assessment period


  2014 Research Aims                          Achievements over REF cycle
  Embed a culture of external grant           Significant investment in grant-writing support
  capture; increase number and range of       and incentivisation including dedicated roles,
  staff holding grants;                       internal funding and improved systems of
                                              internal peer review and mentoring;
                                              New grants and contracts awarded total £3.8m,
                                              a 326% increase since 2014.
  Improve mechanisms and practices            Establish research cluster directors responsible
  supporting vibrant and sustainable          for supporting research within clusters;
  research culture.                           Provision of conference budget per staff
                                              member;
                                              Provision of internal Research Development
                                              Fund, prioritized for ECRs;
                                              Provision of dedicated funding for seminars,
                                              workshops and events;
                                              Support development of three new research
                                              groupings-TAPLAM, INCITE, CQCSC to reflect
                                              emerging areas of interest.
  Sustain staffing in areas of research       Seven research clusters demonstrate greater
  strength.                                   synergy between all areas of research activity
                                              (funding, outputs, impact);
                                              73 staff appointed.
  Support and encourage research outputs      Fully implement output review process in
  disseminated in any cognate discipline,     accordance with the University output quality
  through various modes of publication and    review policy and DORA principles and feed this
  with a broad understanding of business      through to all processes including performance
  and management.                             management and recruitment and selection.
  Consolidate growth in PGR recruitment       Doubling in size of PGR cohort.
  and the support for the highest quality     Very high level of doctoral completions, in
  supervision.                                excess of sector and Russell Group level.
                                              25% increase in doctoral completions within four
                                              years of registration.
  Embed impact within research activities     Significant investment in research impact to
  to ensure our research has social           embed within research culture through
  purpose; improve the number and quality     dedicated staff, funding and recruitment of new
  of impact case studies within the unit.     academic staff;
                                              Development of large number of impact case
                                              studies at different stages to facilitate ongoing
                                              impact work into the future.

Areas of Research
In order to engage in research that explicitly has social purpose, we embrace a greater diversity
of research than is often seen within current mainstream business schools, including continued
                                                   3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
active investment in employment relations (as distinct from human resource management),
critical perspectives on business, and theoretical economics, alongside our growing applied
economics research. Over the REF cycle we have strategically built on areas of existing strength
and invested in emergent areas (as discussed below) in order to contribute to the four University
discovery-led research strategic objectives (IES, 2). In 2014, the aim of the School of
Management was to be the preeminent site for critical management studies. As we have grown
and evolved with the formation of ULSB, this has necessarily led to a change to this core aim
aligned to the need for research with a broader reach, capable of integrating new areas which
are now part of the restructured research community and fully engaging in research that has
impact outside of academia.

The School has strengths in qualitative and interpretivist paradigms in the area of Business and
Management and theoretical approaches in the area of Economics. These are reflected in our
seven research clusters. Our longstanding interest in work and employment futures receives
investment and prioritisation given changing working patterns, demographic trends, global
supply chains and the impact of artificial intelligence on the future of work - of particular
relevance in a post-pandemic world. Our focus on innovation, entrepreneurship and environment
has been a research priority, given the important work at the interface of organization studies
and science and technology connected to global challenges including diminishing resources,
climate change and the future of healthcare. This links clearly to our commitment to the UN
Principles of Responsible Management Education (PRME) which we signed up to in 2009.
PRME values feature highly in our research activities and are particularly demonstrated in our
impact case studies, including work on empowering communities involved in slum tourism
(ICS3) and improving ethical trading practices in the UK fast fashion industry (ICS6). In the
areas of Economics and Finance, a continuing priority is our established expertise in macro-
finance with academics working with firms and central banks around the world exploring key
policy and regulatory issues in the changing global economy. We also have a long-standing
reputation for economic theory, taking in both applied topics such as public and industrial
economics including healthcare, and more theoretical areas, such as mechanism design for the
public good. The applied research will be prioritised going forward due to its substantial
contribution to the field of economics and the opportunities it provides for interdisciplinary
collaboration across the School. This will allow continued expansion into important areas such
as big data and data analytics - an area of growth across our research clusters. For example, as
the focus of two of our ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IAA) Strategic Partnerships (IES,
2.4), one in finance with a FTSE500 company (Ladley), and one with University Hospitals of
Leicester NHS Trust (Green with ULSB collaborators from four research clusters).

Impact Strategy
Embedding research impact is aligned to our central strategy to produce research with social
purpose that delivers significant benefits. Colleagues are encouraged to embed impact planning
within their research and grant writing. Since not all research lends itself to producing short-term
measurable impact and recognising that impact generation may require proactive interventions
over time, we support colleagues by having a dedicated School Director of Research Impact
responsible for supporting and coordinating impact activities and outputs. They benefit from the
wider resources and support at College level. Support activities include:




                                                   4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      identifying promising projects, which are nurtured through responsive internal funding
       (e.g. CSSAH impact fund) and hiring research associates to aid in impact evidence
       activities and collection.
      deploying responsive workload planning and focusing resources on research that has
       already produced impact that can be evidenced for development into REF impact case
       studies.
      taking a longer-term view on the importance of impact:
           o by supporting early-stage impact to ensure that impactful research matures at its
                own pace;
           o embedding impact planning in annual research and mentoring discussions,
                ensuring that all colleagues incorporate this into their short-, medium- and long-
                term research agendas;
           o working intensively with colleagues at all career stages on grant applications that
                develop impact pathways, so that impact-bearing research can come on-stream
                in the future.

The impact selected for our eight case studies reflects the strategy identified above.

Key research and impact achievements
ULSB is home to one of the largest communities of work and employment researchers within the
UK business schools context. The Centre for Sustainable Work and Employment Futures
(CSWEF), established in 2013, embraces all aspects of the study of work and employment, from
informal work in fast fashion, through the volunteer workforce and its management, platform and
digital working, and precarious work, to the changing nature of global management. Key
contributions include research on healthcare organisations’ responses to the challenges of an
ageing population (Nolan), work on job quality, stress and employee involvement (S. Wood),
and high-profile research on outsourcing and the UK informal sector in fast fashion (Hammer,
Plugor, Nolan). The appointment of Greene, at professorial level, has expanded our capacity in
workforce equality and diversity as well as in research on non-standard forms of work, including
volunteers, while Almond has extended our reach in the global organization of work within
multinational companies, as well as in comparative employment relations. Moore has brought a
global profile for her research on technology and workplace surveillance.

CSWEF emphasises participatory and policy-oriented research, working with non-academic
partners as research collaborators in order to facilitate social change. This is reflected in two of
our eight selected impact case studies deriving from this cluster: Hammer’s widely-reported
work on the regulation of the informal sector in UK fast fashion (ICS6), and Greene and Ward’s
research providing new understandings of the emotional challenges of managing volunteers
including the development of a sector-wide toolkit (ICS5). Greene and Ward are also part of an
ESRC IAA Strategic Partnership with the National Trust (Leicester is one of only two UK
universities to have a formal partnership) involving colleagues from the School of Museum
Studies and School of Arts (IES, 2.5). In addition, Plugor’s work on Project 360 with colleagues
in Economics is improving the way in which police respond to domestic violence cases. This last
study demonstrates the fruitful collaborations which have been facilitated by the new School
structure.

The Centre for Management and Organisation Studies (CMOS), has consolidated Leicester’s
global reputation for research on processes of managing and organising rooted in forms of
                                                  5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
critical theory, building on the heritage of the former School of Management. CMOS approaches
managing and organising with respect to a diverse range of topics including sport (Smith),
tourism (Frenzel), social movements (Milburn), mental health (Cromby), corporate social
responsibility (Kirk), cryptocurrencies (Dallyn), digital technologies (Lilley), populism and
whistle-blowing (Stein).

Using theories, methods and concepts from a wide variety of social science fields, it is united by
a shared concern to understand management and organisation as complex, situated processes
that are always shaped by their contexts. Stein has made important contributions on leadership,
drawing on critical interpretations of psychoanalysis, applied to situations such as the Euro-zone
financial crisis, his international reputation demonstrated in the 2020 Gavin Macfadyen Memorial
Essay Prize. Lilley has focused on human agency, technology and performance, specifically
examining the conduct of financial and commodity derivatives trading, his expertise in which is
recognised in the 2019 Innovate UK funded project to evaluate the wider social impact of their
funded projects. Allen’s research has explored user-experiences of the justice system with a
particular focus on memory and technology, while Kirk has investigated political framing
processes involved in controversies over fracking.

The social purpose of CMOS research is reflected in two of our eight selected impact case
studies being developed within this cluster: Frenzel has conducted highly innovative work on the
role of transnational mobilities, from activists to tourists, in the formation of a global social
question with a focus on the way slums are becoming destinations for a range of better-off
travellers (ICS3); while Cromby’s research on the embodiment of psychology has led to the
development of a novel psychological model of mental ill health for UK clinical psychology
(ICS1).

Our Innovation, Entrepreneurship and Environment (IEE) cluster researches the social shaping
of technology, techniques and innovations in contemporary organizational contexts. It has had
considerable success with large external grants for engaged research with clear social purpose
outcomes, particularly in developmental country contexts (see section 3). This has included:
Gasparin and Quinn’s innovative work on slow design and craft in South East Asia, repeatedly
attracting significant external funding including an ESRC New Investigator grant (2019,
£241,447); Onyas’ UKRI project on bridging the digital gender divide to stimulate growth in
African digital economies (2020, £91,378); and Bateman’s work investigating performance
measurement and quality improvement predominantly in public sector settings including
healthcare.

Four of our eight selected impact case studies emerged from this research cluster and
demonstrate our significant expertise within the context of healthcare. Research led by Davies
investigating the effects of menopause on women’s economic participation, saw collaboration
across the three departments of the School, including economic analysis and has had
widespread prominence and policy impact (ICS2). Green’s engaged research includes
leadership of a series of regional, national and international inter-disciplinary research projects;
this work has been demonstrated to improve doctor’s wellbeing in the workplace, prescribing
performance and reduce hospital patient deaths (ICS4). Green’s research focusing on the
impact of technology on practice has supported the development of a successful market
research technology which takes advantage of the ubiquity of digital and enables firms to get
closer to the customer (ICS7). Martin’s research into the role of professionals, organisation and
                                                   6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
delivery of healthcare has informed UK and international healthcare policy, notably underpinning
the outcomes of the Francis Inquiry and the holistic design of geriatric care pathways reducing
hospitalisations (ICS8).

Our Consumption, Markets and Society (CMS) cluster performs interdisciplinary marketing
research. Its reputation is demonstrated by ULSB’s successful bid to host the 2020 Consumer
Culture Theory Conference. Much of this work engages with social and critical theory, using
interpretive methods to advance understanding of marketing and consumption phenomena.
Highlights include research on the crisis of consumer culture and the formation of radical
alternatives (Earley, Fitchett, Patsiaouras); Saren’s work on marketing theory: Kavarartzis’
expertise in place marketing and branding; research in social media, data analysis and digital
marketing (Baines, Grigore); collaborative and sustainable consumption (Patsiaouras, Onyas,
Baines, Saren, Earley); and consumption of gender, identity and the body (Tsaousi, Lai,
Earley). Of recent professorial recruits, Baines offers scholarship in political marketing and voter
choice, while Devlin has brought research expertise in consumer behaviour in financial services.

Our Research in Accounting, Society and Accountability (RASA) cluster is one of our newest
clusters and focuses on how accounting shapes business and industry, government, markets
and technologies, professional and public life. It combines hands-on engagement with all
aspects of accounting practice, and a broad interest in what people and organisations do when
they give an account of themselves. Highlights include: Panourgias’ COFFERS EU Horizon
2020-funded research (2016, £85,380) on combating fiscal fraud and empowering regulators
involving eight universities in seven countries which has produced five practical tools for
international policy reform. Svetlova’s leadership of the macroeconomic finance research hub of
the ESRC’s Rebuilding Macroeconomics programme coordinates six research projects across
four countries. Cluster members have contributed to debates over sustainable accounting
(Ejiogu, Lightfoot) and gender quotas (Marx).

The Theoretical and Applied Microeconomics (TAM) cluster has produced cutting-edge research
in the core areas of Microeconomics. Research ranges from Behavioural Economic Theory
(Adriani, Bose, Dhami), Social Networks Theory (Adriani, Currarini), Industrial Organisation
(Bose, Das, De Feo, Seifert), Political Economy (Aytimur, Boukouras, De Feo, Dahm), and
Public Economics (Dahm, Fraser, Martinez-Mora), to more applied research in Labour and
Health Economics (Denderski, Ohinata, Szydlowski, Wilemme). A distinctive feature of the
cluster’s research is the adoption of advanced quantitative methods of analysis at all levels.
Theoretical work employs formal Game Theoretic or Choice Theoretic models, while empirical
investigation relies on advanced Micro-econometrics. In this respect, a hallmark of the research
of this cluster is the use of quantitative tools borrowed from Economics to analyse problems that
transcend the boundary of traditional Microeconomics. The cluster has for instance sought to
bring the rigour of formal economic analysis to the study of social norms, cultural transmission,
identity, homophily, and criminal organizations. Highlights include De Feo's research on the
origins and growth of the Sicilian Mafia, using data on droughts as a source of exogenous
variation and from which a British Academy Mid-career Fellowship has been achieved (2020,
£126,400). From a more theoretical viewpoint, Bose's work on mechanism design under
ambiguity aversion, has shown how designers can benefit from sending ambiguous messages.
Notable work from ECRs includes Denderski’s debut article on risk sharing and the social value
of information, which challenges the long-established consensus in Economic Theory that public
information is detrimental to risk sharing.
                                                  7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


The Macroeconomics and Finance (MEF) research cluster conducts a broad range of work in
Macro/Financial Econometrics (Baltagi, Gefang, Hall, Li, Zhang), Money and Banking
(Andrianova, Demetriades, Shaban), Financial Economics (Burridge, Ladley, Riley),
Economic Growth (Suen, Varvarigos), and Econophysics (Ausloos, Khrennikova, Sozzo). A
key focus of the cluster’s work is the development of analytical tools informing policy making.
Leicester has an established tradition in central banking, which has been instrumental to the
formation of an international consensus on issues of monetary policy, banking supervision and
money laundering. A recent example is the joint position paper “Towards a European
Supervisory Mechanism for Money Laundering/Financial Terrorism” issued by several EU
countries, which uses Demetriades’ research. The creation of this cluster is part of the School’s
effort to promote cross fertilization between economic research, policy making, and the industry.
Faculty members (Demetriades, Hall) have taken research-led advisory roles (IMF, European
Commission, UN, national central banks) and leadership roles (Bank of Cyprus, ECB Monetary
Policy Committee) in international institutions. Partnerships with the private sector have led to
the establishment of research links with wealth management firms and fintech firms. These
experiences in turn inform the cluster’s research, both by refocusing its work on policy-oriented
themes and enhancing its impact. In addition to Demetriades' work on money laundering
mentioned above, notable examples have included: 1) Ladley’s ESRC IAA strategic partnership
with Mattioli Woods PLC (a wealth management firm), drawing on his work on retail investors’
propensity for risk taking and on the effects of gender differences in trading; 2) Hall’s work on
tax revenues and child mortality across countries, which is informing the lobbying efforts of the
international charity Tax Justice Network. Work by junior faculty includes Riley’s maiden article,
combining experimental evidence with market data to show how investors’ reference points
dynamically adjust to stock price movements.



Research ethics
The School follows the University’s robust procedure for ensuring all research is conducted to
the highest ethical standards and adheres to the requirements outlined in the Concordat to
Support Research Integrity (IES, 2.7). University ethical processes are complemented by
dedicated School processes, requiring all researchers to observe standards of research integrity
and embed good practice. All academics and PGRs must submit research activities for approval,
prior to commencement, to the School Research Ethics Committee. The way this enables
ground-breaking research to be conducted ethically is exemplified by examples such as the work
of Hammer who was able to undertake sensitive research into labour abuses in the Leicester
garment industry, or Suhumlinova exploring experiences of transgender people in prisons.

The School regards Open Access (OA) as integral to research excellence and knowledge
creation, and thus fully embraces the University’s OA Policy (IES, 2.7). All staff are required to
deposit research outputs within three months of acceptance onto the University’s research
repository Figshare, providing Green OA.

Research governance
Supporting the bottom-up development of research, we adopt a distributed approach to research
governance, recognising the empowerment of individual role holders over their areas of remit,
and sharing good practice. As set out in section 3, there is a clear research governance
structure, coordinated by the Associate Dean for Research, with decision-making within the
                                                   8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
School Research Committee, and external representation on all relevant College and University
level committees and adherence to the principles enshrined in the Concordat to Support
Research Integrity.

To maintain commitment to strategic objectives and facilitate effective resource allocation,
suggestions for amendments to clusters or the development of new research groupings require
discussion within the Research Committee and approval by the Associate Dean for Research.
The relevance and appropriateness of research clusters and groupings are internally reviewed
on an annual basis.

Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
Our research successes reflect our shared pursuit of research excellence with a strong sense of
social purpose and making a distinct and positive contribution in the world by offering insights
from all angles. A central aim of our forward research strategy is to create a research culture that
fosters interdisciplinarity and further engages meaningfully with stakeholders outside of
academia in business and the community. We aim to:

      Maintain and when possible expand our investment in priority areas. These include work
       and employment, innovation and entrepreneurship and applied economics.
      Maintain and develop our success in grant capture in an increasingly challenging
       environment through diversification of sources of funding and continuing mentoring and
       support.
      Work with LIAS (IES, 2.2) and other University initiatives, to foster collaborative and
       cross-disciplinary initiatives providing a foundation from which to apply to a broader
       range of funders.
      Widen the range and number of colleagues holding major research and impact awards
       through intensifying our targeted support and mentoring of applications.
      Improve the diversity of our staffing profile and research portfolio, particularly in terms of
       the gender and ethnic diversity in senior positions, through targeted recruitment and
       promotion.
      Provide a supportive and inclusive research environment for all faculty with special
       emphasis on supporting ECRs.
      Maximise the possibilities of world-leading research impact through continuing to embed
       impact at the centre of research programmes and grant applications, targeted support of
       emerging cases, and working with the Innovation Hub (IES, 2.5) and other University
       initiatives to further engage business and community organisations.
      Maintain our excellent record of doctoral support and completions, continuing to grow our
       PGR numbers and better utilise external funding opportunities such as M4C, ESRC and
       other funded fellowships.
      Engage proactively with funded post-doctoral opportunities, drawing on the wider
       experience within CSSAH.

2. People

ULSB is a vibrant community of some 320 individuals, and we take pride in involving all staff,
including fixed term ECRs, PGRs and teaching fellows within our research activities and support
given for research. The current return to UoA17 comprises 99.2 Category A FTEs (compared to
22.4 and 59.6 to UoA 18 and 19 respectively in REF2014). Our present teaching and research
                                                  9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
staff profile comprises 26 Professors, 35 Associate Professors, and 48 Assistant Professors.
Recruiting and retaining outstanding staff at all career stages complements our strategic plan to
nurture and support areas of research strength, broaden our reach with impactful research and
give academics autonomy and control over their research.

Staffing Recruitment
Strategic attention to encouraging diverse perspectives and research with social purpose
informs our recruitment and selection processes. These value a mix of research outputs, grant
income, impact and knowledge exchange, as well as research leadership, whether exercised on
a formal or informal basis. This aligns well with the criteria for appointments and promotions at
all levels in the University’s Academic Career Map (IES, 3.2). The School respects the fact that
research and intellectual trajectories mean that individuals may not contribute to all our strategic
aims and goals for research and impact simultaneously and to the same degree.

All academics appointed to posts within the combined Teaching and Research career map are
appointed on open-ended contracts. This aligns with our strategic positioning as a scholarly
business school, enabling staff to take managed risks around innovative research areas and
activities while developing long-term individual research strategies.

In accordance with our distributed research governance, hiring decisions are situated within
departments with involvement of research clusters, subject to quality, equality and diversity
measures put in place by the Dean and Head of College. A distinguishing feature of ULSB
compared to many business schools and a real culture change over the REF cycle is our strong
support of the University’s status as a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration of Research
Assessment (DORA, IES, 2.7). This aligns with our strategic intent to be inclusive and supportive
of the widest range of research approaches and activities. Over this REF cycle, we have
successfully embedded an approach to recruitment and selection based on qualitative output
review (see below), valuing contributions for their originality, significance and rigour, rather than
relying on proxy indicators such as journal ranking lists.

Our commitment to equal opportunities in all aspects of recruitment and retention of staff is overt
and follows University procedures (IES, 3.1). All members of interview panels undertake
compulsory training on EDI, with regular refresher courses. Addressing ethnic diversity overall
and women at senior levels has been and remains a strategic aim.

This census period has been buoyant in terms of recruitment with 74 new appointments (43
Assistant Professors, 16 Associate Professors and 15 Professors). In line with the strategic
objectives to improve diversity, 37% of these new appointments have been women, and 28% of
staff of BAME heritage. While 67 staff have left the School, the majority were in the immediate
period following the merger into ULSB. This trend has slowed considerably to 6 people in each
of 2019 and 2020, indicating increasing stability within the School. Overall, staff changes across
the REF cycle reflect the excellence of our research community, being a site of highly sought-
after staff, as well as a place attractive to new entrants. We clearly benefit from the regeneration
and energy that comes from new appointments but can also rely on the knowledge and
experience of established staff - of current staff, 64% have been in the School for five years or
more, and 28% for ten years or more.



                                                  10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
A striking characteristic of the demographic profile of ULSB, is that it is relatively junior and
young with half our staff on Grade 8 (Assistant Professor), and 63% under 45 years old. This is
much higher than the sector average, where 48% of business and management academics are
under 45 years (HESA, 2020). The support and development of early career faculty is therefore
a key pillar of our staff development strategy discussed below. Professorial appointments since
the merger, have focussed on individuals with skills and commitment to mentoring, research
development and research leadership, including Greene (Associate Dean of Research since
2017), Almond (REF lead since 2018), Baines (Associate Dean for Business and Civic
Engagement, and ULSB lead for the Knowledge Exchange Framework) and Dahm (Research
Cluster Director Theoretical and Applied Microeconomics).

Since 2014, early and mid-career faculty recruitment has focused on developing emerging areas
of scholarship and enhancing existing strengths where there is critical mass. The slow design
research agenda of Gasparin drives the IEE research cluster to the cutting edge of the field. De
Feo’s innovative work on organised crime/anti-corruption adds impactful dynamism to the
community of scholars within TAM. Chen (social inequality and consumer culture), Brokalaki
(experiential, symbolic and political dimensions of consumption) and Galalae (transformative
consumer research) have provided strong additions to the CMS cluster. The work of Plugor,
Sezer, Roy and Moore complements existing strength in CSWEF around global supply chains,
comparative employment relations, public sector work and the role of artificial intelligence and
work transformations. Finally, Ejiogu’s appointment and research in the energy industry and
social housing has consolidated the community of academics interested in understanding how
accounting shapes and is in turn shaped by society in his leadership of the cluster RASA.
Kokkinidis and Hartz, who research alternative forms of work organization, were appointed to
contribute to established areas of strength in management and organisation studies. Dallyn’s
work on critical political economy of cryptocurrencies and Kirk’s work on critical approaches to
environmental sustainability push the emphasis on social purpose forward within the CMOS
cluster.

Staffing Development
Mentoring, probation, appraisal and promotions
ULSB has sophisticated processes of probation, appraisal and mentoring, developed and
embedded over many years and integrated with College and University systems. The emphasis
is on development, whilst also ensuring that staff at all levels are supported to meet the
progression expectations of the University Academic Career Map within the teaching and
research contract terms of 40% research, 40% teaching and 20% administration/citizenship
(IES, 3.2).

In line with School-level policy, all staff have a named mentor. Staff are free to choose mentors
from outside their own department/research cluster; they may also be in a different School, or at
a different institution, if appropriate. This process is mentee-led and outside of the appraisal
system. Mentors are directed to utilise guidance and encouraged to take up training
opportunities provided by the University’s Coaching and Mentoring Academy (IES, 3.2).
Mentoring is specifically mentioned as an activity accounted for within the 5% of every
individual’s workload which is committed to citizenship.

The appraisal process, applied to all staff contracts, involves an annual personal development
discussion (PDD), including submission of a written form. This informs an on-going research
                                                 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
review that tracks plans for grants, publications, and PhD projects; encourages thematic
synergies; and identifies training and development. All appraisers are required to undertake
mandatory training provided by the University. For staff with research leadership roles, this PDD
is also informed by a conversation with the Associate Dean for Research and a written
statement regarding the activities undertaken and an evaluation of role performance.

All new assistant professors are on a structured three-year probation programme with clearly
defined objectives for evaluation. Probationary staff receive a reduced workload (30% Year 1,
20% Year 2, 10% year 3) to support them in balancing demands at the start of their careers.
Supporting staff to pass probation is emphasised to line managers and research cluster
directors. The current level of 17 probationers is in line with the REF census period average. To
date, all staff have successfully passed their probation (46 over the census period),
demonstrative of the effective support received.

As two thirds of current teaching and research staff have been at the University for five years or
more, internal promotion, especially from Assistant to Associate Professor is particularly
important for staff development and retention. Over the census period, our success in mentoring
and support is evidenced in 20 promotions to Associate Professor, with the majority of these
being within five years of appointment. However, two areas for strategic improvement can be
identified. First, increasing the number of women and of BAME staff gaining internal promotions,
which only account for 30% and 10% respectively. Second, increasing the number of internal
promotions from Associate to Full Professor: while there have been external appointments to
Professor, only one individual has been internally promoted over the census period. The Senior
Management Team have made this a strategic priority and efforts have been set in train to
enhance the School system for assessing and recommending promotion applications. Dedicated
individual professorial support for each applicant is now provided to increase the chances that
applications meet the rigorous criteria of the University promotions committee. The successful
professorial promotion in 2020 (Green) is evidence of this new system and support.

Researcher development
Being a signatory to DORA has provided a valuable opportunity to enhance staff research
development. Moving to a position where all judgements of research output quality are made by
internal review, supported by external review, has necessitated the development of a robust
output evaluation system. This has been fully in place since 2017, and involves at least two
members of each research cluster, coordinated by the Research Cluster Director and with cross-
checking processes within and between clusters and across departments. Specific workload is
allocated for these roles, for which formal training is provided. These processes have now
become embedded practice, leading to greater understanding of the criteria of high-quality
research to support staff in the writing process.

Staff are encouraged to take research leadership roles providing important personal and career
development opportunities. Roles are advertised openly within the School and are commonly
held for a specified term of office to facilitate the sharing of experience amongst staff. Role-
shares can be organised to facilitate individual staff requirements and meet EDI considerations.
Staff are also encouraged to apply for University and College level representative and leadership
roles, ensuring that staff from the Business & Management UoA provide a contribution to the
vitality of the research environment of the wider university. For example, Green is Director of
Research Impact and Knowledge Exchange in CSSAH (2018- current) and has been Deputy
                                                 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Dean of Research in CSSAH since 2020, while Greene chaired the REF2021 Mitigating
Circumstances Committee as well as being part of the REF2021 Code of Practice Committee.

Support for the research activities of teaching-focused staff is taken seriously and the School
also facilitates movement between teaching-focused to teaching and research contract status
where this is desired by the staff member: ten such contract changes have occurred over the
census period.

Staff are eligible to apply for study leave of one semester every seven semesters, entitling
successful applicants to a semester completely free of teaching/administrative duties. Part-time
staff are eligible to apply on a pro rata basis. Staff are supported in writing study leave
applications. Over the census period, 48 staff have taken study leave, of which 50% were
women and 10% BAME staff, with most recipients being Associate (25) and Assistant (18)
Professors.

Knowledge exchange
Each department has an academic lead for knowledge exchange and business engagement
responsible for supporting staff in research collaborations with non-HEI partners. Staff are
encouraged to undertake consultancy work in association with business, organisations and
governments. Across the census period, circa £1.9M has been generated through consultancy,
collaborative research, contract research and regeneration activities (HEBCI Survey, 2020).
Income from such sources has almost doubled since 2014 to £403k in 2018/19 involving at least
33 ULSB academics. Examples include Green’s (£170k) Joint Working Agreement between
Pfizer Ltd, Academic Health Science Network and University of Leicester Health Education
England; and collaborations with the National Trust (Greene and Ward), and the City of London
Police (Baines).

We also encourage colleagues to take up secondment opportunities outside of academia. This
supports career development and strengthens networks, as well as generating research impact
activities. Most recently in 2020, Quinn has achieved a prestigious secondment to the Industrial
Strategy Council's Places Insight Project as an ESRC Research Fellow in BEIS for an initial six-
month period (£51k), working on projects producing the evidence base for the Government’s
levelling-up agenda and local governance restructuring related to devolution.

Early Career Researchers
Advancing the development of ECRs is particularly important within ULSB given their high
proportion. Our support mechanisms are shaped by the University Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers and Concordat Action Plan 2017–2019 (IES, 3.2). Over the
REF cycle as the School has grown, we have moved from having a single ECR Lead to having
responsibility for ECR support and development embedded in the role guidance for Research
Cluster Directors. Specific funding support is set out in Section 3. Collaborations between
experienced researchers and ECRs are common through the work of the clusters, for example in
macroeconomics and finance the joint article by Vasilescu and Wisniewski, and the successful
bid to host the prestigious Consumer Culture Theory Conference in 2020 (postponed because of
COVID) of Earley, Fitchett and Saren.

Of special note for continuous researcher development with a focus on ECRs, is the hosting of
RaW: The Training Journal. Simulating a real-world editorial structure, RaW offers ULSB
                                                 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
academics an opportunity to gain experience in peer-review, both as authors and as reviewers,
and to acquire editorial experience within a collegial, training-oriented environment. All papers
submitted to RaW undergo peer-review by subject specialists and authors receive an ethical,
development-focused review of their work that will greatly strengthen their manuscript and
minimize the possibility of desk rejections. Together with reviewing papers, RaW focuses on the
development of good reviewers and thus places emphasis on review-of-reviews whereby peers
are asked to comment on reviews of papers. RaW also runs full-day training events. Alongside
its role in the development of ULSB ECRs and PGR students, RaW has also cemented
international partnerships through several successful funding bids to work with academics in the
developing world, including several British Academy-funded ECR writing and publishing
workshops held with 30 participants from Vietnam in 2018, repeated in 2019 with a new group of
ECR academics in Vietnam and Central Asia (Gasparin, Frenzel).

Research students
ULSB prides itself on its lively PGR community, the size of which has almost doubled over the
census period. ULSB has several PGR programmes: the broad classification is PhD in
Economics; and PhD in Management. The latter is provided on a full-time or part-time basis, with
part-time doctoral study further divided into campus based and distance learning.

Recruitment and completions
ULSB PGRs are recruited through a careful and thorough process matching candidates with the
interest and expertise of supervisors. While most PGRs are self-funded, we have been able to
successfully attract high-quality students through GTA and studentship schemes at University,
College and School level, and a small number of externally funded students (ESRC, ERDF, and
charitable foundations) accounting for 9% of students over the REF cycle.

Following the REF2014 assessment, a strategic aim was to increase the number of doctoral
completions. Improvements have been made to monitoring and tracking progress of students,
assisted greatly by structural improvements in University PGR reporting systems. Interventions
have broadened the supervisory base in order to spread workload and increase experience.
Attention to supervisory processes and support for supervisors has also been a focus. The
success of these efforts is evidenced by 170 completions over the census period, a number that
exceeds sector averages (Table 2). Completions within four years have also significantly
increased over the census period from 61% and 55%, to 84% and 80%, in Economics and
Management respectively.

Table 2: Doctoral completions (not including distance learning students)


       Doctoral
                        2014/15    2015/16      2016/17      2017/18       2018/19   Total
      Completions

        Leicester         25          40           35           35           35       170

     Russell Group
                          17          17           17           20           19        90
       Average
      1994 Group
                          14          13           18           20           14        80
       Average
        Sector
                          13          13           14           15           14        69
       Average
                                                 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


It is pleasing to note that 44% of completions are women, with the near equal gender split for
economics being particularly noteworthy given the male-dominated nature of this discipline:
women make up only 26.5% of full-time economics academics (Royal Economic Society, 2017).
Additionally, 48% of completed PGRs identified as BAME. Ensuring the success of BAME
students is a key University strategic concern (IES, 3.4) and a Task and Finish group has been
established at College level to address the BAME awarding gap, with School representation
(Bose). It is therefore encouraging to note that at School level, the rate of BAME doctoral
completions has significantly improved across the census period (Figure 1).




                               Figure 1 BAME doctoral completions


While not included in the returns for UoA17 (as such students are not counted by HESA), this
census period has seen an additional 48 completions from international distance learning PGRs.
This is an important cohort from an EDI perspective because across the part-time and distance-
learning cohort, students cover an age profile ranging from the 30s to the mid-70s, with most
being 41-50 years at graduation. Given that these students are older and tend to have caring
responsibilities preventing full-time study, all funded studentships are also offered on a part-time
basis. Recruitment is conducted according to sector standard equal opportunity practices and
interviews are held virtually if travel to the campus poses difficulties.

Completion rates have increased while maintaining high standards of examination. ULSB
doctoral graduates are highly sought-after ECRs and over the census period we have seen
improvement in placements of our students. Economics PhD students have obtained academic
positions in institutions such as Aston, Cambridge, Birmingham, Surrey, SOAS, and the
University of East Anglia, and prestigious post-doctoral positions like Max Weber Fellowship in
European University Institute and been recipients of the Royal Economic Society Junior
Fellowship. A selection of onward recent Management PhD graduate destinations includes
academic positions in North Western, Stockholm, and Edinburgh Universities and prestigious
posts in the United Nations, Boehringer Ingelheim, Roffey Park Institute and the Nigerian
Defence Ministry. We also retain several PhD graduates each year in academic posts at ULSB
(for example, alongside two Assistant Professors: Tsaousi and Plugor, and Associate Professor
Patsiaouras, we have four current teaching fellows in the MISO department alone).

                                                  15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Supervision, support and training
We enable all colleagues to gain experience as supervisors and have embedded a model of co-
supervision so that less-experienced staff, including ECRs, are appointed to supervision teams
as additional supervisors where their expertise is appropriate. Every PGR is also allocated a
separate personal tutor to offer pastoral support. Monthly (full time) or two monthly (part time)
supervision sessions, probation reviews at the end of the first year (full time) and second year
(part time) and regular formal progress reviews are monitored through the online MyPGR
system. The COVID-19 pandemic has demonstrated how such processes can be conducted
very effectively virtually, with the long history of distance learning modes within the School being
a particular advantage at this time. Collated PRES results from across the census period
demonstrate overwhelming satisfaction from PGRs with the supervision arrangements (86%
Economics and 92% Management) in line with sector comparisons.

Structured research training includes modules on research design and practice, research
integrity and research philosophy, provided by the College Doctoral Research Training
programme. In addition, there is an extensive range of School-specific research training
modules, which are equally available to distance learning students in an online form. First year
students in Economics are required to study additional modules. The University’s Doctoral
College induction programme is supplemented by School-specific induction which informs
students about the support available both academically and for mental health and well-being. As
with all other core activities, we enable remote participation to include students based outside
Leicester or those with caring responsibilities.

ULSB’s research culture integrates, and is enhanced by, the academic achievements and skills
of our PGRs. Just like any other staff members, PGRs are asked to identify at least one
research cluster to be affiliated to. They regularly attend masterclasses, research lectures and
seminars, present their own work and organise external speakers. Our PGRs gain valuable paid
experience by working with academic staff to run conferences hosted by ULSB (e.g. 10th Critical
Management Studies Conference in 2015, and the 26th European Institute of Advanced Studies
in Management (EIASM) Innovation and Product Development Management Conference in
2019) or as research assistants on funded projects. For example, two former PGRs, Iman and
Shahzad have been involved as RAs in the EPIFFANY project of work (Green) which has
generated one of our eight selected impact case studies (ICS4) and four articles. Plugor was
RA on projects funded by the Medical Research Council in CSWEF and led by Nolan,
subsequently gaining a lectureship in ULSB. The Economics programme has two PhD
conferences in every academic year and has weekly internal seminars during term times. PhD
conferences for Management students take place annually. To aid in researcher development,
these conferences are organized by the students themselves with academic staff providing
guidance as needed. Staff are strongly encouraged to attend the PhD conferences to support
PGRs and there is usually a high turnout of staff at these events.

Equality and Diversity
The younger and early career profile of the School has already been highlighted. Currently, 36%
of staff are female, 24% are BAME and 4% have declared a disability. With regard to seniority,
8% of Professors in the School are female and 12% are BAME, while 36% of Associate
Professors are female, and 12% are BAME.

                                                  16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As discussed earlier, women and BAME staff in the School fare better proportionately in
processes such as study leave and doctoral completions. It is also positive that the number of
female Associate Professors matches the staff gender profile. However, the low level of female
professors and BAME staff in senior posts are areas for future strategic improvement. The
senior gender profile has shifted over the census period. In the immediate years after the
formation of the School in 2016, there were five female professors, including the Dean. Natural
turnover of staff since then has seen a disproportionate loss of female professors, which has not
yet been addressed due to recruitment freezes under University financial constraints. Despite
this, women do feature strongly within leadership positions in the School, including Associate
Dean for Research, Associate Dean for Learning and Teaching, Director of the Academy of
Business Education and Practice, as two of the seven research cluster directors, and as
department heads.

The University implemented a workplace menopause policy in 2017 as a result of Brewis, Beck,
Davies, Williams and Matheson’s research (ICS2). The policy engages staff across the
University, breaking down the taboo around menopause in the workplace so those experiencing
symptoms can discuss them candidly and ask for support and reasonable adjustments to ensure
success in their roles and the right life-work balance.

Much remains to be done to further diversify our staffing profile and to enable progression and
promotion of women and BAME staff. The School is working towards Athena Swan bronze
accreditation, which it will apply for in April 2021. A self-assessment team meets monthly, a
School Diversity Champion is in place and a new Staff Equalities, Diversity, Inclusion and
Development (SED) committee has been set up. All those involved in recruitment or REF
processes must undertake diversity and unconscious bias training as a mandatory requirement.
The SED committee has a specific strategic mandate to make progress on EDI and will utilize
internal expertise (such as Greene, Professor of Work, Employment and Diversity) as well as
from the University Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Unit to identify ways in which positive
targets around recruitment can be achieved. EDI issues are a standing item on all major School
committees including Senior Management Team, Management Board, Department Meetings
and Research Committee to ensure focused attention.

While the predominant model of academic contract is full time (88% of teaching and research
staff), ULSB supports flexible working agreements. In accordance with University policy,
compressed working weeks are also available. Information, systems and resources are available
online whilst staff are entitled to a laptop as their main machine to facilitate remote working.
Since 2015, 23 formally requested flexible working arrangements have been arranged mostly
around working hours and compressed working weeks. Leadership roles and posts are available
on a role-share basis to accommodate individual needs, as is demonstrated by current roles
held on this basis such as department heads in MOW and research cluster directors of CSWEF.
Over the REF census period, there have been 37 maternity, 23 paternity and 7 shared parental
leave arrangements made.

Our review and selection of outputs was carried out in accordance with the University’s REF
Code of Practice. Of the 229 outputs submitted, the proportions by female and BAME staff is
broadly in line with the profile of submitted staff. The high number of ECRs has been recognized
in a request for a unit level output reduction.

                                                17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research Income
Grant capture has been a success story in this REF cycle, demonstrating achievement of one of
our core strategic objectives from 2014. During the census period, HESA data show that ULSB
staff have been awarded grants and contracts totalling £3.8M. This is a 326% increase on the
combined amount awarded to our staff in the UoAs in the previous REF cycle (£1.16M).

In accordance with our strategic goal of fostering a culture of research grant application, the
annual number of awards received as Principal Investigators has also approximately doubled
following the creation of ULSB (Table 3).

Table 3:

                  Number of research awards as Principal Investigator, by year

                     Year                  2014    2015    2016   2017     2018       2019

              Number of awards              7          5   13      13       14        13



Research awards
Success in embedding this culture can also be seen in the number of bids made to external
funders, which more than doubled by the end of the assessment period (Table 4). In addition,
HESA data indicate that there has been significant corresponding improvement in research
income per FTE within the School.

Table 4:

                              Number of external funding applications

       Year         2013/14       2014/15       2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20

   Applications        19            24           35       49        45          52          51


Women account for 54% of grants awarded, for 54% of awards in excess of £100k and for
57.5% of total research funding in the School within the assessment period.

We have improved our performance in grant capture from research councils. Nolan from
CSWEF led research on the Medical Research Council’s Lifelong Health & Wellbeing
Programme (£921k 2014-18), developing our understanding of the implications of an ageing
workforce for working-life longevity, healthy ageing, and performance within the NHS. Gasparin,
in the IEE research cluster, currently holds an ESRC new investigator grant (£241k 2019-21) on
“slow design driven innovation”. This research is expected to create world-leading impact over
the medium-term by proposing research-informed business models for UK and Vietnamese
enterprises, demonstrating to SMEs how to adopt sustainable solutions, and craft organisations
how to compete on a “glocalised” basis. In IEE, Onyas was awarded £89k in 2020 for research
aiming to bridge the digital gender divide to stimulate growth in African digital economies. In
TAM, Ohinata’s research on the impacts of long-term healthcare funding system reforms won a

                                                   18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Fellowship worth £217k of funding from the Medical Research Council. Within MEF, Svetlova
leads the finance hub (£44k) of the ESRC’s ‘Rebuilding Macroeconomics’ project, which asks
fundamental questions about macroeconomics in the ‘real world’ and encourages rigorous,
innovative and interdisciplinary research. CSWEF researchers also gained substantial fellowship
awards from the AHRC (Eikhof, for her research on diversity in the UK screen sector in 2018),
and British Academy (Connolly, for research on trade union futures in 2017). De Feo also won a
British Academy mid-career fellowship in 2020 for research on the interaction between criminal
organisations and the wider society by analysing connections between mafia members and
social, political and economic elites in Sicily.

ULSB researchers are co-investigators on research council projects with prestigious partner
institutions. From CSWEF, Almond led the internationally comparative component of a £650k
ESRC project ‘Globalizing Actors in Multinational Companies’ (2016-20). This project focuses on
individuals who are responsible for the creation, diffusion, interpretation and negotiation of
norms across the international operations of multinational organisations, to investigate how
norms are created, disseminated across borders, and adapted over time. This involves close
collaboration with teams of researchers at the Seoul National University and the University of
Montreal, as well as at Loughborough and the University of East Anglia. Greene from CSWEF is
Co-I on the £375k AHRC funded project on ‘Clean Break: Women, Theatre, Organisation and
the Criminal Justice System’ (2019-2021) with the universities of Queen Mary, London, Warwick
and Reading. She has responsibility for the organisational practices work stream to examine
implications for both arts and non-arts management and leadership, in relation to stakeholder
voice and EDI issues.

The School has diversified its sources of research funding, particularly with regard to impact-
centred research, as a strategic objective since REF2014. For example, Green has led an
interdisciplinary project (EPIFFANY), funded jointly by NHS England bodies, including Health
Education England and the East Midlands Academic Health Science Network, and the
pharmaceutical industry, e.g. Pfizer Ltd, in collaboration with a number of NHS Trusts
(cumulative funding £340k). This intervention was designed and has been demonstrated to
reduce avoidable patient harm from medicine prescribing errors and their associated costs
(ICS4). Green was also awarded £150,282 from the European Regional Development Fund and
Crowdlab Ltd. to develop a successful marketing research tool (ICS7).

Other examples of funding diversification include Ladley’s KTP with fintech company Draycir
(£124k); work led by Tsaousi on accounting professionals’ access to well-being services
(Chartered Accountants Benevolent Association, £106k), and Ray-Bennett’s funding (£104k)
from International Planned Parenthood, which informs a developing impact case study on
reproductive health in Bangladesh. Smith was UK coordinator for a European Commission
project aiming to improve the access of women to the governing board of sports federations.
Recently, Moore was part of a successful bid to the German Federal Institute of Safety and
Health (€397k total) for a project on Advanced Robotics and AI-based Systems for Automation
of Tasks and Occupational Safety and Health; and Ladley and S. Wood recently won £126k
from the Leverhulme Trust to investigate the effectiveness of different forms of performance
related pay, with the aim of building a computational model in order to understand the behaviour
of firms and workers.

Operational Infrastructure
                                                19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
ULSB’s research is overseen by an Associate Dean for Research, supported by a Director of
Research Impact, a Director of Research Grant Development, and PhD programme Director, a
Senior Ethics Officer, and seven research cluster directors. All the above roles have significant
workload allocation.

Institutional transformation over the census period has seen the embedding of ULSB within the
new College structure (CSSAH), which has led to significant resource benefit. In order to help
develop our research funding performance, the College has invested £69,802 on thirty projects
through its Research Development Fund; £63,520 on an Impact Development Fund; £33,761 in
a grant-writing fund, which has supported 11 bids; and over £10,000 on 13 projects through its
Research Impact and Knowledge Exchange fund and its predecessors. ULSB researchers have
also benefitted from over £62,000 of direct support from the University’s International Research
Development Fund, funded through the institutional GCRF QR allocation. These various funds
have supported a wide-range of activities aimed at impact, including most of our impact case
studies, successful external bids by Gasparin, Onyas and Ray-Bennett, as well as publications
such as De Feo’s work on the consequences of wars on institutions. Staff have also been
successful with other internal funding schemes funded via HEIF, such as the Knowledge
Exchange and Enterprise Fund (KEEF) to develop new partnerships with industry and the public
sector. The School also has a dedicated Fellow in the University’s Innovation Hub who
specialises in Design Thinking and supports innovation with SMEs.

The University’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IAA) has provided exciting opportunities for
the School to realise its ambition of increasing the number of research relationships with non-
academic organisations as partners and clients. Since this was launched in 2019, School
colleagues have been allocated over £80k of support as lead bidders, as well as being involved
as partners with members of other Schools in projects worth a further £74k. Notably academics
in the School are leading three of the five institutional ESRC Strategic Partnerships, providing
£36k for each. First, Ladley is collaborating with the financial services firm Mattioli Woods to
identify key future areas for investment and relative risks in the post-COVID world, this has
received a supplementary £23k of funding from the company. Second, Greene and Ward with
colleagues in Museum Studies and the School of Arts are collaborating with the National Trust.
Third, Green is leading the strategic partnership with University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust
to develop a programme of health-related research and impact. The ESRC IAA has also
supported £42,883 of funding disbursed to rapid response projects to ULSB researchers,
including projects aimed at creating long-term impact, such as Ray-Bennett’s work on
reproductive health and disasters, and more emergent cases such as S. Wood’s work on work-
life balance in the COVID19 pandemic.

Incentivisation mechanisms are important to developing and sustaining a culture of grant
capture. The University makes significant investment in research project initiatives by the direct
dissemination of research overheads from current external grants and contracts to departments.
At School level, a further generous proportion of those overheads that are returned to the School
is disseminated to PIs and Co-Is in individual discretionary accounts that can be used for
broader research expenses and to buy out teaching and administrative duties (100% for
amounts under £10k and on a sliding scale down to 40% for amounts over £30k).

At School level, a range of infrastructural initiatives encourage staff to develop high-quality
research proposals. Good practice is disseminated through staff mentoring, and through the
                                                  20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
establishment of a dedicated Director for Grant Development. There is a rigorous process of
mandatory internal peer review of all grant applications regardless of amount, and external
review for grants over £150k, drawing upon the College and University’s funder groups with their
pool of peer-review experience for the major funding councils.

The provision of internal School research funding overseen by the Associate Dean for Research
has been in place since the formation of ULSB and has averaged around £94k each year. These
funds are applied for by open competition, with ECRs being prioritised as recipients and with
attention placed on ensuring a balance of investment across all seven research clusters. These
have been used to support specific publication mentoring, writing retreats and proof-
reading/copy-editing services. Writing retreats have been particularly fruitful and cost effective,
for example the outcomes of a single retreat in 2019 costing £1450 were two published journal
articles, one revised journal article, a conference paper and a successful funding application
(Gasparin and Quinn).

The School has also provided generous funding for conference attendance and all members of
academic staff (including teaching fellows) normally receive an annual budget of £1500 in order
to cover the costs of presenting at conferences, or similar related activities. This recognizes the
importance of conference presentation for research development and networking as well as
raising the external profile of research at ULSB. We deliberately do not use a model of
incentivising publications by journal outlet. We believe that such a model is not suited to our
research culture, which strives to recognise the value of the widest possible range of outputs,
including monographs, and further operationalises our commitment to DORA.

ULSB researchers benefit from cross-university research groupings, including notably CAMEo, a
research institute for Cultural and Media Economies (IES, 2.2) and the Anthropocene Research
Group. CAMEo’s support helped secure funding for over £250k of AHRC and other projects led
by Eikhof. It has also funded pilot work on eight projects, including notably work by Gasparin on
Vietnamese art and design, and Frenzel’s work on slum tourism, which forms an impact case
study (ICS3) as well as resulting in an important monograph. Recently, the University has
supported the launch of the Leicester Artificial Intelligence Network (LAIN), co-directed by
Moore, which brings together the expertise of 18 researchers from ten different Schools from
across the University to promote interdisciplinary collaborations pivoting on artificial intelligence
(AI), and which has organized 18 events since its launch in 2019.

Facilities
The University has invested £16M in the refurbishment of ULSB’s new, dedicated, self-contained
campus site at Brookfield, following the initial purchase cost of £2.9M. Completed in 2020,
Brookfield provides us with greatly increased capacity for collaboration, overcoming some of the
physical barriers experienced when located across multiple buildings following the creation of
ULSB. Brookfield creates a physical hub and collective identity for staff and PGRs, providing
easier access for meetings, advice and mentoring, in a modern environment with substantial co-
working spaces, research workshop and presentation spaces. This will also facilitate the
development of collaborative research programmes with industry, local communities and other
departments. Engagement with external stakeholders is enhanced by the provision of dedicated
car parking at the Brookfield site and being in walking distance of the railway station meaning we
are only just over an hour from major research-intensive and industrial cities such as
Birmingham, London and Nottingham. This will facilitate a greater participation in regional
                                                  21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research initiatives like the Midlands Innovation Inclusive Transformation for which Green has
been representing the institution.

Physical infrastructure includes an ULSB internally funded database/secure server (£30k) and
the establishment of the state-of-the-art LexEcon laboratory in 2014, dedicated to the application
of experiments to economics and business research. £130k has been invested from the
Institutional World Class Laboratories fund and the School of Business in the LexEcon lab and it
will be upgraded in the next REF cycle in parallel with relocation to Brookfield from the main
campus. . The laboratory facilities have enabled a range of projects and outputs, including
Currarini’s research on Identity, homophily and in-group bias, research led by Dhami on public
goods games, and ongoing research led by Boukouras on whether biased polls influence
election results.

Training and Development
To instil a collaborative grant-seeking culture, the School runs a targeted grant proposal training
programme. It is designed to develop and assist academics with their grant application
processes, from those seeking their first grant, to the more experienced proposal writer who may
simply want a nudge to get the work done. The current iteration of this is an annual ‘Grant
Capture Cohort for Newbies (or Not)’ (GCCN). The GCCN consists of a series of six half-day
workshops, supplemented with 5-6 writing meet-ups. In 2019-20, for example, participants were
predominantly ECRs who, because of the programme, have submitted seven applications for
external funding from a range of sources. This latest programme builds on similar initiatives over
the wider REF cycle which have aided several (now experienced) researchers to gain their first
grants e.g. Gasparin, British Council and Quinn, Regional Studies Association; and
successfully obtain consultancy contracts (e.g. Brokalaki, Welsh Government and Tsaousi,
Kokkinidis, Marx, Berridge and Weir’s funding by the Chartered Accountants Benevolent
Association - £106k).

There is also a suite of training provided by CSSAH and within the University, which is related to
research activities and research governance/leadership. Eleven mid-career staff went through
the six modules of the Future Leaders Programme over the census period. Staff also took up
opportunities for specialist external training, Big Data and Social Media Analysis, Critical Writing
as a Social Process and Audience Response Tools as examples among many. The School
maintains a staff development budget, which can be used to fund external training, some of
which is devolved to department level in order to facilitate more localized priorities. Over the
whole census period this funding amounts to £175k including specialist training (especially
around leadership and accreditations), and development activities related to methodological
training and publication support. Key examples have included funding four members of senior
staff over the 2016-19 period, (including the previous and current Associate Deans for
Research) to undertake the year-long Development Programme for Directors of Research run by
the Chartered Association of Business Schools.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

In accordance with our aim of making a distinct and positive contribution in the world and our
identity as having a strong sense of social purpose, we engage extensively in international
collaborations, often with institutions and academics in developing economies. Examples include
Onyas’ role as Principal Investigator on the British Academy International Partnership & Mobility
                                                  22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Scheme project ‘Exploring the Nature and Prospects of Frugal Innovations in Uganda’ - a
collaboration between the University of Leicester and Makerere University Business School
(2016-2019); and Gasparin and Quinn’s work on development through slow design, which has
involved multiple partnerships with institutions in Vietnam and across South-East Asia. Support
for these partnerships is illustrated by ULSB underwriting (£40k) and part-financing the Vietnam
Pavilion at the 2018 London Design Biennale. Ray-Bennett’s GCRF gender equality role and
extensive collaborations in Bangladesh similarly reflect our social purpose. Almond and
Hammer have long collaborated with CRIMT, an international and interdisciplinary distributed
research centre on globalisation and work based at the University of Montréal and are co-
investigators on its $2.5M collaboration ‘Institutional Experimentation for Better Work’, involving
researchers in eighteen research centres worldwide, including Cornell, Rutgers, and Renmin
University of China.

Our researchers are also encouraged to play key roles in sustaining research beyond Leicester,
and in developing new foci for business, management and economics research, through our
many roles in supporting learned societies and organisations in the UK and worldwide. For
example, Kavaratzis is a Founding Board member of the International Place Branding
Association. Sozzo is secretary of the International Quantum Structures Association. Svetlova
is leader of the Finance Hub of the ESRC Rebuilding Macroeconomics Network. Greene is
Chair of the international organisational studies body the Standing Conference on Organisational
Symbolism (SCOS), while Smith was organizer of the 2017 SCOS conference. Ward is co-
director of Art of Management, a body which brings together 200 researchers worldwide with
interests in the exploration and promotion of the arts as a means of understanding management
and organizational life and its contexts, holding biennial conferences and hosting the journal
Organizational Aesthetics. Greene has served on the Executive of the British Universities
Industrial Relations Association, and is also Co-Chair of the Gender and Equality Study Group of
the International Labour and Employment Relations Association (ILERA), Geelan co-founded
and co-chairs a new research network on Alternatives to Capitalism at the Society for the
Advancement of Socio-Economics (SASE), while Almond co-founded and co-chairs a SASE
network on Institutional Experimentation for Better Work; together these two networks attract
over 150 conference submissions annually.

The School has also hosted a number of standing conferences, including the 26th EIASM
Innovation and Product Development Management Conference (chaired by Saren, 2019; Green
and Gasparin are both now members of the ongoing conference scientific committee), the
Alternative Accounts Europe Conference, 2020, organised by the RASA cluster, and the 10th
Critical Management Studies Conference, 2015, which was a celebration of the Leicester School
of Management’s foundational role in critical management and organization studies. PhD
students in the Economics Division have hosted an international PhD conference, with
participants from top US (e.g. Harvard, Northwestern) and European Institutions and keynote
speakers from Oxford, Cambridge, and Bocconi.

Collectively, the School’s research clusters and groupings play a central role in organising
national and international workshops and conferences, therefore contributing to the international
research environment in business, management and economics. CPPE runs an annual Spring
Symposium, as well as running substantial numbers of one-day seminar events, on subjects
including “machines and measure”, “caring in technoscience worlds” and “speculative realism”;
the first of these resulted in a 2020 special issue of the journal Capital & Class. Through INCITE,
                                                  23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Leicester is a lead participant for Southeast Asia on Crafting Futures, a British Council global
programme supporting the development of sustainable craft industries. This work fosters
economic empowerment through the development of design-led skills for female artisans. In
related work, Gasparin, Frenzel and Quinn organise British Academy Publishing Workshops in
Vietnam aimed at developing early career East Asian researchers to develop publishing and
grant application skills. IQSQS has organised a series of international symposia worldwide,
organises a biennial meeting (hosted in Leicester in 2015), holds regular foundational seminars
at Leicester, and has enabled special issues in its subject area in the Journal of Mathematical
Economics, Journal of Mathematical Psychology, Theoretical Computer Science C, Frontiers in
Physics, and Frontiers in Psychology.

From 2015 to 2017, The School hosted the editorship of Work, Employment and Society, for
which the University provided substantial resources in terms of staff time for a number of ULSB
staff, in order to support this journal in one of our key areas of strength. Nolan is editor-in-chief
at the Industrial Relations Journal. Munro is managing editor of the Sociological Review, Sozzo
of Foundations of Science, Baltagi of Economics Letters and Empirical Economics, and Hall is
Editor of Economic Modelling.

Associate/section editor roles include: Journal of Business Ethics (Burrell), The Journal of
Econometrics (Baltagi), Work Employment & Society (Connolly), Gender Work & Organisation
(Greene, Rhodes), Industrial Relations Journal (Williams), Marketing Theory (Fitchett), Capital
and Class (Moore) and BMC Psychology (Sawang). Editorial board memberships include: New
Technology, Work and Employment (Brook), Organization (Burrell), Organisation,
Organisation Studies, Management Learning (all Driver),The Journal of Management Inquiry
(Driver, Stein), International Journal of Human Resource Management (Almond), Journal of
Management, Industrial Relations Journal, Industrial and Economic Democracy, Administrative
Sciences, International Journal of Human Resource Management, International Journal of
Environmental Research and Public Health, Human Resources Management and Services (all
S. Wood), Journal of Place Management and Development, Place Branding and Public
Diplomacy, Journal of Destination Marketing and Management, Administrative Sciences (all
Kavaratzis), Culture & Organisation (Lilley), Journal of Change Management, Employee
Responsibilities and Rights Journal (both Rhodes), Organisational and Social Dynamics (Stein),
Journal of Management Studies (Suhomlinova), Theory & Psychology (Cromby), International
Journal of Bank Marketing, Journal of Financial Services Marketing (Devlin) and Accounting,
Organizations and Society (Vollmer).

A substantial number of our researchers have seen their contributions recognized through the
award of fellowships: these include Burrell (Academy of Social Sciences) S. Wood (Chartered
Institute of Personnel and Development), Demetriades (Academy of Social Sciences), Grocott
(Royal Historical Society), Kavaratzis (Institute of Place Management), Saren (UK Academy of
Marketing), Moore (WZB Berlin), Dhami (Kiel Institute for the World Economy) Nakata
(Research Institute of Economy, Trade and Industry, Japan), Quinn (Regional Studies
Association), Greene (Susana Wesley Foundation) and Baines (Market Research Society).
Burrell was recipient of the 2014 American Academy of Management OMT Division’s biennial
Joanne Martin ‘Trailblazer’ award for lifelong contribution to the area. S. Wood is also a member
of the Nominations Committee of the Academy of Social Science.



                                                   24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We also encourage staff to act as visiting academics and to take advisory positions at
international universities as a basis for collaborative research. These include Burrell (University
College Dublin), Almond (HEC Montréal) Chou (University of California Riverside) Stein
(Roskilde University) and Frenzel (University of Johannesburg, Technical University Berlin,
Saren (St Andrews University), Sawang (Queensland University of Technology), Hall (Pretoria
University), Dhami (CESifo, Munich), and Sozzo (Free University of Brussels).

Our aim of creating a positive difference to the world and meeting University strategic research
objectives of increased reach and significance and enhancing enterprise culture is also reflected
in multiple wider roles based on user engagement and impact with a focus on outcome beyond
academia. For example, based on his experience as Governor of the Central Bank of Cyprus,
Demetriades acts as an external expert for the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on central
bank governance and banking supervision, and has played an important role in informing
European Commission proposals to strengthen the supervision of EU financial institutions to
better address money-laundering and terrorist financing threats. Moore is repeatedly invited as a
global expert to advise governments and international organisations about the use of technology
within workplaces for human resources and electronic performance monitoring and its impact on
workers and working conditions. Moore has been commissioned to write three influential reports
on these topics for the International Labour Organization (United Nations), European Union
Agency of Safety and Health, and the European Parliament Future of Science and Technology
Office. Moore’s work was used for research informing a new ILO Labour Convention C190
Violence and Harassment (in the World of Work); and is used to inform the research direction of
the European Union’s Foresight Initiatives. Hammer and colleagues’ sustained engagement with
the Ethical Trading Initiative, tackles the important social issue of sweatshop migrant labour in
the UK, specifically relevant to Leicester in particular, which forms one of our impact case
studies (ICS6). Baines is Director of the Business Continuity Institute, a global professional body
for business continuity and organisational resilience professionals. Baines also works on
projects for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and UK Law Enforcement. Rodgers
provides expert briefing advice to the FCO on matters relating to the business environment in
Ukraine. Bennett is a member of the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety. Hall
is member of the executive committee of the UN project LINK, and advisor to the Bank of
Greece and a consultant to the European Commission. Brokalaki is an advisor to the Hellenic
Institute of Cultural Diplomacy. Almond is appointed expert to the European Foundation for the
Improvement of Living and Working Conditions. Darler has Innovate UK funding to help
businesses to use their data more effectively, while Higgins is a member of the Chartered
Association of Business Schools Small Business Charter Management Board.

Conclusion
Our research and impact is driven by a commitment to ask challenging questions and develop
engaged, creative and socially responsible approaches to business, management and
economics. We are strongly committed to building upon our existing expertise in order to create
future leaders and advisors for the sustainability of scholarly, engaged research and broader
social and economic impact across the fields of business, management and economics. We
have built on the strengths of the former School of Management and Department of Economics
and have retained the intellectual autonomy for which Leicester is known, while extending our
focus and international reach, embedding impact more fully within our approach to the
development of research and researchers, and improving our capacity to capture research
funding.
                                                  25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          26
