Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: York St John University

 Unit of Assessment: Education (UoA 23)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 Education at York St John University (YSJU) has developed significantly since the last research
 excellence framework (REF) exercise. This achievement is reflected in growth in the quantity
 and quality of outputs, the proportion of doctorally qualified staff and the numbers of
 postgraduate research students and programs. As a result, the university now provides a vibrant
 intellectual environment and a critical and creative scholarly culture for staff and students alike.

 The context of education at YSJU has a long and distinguished heritage dating back to its
 inception as a teacher training college in 1841. Its lineage to ecclesiastical origins is reflected in
 the previous formation of the Faculty of Education and Theology, which created the substantive
 focus of the 2008 research assessment exercise (RAE) and 2014 research excellence
 framework (REF) submissions. Since then, in the context of a university-wide restructure of
 academic schools that has enabled interdisciplinary synergies to develop, a new, contemporary
 structure has evolved, in which education sits alongside language and psychology. This has
 created opportunities for enhanced interdisciplinary and multi-professional ways of working, and
 a focus on mutually enriching priorities of strategic significance. The REF2021 Education unit
 submission is organised around three prevailing themes deriving from two key areas of
 academic provision: 1) Initial Teacher Education and 2) Children, Young People and Education.
 There is a clear expectation that all staff within these two areas are engaged in research and/or
 academic scholarship on the strategic themes of inclusive education, critical policy studies
 and/or transforming communities. These, in turn, form the academic spine of both postgraduate
 and undergraduate curricula and further permeate the work of numerous school partnerships,
 alliances and strategic relationships, including those of third-sector organisations and agencies
 and wider social, cultural, and professionally focused communities.

 The unit’s performance during REF2014 was based on eleven staff members (9.4 full-time
 equivalent [FTE]), 40 outputs and two impact case studies. While this established a secure
 footing, changes in the REF guidelines and increasing levels of staff doctoral qualification and
 staff turnover combined to provide scope for the mobilisation of a new research and impact
 strategy to drive further development and growth in the intervening years. For example, while
 77.5% of all outputs were graded at 2* or higher last time, the remainder (some 22.5% of
 outputs) fell below the threshold of internationally recognised work. Thus, the aim has been to
 ensure that all outputs are graded 2* or above and that a much higher proportion are ranked at
 3* (internationally excellent) and 4* (world-leading), respectively. Similarly, the categories of
 “impact” and “environment” achieved baseline outcomes of 2* and 1* respectively in REF2014.
 The present research and impact strategy has been devised to accelerate the gains in progress
 towards international recognition through a strategically enhanced and reconfigured research
 infrastructure.

 Research strategy and developments since REF2014
 The university strategy has three priorities: inspiring learning, impactful research, and enabling
 our students to be clear about careers. The research strategy emphasises interdisciplinary
 working, demonstrating greater research excellence through external recognition, and wider
 dissemination of research as key goals. The new UoA research and impact strategy was
 conceived within this context by the School of Education, Languages and Psychology Academic
 Leadership Team. The strategic themes of inclusive education, critical policy studies and
 transforming communities were identified key strengths. These emerged as a result of various
 factors, including: the expertise of new staff (Clarke) with established research profiles; staff
 doctoral work and doctoral completions (Creasy, Buckles, Vincent, Elbra-Ramsay, Raymond,
 Rowe, Haines Lyon and Walker), existing and new national and international collaborations and
 partnerships (the European Network on Neoliberal Education Policy [ENNEP], see below;

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborative projects with University of British Columbia, Canada, Manchester Metropolitan
 University (MMU) and Liverpool Hope University; and the Erasmus bilateral relationship with
 University of Vic, Spain), and synergies between research, teaching and learning within the unit.
 As nascent research themes they thus derived from and reflected current activity and outputs
 and further foregrounded strategic priorities and accomplishments. While identified as separate
 themes, in reality they intersect, and the synergies provide opportunities for research
 collaboration. There is no assumed priority to the order in which they are presented below.

 Critical policy studies
 Our first strategic theme centres on theoretically informed and empirically grounded critical,
 cutting-edge analyses of developments in national and international education policy and is led
 by the work of Clarke. This theme is reflected in publications in leading international policy
 journals, authored and edited books by members of the unit and in national and international
 collaborative activities. Of particular note, for example, in 2017 the unit hosted a two-day
 workshop-conference of the ENNEP, attended by international policy scholars such Ball
 (University College London [UCL]), Wilkins (Goldsmiths, University of London), Allen (University
 of Sheffield), Bojesen (University of Winchester), Serpieri (University of Naples Federico II, Italy),
 Verger (Autonomous University of Barcelona, Spain) and Collet (University of Vic, Spain) as part
 of an Erasmus and bi-lateral partnership with the University of Vic, Spain. Such high-profile
 international alliances are complemented with similar strategic and nationally significant
 research partnerships. In collaboration with colleagues at MMU, for example, several conference
 symposia and writing projects have coalesced around the twin themes of critical policy studies
 and transforming communities. These have included research symposia at the British Education
 Research Association (BERA) conference (2016) and European Conference for Educational
 Research (ECER) (2017), leading to the production of high-calibre outputs, including a special
 issue of Power and Education (2018), with Hammersley-Fletcher and Schostak, as well as an
 edited book with Routledge (2020). Further collaborations have developed with UCL, in
 particular between Mills (UCL) and Clarke (YSJU) in conjunction with an ongoing Spencer
 Foundation funding proposal (Developing Research Literacy in Initial Teacher Education); and
 with Liverpool Hope University between Wood (YSJU) and Su (LHU), linked to policy critique in
 higher education, producing joint articles, a co-edited and co-authored book.

 Inclusive education
 As chair of the City of York’s All-Age Autism Strategy Sub-group for Employment and co-chair of
 York Autism Community of Practice, Vincent has established numerous training partnerships
 and events developing the theme of inclusive education. These include collaborations with City
 of York Council and Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), and PRO Autism
 training group, working with various companies and organisations including Netsells, Flamingo
 Land, NHS and Ministry of Justice. Vincent has also organised the Autism and Employment:
 Barriers and Solutions to Meaningful Employment conference in partnership with the National
 Autistic Society and Ambitious About Autism. Such expertise is further reflected in his recent
 commission to provide written and oral evidence to Malta’s Ministry of Education and
 Employment as well as through similar international accolades and alliances. For example, as
 part of a cross-Atlantic international network, Vincent will be reporting on the outcomes of
 participatory and cross-institutional studies of autistic students to the International Society for
 Autism Research Annual Meeting, in Seattle, Washington, USA in 2020.

 Transforming communities
 With explicit emphasis on school improvement, the work of Leach has played an instrumental
 role in transforming communities within and across the local region. One example is the
 Middlesbrough School Improvement Project (2018–20), achieving impact by removing barriers to
 learning; enhancing parental partnership through school engagement with parents and families;
 enhancing students’ career and employability prospects; and facilitating transitions in student
 learning. Another, funded by the Yorkshire Innovation Fund (2014–20), was an applied training
 programme. With similar transformative potential the project engaged early years’ practitioners
 as a means to improve the quality of their practice. In a different social and multidisciplinary
 context, Leeson (YSJU) continues to collaborate with Morgan at the University of Greenwich

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (2011–present). The partnership is researching children with a parent in prison and/or mothers
 with addiction and also aims to examine the social and emotional impact on children of single
 parents operating at the interface of education and public health services.

 Such multi-professional alliances, research partnerships and international collaborations have
 served to enhance the environment through complementary affiliations linked to staff
 development workshops and high-profile seminar events. For example, the unit has hosted a
 series of academic workshops, including sessions led by Thompson (Queensland University of
 Technology, Australia) on writing for journals, Torrance (MMU) on authorship and Sellar (MMU)
 on co-authoring. In addition, the unit has attracted leading national and international scholars to
 conduct academic and professionally focused seminars, including Melissa Benn (writer and
 campaigner) and the following professors: Reay (University of Cambridge), Mills (UCL), Vincent
 (UCL), Furedi (University of Kent), Lingard (University of Queensland), Misson (University of
 Melbourne), Pring (University of Oxford). The growth of national and international networks has
 also created opportunities to recruit international doctoral examiners from Sweden (Alerby,
 Umeå University) and Spain (Collect, University of Vic), as well as to enlist the service of other
 leading UK scholars such as Mentor (University of Oxford), Vincent (UCL) and Sambell
 (Edinburgh Napier University).

 This synopsis of accomplishments since 2014 forms the basis of the new research and impact
 strategy, the essence of which permeates the culture of the school and so enables research,
 teaching and learning to flourish in complementary ways. In research terms, the present
 emphasis and configuration conveys an understanding of impact as that which effects “change
 or benefit to the economy, society, culture, public policy or services, health, the environment or
 quality of life, beyond academia” (UK Research and Innovation, 2020). The current submission
 is oriented around the following salient impact case studies: a) embracing and enacting agonistic
 democracy in teaching and teacher education and b) improving employment opportunities for
 autistic graduates through inclusive education. Both are predicated on the wider ambition to
 enhance civic ties and further transform social, cultural and professionally focused communities.

 Priority developmental areas
 In terms of present and future plans, key priorities include:
     1. Continuing to expand our postgraduate research community, so as to:
             a. Continue to increase EdD and PhD enrolments and completions and build our
                research communities;
             b. Provide supervisory opportunities for staff with recent doctoral completions;
             c. Link the growth in postgraduate researcher (PGR) numbers to intensified activity
                in relation to our key research themes to develop critical mass in these areas.
     2. Expand our research income through various means, including:
             a. Continuing to develop our national and international collaborations around our
                key research themes;
             b. Consolidating and expanding our research cultures and communities through
                seminars, workshops, conference participation and collaborative research
                partnerships;
             c. Providing staff development around grant writing (e.g., two sessions held in
                September 2020 with Professor Robert Klassen, University of York, and
                Professor Martin Mills, UCL);
             d. Continuing to expand the research profiles of our staff members and track
                records in terms of excellent publications.


 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 There are 43 academic staff (34.4 FTE) in the two areas of academic provision in Initial Teacher
 Education and Children, Young People and Education, with a small number of academic staff
 positioned elsewhere in the university (Stern and Creasy, affiliated with the School of Business)

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contributing to the UoA. Of current staff members, four are lecturers and 31 are senior lecturers,
 with three professors, while 20 (category A staff) hold PhDs and a further 11 are working
 towards completion. Thus, whereas in 2014 60% of all staff were recorded as either qualified
 with or working towards a doctorate, in 2020 this figure has risen to 72% and grows every year.
 The composition of academic staff in the current cycle has continued to evolve in tandem with
 the changing emphasis and strategic priorities of the unit. Mutual enrichment of research activity
 with teaching and learning, coupled with expansion and diversification of the academic portfolio,
 has created new opportunities to elevate the status of research in a context of enhanced
 scholarship and where the growth of postgraduates (full-time and part-time researchers) has
 increased almost four-fold. For example, at the end of the REF2014 eligibility period there were
 just ten PGRs, while in 2020 there are currently 39 active postgraduates studying for doctoral
 degrees.

 Such rapid expansion has prompted awareness and recognition of the need to develop research
 capacity not only to enhance the research culture of the school but, perhaps more significantly,
 in relation to making new strategic appointments. For example, the appointment of Clarke has
 enabled a higher profile for critical policy studies within the unit while simultaneously
 transforming the leadership of research and enhancing the process of mentoring colleagues
 towards improved research outcomes, project proposal writing and publications through co-
 authorship. The long-term strategy, articulated in REF2014, to ensure all staff become research
 active has continued to grow and develop under Clarke’s expert influence, thus enabling staff to
 undertake more and better research.

 Staff have an annual personal development review (PDR), with research as an integral part.
 Topics discussed include reviewing progress, setting objectives for published outputs, research
 engagement (grant applications, PGR supervision, scholarship, knowledge exchange) and
 research development (external visibility, conference attendance, networking). YSJU is a
 signatory on the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, which
 directly informs our staff development approach. Our centralised research CPD programme
 (over 40 sessions) is aligned to the four core Vitae competencies and recognises staff individual
 development needs while also acknowledging that a common set of requisite personal and
 professional skills are needed for success. CPD delivery is mainly delivered by our professoriate
 and by external speakers (e.g. Professor Mark Reed delivered our impact workshop). Our new
 open data repository service (RaYDaR) and research repository (RaY) will further increase the
 impact and transparency of research at YSJU and support researcher development.

 Increasing levels of exposure to research development opportunities through organised
 seminars, public lectures and bespoke workshop events (as noted above), led by Clarke and
 colleagues, have also served to increase levels of staff engagement in research. This, while
 securing an upward trajectory of staff with doctorates, has enabled the unit to keep pace with the
 recent expansion of PGRs. The recruitment strategy aligns with and enhances the evolving
 internal infrastructure and contemporary themes noted in Section 1. All new academic
 appointments since REF2014 have thus come either with doctoral degrees in cognate areas or a
 contractual pledge to achieve such within a specified period. Moreover, new appointments have
 been made judiciously, thus reinforcing existing areas of research strength as well as addressing
 new developmental priorities. One such appointment, for example, can be illustrated in the field
 of inclusion and special educational needs (Long, EdD PGR), others within the area of childhood
 and youth studies (Trussler; Yeomans, EdD PGR; Pugh, PhD PGR). In both cases the express
 intention was to impact the unit’s thematic priorities positively and so sustain the ambition to
 transform communities through research-informed teaching across undergraduate and
 postgraduate curricula. In a different example, two members of staff who have recently obtained
 doctorates, Haines-Lyon and Walker, were promoted from fractional fixed-term contracts (0.5
 FTEs) to tenured lecturer positions. Again, this reinforces the school’s focused commitment to
 improving research, research-informed teaching and learning and further establishing a clear
 trajectory for ECRs developed in-house.



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Further significant changes to enhance the research environment have been facilitated internally
 through deliberative recruitment practices linked to newly established research protocols. For
 example, the extant criteria for promotion from lecturer (grade 7) to senior lecturer in education
 (grade 8) are based on (research) achievements that reflect significant responsibility for
 research, including: 1) eligibility to supervise doctorates, 2) a track record of peer-reviewed
 research publications, 3) presenting at international conferences, 4) collaborating on funding
 bids to external bodies to support research. Since 2014, four staff members have been
 promoted from lecturer to senior lecturer within the school, reflecting their increased levels of
 research engagement and achievement. While the number of professors (2.2 FTE) and
 associate professors (0.6 FTE) has remained relatively stable, the number of staff with
 doctorates has grown significantly. For example, in 2014 just nine staff held doctorates and
 submitted to the REF, while in 2020 there are 15 staff (with significant responsibility for research)
 with doctorates being submitted.

 PGRs
 Numbers have grown from just ten PGRs in 2014, and one PhD completion, to 39 PGRs and
 eight completions in the current counting period.

  Year               Degree New              Total enrolled (for part   Completions
                            starters         or whole year)
  2014–15            PhD    3                13                         1
  2015–16            PhD    5                16                         0
  2016–17            PhD    1                16                         0
                     EdD    7                10                         0
  2017–18            PhD    5                20                         0
                     EdD    5                14                         0
  2018–19            PhD    0                20                         2
                     EdD    10               23                         0
  2019–20            PhD    2                17                         5
                     EdD    4                26                         0

 The granting of research degree awarding powers (RDAP) has enabled a significant rise in
 PGRs since 2015, many of whom initially were internal staff seeking professional development.
 The recent flow of completing graduates has created a new and expanding pool of eligible
 doctoral supervisors (e.g., Raymond, Elbra-Ramsay, Haines-Lyon, internally; Buckles, Creasy,
 Rowe and Vincent, externally), comprising a broad range of research interests and expertise
 across both Initial Teacher Education and Children, Young People and Education, with other
 completions anticipated as the EdD continues to mature. Of the submitted staff, Clarke, Stern,
 Vincent, Wood, Walton, Leeson, Creasy, Buckles, Leach, Haines-Lyon, Raymond and Elbra-
 Ramsay currently supervise either PhD or EdD students within the school, supervision which is
 based on the relevant Quality Assurance Agency for Higher Education (QAA) and institutional
 guidelines (80 % of the UoA).

 YSJU has well-established processes for induction, training, and monitoring of PGR students.
 Formal reviews of PGR student progress are conducted every six months by academics external
 to the supervisory team. Progress is monitored centrally four times a year (by Research Degree
 Committee). All supervisory meetings are logged. Supervisory teams are made up of multiple
 academic staff from the PGR student supervisory register. To be added to the register, staff are
 required to meet stringent criteria for PGR supervision eligibility pertaining to engagement in
 research, continual professional development and formal YJSU training. Endorsement from
 Heads of School or School Research Leads is also required. Applications are assessed by a
 central committee of senior research staff (again, by Research Degree Committee). It is
 mandatory that all supervisory teams have at least one member of staff with experienced
 supervisory status (have previously supervised a PhD student to successful completion). In
 addition, all PGR students have a PGR tutor who is available to provide support outside of the
 supervisory team.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All students undertake needs analysis periodically and an individually tailored training
 programme is created. The needs analysis is based on competencies in the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Support is provided by supervisory teams and via a centralised PGR
 training programme that includes core and supplementary workshops at each year of study. Like
 our staff training programme, our PGT training programme aligns with the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Core parts of the programme include Research Ethics and Integrity,
 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for Research, Data Management, and Copyright
 and Intellectual Property rights. These sessions are compulsory for all PGR students.
 A range of other central and local support is available to PGR students that include (1) access to
 centralised services (e.g. Student Services, Chaplaincy, Library and Learning Services,
 Careers); (2) access to a stipend of up to £900 (£450 part-time) to support travel and
 consumables associated with their research and professional development; (3) access to the
 YSJU Graduate Centre providing study space and remote access to a range of specialist
 software (e.g., AMOS, MPlus, Comprehensive Meta-Analysis); (4) opportunity to complete a
 postgraduate certificate in academic practice to achieve associate fellowship of the Higher
 Education Academy (HEA); (5) administrative support provided by the School and Research
 Office (RO) and (6) various PGR events held throughout the year (e.g., Three Minute Thesis
 (3MT), Bake Your Thesis, and the annual PGR conference).

 Equality and diversity
 UoA23 sits within a broader context of support for equality and diversity at YSJU which has
 implemented several initiatives which ensure policies and practices relevant to researchers are
 inclusive, equitable and transparent. This is formalised in the YSJU Equality, Diversity and
 Human Rights Policy and the targets within the YSJU 2026 strategy (e.g., 10% BAME student
 and staff population; all staff are engaged in equality and diversity training and development
 appropriate to their role; median gender pay gap below 10%; 95% of staff think the university is
 a good place to work). Equality impact assessments are a routine part of annual monitoring and
 progress towards YSJU targets are reported to executive board and the governing body on a
 yearly basis. Of additional note, YSJU is a member of the Athena SWAN Charter (and is
 currently applying for a Bronze Award), a Stonewall Diversity Champion (ranked 49th place on
 the 2020 Top 100 Employers list) and Top 20 Trans employer, a Disability Confident employer,
 and a Mindful Employer. There are also several active staff networks available for staff to join
 that align with these awards and this agenda including the LGBT+, BAME and Disability staff
 networks.

 Education complied fully with the YSJU institutional code of practice in selecting research
 outputs. The UoA lead also undertook Advance HE training on equality and mitigating bias as
 part of the role. Due to the small size of our submission, it is not possible to report a profile at
 UoA level here while also complying with HESA guidelines on anonymous reporting when
 presenting Equality and Diversity data (e.g., all our percentages would be based on less than
 22.5 FTE). However, equality and diversity data for the UoA was reviewed internally following
 the completion of output selections and reported to both the SALT and Athena SWAN
 development groups as part of promoting greater diversity and inclusion at UoA, school, and
 institutional levels. Our data was also included as part of an equality and diversity impact
 assessment at institutional level.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Within the REF period, the unit has accumulated approximately £300,000 in external funding,
 with income spanning the full range of education, children, and youth service contexts.
 Successful bids have usefully consolidated the performance of REF2014 while strategically
 evolving into new areas of research and academic scholarship. Without exception, successful
 funding proposals have embraced elements of collaboration, partnership working and often
 broader international networks and alliances reflecting the prevailing research themes (inclusive
 education, critical policy studies, transforming communities), underpinning outputs and
 associated impact.


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Notable income included £144,821 in funding from the EU’S Erasmus funding scheme for the
 Social Economy Project led by Meredith, which reflected the social justice commitments of the
 unit. Meanwhile Stern and colleagues have accumulated circa £108,000 in conference income
 linked to the overlapping themes of education, spirituality, and religion, with several international
 research conferences organised through YSJU. These include:

    •   International Seminar on Religious Education and Values (ISREV) (2014, £48,758);
    •   Value and Virtue in Practice-Based Research (2014, 2015, 2016, circa £20,000);
    •   Prayer Spaces in Schools (2017, £22,534);
    •   Farmington Institute research scholarship support funds (2014, £2,000);

 More recently in 2020, Bloom was part of a successful bid for £269,680 to the Wellcome Trust
 led by University of Roehampton, titled Research-2-practice: Research-informed science lesson
 plans for busy teachers, of which YSJU was awarded £18,080. Vincent was awarded £8,500 by
 the Winston Churchill Memorial Trust to examine the specific employment needs of autistic
 graduates in the context of COVID-19. This award to Vincent follows his prestigious Churchill
 Fellowship (£5,500, March 2017 in addition to HESA reported research income), awarded by the
 Trust to “exceptional scholars”, in this case to establish and develop research in the area of
 autism and neurodiversity.

 Further income (in addition to HESA research income) has been externally sourced by Leach
 from regional agencies to conduct research projects and independent evaluations with change
 agendas for inclusion, school improvement and the professional development of early years
 practitioners in local communities. For example, in 2014–15, the Yorkshire Innovation Fund
 awarded £30,400 to evaluate the contribution, quality and impact of the Sue Overton Applied
 Practice training programme upon the professional development of early years practitioners and
 contemporary practice. Also, during 2015, the Yorkshire Innovation Fund awarded £7,100 to
 assist Leach in conducting a feasibility study for Home-Start Ryedale Ltd as a means to prepare
 the ground for a larger funding bid building on the charity’s work. Finally, from January 2018 to
 March 2020, Middlesbrough Borough Council awarded £19,300 to support Leach in conducting
 an independent evaluation of the Middlesbrough School Improvement Project. As noted above,
 this was to examine the project’s impact in removing barriers to learning, enhancing parental
 partnership and school engagement with parents and families, enhancing students’ career and
 employability prospects and facilitating transitions in student learning. Meanwhile, Stern’s
 successful application for external funding (2019) to the Polish National Agency for Academic
 Exchange (NAWA) (£43,000), enabled participation in The Existential Problems Experienced in
 Old Age – International Perspective project, contained both an inclusive and transformative
 aspiration.

 In addition to these procurements, several scholars have submitted funding proposals to leading
 research councils, charitable foundations, trusts and external funding agencies aligned with the
 prevailing trajectory of work. We consider the increase in this activity to be reflective of the
 upward trajectory of the UoA. The bids have also served to establish broader national and
 international links to develop research networks, academic scholarship, outputs and impact, and
 thereby enhance the relationship of research with teaching, learning and collaborative working.
 For example, in 2018 and 2019, as part of the European Network on Neoliberal Education Policy
 (ENNEP), Clarke was involved in assembling the European Union COST Action funding bids,
 bringing together institutions from 16 European Union countries. Such connections helped
 galvanise the ENNEP, resulting in a two-day workshop, utilising catalyst funding (£10,000) to
 host a research event at YSJU.

 On the theme of transforming communities, and in collaboration with members of the Cathedrals
 Group of researchers led by the University of Cumbria, Wood was part of a team recently
 successful in securing funding (£2,500) for a scoping review, “What turns space(s) into place(s)?
 Stories of resilience and fragility” (2019). The partnership went on to produce a co-authored
 article published in the International Journal of Comparative Education and Development (2019)
 as well as a co-authored book with Bloomsbury (2020).

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In the context of competing for internal research funds, several scholars have successfully
 secured catalyst funding to enable the development of new networks, research projects and/or
 testing of prospective impact case studies. Most notably, for example, Clarke received £8,500
 catalyst funding for the aforementioned ENNEP Conference hosted at YSJU (2017). Clarke and
 Wood further secured £859 to assemble Touching, Feeling, Thinking: A Symposium on
 Embodiment, Aesthetics, Affect and Education, and another £1,800 to promote critical media
 literacies in local schools. Additionally, Walton received seed funding (£1,778) for a pilot study
 entitled “The Motivations and Outcomes of Study Abroad Among UK Undergraduates Studying
 Japanese and Korean Languages”. Wood was successful in securing quality-related (QR)
 funding: first, to support a research investigation into the positioning of parents as stakeholders
 in higher education, creating the foundation of a chapter in the foreshadowed Bloomsbury
 publication with Dr Su (2020); and, secondly, to support an enquiry into the enduring influence of
 Sir Alec Clegg’s educational philosophy and leadership practice in the West Riding of Yorkshire
 (2018–19, £775), leading to a publication in the Journal of Educational Administration and
 History.

 Vincent has successfully secured internal funding several times in the last four years. On three
 separate occasions linked to different projects, he has secured the following small grants:
 Student as Researchers fund (2016–19, £2,894); catalyst funding to develop researching autism
 and employment (2018–19, £2,000) and QR/impact case study funding (2018–20, £3,000) to
 develop impact case projects.

 The process of procuring research funds, both internally and externally, has been facilitated by
 the university’s expanding research infrastructure and new programme of investment dedicated
 to achieving impactful research. We have benefited from a new central RO, which includes a
 head (1.0 FTE) and 5.15 FTE staff. The RO is responsible for overseeing research governance
 and compliance, supports grant applications, manages PGR student experience, coordinates
 staff research training and monitors research performance. This has relieved academics in the
 UoA of substantive administrative duties associated with research supervision, allowing us to
 maintain a high-quality experience as we expand our PGR cohort numbers. The RO directly
 improved the quality of support for research grant applications, as evidenced in the increased
 number, range and type of the UoA’s grant applications.

 The new Business Development and Knowledge Exchange Office (BDKEO), which includes a
 director (1.0 FTE) and 13.5 FTE staff, supports schools in increasing the range and scope of
 applied research, business development and knowledge exchange and is our main conduit for
 impact and public engagement. It helped gain accreditation for Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
 (KTPs) and registered YSJU with Innovate UK, as an approved KTP knowledge base deliverer.
 It was integral to YJSU achieving Silver Watermark accreditation from the National Co-ordinating
 Centre of Public Engagement (NCCPE).

 Partnerships and local, national, and international alliances play a critically central role in the
 determination to transform communities. Through the involvement of key stakeholders the unit
 simultaneously brings together an increasingly experienced academy with strategic partners to
 promote inclusive research practice and so align with the institution-wide framework to secure
 civic ties and further enhance social justice.

 In addition to the increasing centrality of research, reflected through recently amplified university-
 wide facilities, the unit has successfully mobilised a hot-desking system to ensure the full
 integration of PGRs and ECRs, visiting professors, fellows and research assistants within the
 working space of the school. This is further supported with up-to-date IT and library facilities and
 online support (with a 44% increase in investment), along with designated budgets annually for
 academic books, research materials (including a 93% increase in journal titles), web-based
 support and dissemination of research.



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The current submission draws on a wide range of esteem indicators, in part reflected through
 editorships and editorial board memberships of international academic journals. Clarke and
 Stern are lead editors of the international journals Research in Education and British Journal of
 Religious Education, respectively. Clarke is a board member of Power and Education while
 Stern is board member of several academic journals, including: British Journal of Religious
 Education; Religious Education; Journal for the Study of Spirituality; Other Education: The
 Journal of Educational Alternatives; Greek Journal of Religious Education and Pedagogika
 Szkoły Wyższej (the Polish Pedagogy of Higher Education journal). Wood is editorial board
 member for Research in Education.
 Clarke is also editor of two special issues in Research in Education: one on teacher education
 and virtue ethics, with Phelan (University of British Columbia, Canada) and Back (Kaye College,
 Israel); and a second on democracy and education with Bojesen (University of Winchester) and
 Collet (University of Vic, Spain). A third example is with the European Educational Research
 Journal, a special issue on the changing nature of public education in Europe with Mills (UCL),
 Mockler (University of Sydney, Australia) and Singh (Griffith University, Queensland, Australia).
 A fourth, with Schostak (MMU) and Hammersley-Fletcher (MMU), resides in Power and
 Education, examining the process of rethinking democracy and education.

 Staff members with significant responsibility for research are actively engaged in peer reviewing
 of international journals and academic books of leading publishing houses. Clarke reviews for a
 number of prestigious journals including the British Educational Research Journal, Critical
 Studies in Education, Journal of Education Policy, Educational Philosophy and Theory,
 Anthropology & Education and Power and Education. He also reviews academic book
 manuscripts for leading publishers Palgrave and Routledge. Stern is peer reviewer for the British
 Journal of Religious Education, International Journal of Children’s Spirituality, Journal for the
 Study of Spirituality, Journal of Philosophy of Education, Journal of Computer Assisted Learning,
 Journal of Applied Philosophy and Journal of Education for Teaching. He also reviews academic
 books for several publishers including Bloomsbury, Learning Matters, Oxford University Press,
 Palgrave and Routledge. Buckles, Creasy, Haines Lyon, Leach, Vincent, Walton and Wood are
 also actively engaged in peer reviewing, conducting reviews for a wide range of international
 titles including: Power and Education (Buckles, Creasy, Haines Lyon, Leach); Journal of Further
 and Higher Education (Creasy); Research in Post-Compulsory Education (Leach); International
 Journal of Research and Practice, Scandinavian Journal of Disability Research and Advances in
 Autism (Vincent); Educational Action Research (Walton); Journal of Education for Teaching,
 Research in Education, European Journal of Higher Education, Educational Review, Studies in
 Higher Education (Wood). Wood and Leeson have reviewed academic books for Bloomsbury
 and Palgrave Macmillan, and SAGE, respectively, in the current period.

 In terms of research grant reviewing, Clarke has been international reviewer and panel member
 for research centre proposals for the National Commission for Scientific and Technological
 Research (CONICYT), Chile, since 2012 and international reviewer of research grants for the
 National Science Centre, Poland, since 2015. Since 2019 he has served as international
 reviewer for New Opportunities for Research Funding Agency Cooperation in Europe
 (NORFACE).

 Further favourable relationships, collaborations and esteemed contributions have emerged
 through invitations to examine doctoral theses in universities across the UK and internationally.
 Regarding the latter, Clarke has served as doctoral examiner for the University of Auckland,
 New Zealand (2018), while Stern has examined for University of Newcastle, Australia (2016),
 Federation University, Australia (2019) and, most recently, the Australian Catholic University
 (2020). Both have also examined extensively across the UK, with Clarke examining for the
 University of Chester (2015, 2019), MMU (2017, 2018, 2020), University of East Anglia (2019),
 Canterbury Christ Church University (2020), Leeds Beckett University (2020) and University of
 Edinburgh (2020). Stern has stood as general secretary of ISREV throughout the REF period
 (organising seminars and collaborating with more than 300 researchers from 35 countries

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 around the world) and as secretary of the John Macmurray Fellowship (collaborating with
 scholars from four different continents). This has established a network and reputation, resulting
 in numerous invitations to examine doctoral theses for the Institute of Education, UCL (2014),
 Canterbury Christ Church University (2017, 2018, 2019), Edge Hill University (2017), Liverpool
 Hope University (2016, 2018), University of Brighton (2018) and University of Hull (2020).
 Additionally, Walton has examined for Dublin City University (2017), Middlesex University (2018)
 and University of Chester (2019), while Wood has examined doctoral theses at the University of
 Derby (2016) and Leeds Beckett University (2017).

 Respected affiliations and strong working relationships have been strategically augmented
 through the organisation and convening of international research conferences and through
 further involvement in academic presentations. Clarke convened the ENNEP (2017), attracting
 delegates from universities in England, Spain and Italy, leading to EU Cost Action bid (noted
 above). He also organised Touching, Feeling, Thinking: A Symposium on Embodiment,
 Aesthetics, Affect and Education (2019), drawing delegates from Brunel University London,
 MMU, University of Aberdeen and Goldsmiths, University of London. In partnership with Skills
 Development Scotland and the Career Development Institute, Vincent was centrally involved in
 organising the Career Guidance and Development Conference, University of the West of
 Scotland (2020). In collaboration with Małgorzata Wałejko and the University of Szczecin,
 Poland, Stern and colleagues convened two academic research conferences, one in York in
 2019 and one in Poland in 2020, involving academics from 16 countries. Stern has also been
 centrally involved in convening the following academic and professionally focused conferences
 and seminar presentations: Value and Virtue in Practice-Based Research (2014, 2015, 2016);
 ISREV (2014); John Macmurray Fellowship Annual Conference: Conditions of Equality: John
 Macmurray on Equality, Freedom and Common Humanity (2015); John Macmurray Fellowship
 Annual Seminar: Macmurray, Fear and Reciprocity (2016); Prayer Spaces in Schools (2017);
 Alone Together: An International Pandisciplinary Symposium on Solitude in Community (2019).

 The reputation and esteem of several scholars within the unit has been underscored through
 invitations to deliver keynote speeches, talks and/or seminar presentations at other institutions
 internationally. Clarke has given keynote talks to the Annual Conference of the Scottish
 Education Research Association (Dundee, 2016) and Hong Kong University Faculty of
 Education Annual Research Student Conference (Hong Kong, 2016) and has been invited to
 present a keynote at the Nordic Educational Research Association Annual Conference
 (Denmark, 2021). Stern has given two public lectures at Darden College of Education &
 Professional Studies, Old Dominion University (Virginia, USA, 2017) and also at Katholisch-
 Theologische Fakultät der Universität Tübingen (Germany, 2017) and ISREV (Nuremberg,
 2018). He has also presented to Crises of Autonomy in Universities and Higher Education: An
 International Scientific Conference (Szczecin, Poland, 2018); AULRE: The network for learning,
 teaching and research in religion and education (Birmingham, 2018); Value and Virtue in
 Practice-Based Research (York, 2014, 2015, 2016); John Macmurray Fellowship Annual
 Seminars (York, 2015, 2016; Sheffield, 2017, 2018, 2019); Alone Together (York, 2019;
 Szczecin, 2020) and Philosophy of Education Conference (Kraków, 2020). Additionally, Walton
 has been invited several times to present as keynote speaker at Science & Scientist
 conferences, organised by Sri Chaitanya Saraswat Institute in India, including Bangalore (2016),
 Nepal (2017) and New Jersey (2019).

 Since 2014, the unit has achieved growth in relation to scholars leading and participating on
 national and international co-authorship partnerships and auspicious collaborations. As member
 of the Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain (PESGB), Clarke has served as co-
 organiser of the PESBG West Yorkshire branch (collaborating with Leeds Trinity University)
 since 2019. Collaborating with Phelan, University of British Columbia, Canada, he has led on the
 authorship of two journal articles (Power and Education, 2015; Transnational Curriculum Inquiry,
 2019) and a co-authored book (Routledge, 2017). With Back (Kaye College, Israel), Clarke and
 Phelan jointly authored a recent special issue and editorial in Research in Education (2019).
 Further, with Collet (University of Vic, Spain) and Bojesen (University of Winchester, UK), Clarke
 produced the aforementioned special issue of Research in Education (2019), as well as

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 establishing Erasmus and bilateral partnership exchanges (2018–19). A third collaboration with
 Schostak and Hammersley-Fletcher (MMU), led to publications with Power and Education
 (2019) and an edited book with Routledge (2020).

 In addition to Stern’s various visiting scholarships and academic affiliations, including
 collaborations as visiting scholar at the Darden College of Education & Professional Studies, Old
 Dominion University, Virginia, USA (2017) and at Katholischen Fakultät-Theologische der
 Universität Tübingen, Germany (2016), he is also an active member of the Religious Education
 Association (2016–), member of the British Personalist Forum (2016–), member of the PESGB
 and member of BERA. Moreover, he is recent guest editor for Pedagogia Christiana (2019–20,
 two special editions on solitude) and honorary academic advisor for the Centre for Religious and
 Spirituality Education, Hong Kong Institute of Education (2008–15), as well as consultant to the
 Identifying Principles and Big Ideas for Religious Education project hosted at University of Exeter
 (2016–19).

 More broadly across the unit, Creasy has collaborated with Corby at Teesside University co-
 authoring the academic monograph Taming Childhood? (Palgrave, 2019), while Vincent has
 partnered with academics at Leeds Beckett University, University of Portsmouth and Ambitious
 About Autism on a funding proposal to STAGE, as well as with colleagues at Living Autism on a
 bid to Innovate UK. Walton has partnered with the Scientific and Medical Network, organising
 and facilitating a conference weekend (2019), funded by the Salvia Foundation and attended by
 14 academics, including four PGRs from YSJU. Moreover, Wood and Leeson have collaborated
 with academics at Liverpool Hope University (Su) and the University of Greenwich (Morgan),
 respectively, on joint writing projects and funding proposals leading to the publication of peer-
 reviewed articles and books.

 The contemporary evolution of the unit since 2014 has occurred during a cycle of radical
 transformation and change: two institutional restructures in a period of only three years (2016
 and 2019). Regardless, the unit has successfully identified three thematic priorities which both
 build upon the baseline accomplishments of the previous REF cycle, while developing
 discernible new lines of research enquiry that reflect and constitute already established but
 expanding areas of academic provision. This has emerged contemporaneously with the
 development of the new School of Education, Language and Psychology to facilitate and create
 new opportunities for interdisciplinary and multi-professional collaborations, as well as research-
 capacity building that draws on a rich vein of shared practice and academic cross-fertilisation.
 The enhanced trajectory of complementary research themes, matched with the continued growth
 of research-active staff who have doctorates and led by strong local leadership and
 management within the newly formed school, has produced a picture of robust health, strength
 and optimism for the future of education research at YSJU.




                                                                                            Page 11
