Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Kingston University

 Unit of Assessment: 23 – Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Unit Context and Structure

Kingston University’s (KU) Unit of Assessment in Education undertakes research into education
policy, pedagogy and practice, spanning: early years education, primary, secondary, higher
education (HE), further education (FE), as well as professional education for teachers, doctors,
health and social care professionals, and other practice-based professions, such as geography
and creative arts. The Unit promotes excellence in education research and action on social justice
through applied learning and equality of opportunity, particularly from an EDI perspective.

The Unit is cross-institutional with an interdisciplinary membership of 17 researchers (16.2 FTE).
There are currently 4 (3 at census date) professors and 13 mid-career researchers (MCR).
Individual staff, research group membership and interests are shown in Table 1. Income from
research grants in the reporting period is 751,448. The Unit has 17 postgraduate research students
(7PhD, 10 EdD).

This is KU’s first stand-alone submission to the Education Unit of Assessment, however the
university has a long tradition of education research, particularly in HE, as demonstrated by our
impact case study (ICS) on Private Providers (ICSUoA23Middlehurst2). The present Kingston
Education Research Network (KERN) is hosted by the joint Faculty of Health, Social Care and
Education (FHSCE) and connects education research across the university. KERN works closely
with KU’s Learning Teaching and Enhancement Centre (LTEC) which was launched in 2018 to
improve educational quality and outcomes across the university.

There are two research groups. 9 Unit members are from the Education Research Group (ERG)
led by Wood and 8 are from the Healthcare Research and Evaluation Group (HERE) led by
Ooms. ERG is part of the School of Education, which holds a sector leading position on student
access and participation. ERG has 1 PhD and 9 EdD students. Working alongside ERG, HERE
was launched in 2018 to build multidisciplinary research capacity in healthcare education and
workforce development. HERE has 6 PhD and 1 EdD student. Both groups provide a focus for the
research activity of a wider group of academic staff and research-engaged colleagues in the
practice domain.

The distinctive features of the Unit are (i) the close relationship between research conducted in
LTEC and educational research emanating from academic subject areas across the university, (ii)
the linking of institutional research on EDI with subject level specialisms and expertise in inclusive
education and social justice, (iii) a growth culture that is supported by the substantial research
experience and mentorship of 3 Emeritus professors (Table 1, see page 2), and (iv) EDI expertise
that is embedded in an impact framework. These features have been strategically nurtured to
invest in education research and enhance institutional impact.

The Unit’s cross-institutional structure (illustrated by Table 1) promotes internal interdisciplinary
research between specialities and areas of methodological expertise, for example the use of
mixed-method approaches to understand learning processes and outcomes for BAME students
and achieve transformative impact on teaching and learning, as demonstrated by our ICS on the
Inclusive Curriculum (ICSUoA23Hughes1). Unit members collaborate with staff in other UOAs
across KU, e.g., the FHSCE Implementation and Improvement Research group and KUs Centres
of Research Excellence, e.g., The Centre for Research in Communities, Identities and Difference,
to develop and undertake research.



                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                        Table 1. Unit staff

    Unit member areas of expertise and research groups
    Dr Michael Allen                Learning psychology                         ERG
    Dr Paul Booth                   Applied linguistics                         ERG
    Prof Katherine Curtis           Health workforce, practice education        HERE
    Dr Christos Dimitriadis         Mathematics and gifted students             ERG
    Dr Simon Fletcher               Interprofessional learning                  HERE
    Dr John Hammond                 Physiotherapy education, inequalities       HERE
                                    Social work, child protection, social
    Prof Rick Hood                                                              HERE
                                    justice
                                    Inclusive curricula, educational
    Dr Annie Hughes                                                             ERG
                                    inequalities
    Dr Debbie Humphry               Human geography, social mobility            ERG
    Dr Agnieszka Lewko              Physiotherapy education                     HERE
    Dr Daryl Maisey                 Early years, safeguarding                   ERG
    Dr Hilda Mulrooney              Nutrition, dietician education              HERE
    Prof Ann Ooms                   HE and healthcare pedagogy                  HERE (Lead)
    Dr Paty Paliokosta              Social justice, inclusive education         ERG
    Dr Angela Partington            Learner consumer, creative arts             ERG
    Prof Fiona Ross                 IPE, EDI in HE, public involvement          HERE
    Dr Ruth Wood                    Learning technologies                       ERG (Lead)
    Emeritus Professors
    Prof Ray Jones                  Social work education, safeguarding         HERE
    Prof Robin Middlehurst          HE policy, governance, leadership           ERG
    Prof Hilary Tompsett            Social work education                       HERE


External collaboration focuses on bridging the research/practice gap through partnerships with
teaching institutions, e.g., Kingston Academy and the Reach Academy in Feltham, professional
practice, e.g., St George’s NHS Trust, and community organisations, e.g., Kingston Carers’
Network. Unit research is part of the Student Academic Development Research Associate Scheme
(SADRAS), and links to business and industry through knowledge transfer and enterprise. Unit
research engages with communities world-wide through links to professional associations,
research networks, and alumni.

Wide external stakeholder engagement is facilitated by 6 Special Interest Groups (SIGs) led by
Unit members (Allen, Dimitriadis, Maisey, Paliokosta, Wood). SIGs are open to anyone
including interested staff and doctoral students from the University as well as other research
institutions, providing a focus for research engagement.



                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                         Figure 1. Structure


     Kingston Education Research Network

     Cross-institution     Research groups                      Special Interest Groups
     interdisciplinary
     network for education Education Research Group             Early years
     research              (ERG)                                Inclusion and social justice
                           (9 Unit staff, 10 postgrads)         Teaching and teacher
     (Hosted by Faculty of                                      education
     Health, Social Care   Health Education Research            Science education
     and Education)        and Evaluation (HERE)                Mathematics education
                           (8 Unit staff, 7 postgrads)          Technology and pedagogy


          Internal collaboration e.g., UOAs, Centres of Excellence & research groups


                   External collaborations, partnerships, and engagement



Research and Impact Strategy

The overall mission is to promote excellence in education research and action on social justice
through applied learning and equality of opportunity. The research is needs-led and reflects the
most important issues of our core user and stakeholder groups, to build excellence, support
research development, interdisciplinary research, and impact work.

Significant developments and achievements in the assessment period

Improvements in teaching and learning at KU are underpinned by Unit activity. For example,
HEFCE/OfS-funded development on the Inclusive Curriculum Framework (ICF) and on a key
performance indicator (KPI) to measure equality of student attainment (the Value-Added metric)
has led to KU winning The Guardian Award for teaching excellence in 2017 and has contributed to
the University climbing 41 places in 3 years to 40th place in the Guardian University League
Tables. This, and other research, is rolled out at scale with the backing of agencies such as
Advance HE and Higher Education Policy Institute, and the Office for Students (as demonstrated
by our ICSs).

Achievements in enhancing educational opportunities for all
i. Policy research on private providers of HE (Middlehurst) has influenced policy change and
     regulation to expand the market and allow greater student choice and access to courses
     (ICSUoA23Middlehurst2); Ross and Woodfield have published research on an unusual model
     of inclusive and collaborative governance for HEIs.
ii. The Unit has contributed to building evidence on ‘normative whiteness’ in HE (Hughes),
     equality of transitions to HE for BAME students (Hughes), gender and ethnicity awarding gaps
     (Hughes, Ross, Hammond and Ooms) and inequality of employment opportunities
     (Hammond). Hughes and Ross have developed the Value-Added metric which is a
     methodological breakthrough for identifying and quantifying awarding gaps at course and
     institutional levels, which is being upscaled to the sector (ICSUoA23Hughes1).
iii. Research on language learning (Booth) and educational technology (Wood) is breaking down
     barriers to learning in the UK, France and Asia, particularly for children from migrant
     communities. A KTP with Linguaphone has created a multimedia resource for 3-9-year-olds
     who are learning English.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Achievement in innovation in teaching excellence
iv. Internationally significant advances have been made in the evidence base for inclusive
      pedagogies e.g., Partington’s conceptualisation and publications on the Learner Consumer.
      Evidence on inclusive education has informed the Inclusive Curriculum Framework (Hughes)
      and inclusive student assessment (with Southampton University). Researchers have designed
      web-based videos and resources to support adoption by other HEIs.
v. Research has informed Initial Teacher Education (ITE) with Kingston Academy, and
      technological innovations in learning (Wood). Allen's research on school children’s acquisition
      of scientific concepts has led to new teaching practices and was finalist for the 2017
      Association for Science Education's Book of the Year.
vi. In nurse education, cross-fertilisation of ideas with mathematics (Dimitriadis and Ooms)
      inspired quasi-experimental research, interventions and publications on mathematics anxiety.
      Based on this research, new more inclusive approaches to mathematics learning have been
      implemented on KU’s nursing courses.
vii. An Educational Evaluation Model (EEM) (Ooms) has been applied to education programmes
      for the NHS.
viii. Reeves’ review of interprofessional team learning has influenced educational innovations
      globally and has been cited 1162 times (Dec 2020 Google Scholar).

Achievements in developing sought-after students and skills sets
ix. Jones’ book ‘The Story of Baby P’ (2014) is now in its second edition (2017) and has
     influenced child safeguarding practice globally. Hood and Maisey have worked with nurses,
     social workers and teachers to explore interprofessional expertise in child safeguarding,
     helping to raise the profile of professional education research in multi-agency contexts.
x. Hood’s national analysis of Ofsted reports in Local Authority services reveals the impact of
     inspections on children's social care provision, with implications for the regulation of schools
     and other education providers. In the same theme, Paliokosta has published on overcoming
     barriers to learning from Serious Case Reviews.
xi. Unit research is creating an evidence base on the links between HEIs, employers and social
     mobility outcomes, particularly for BAME students (Ross, Hughes, Hammond). Curtis is
     presently collaborating with other London universities and the NHS to pioneer innovation in
     employer-led education and the new Higher and Degree Apprenticeships.
xii. A national study on intentional rounding in nursing practice demonstrated a lack of
     improvement in the delivery of compassionate care (Ross); research to cultivate greater
     compassion in the NHS (Curtis) has improved staff knowledge of patient’s care needs.

Advances in inclusive research approaches
The Unit has developed and published inclusive research approaches that engage ‘publics’ and
users in the co-creation of knowledge. The ‘Fighting for Our Rights’ project (Paliokosta) used
social research to create oral histories with disabled people that, when used in teaching, improve
student’s understanding of disability. Participative appreciative inquiry has been developed to
cultivate compassion with healthcare practitioners in busy NHS contexts: Curtis’ publication in the
Journal of Research in Nursing won paper of the year in 2018. A project between education and
nursing (Allen) involved nurses and schoolteachers in London co-designing a science-based
educational intervention for childhood obesity. In social work, Hood has used systems thinking to
engage user and stakeholder groups in exploring complex issues of professional education in child
welfare systems change. Advances in inclusive research approaches are reflected in the training
and supervision that doctoral students receive. Inclusive research in the Unit benefits from Ross’
expertise in public involvement, which was commended in RAE2008 Nursing panel feedback
(UoA3) and which is reinforced by training and a user network in the KU Centre for Public
Engagement (CPE) established in 2013 by Ross in her former role as Dean FHSCE.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Future strategic aims and goals

The Unit aims to carry out high-quality long-term programmes of research in priority areas, with
flexibility to respond to emerging needs and issues in the socio-political context of education.
Future priorities (2021-26) are shaped through collaboration with our external stakeholders and are
aligned with KU’s Strategic Plan, and its 4 broad pillars for Advancing Knowledge and Social
Impact (Table 2). The impact we aim to achieve includes improvements in policy, pedagogy and
practice across sectors in higher education, schools, welfare services, healthcare and the creative
industries.

                                  Table 2. Strategic aims 2021-26

   Aims                                    Strategies for supporting development

   Improving the quality and quantity of our research and knowledge exchange
   1) To develop the Unit as an         •      Grant strategy for bids to UKRI Research Councils,
   internationally recognised centre of        Government agencies, Charities etc.
   excellence in applied education      •      Identification and support of grant writing teams
   research

   2) To increase research income          •   Staff development (including EDI in grant
   and partnership funding                     applications)
                                           •   Skills and training in grant writing e.g.,
                                               masterclasses and mentorship opportunities
                                           •   Rigorous critique from the Faculty Peer Review
                                               College

   3) To increase publication output       •   Backfill for staff time to focus on writing
   and open access to cover all            •   Virtual writing groups on priorities for publication
   published research                      •   Gold open access policy - publishing charges are
                                               written into all future grant applications

   Demonstrating our desirability to business and other potential partners
   4) To strengthen key partnerships       •   Leadership from the FHSCE Associate Dean for
   with private, public and third sector       External Engagement
   bodies                                  •   Knowledge mobilisation is part of the impact
                                               strategy

   5) To publicise and disseminate         •   Communication and social media strategy
   more systematically to a wider          •   Use Unit expertise in creative arts and design to
   audience                                    develop staff skills e.g., blogs, podcasts, webinars,
                                               social media, infographics, and performance

   Providing opportunities for skills development locally and regionally
   6) To expand doctoral and post-         •   Proactive recruitment to expand the number of
   doctoral opportunities                      ECRs, particularly those from a BAME background
                                           •   Supervisor training and mentorship of new
                                               supervisors
                                           •   Supervisors will support applications for
                                               PhD/fellowship funding
                                           •   Expansion of interdisciplinary supervisory teams




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   7) To support leadership                •   Support for applications for promotion, particularly
   development and academic                    for staff from ethnic minority backgrounds
   progression to Associate                •   KU’s Research Leadership Academy (RISE)
   Prof/Professor                          •   Mentorship of MCRs by senior
                                               researchers/emeritus professors
   8) To develop courses and               •   Building on partnerships with local and regional
   entrepreneurship opportunities              groups
                                           •   Translating Unit expertise in inclusive curricula and
                                               social justice into courses/products/outputs

   Supporting excellence in education across KU and with external partners
   9) To expand our expertise in       •       Collaboration and training from the Centre for
   methods of co-producing education           Public Engagement (CPE)
   research with the public, users and •       Focus on developing novel methods of co-
   beneficiaries                               produced education research

   10) To facilitate knowledge sharing     •   Promotion of SIGs (internally and externally)
   and collaborative working with          •   Knowledge mobilisation initiatives aligned with
   students and colleagues as                  KU’s KEF
   partners



Strategies for impact

The Unit’s approach to impact, informed more generally by previous research, draws on Ross’
expertise in the impact of management, governance and leadership research (with the Leadership
Foundation for Higher Education) and is supported by the University’s broader impact strategy
(described in the Institutional Environment Statement). Impact is considered in all decisions about
Unit staffing, grant strategy, distribution of research resources, and investment in the Unit. All Unit
research monitoring and review activities take impact into consideration. Doctoral supervision,
appraisal structures and project reporting systematically capture information about impact.
Progress is monitored with the help of KU Impact Development Managers and is reported annually
to KU Head of Impact.

The Unit’s Impact Framework has the following distinctive features:

(i) Policy influence is achieved by focusing on priority issues in HE, e.g., degree awarding gaps, by
engaging policy stakeholders and creating policy-focused reports (see Section 4).
(ii) Collaborations (internally, externally, nationally, and internationally) extend impact across
disciplines and sectors, attract research funding, and enhance the quality and credibility of the
research. For example, Booth’s visit and collaboration with Grand Valley State University has
facilitated research on linguistics master’s courses in the USA and China. SIGs support research
engagement and links to specific stakeholder groups, e.g., FHSCE Learning Disability Services
User Group (Paliokosta).
(iii) Public and user involvement plans are included in all Unit research studies and funding
proposals. With expertise through the connection to the Centre for Public Engagement, Unit
researchers have built substantive long-term partnerships (e.g., with head teachers), devising
innovative approaches to involvement, e.g., student Inclusive Curriculum Consultants (see the
ICSUoA23Hughes1 on Inclusive Curriculum).
(iv) Skills in inclusive research design mean that researchers have developed approaches to co-
designed studies, co-creating knowledge and driving systemic change (see Section 4), for
example, stakeholders and advisory groups identifying pathways to impact (e.g., protocols
published by Ross, Fletcher).
(v) Staff support for impact is provided through training and funding. Researchers develop and
apply their skills and knowledge in ways that support impact and inspire research students. For

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
example, Unit researchers gain impact skills through KU training and knowledge exchange on
inclusive research practice.
(vi) A focus on translation of research outputs into resources that maximise impact on pedagogy,
for example, educational packages, learning technologies such as Pingu’s English, online
interprofessional learning and teaching packages (e.g., Allen’s book ‘Misconceptions of Primary
Science’ is published in English, Spanish and Greek).
(vii) Open access, as all Unit studies and projects have a national/international dissemination
strategy that includes ‘gold’ open access and feedback to stakeholders. Knowledge mobilisation
initiatives supporting dissemination of research include: publication fees in research
grants/contracts; free-to-access seminar programmes (e.g., Paliokosta organised KU’s Inclusion
and Social Justice Conference 2020).

This Impact Framework, together with the resources allocated for impact through studies and
infrastructure, embeds engagement, ensuring a coherent approach linking researchers and
external stakeholders in the implementation of research findings. The Unit’s ICSs were selected to
demonstrate how high-quality long-term programmes of research have resulted in significant and
far-reaching impact on educational outcomes.

ICS (ICSUoA23Hughes1)-Improving equality in higher education through the Inclusive
Curriculum Framework and Value-Added metric reflects the Unit’s significant impact on
inclusive practices and equality outcomes in UK HE. It reports on research by Hughes, Ross and
Paliokosta to develop the ICF and Value-Added (VA) metric and to spread knowledge on access
and participation policy to other HEIs. The ICS uses recent evidence from 5 HEIs to demonstrate
how principles of stakeholder engagement and inclusive research design were enacted through the
ICF and VA.

ICS (ICSUoA23Middlehurst2)-Better Policy and Regulation of Private Providers in Higher
Education describes the policy impact of Unit research led by Middlehurst into private providers in
UK HE. It explains how the research influenced changes to the regulatory framework and
governance structures for HE. Principles of the Impact Framework were enacted, particularly
through the stages of topic identification, collaboration and stakeholder engagement with policy
makers, sector agencies and private providers as well as in translation of the findings into policy
options.

 2. People

Staffing strategy

KU’s academic career framework aims to provide a level playing field for research careers.
Equality and diversity are embedded in academic career progression, which has enabled staff in
the Unit to shape their research career through ‘KU Domains’ (see the Institutional Environment
Statement). This has supported EDI and career progression in the Unit for men and women,
notably in promotion to Associate Professor and also to full Professor. The Unit profile shows a
gender distribution of women (11) and men (6), with only one member of staff under 40 years old,
that reflects the predominance of women in professions in health, social work and teaching and the
fact that staff choosing research careers in these fields often do so later than in other disciplines,
after establishing themselves professionally. There are no staff with disability or from BAME
backgrounds, and while the Unit is of a small size this requires action. The academic career
framework takes account of equality-related circumstances for individual researcher’s productivity
working within the practice disciplines and recognises that Unit staff conduct research that is
applied, often based in a practice setting, involving complex and time intensive stakeholder
relationships using partnership or involvement methods. Our approach has supported the career
development of 4 professors (one achieved after census date) and career pathways for
postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers. Three further professors have been awarded emeritus
status.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We take positive action to support staff who have substantial professional and leadership
experience in bridging the research/practice gap. Curtis was appointed Professor of
Professional Development in 2018, moving from Bournemouth University, because of her expertise
and reputation in nursing workforce development. Ooms is an example of career progression
within education. She is an educational psychologist who started at KU’s Academic Development
Centre in 2006 to build educational research capacity in the University and was promoted to the
School of Nursing in 2010. She then progressed to leadership roles as Associate Professor in 2013
and School Director of Research in 2016, with promotion to full Professor in 2018. Hood is another
example of supporting career development from doctoral study through to Associate Professor and
full Professor in December 2020. All are experienced and well known in their field. Consequently,
they have a diverse sphere of influence that includes leadership, participation and contribution to
national/international research policy and networks within and beyond their subject specialism.

The Unit grows its own talent in education research. ECRs and newly research-active staff are
supported to apply for institutional support from the First Grants scheme, which fosters external
research income bidding; Lewko won a KU First Grant (GBP6,322) in 2020 to research patient
education in chronic disease. Nash (UoA3) is Co-I (with Paliokosta) on research with the National
Trust to enhance nurse education, and has gained Heritage Lottery Funds (GBP76,000 awarded to
Kingston Centre for Independent Living).

We recognise the added contribution of staff with senior managerial roles. Several Unit staff
with SSR also hold senior management roles: Associate Dean External Engagement (Curtis),
Associate Dean Education (Partington), Head of LTEC (Hughes), Head of School Allied Health –
up to 2020 (Hammond). These roles benefit the Unit because staff develop both the research and
leadership skills to enable them to embed research knowledge in practice (e.g., the Teaching
Excellence Framework assessment) and also proactively support career development
opportunities and flexibility in use of self-managed time.

We value and retain the expertise of former Unit members. Prof Scott Reeves’s death in 2018
has left the legacy of seminal research on interprofessional education (IPE) and inspirational global
leadership. Continuity is ensured through the work of his postdoctoral researcher (Fletcher) who is
mentored by Ross to co-lead an NIHR-funded realist synthesis of leadership in integrated
systems. Retirement planning has retained the expertise of Emeritus Professors with defined roles.
We also maintain connections with former staff. Prof Harris was Professor of Nursing Practice and
Innovation FHSCE (2011-2015) and continues to collaborate on studies with Ross and Fletcher in
her role at King’s College London. Prof Fook was Professor of Education Critical Reflection (2013-
2015) and now, at the University of Vermont in the US, has co-edited a book on researching critical
reflection with Ross (output 23-27-1324). McDuff, Director of Student Achievement at KU, was
appointed PVC at Southampton Solent University in 2019 and has supported data collection for the
ICS on the Inclusive Curriculum Framework.

We link to external advisors. The Unit benefits from external expertise in HE from Visiting
Professor Ron Barnett who is an Emeritus at University College London; medical education, from
Honorary Fellow Dr Kunal Patel; and secondary education, from Andy Hudson, former Head of
School of Education.

Staff development

We ensure Unit researchers feel equipped to be adaptable and flexible in a challenging and
fluid research environment. In annual appraisals line managers encourage staff to set career
goals, reflect on work-life balance, particularly taking account of diversity considerations and
individual circumstances such as caring responsibilities for children and elderly relatives.
Researcher training is provided by the central directorate for Research, Business and Innovation
(RBI), which is responsible for ensuring the effective implementation of the Concordat to Support
the Career Development of Researchers. The Concordat’s expectation of a minimum of 10
personal development days pro rata, per year will allow training to be more effective and tailored to


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
individual needs. During the COVID-19 crisis, all Unit staff have been offered webinars at flexible
times to discuss wellbeing.

We promote lifelong learning. Using Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework, individual
researchers share responsibility for engaging pro-actively in their own personal and career
development and lifelong learning. Whatever their career stage, staff are encouraged to access
online Epigeum short courses addressing, for example, Research Integrity, Transferable Skills,
Research Ethics, and Professional Skills for Research Leaders. Pathways to doctoral training and
EdD programmes are open to academic staff, which has resulted in successful completions by
Wood (2011) Hammond (2013) Maisey (2019). Staff applying for independent research
fellowships or small grants (e.g., Hughes, Teaching Fellowship Grant of GBP15,000, internal
2016) are given one-to-one support from senior researchers. All staff have Personal Development
Plans (PDPs) and collate a portfolio of evidence on their achievements.

We nurture an inclusive research culture. Research groups support ECRs and doctoral
students in developing specific areas of interest and assist established researchers in collaborating
on grants and outputs. SIGs give researchers space to build personal networks, promote their
research, and gain confidence on international stages. In the School of Nursing, Ooms (Director of
Research) co-ordinates a rolling-programme for staff on research skills development and group
mentorship. There are regular opportunities for staff to learn more of work by distinguished external
researchers (e.g., Centenary Research Seminar Series) and to participate in the KU Festival of
Research. Senior staff connect researchers to the expertise of honorary appointments and arrange
secondments.

We provide staff development funds and opportunities. Staff are funded to participate in
international or national conferences and events – dependent on a credible case for dissemination
(e.g., presenting a paper). Partnership-working with HEIs in Europe has led to funded exchanges
and joint publications (e.g., Booth with Sutherland). The FHSCE Research Leadership Academy
(RISE), designed by the Associate Dean for Research and funded internally, is an important new
staff development opportunity. Participants in the 2020 cohort (23 including Fletcher) are learning
through COVID safe (online) visits to national centres of research excellence, expert-led
webinars/seminars, workshops, research management skills training and action learning sets.
Other opportunities are available from our partner institution (SGUL), e.g., Welcome Trust fully
funded workshops on black health and the humanities (2021-22).

Research Students

Attracting and developing excellent postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers is an imperative. In
the reporting period, Unit capacity to supervise students has trebled. There have been 12 doctoral
completions including 1 PhD by publication (6 PhDs, supervised by Booth 1, Hood 1, Ooms 3,
Grieves 1 and 6 EdD supervised by Allen 1, Hammond 1, Maisey 1; Grieves 2; Perselli 1); as well
as 3 other PhD students at other universities (Curtis 2 at Surrey and Bournemouth, Ross 1 at
SGUL). At present, the Unit has 17 doctoral candidates: 7 PhDs, supervised by Hood 2, Ooms 3;
Ross 1, Wood 1 and 10 students on KU’s Professional Doctorate Education (EdD) programme.
The Unit acknowledges the importance of accelerating pathways for research careers for people
from BAME communities, in terms of which it currently lacks representation. Hood and Hammond
have been successful in securing ring-fenced BAME studentships (2019 and 2020) and appointing
BAME candidates with University support for fees and stipends. To expand our supervision
capacity and deepen our interdisciplinary approach to doctoral supervision, we will use KERN to
identify relevant academic staff across the University who can co-supervise education PhDs.

KU’s new EdD will support progression to early career research. The 6-year part-time programme
(led by Wood and Dimitriadis) replaces the joint EdD delivered in partnership with Roehampton
University. There have been 12 graduates in the reporting period (including Hammond and
Maisey); 6 were supervised by Unit staff. Current EdD students include: 4 internal health and
social care academic staff from FHSCE and 2 senior teachers from partner schools. Since 2016
the 2-year part-time Masters of Research Education (MRes Ed) programme has provided a direct

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
route to doctoral study for education professionals. Masters level courses in Special Needs and
Inclusion, Social Work, Early Years, Education Studies and Health offer opportunities for research
progress and to contribute to Unit projects. Mindful of the challenges part-time students face,
postgraduate programmes are delivered flexibly and online.

The Unit’s approach to supporting postgraduate students includes: i) KU Graduate Research
School, Graduate Centres, and seminar programmes. Students work with supervisors to assess
their own training needs as part of FHSCE and KU supervision programmes, following guidance
from UK Council for Graduate Education, Vitae, European Universities Association Council for
Doctoral Education. ii) Personal Training Plans (PTPs) include training sessions in, for example,
project management, communication skills and information search and retrieval. Online teaching
uses Canvas - KU’s virtual learning digital platform. iii) Students in the joint-faculty FHSCE can
also access SGUL Graduate School programmes, courses managed by the Centre for
Professional Education (e.g., Healthcare Research Skills and Methods), and the Student Life
Centre. iv) Supervisors record progress and success towards PTPs and facilitate external
mentorship and work experience. v) All postgraduate students can gain teaching experience and
join teaching courses (e.g., PGCert). vi) Collegiality and peer support through the Graduate
Student Society, student intranet and KU Student Union. Doctoral students are also encouraged to
join a research group. vii) Flexibility. During COVID-19 doctoral student timelines and funding were
extended to support students.

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

In 2014, KU won the Guardian University Award for “Mainstreaming Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion into academic career progression”. The project demonstrated the institution’s
commitment and approach to ‘safeguarding fairness’ in careers and has been further developed to
inform Kingston’s academic career framework ‘Domains’. The Unit has demonstrated success for
supporting staff from professional backgrounds progressing to research leadership positions as
professors and MCRs. Strategies for EDI in the Unit are as follows.

EDI is embedded in all aspects of recruitment, progression and career development of
research staff and students. EDI considerations are appropriately reflected in appraisal
processes and promotion criteria that seek to ensure fairness, consistency, accountability, and
transparency. The current gender balance of Unit staff is women (65%) and men (35%) which
broadly reflects education, welfare, and health care fields. Three of four full professors are women,
and two of three emeritus professors. The majority of staff (94%) are aged 41 years and over, with
over half (59%) aged between 51-60 years. All declare as White British or European. KU positively
promotes inclusion of staff with disabilities (see Institutional Environment Statement).

The Unit will expand opportunities to engage early career researchers, encourage researcher skills
development in EDI, and enhance ethnic diversity in the Unit. Recruitment and selection policies
for postgraduate students assure the same high standards for EDI as those for staff, but more work
is needed to develop the pipeline to doctoral study through to research-active staff, especially for
BAME applicants. KERN leaders will monitor progress on the Unit’s staff and student EDI goals
and include EDI in research reporting.

The Unit mission promotes evidence-based EDI at KU and across the sector. Ross was
Chair of the University Equalities Committee (2012-2016) and led institution-wide work on
equalities with McDuff (KU Head of Equalities). This included improving gender equality in
research careers (Bronze Athena Swan awarded 2013, renewed 2017, SGUL the partner
institution for FHSCE holds a Silver Award). KU was awarded the Race Equality Charter in 2015
(renewed 2019). In 2017 McDuff received an OBE for her work on equalities. In 2017 Ross was
nominated by HEFCE to REF 2021 Equality and Diversity Advisory Panel (EDAP) in recognition of
her work on equalities in academic careers at the Leadership Foundation HE. Ooms contributed to
the Athena Swan Institutional application in 2013, launched a women’s network, leads the FHSCE
Athena Swan application, and won the KU Promoting a More Inclusive and Gender Equal
Community Award. A core principle of the Inclusive Curriculum Framework, developed by Unit staff

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and implemented across KU, is that all students and notably those from BAME backgrounds, see
themselves reflected in the institutional environment and curriculum. In 2015 Unit research
informed KU’s Board of Governors’ decision to make equality of student attainment a key
performance indicator for the university.

Staff and student EDI training programmes. EDI training includes EDI in Induction, Fair
Recruitment and Unconscious Bias Training as standard (developed and implemented by Hughes
in 2013) to support a fair, transparent, and consistent approach to student selection. Research
students can access the Beyond Barriers Student Mentoring Scheme for BAME students, female
STEM students, LGBT+ students, carers, mature students and students with learning difference or
disability. Two Unit members are mentors (Hughes and Mulrooney) and the programme is
positively evaluated by participants for building their confidence and career aspirations.

KU’s REF 2021 Code of Practice. Unit members have advised on how individual circumstances
may affect productivity, for example staff who have taken secondments or periods of family leave;
such equality-related circumstances that may have led to disparities in the output pool include
responsibilities for teaching and student’s pastoral care. We have highlighted the case for staff who
have substantial professional roles or management responsibilities in addition to their research
duties. All Unit staff with REF leadership or management responsibilities have undertaken training
in Unconscious Bias and Equality Essentials and attended a workshop on EDI Principles and
Unconscious Bias by Advance HE in 2019 or 2020. The process for the selection of outputs is
informed by researchers’ self-assessment and the voluntary declaration of individual
circumstances, as outlined in the Code.

During the pandemic, peer review and support, research mentoring and research supervision
moved online to ensure safety, wellbeing and support for staff. We gave special consideration and
support to those with circumstances such as caring responsibilities for children or those self-
isolating. This included attention to the personal and professional impacts of Covid, and what could
be done to support the academic and research productivity of staff.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research Income 2014-2020

The Unit’s research income has grown year-on-year. As the research maturity of the Unit has
increased, income has increased substantially (from less than GBP50K a year 2013-2015, to over
GBP150K a year from 2018 onwards). Total grant income for the reporting period is GBP751K with
a staff average of GBP46.4K per FTE. 23% of the income (GBP171K) is associated with ERG and
76% (GBP589K) with HERE.

Collaboration between education and health research has seen success in winning NIHR grants
(GBP119K, Fletcher and GBP60K Reeves) leading to substantial publications from Fletcher and
Ross. Health Education England have awarded 8 awards (Reeves, Ooms) to a total value of
GBP182,902. Research on social justice (Hood) has attracted grants from Nuffield Foundation
(GBP254K and GBP36K), Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada
(USD75,000 total), British Academy £3,614 (Shirazi), British Council £94,643 (Preston) and the
Home Office/London Borough of Merton (GBP9,992). Other sources of funding are NHS hospitals
and charities.

Other high quality research funding and for supporting research and impact. Staff have
attained peer-reviewed funding (all proposals and outputs) from government, NHS commissioners,
HE agencies for research and activities supporting research e.g. building capacity, engaging
stakeholders and users, producing peer reviewed outputs. This totals GBP1,770,464 with a staff
average of GPB109,288 per FTE. This funding has been essential for achieving significant impacts
on educational outcomes, for example Middlehurst’s collaboration with HEPI. Development of the
Inclusive Curriculum Framework and Value-Added metric (Hughes, Ross) has attracted


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
substantial funding (GBP1.2M) from sector bodies and agencies. Awards from Health Education
England (HEE) (GBP125,051) has enabled Ooms to implement the EEM in the NHS.

Unit grant strategy 2021-26 (led by Curtis, Ross, Ooms) will guide applications to Research
Councils, NIHR, OfS, Education Endowment Foundation, Nuffield Foundation, government
departments and knowledge exchange sources. Unit facilities and infrastructure will support goals
to increase research income through strategic partnerships. ERG and HERE (Wood, Ooms), with
Curtis as Associate Dean External Engagement, will explore funding opportunities and mobilise
grant writing teams. The quality of draft proposals will be monitored and peer reviewed by KU’s
Peer Review College.

Infrastructure and Facilities

An environment of good research conduct. Staff are supported by KU’s Research Strategy and
the University Guide to Good Research Practice. KU’s RBI directorate supports the Unit with
implementation of KU’s research and impact strategy, submission to the REF, and liaison with
University Research Committee and Research Ethics Committee, as well as supporting the Unit
staffing strategy and EDI goals. Senior leaders acted promptly to respond to the COVID-19
pandemic and lockdowns of 2020 by supporting research staff with equipment, e.g., laptops for
home working as well as renewing emphasis on wellbeing with regular informal online catch-up
meetings and virtual groups to support writing for publication, IT support and Wellbeing Services
continued online.

Faculty support has contributed targeted investment for research groups (ERG and HERE),
which has been used for development activities, stakeholder engagement, communication and
dissemination, statistical oversight and administration. Education researchers in FHSCE have
benefited from a) internal small grants scheme (2013-2016), b) professorial-led (Reeves)
systematic review groups (2015-2016) supported with a research assistant and producing peer
reviewed publications, c) open access publishing fees, and d) impact uplift funding in 2020 (Ross).

Unit staff benefit from outstanding research facilities. A significant proportion of KU’s
investment in facilities (see Institutional Statement) is focused on the health, life and social
sciences with education research being a key beneficiary. Some education researchers in health
are located in a large hospital (St George’s NHS Trust) and can access clinical facilities for
collaboration and impact. The partnership with SGUL has facilitated joint learning, seminars and
conferences, KE, visiting appointments and research collaborations. In 2018-19, the University
invested research capital allocation (£20,682) in equipping a dedicated room with state-of-the-art
equipment to enable research into online/blended teaching, specifically focussing on impact
measurement, integration with face-to-face and technology-enhanced reflection.

Unit staff have access to extensive library collections and research databases. These
include e-journals and e-books online (see Institutional Statement) and KU open access Research
Repository (https://eprints.kingston.ac.uk/). ICT infrastructure is continuously upgraded, and
support is provided centrally through the IT Service Desk and KU intranet (StaffSpace). KU
promotes open access to Unit research and forthcoming events.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Contribution to the research base. The Unit’s contribution is to create evidence to show that
inequalities in HE can be redressed through inclusive curricula. Since 2016 Hughes has given 20
invited keynote presentations in the UK, Sweden and Malta. Partington has given invited
presentations about creativity and the learner-consumer, e.g., ‘Thinking Allowed’ Radio 4, June
7th, 2017. Allen’s collaborations through the European Science Education Research Association
(ESERA), European Early Childhood Education Research Association (EECERA), Association for
Science Education and Association for Tutors in Science Education has resulted in international
research on science education. Dimitriadis has shared research on exceptional students with
members of the European Council for High Ability (ECHA) and World Council for Gifted and

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Talented Children (WCGTC). Hammond has co-organised and contributed to panel debates at the
National Association of Educators in Practice conference since 2015. Hood is an internationally
renowned expert in social work education and research. Paliokosta’s membership of the
international marginalisation research network (MARG-IN network) led to a recent ESRC bid and
publications on social justice in education.

Contribution to the subject discipline. Unit staff contribute to the subject by reviewing for over
70 world-leading education journals in: teaching, teacher education, education technologies,
language learning, child development, special education, healthcare and medical education. Unit
staff hold editorial roles that influence sector thinking, e.g., as emeritus editor of the Journal of
Interprofessional Care, Ross edited a special issue in 2019 on IPE in Sub-Saharan Africa;
Hammond is Associate Editor of Physiotherapy for education research; Allen edits for several
major education research journals (Eurasia Journal of Mathematics, Science and Technology
Education, Early Childhood Development and Care and Journal of Emergent Science); Ooms is
Associate Editor for the International Journal of Multiple Research Approaches and member of the
editorial board of SAGE Open, and peer-reviews conference papers submitted to the American
Education Research Association (AERA), British Education Research Association (BERA) and
Hong Kong Association for Educational Communications and Technology (HKAECT); Hood
provides research expertise on the editorial board of the British Journal of Social Work and as
Associate Editor of International Journal of Interprofessional Care; Lewko contributes expertise in
physiotherapy education on the Editorial Board for the Medical Rehabilitation journal and the
Association of Charted Physiotherapist in Respiratory Care (ACPRC).

Contribution to knowledge economies. Unit members have helped to establish organisations,
institutions and agencies to support the national knowledge economy. Middlehurst was founding
Director of the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education (LFHE) which was established by
HEFCE in 2003, informed by her seminal research on leadership development in HE. Middlehurst
was subsequently appointed (and seconded by Kingston) as Director, Strategy, Research and
International at LFHE serving from 2004-2014 (0.6 FTE) combining it with her Kingston
Professorship. Middlehurst has contributed to top leadership development in HE by commissioning
80 reports on HE leadership, management and governance, designing and running the Top
Management Programme (1999-2014). By 2014, over 600 senior leaders had participated with 80
promoted to Vice Chancellor. The programme continues under Advance HE. Co-written with Tom
Kennie, her book Leadership Transitions at the Top in Universities will be published by Routledge
in 2021. Middlehurst was succeeded as Director of Research LFHE by Ross (2014-2017 0.6 FTE)
demonstrating continuity of HE leadership in the Unit. At the LFHE Ross commissioned research
on behalf of HEFCE including longitudinal studies of women’s careers (Aurora) and studies on
diversity in HE leadership, also leading on a proof of concept for a “What Works” Centre for HE.
Ross was a member of the NIHR Health Services and Delivery Research Commissioning Board
(2009-2015), Visiting Professor at the Chinese University of Hong Kong (2009-2016) and in 2019
advised the Department of Nursing at CUHK on its RAE submission. Ross was awarded CBE in
2015 for her contribution to nursing in HE. Ooms is Visiting Professor Kristianstad University
(2017-2019) where she contributed expertise in HE research. Hughes reviews for the ESRC Peer
Review College of academic experts. Jones contributes expertise in social work policy and
education to national media and through his role as Honorary Fellow University of Gloucestershire
University and Visiting Professor University of Bath.

Contribution to education systems. Middlehurst has helped to develop the governance and
regulatory frameworks for HE in her roles as Non-executive Director of British Accreditation
Council (2013-19), Non-executive Director Independent Higher Education (from 2019) and Chair of
Nominations & Governance Committee, Member of Board of Governors University of Brighton
(from 2019) and member of Audit Committee (2019-20), and Member of Advisory Board
Observatory on Borderless Higher Education (2005-2020). Middlehurst and Woodfield’s research
on internationalisation in HE was commissioned by policy agencies internationally. Woodfield’s
new role at the British Council was achieved on the basis of his research record and contribution to
policy of internationalisation. Hudson was founding member and is trustee on the Board at
Kingston Academy (partnership with Kingston University). At the South London Academic Health

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sciences Network (0.2 FTE 2013-2016), Ross designed innovative fully-funded graduate and
doctoral training programmes.

Contribution to public policy. Jones has written briefing papers for Ministers, contributed to All
Party Parliamentary Groups, the Labour Social Work Group, and Select Committees, e.g.,
Children’s Social Care Workforce Inquiry (2019), Foster Care Inquiry (2017) and Funding and
Provision of Local Authorities’ Children’s Services Inquiry (2018). Through Ofsted, Hood’s
research for the Nuffield Foundation has contributed to changes in UK child protection policy.
Middlehurst contributed evidence to policy-making on international quality assessment (HEFCE,
2015) and transnational education (BIS, 2014). From 2013-2015, Middlehurst was invited by the
Permanent Secretary to join a DfID-BIS Task Force which inspired a new funding programme to
support HE in Sub-Saharan Africa, Asia and the Middle East. The HE Commission made use of
Middlehurst’s research on private providers in the inquiry that informed the HE&R Act 2017. Curtis
was an expert advisor to Lord Willis for Raising the Bar, Shape of Caring 2016.

Contribution to industry and professions. Unit researchers contribute to industry and
professions through formal appointments, such as Ross’ role as President of the International
Collaboration of Community Health Nursing Research (to 2019) and Member of the international
advisory board for Primary and Emergency Care Research (PRIME) Wales. As former elected
Executive Member of the Council for HE in Art and Design (CHEAD), Partington participates in
the CHEAD leadership programme and conferences. She shares expertise as Principal Fellow
Higher Education Academy and Member British Educational Research Association, Creative
Industries Federation HE Group and gives advice to an All-Party Parliamentary Group for Art Craft
Design Education. Tompsett advises on social work education as an elected Member of the British
Association of Social Work’s Council and an appointed Member of the General Optical Council’s
Education Committee, and former member of the General Social Care Council and the Health and
Care Professions Council. Ross shared education knowledge on the Board of Hounslow and
Richmond Community Health Trust (2014-2016) and as current Chair of Board at Princess Alice
Hospice and Chair of the Hospice UK Chairs Forum London. An international research group,
established by Paliokosta and Ooms, is supporting research on children with special educational
needs and mental health problems. Ooms established the South London Education and
Development Evaluation Collaboration (SLEEC) in 2016 with HEE, King’s College London and the
University of Greenwich, and has provided research mentorship at the Princess Alice Hospice
since 2017. Curtis advises on care homes research for the British Gerontology Society. Fletcher
and Patel have used knowledge of IPE to translate evidence to practice in the NHS.

Contribution to research-led education and learning. Unit research informs teaching on KU’s
EdD programme, masters-level teaching, and doctoral studies, e.g., experiential learning
(Paliokosta, Ooms), technologically enhanced learning (Wood) and situated learning (Curtis).
The research has improved the quality and consistency of master’s programmes in Japan, USA
and Indonesia through Booth’s work with the British Association of Applied Linguistics (BAAL) and
EuroSLA and postgraduate courses and conferences run by London-Second Language Acquisition
Research Forum (L-SLARF). Research-based courses have been developed with commercial
partners, e.g., Hood with Vanguard Consulting; and Lewko with the European Respiratory Society
(2012-2019).

Contribution to community enrichment. Unit research has contributed to more inclusive HE
which benefits employers through more diverse workplaces, e.g., BAME graduates and enriched
communities. Unit researchers are actively engaged in community-based projects, schools and
outreach activities, e.g., FHSCE Festivals of Learning, and public presentations of student
research. Paliokosta’s work with disabled activists on the ‘Fighting for our rights’ project was
awarded Teacher Education Advancement Network Commendation 2019. Perhaps most
significantly, Unit research has served to amplify the voices of students and educators through
research engagement and co-authorship of research papers.




                                                                                          Page 14
