Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Edge Hill University

 Unit of Assessment: 4 Psychology

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Edge Hill was granted university status in 2006 and Psychology was established as an
 independent department in 2011. In REF2014 we submitted 12 staff and since 2014, the UOA
 has doubled in size to 24 staff. This substantial growth has been accompanied by parallel
 investment in research infrastructure, including a move to a purpose-designed psychology
 building in 2019. Dedicated research space has expanded more than three-fold and our
 inventory of specialised research technologies is significantly enhanced. Research income over
 the REF period has also grown threefold, and PhD completions have increased very significantly
 thereby establishing a community of research students who actively contribute to, and are
 supported by, a vibrant and inclusive research environment.
 We developed a two-phase approach to building research capability, reputation and impact. The
 focus of the first phase, corresponding to the current REF period, was in terms of developing
 critical mass in all of the core areas - personnel, facilities, research tools, expertise, teams,
 contacts, and reputation – all of which are needed to underpin competitive large-scale proposals
 whilst still enabling a range of smaller projects. The second phase, outlined under strategic aims
 below, will consolidate and build on this platform.
 The research areas we have selected derive from the view that for research of vitality it is
 important to focus on the fundamental issues that confront any society, including psychological
 barriers to mitigating the climate crisis, substance use, and communication in our digital world.
 We strive to create and use the latest available techniques, and to undertake a 360-degree,
 multidisciplinary approach, working in partnership with researchers from other disciplines and
 from other establishments, national and international, to undertake interdisciplinary research.
 Our overarching goal has been to develop a vibrant and engaged department with good synergy
 between research and teaching, and with the pursuit of research excellence and impact
 embedded sustainably throughout the department at all levels – from undergraduate students to
 professors. In our first REF submission in 2014, we wrote that societal impact and relevance
 driven by good theory ‘would be our own litmus test of good research in this department’. This
 commitment has continued and has informed our strategy throughout the current REF cycle.
 Research strategy
 Our development is informed by a three-pronged research strategy with sustainability,
 excellence and inclusivity at its core. Sustainability: the strategy must be highly resilient, fully
 accounted, predictable, and empowering. In addition, however, it is critical to have the tools and
 facilities needed for cost-effective, innovative research. Excellence involves not just research of
 the highest technical quality, but research with major relevance to society. It involves both
 theoretical innovation and impact, attacking global challenges, regional challenges, and
 theoretical challenges. It aims to be distinctive, interdisciplinary and of significance for future
 developments and, most important of all, research that makes a difference, both now and in the
 longer term, in academic circles and/or in wider society. Inclusivity is also a key strategic aim.
 We do not have (and do not wish to have) a ‘research elite’ with special privileges, perhaps
 ‘bought out’ of teaching. Our department wishes to involve, empower and include all researchers
 in our research and impact agenda, in the same way that we include all in our teaching.
 Departmental research groups are designed to capture the coming theoretical ideas of this
 century and are inclusive rather than exclusive, moving forward together as a team.
 Furthermore, inclusivity goes beyond our doors. We wish to involve, and contribute to,
 interdisciplinary research within our own University, involving the three cross-disciplinary
 research institutes, namely the Health Research Institute, the Institute for Creative Enterprise
 and the Institute for Social Responsibility, together with external partners.
 Research Groups
 In REF2014 our research was based around two relatively broad research groupings (the

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cognitive Science Research Group and the Health and Social Issues Research Group).
 Subsequently, our expansion was developed systematically to consolidate and refine the focus
 of these foundational research groups, resulting in four groups, identified below, which form the
 bedrock of our research structures.
 Each group has regular activities designed to foster a strongly collaborative research culture
 both within and, capitalising on synergies, across the different research groups. These range
 from minimally structured blue-sky discussions to peer reviews of bids and articles. Activities
 such as research group meetings, seminar series, equipment/software training and journal clubs
 are promoted to all staff to enhance collegiality and help ensure that staff are actively engaged in
 at least one departmental collaborative research programme. Groups have a remit to consider
 explicitly the implications of their research for society (including the global community). Our
 choice of research foci has been guided by strategic feasibility considerations (section 3) and
 reflects decisions and underlying values about how Psychology at EHU can best contribute
 psychological knowledge for societal benefit, rather than being solely or principally dictated by
 funding priorities. This is mirrored in the research themes and activities of the research groups,
 as follows:
 Cognition, Emotion & Behaviour (CEB) (coordinators: Balani and Powell; members: Beattie,
 Burns, Litchfield, Makris, Murphy, Qureshi, Reeder, Tham, Wolohan). This group
 encompasses both theoretical and applied research with an explicit focus on the cognitive and
 perceptual processes that shape human actions and behaviour in a variety of important real-
 world contexts. These include clinical research on the effects of brain injury on
 cognition/behaviour, how to facilitate cognitive rehabilitation, investigations of the neural
 underpinning of human actions, cognitions and emotions, including theory of mind, attention and
 decision-making in various applied contexts.
 Expertise, Development & Neural Plasticity (EDN) (coordinators: Karaminis and Makris;
 members: Atherton, Litchfield, Makris, McPhillips, Nicolson, Reeder, Tham, Van
 Rijsbergen). This group has both a theoretical and applied focus on developmental issues
 across the age-span, from infants to adults, and in both neuro-typical and atypical populations,
 with particular emphasis on dyslexia and autism. It also focuses on expertise-development and
 training in the context of models of human learning.
 Health, Lifestyles & Wellbeing (HLW) (coordinator: Monk; members: Balani, Heim, Kaye,
 Larkin, Levy, Murphy, Qureshi). With links to the institutional Health Research Institute (with
 Levy as deputy Director), this group investigates a range of psychological and social influences
 on health, particularly substance use and cardiac rehabilitation. The group is developing
 theoretical models of how people perceive, regulate, and change health-relevant behaviours in
 different contexts. The aim is to harness psychosocial forces to promote wellbeing and tackle
 health-related inequalities.
 Multi-modal Communication (MMC) (coordinator: Beattie; members: Atherton, Balani,
 Burns, Cross, Humphries, Kaye, Karaminis, Makris, Nicolson, Qureshi, Van Rijsbergen,
 Wall). This group has an explicit remit to focus on interdisciplinary research. It comprises
 researchers investigating multimodal communication in real-world and applied contexts, which
 include both face-to-face and online communication, communication in learning, sporting,
 employment and forensic contexts, communication in autism, as well as the neuroscientific basis
 of processing multimodal messages.
 Over the REF period, our redesigned research groups cultivated new collaborations within the
 department, across the institution, and both nationally and internationally to address our
 research priorities (section 4). We now have a track record of linking researchers with significant
 histories of theoretical and methodological research (but with little previous focus on impact) to
 important applied themes of significance (e.g., theoretical work on explicit categorisation in
 stimulus-response psychology, now applied to implicit racism; research on corpus linguistics,
 now applied to understanding media representations of autism).
 A further means of achieving our aims has been to sustain research vitality by mitigating threats
 to productivity. During this period, this has meant that a priority was to ensure that staff are able
 to engage in programmes of international-level research in the absence of sizeable external

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding (section 3). Obtaining internal funding has thus been crucial in order to develop our
 research profile. To this end, the department Research Management Group (RMG; see below)
 has expanded its role in guiding the development and selection of projects for our institution’s
 internal research support schemes. All applications for University funding are now discussed
 with a relevant member of the RMG and the Research Director (Heim) prior to submission;
 applications need to make explicit the strategic fit with research group aims, which is affirmed in
 the departmental support statement. This has helped ensure that over the current REF cycle
 Psychology was a major beneficiary of University research support (section 2).
 We have also improved research management and monitoring/reporting of progress towards
 realising our aims. A substantially revamped RMG (section 2) now includes research group
 coordinators, to ensure that groups retain a focus on our strategic aims. At our bimonthly RMG
 meetings, a standing agenda item now requires coordinators to provide structured updates on
 activities. In this way, they report progress regarding (i) theoretical and applied questions being
 addressed and whether/how these align with funding priorities and our outreach and impact
 agendas, (ii) the wider significance of any new proposed collaborations, (iii) progress towards
 internationalisation (including, going forward, ideas for honorary appointments and ODA-oriented
 research developments – see below). The distribution of ‘good news’ summaries of
 achievements (e.g., accepted manuscripts, grant awards, impact success, notable media
 coverage) in advance of every staff meeting serves to provide positive reinforcement of success.
 Ethics and integrity
 Fully committed to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and in support of institutional
 policies and procedures, we aim to ensure research integrity through solid governance. All our
 research is carried out with due regard for participants’ dignity and welfare and we seek to
 minimise risks to participants, our students and staff, and the department/institution. All staff and
 PGR projects are subject to mandatory peer review to ensure they meet local criteria and those
 of (inter)national bodies such as the BPS and APA. The University has recently invested in an
 online ethics monitor system which has improved both efficiency and monitoring. Human tissue
 data collection is undertaken in accordance with the Human Tissue Act (2004) and
 coordinated by the Edge Hill University Human Tissue Management Sub-committee on which
 Murphy serves. All research integrity information (including ethics policy, codes of practice and
 reports on the Concordat) and ethics guidelines are online in our centrally maintained ‘research
 wiki’, ensuring that they are current. We have approved procedural protocols for specialist types
 of research (e.g., alcohol administration, eye-tracking, EEG, TMS) to avoid redundant
 duplication in ethical scrutiny. In this efficiency-improving vein, staff are encouraged to seek
 ethical clearance for research programmes rather than individual small-scale studies. Well-
 established low-risk data collection protocols are fast-tracked, whilst research with clinical
 populations is approved by relevant external bodies.
 Our approach to integrity includes having respect for our sources and subjects and through our
 commitment to responsible metrics: we do make benign use of metrics, recognising that
 quantitative evaluation should support but not supplant qualitative, expert assessment. Adhering
 to DORA, we exercise nuanced judgement of all available evidence in relation to recruitment,
 promotion and the allocation of resources. Following the University’s statement on metrics, we
 do not use simple metrics alone to inform any of our decisions regarding promotions or access
 to resources. We work with our colleagues to ensure that they are aware of the limitations of
 metrics when describing their own work.
 Open Science
 Complementing our commitment to psychological science integrity, and in tandem with the
 institution, we have made considerable progress in building a research environment that is
 rooted in open science principles. 80% of staff now use repositories (e.g., Figshare, OSF,
 Zenodo) and a growing number of outputs were pre-registered over the REF period. All
 publications are deposited in the institutional repository, which is registered with Unpaywall and
 Jisc CORE to facilitate global full-text access. In line with our commitment to open access, we
 are beginning to promote pre-publication via relevant repositories such as PsyArXiv; open data
 practices are also improving through more consistent repository use. We are also moving

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 towards adopting open-source software (e.g., R, JASP) and we support and encourage staff and
 PGRs to attend relevant training (see section 2). We encourage staff to publish gold OA in
 journals with which the University has agreements, to maximize reach and accessibility. Our
 staff also promote open science in the wider institution and beyond: for example, Kaye delivers
 development sessions on the benefits of open research to events organised by Edge Hill,
 Liverpool University and Liverpool John Moores University as part of Open Research Week. We
 will continue investing time and effort into establishing open science practices to benefit our
 research beyond REF2021, and it bodes well for the future that our ECRs are leading the way by
 championing open science practices to promote greater research integrity, transparency and
 reproducibility.
 Impact strategy
 Embedding impact considerations into all stages of the research process is central to realising
 our strategic aim of using our psychological knowledge in the socially-engaged promotion of
 fairness and well-being. Our impact strategy is designed to help us identify and meet the needs
 of research users as we grow our reputation for beneficial research.
 The new research groups were designed to ensure capacity for impactful research and to
 function as the engine that drives advancement of our impact agendas. Potential for research to
 benefit users has been a key criterion for recruitment decisions over the REF cycle (see section
 2). Central to our impact strategy is equipping researchers with a nuanced understanding of
 impact, which we achieve by drawing on both departmental and institutional expertise.
 To improve impact promotion and support, we created the new role of Director of External
 Impact (Beattie), recognised in workload allocation, to work with both research groups and staff
 individually. Our approach entails: (i) assessments of our current and emerging expertise, (ii)
 identification of end-users and key actors locally, nationally and internationally and promotion of
 collaboration with these (see section 4), (iii) needs assessment of both research users and staff
 to identify symbiotic opportunities, (iv) assessment of the funding landscape in relation to these
 considerations and identification of possible (non-) academic partners/collaborators, (v) ensuring
 impact-capture, (vi) increasing engagement activities through (social and traditional) media to
 enhance profile with key stakeholders and the public (see section 4).
 Regular support provided by the institutional Research Impact Manager augments departmental
 efforts and we have improved impact oversight via a standing agenda item on both research
 group and research management group meetings. Internal research funding applications require
 an impact plan and details of planned dissemination activities to help ensure that impact
 considerations are integral to research planning (see section 3).
 Impact Case Studies
 The impact case studies illustrate the synergy between our fundamental research and our
 translational research together with sustained relationships with end users, to embed their needs
 at the centre of the research process. Furthermore, they exemplify how our research is shaping
 the practices of national and international organisational actors across a variety of sectors for
 societal benefit:
        1. Research on the role of implicit communication and cognition in decision-making has
           informed international policy and practice on the psychology of sustainability, racial
           inequality and communication. Highlighting the growing reach of our impact activities,
           ICS1 demonstrates how we work with key actors to imbue their activities with insights
           from our research findings and our responsiveness to research user priorities/needs.
        2. Research by our substance use and misuse lab has benefitted interventions reducing
           alcohol-related harms and shaped public debate in relation to substance use. ICS2
           exemplifies our collegial approach to fostering impact and illustrates how we have
           been building long-term relationships with end users to benefit their activities and for
           their needs to inform our research.
        3. Research into understanding various challenges in online communication and
           behaviour has informed and widened public debate, leading to changed

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            organisational understanding regarding online behaviours that include emojis and
            social media use. Showcasing engagement activities with key stakeholders and the
            public, ICS3 illustrates how the systematic assessment of research user needs
            enables us identify opportunities for joint working for societal benefit.
 Strategic aims 2021-2028
 In support of the University Research Strategy 2021-2025, we will continue to build towards our
 aim of becoming a department that is recognised internationally for high-quality psychological
 research that is theoretically and methodologically useful beyond disciplinary boundaries and
 improves people’s lives. We have put many processes in place to assist our development as a
 significant research-based department, and our strategy is to build on these over the next seven
 years to:
    1. Enhance vitality by:
        •   Adopting a positive psychology approach – staff work to their motives, strengths and
            passions. We appoint good researchers and provide them with an environment where
            they can thrive, and via our group structures we ensure that they become embedded
            within a productive research culture. Our forward-looking emphasis, and our focus on
            global challenges and on teamwork, align with our agility in responding to new
            situations and challenges.
        •   Capitalising on existing research strengths and synergies across the University to
            address issues of societal need. We aim to lead on the development of three
            interdisciplinary research clusters hosted in the department: (i) atypical development
            and expertise acquisition across the lifespan, (ii) substance (mis)use, and (iii)
            multimodal analysis of human communication. This will formalise existing cross-
            disciplinary research links with the departments of Computer Science, English,
            Geography and Media, the faculties of Health, Social Care and Medicine, and
            Education, as well as the University research institutes for Creative Enterprise, Health
            Research and Social Responsibility.
        •   Supporting the development of our research groups through the appointment of
            honorary external members and building a specialist state-of-the-art dual-purpose
            infant/atypical human movement lab to support activity in these areas.
        •   Increasing our commitment to open science and research integrity by creating a
            workload-recognised role as departmental open science/research integrity champion
            who will be tasked with promoting best practice (psychological) science within our
            UOA, institution and beyond, and who will become a local network lead on the UK
            Reproducibility Network (where we currently have no representation).
    2. Ensure sustainability through:
        •   Building our research capacity through recruitment and retention of staff able to
            undertake world-leading research and supporting them to realise their potential.
        •   Ongoing support for career progression of staff and continuing to address our
            department’s gender pay disparity at senior levels (via recruitment, development and
            promotion of female research leaders) and increasing further the diversity of staff and
            PGRs. Towards maximising manifold benefits of workforce diversity in our
            department, we will embed explicit consideration of issues arising from disability,
            minority (ethnic) and gendered circumstances more resolutely across all relevant
            departmental processes. We will continue to use the PDR process to ensure that all
            staff consider how they can optimise research support resources to advance their
            careers and to ensure that they are aware of the resources available to them.
        •   Improving higher cost recovery rates from external sources to ensure sustainability.




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        •   Expanding our research student numbers by drawing on our experience of
            establishing from scratch an increasingly vibrant community of PhD students during
            the current REF cycle.
    3. Achieve impact by:
        •   Continuing to build our reputation through use of (social) media and enhancing the
            usefulness and impact of our research. This will be achieved by sustaining and
            deepening engagement through (cross-disciplinary) collaborations within the
            academy and partnership working with key actors in the public, private, and voluntary
            sectors.
        •   Enhancing the reach of our impact activities beyond relatively privileged (Northern)
            contexts. To achieve this, we will utilise experience from current departmental
            projects with University of Ghana concerning alcohol use in sub-Saharan Africa and,
            in collaboration with Geography, with Universiti Teknologi Malaysia regarding
            environmental sustainability.
 Our research strategy is reviewed annually, and we monitor and evaluate our departmental
 performance through interrogation of both processes and outcomes in consideration of external
 quality benchmarks (including the REF) and investments/inputs (including staff time).


 Section 2. People
 Staffing and workload: The core elements of our people strategy are:
    a) to attract staff who can contribute to one or more of our research groups and are able to
       undertake high-quality, theoretically interesting research that has potential for impact and
       informs teaching
    b) to recruit at all career levels to ensure sustainability and help succession planning
    c) to provide an excellent experience from recruitment, through induction to development
       and promotion
    d) to invest in the next generation of researchers
    e) to be sensitive to equality, diversity and inclusion issues in all staffing considerations.
 23.81 FTE Category A are submitted, representing 92% of academic staff in Psychology on the
 census date. All those submitted hold substantive posts and permanent contracts indicating
 significant responsibility for research. Over the REF period, we focussed on the recruitment of
 promising ECRs (Atherton, Burns, Cross, Reeder, Tham, Van Rijsbergen) and mid-career
 researchers (Karaminis, McPhillips, Wolohan) to add new dimensions to ongoing research.
 We also appointed a new professor as HOD in 2017 (Nicolson) to strengthen leadership of our
 expanding department. Three further appointments have been made since the census date and
 there has been an internal transfer from the Faculty of Education.
 The on-going expansion of staff numbers has been managed carefully to ensure strategic fit. It
 has provided an opportunity to:
    •   organise workloads more effectively;
    •   harness economies of scale; and
    •   free up time for research through effective workload planning.
 We conducted a full review of our teaching portfolio to help ensure that, wherever possible, new
 staff contribute to existing modules which reflect their areas of expertise. Undergraduate
 dissertation topics are now closely aligned with staff research interests, following changes as to
 how prospective projects are advertised. This careful management of our expansion of
 undergraduate students (412 in 2014 to 632 in 2020) has also been supported by the Graduate



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Teaching Assistant (GTA) scheme (see below). These changes have resulted in more than 33%
 of staff time being identified for research and research-related activity.
 A related development has been the review of our transparent workload allocation model to
 recognise fully research activities: for example, having ensured that everyone has equal
 opportunities to construct research bids, we endeavour to account for the submission of grant
 applications in workload allocations the following year. The model requires open and transparent
 management, but it better reflects the demands of a growing and supportive research-based
 department which is committed to both research excellence and fairness of opportunity. We will
 continue to refine and nuance the workload-allocation model in light of good management
 practice.
 The growth in our research capabilities and capacities over the current REF cycle evidences the
 effectiveness of our staffing and workload strategy. It has also enabled us to establish a strong
 human capital base to build upon going forward, with significant stability in the workforce.
 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI): With respect to the staff submitted, we acknowledge
 significant gender inequality at more senior levels: on the census date the percentage of staff at
 each grade (with female to male ratio) was 12% lecturer (3:0), 67% senior lecturer (8:8), 4%
 reader (0:1) and 17% professor (0:4). Two staff being returned identify as Black, Asian or
 minority ethnic and eight (33%) staff were born and raised outside the UK.
 In support of our EDI strategy, we operate flexible working hours and afford staff opportunity to
 work from home (when appropriate) to promote their wellbeing and help bridge work and caring
 responsibilities. We continue to support staff moving between full- and part-time and those
 returning from maternity/paternity/adoption breaks (3 occurrences over current REF period) are
 given reduced teaching loads.
 Over the REF period we have made concerted efforts to address the gender disparity in senior
 positions. In preparation for becoming the first department at Edge Hill University to be awarded
 an Athena Swan (AS) Bronze Award in 2018, we undertook an in-depth self-assessment that
 entailed a staff survey and structured discussions with all departmental stakeholders. This
 helped drive several significant changes: first, we have ensured greater representations of
 female staff members as departmental representatives on research-related institutional
 committees, such as the Graduate Board of Studies. Second, we revised the membership of
 what in 2014 was an all-male Research Management Group (RMG) to achieve a more balanced
 membership in terms of gender (now 40% female). This group reviews applications to the
 University’s internal research support funds so it is particularly important it is more
 representative of the Department’s demographics. Third, we funded Kaye and Monk’s
 participation in Advance HE’s Aurora training, thereby facilitating their subsequent promotions to
 reader (Aug 2020). Fourth, AS issues are now a standing agenda item on staff and research
 management meetings and we now monitor EDI progress as we work towards our goal of
 attaining an AS Silver Award over the next REF period. Fifth, working with the wider institution,
 we more proactively encourage mentorship by female role models outside the department.
 We also contributed to wider institutional EDI efforts. For example, Humphries, who led the AS
 Psychology steering group, was part of the University self-assessment team for successful re-
 submission of the institutional AS Bronze award. She was also part of the team advising and
 supporting other departments obtaining AS awards.
 The detailed AS process served to reinforce the need to sustain our EDI commitment vigorously
 into the future (e.g., by embedding explicit consideration of disability, minority ethnic and
 gendered circumstances into our recruitment, staffing and workload strategies, as well as
 performance review processes and progression). Continuing to foster a diverse workforce with
 opportunities for all will continue to important for our department, especially as there are early
 signs that our efforts are beginning to bear fruits: the professoriate, totalling four, is currently still
 all male, but given the recent promotion of two female staff (both ECRs in 2014), there is
 evidence that we are moving the right direction.
 Following our REF2021 Code of Practice, 92% of Psychology’s Category A eligible staff were
 identified as Category A submitted. All of our impact case studies reflect the research of both

                                                                                                     Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 women and men. We are pleased to be returning 100% of staff who have declared a disability,
 those who have declined to provide information on disability, those who identify as BAME and
 ECRs. We implemented the selection of outputs as described in the REF2021 CoP; our
 submitted staff began by selecting and self-reviewed outputs they wished to be considered for
 submission; for former staff this was facilitated by UOA co-ordinators. All outputs identified for
 consideration were peer reviewed internally by at least two members of staff (senior staff and
 those with subject expertise). Our REF group would then discuss the internal reviews to identify
 outputs for external review to support calibration and agreement on scores and rankings.
 External reviewers were identified from previous REF panels and fit with research clusters. All
 self-review scores and peer review scores were made available on a shared drive to enhance
 transparency and to support personal development. The REF group then identified a long-list of
 outputs for consideration by REF Decisions Panel, based on ranking, fit with unit’s research
 narrative and to support representation of our submitted staff with particular priority given to
 ECRs (see below).
 Staff development and support. As a young and ambitious department in the process of
 building a vibrant and sustainable research environment, we are – and must be – strongly
 committed to nurturing and supporting our staff. 75% of the REF2014 submission were ECRs,
 therefore a key goal was to manage carefully their transition to the mid-career stage through the
 application of the Vitae Research Development Framework. Our aim, articulated in our previous
 REF submission, was to support effectively their continued development, and the success of our
 strategy is evidenced by the fact that all ECRs included in REF2014 attained promotion.
 In addition to facilitating career progression through careful workload management, outlined
 above, we have in place clear staff support structures and processes. Team members’
 professional and academic development continues to be reviewed annually through the
 Performance & Development Review (PDR) to identify areas for development and support. This
 is now augmented by (i) a separate annual ‘research one-to-one’ with the Research Director to
 identify any additional research support needs and (ii) tailored identification of impact
 opportunities/impact strategy development by the Director of External Impact. To complement
 these, departmental PDR processes are conducted with explicit consideration of other support
 mechanisms helping sustain research vitality (see section 1). As part of them, staff present a
 detailed self-assessment of research, impact and dissemination activities in the previous year
 and discuss plans for funding bids, dissemination, and impact. All staff are required to have a
 named research-mentor (at reader/professor level) to act as a 'critical friend' to support their
 development.
 To help build methodological and analytical expertise, the department delivers training on
 research technologies (e.g., EEG) and software. This both supports professional development
 and enables staff to take advantage of our considerable investment into research technologies
 (see section 3). Conference attendance is supported through dedicated departmental and
 institutional funds, and support is made available for meetings with collaborators (£50k+ since
 2014). Our staff have benefitted from considerable pump-priming of research activities which
 strengthen individual research profiles and promotion cases; over the current REF period, our
 staff have been awarded internal funding for 28 research projects with an average value of
 £13.8k (see also section 3).
 ECRs: We maintain a strong commitment to supporting our ECRs in keeping with the 2019
 Researcher Development Concordat. This is achieved through reduced teaching and
 administrative loads during probation, mentorship, targeted pump-priming funds for research,
 and sponsored attendance at research capacity-building events. Our ECR processes are
 designed to augment our wider research/impact support mechanisms, outlined above, and
 encompass (i) support for their immediate post-doctoral careers and gaining independence (e.g.,
 by facilitating development of appropriate and effective publishing strategies) and (ii) longer-term
 career planning (e.g., supporting integration with relevant researchers/stakeholders in the
 research community and beyond; developing personal grant acquisition and impact development
 strategies). This includes mentoring by more experienced staff, as well as joint bids and co-
 authoring of manuscripts. Complementing PDR, ECRs are offered one-to-one support from the
 HoD and Research Director. Institutional ECR support processes supplement departmental

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 efforts and include dedicated ECR training events and a biennial ECR/PGR conference
 facilitating local networking.
 With support from experienced supervisory team members and aided by mandatory training, we
 ensure ECR involvement and leadership in PGR supervision. Career stage is taken into explicit
 consideration (alongside research proposal quality and applicant suitability) to benefit ECRs
 when appointing GTAs. Particular attention is paid to affording ECRs opportunities for
 networking both nationally and internationally (a recent example being the co-funding, with
 Tohuku University Japan, visiting fellowships for Cross and Atherton). The effectiveness of our
 ERC support strategy is evidenced by demonstrable records of sustained publication successes
 by (former) ECRs in our department and by external funding (e.g., BA/Leverhulme small grants)
 secured by them. We will continue to refine and improve our ECR support strategy (e.g., by
 ensuring more equitable representation of ECRs on appointment panels).
 When selecting outputs, the first criterion was quality but where there was no distinction, we
 considered EDI issues. In explicit recognition of our ECR research achievements, we did not
 make a unit reduction request for outputs in REF2021 and, accounting for quality assessments,
 the final selection panel prioritised the return of ECR outputs over those by the professoriate.
 Out of 60 outputs, 30% are attributed to ECRs (higher than their representation in the
 submission (25%)) whereas 10% are attributed to professors (lower than their representation in
 the submission (17%).
 PhD students. Complementing progress being made towards a strong and integrated student
 research culture at all levels, we have made considerable headway towards our aim of
 establishing a vibrant PGR community: Psychology PhD awards have increased from none in
 the last REF period to 11 in REF2021. On the census date we had 16 full-time PhD students
 enrolled (compared to just four in 2014), suggesting that we are well placed to continue our
 growth in PhD students into the next REF cycle. We also established an MRes degree in 2016.
 This allows us to identify and develop undergraduates with research potential, and helps fulfil
 our commitment to developing the next generation of researchers in our specialisms, while
 improving the throughput of PhD students. The MRes is proving particularly popular among
 former interns which suggests that this new research degree harmonises well with the internship
 scheme (see below).
 Our achievement of establishing a PGR community was primarily accomplished through GTA
 studentships (see also section 3). Given that the studentship covers international fees, we have
 been able to recruit an international and ethnically diverse body of PhD students with eight non-
 UK students over the current REF period, including five from ODA countries and five from
 minority ethnic backgrounds, respectively.
 All PhD students play an active role in our research groups and are fully supported in their
 development, both as researchers and in terms of their wider academic development (e.g., by
 enrolling on the Postgraduate Certificate in Teaching in Higher Education), by having full access
 to all – and participating in – research capacity building opportunities (as do fixed-term research
 staff), including those specifically aimed at ECRs. In addition to taking advantage of training
 opportunities within Edge Hill, we generously support their development through dedicated
 funds: over the current REF period our relatively small PhD student cohort was awarded £20k in
 PGR bursaries for activities that include external training events and (inter)national conference
 attendance.
 Through their research-group membership, PhD students are also beneficiaries of our collegial
 approach to impact (with mentorship from experienced staff) to the benefit of those wanting to
 pursue careers both within and outside academia. We strongly encourage our PhD students to
 disseminate findings widely to a range of audiences. The research vitality of our rapidly evolving
 postgraduate community is evidenced by 46 publications being led- or co-authored by PhD
 students working with our academic staff since 2014. PhD students have gone on to secure
 permanent academic (e.g., Aston, MMU) and non-academic positions (e.g., Senior Policy
 Analyst for the Australian Government).




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research income
 Key components of our income strategy reflect that we are a young department with a high
 proportion of ECRs over the REF period (more than 60% of staff returned in this submission
 were ECRs at some point during the current REF period): we target smaller calls to gain a
 profile, use internal funds for pump prime external bids and seek collaborations with
 departments with a track record of income generation to contribute to their bids. Our research
 groups were designed on the basis that we are at the beginning of our grant capture journey.
 Much of our current work does not, therefore, require very high levels of funding and the
 combination of small strategic awards with the institution’s funding schemes has created a
 foundational research-funding package for researchers and teams that we can build on.
 An important capacity-building innovation in this context has been the implementation of a
 research internship scheme. This was designed to nourish research activity and help develop
 profiles and projects that will contribute to strong external bid applications, while simultaneously
 fulfilling our research-based teaching objectives. The scheme was established in 2014 and has
 grown into one of the largest schemes of this nature nationally. Following a competitive
 application process, 40 undergraduate and MSc conversion students are awarded paid
 internships (@60 hours each) for the academic year to assist staff with research. With
 considerable financial support (currently £22k per annum) from the University – ring-fenced in
 our annual departmental budget to ensure sustainability – we now offer staff a substantial
 amount of remunerated research support from our own students. Providing them with a
 guaranteed income, it is also enabling students to gain valuable hands-on research experience,
 with benefits for employability, and it reflects our ethos of inclusivity in the research process.
 Meanwhile, staff obtain dedicated support (e.g., for data collection) and can build student
 research-teams around projects, thereby enhancing productivity. Our internship scheme also
 helped to facilitate our strategic shift towards more methodologically rigorous (e.g., multi-study)
 papers. The success of involving our students in research is a prime reason why, since 2014, 68
 undergraduates have joint publications with staff. Internship experience has also been cited by
 several Psychology graduates as a key reason for helping them secure PhD studentships or
 employment as RAs.
 Complementing the internship scheme, each staff member (including those on fixed-term
 contracts) receives £700 p.a. to reimburse participants. This, alongside our SONA participant
 recruitment/management system, has been important in furthering our goal of more routinely
 attracting participant samples drawn from beyond undergraduate populations that have been the
 focus of much psychological research. In addition, staff with specialist, or ‘hard to reach’, data-
 collection needs receive additional funds: e.g., Litchfield was funded to collect data at a large
 radiography conference in Chicago to support his eye-tracking cancer diagnosis research.
 Having secured a firm foundation on which to conduct research, we have shifted our focus to
 winning external funding. Evidencing some significant early successes, we have attracted highly
 competitive but smaller grants from bodies like the British Academy/Leverhulme (four successful
 applications in the current REF period, none in the previous REF period) and research has been
 presented at the British Academy (B.A.) Summer Showcase (2018), which highlights some of
 the very best research funded by the B.A. We have also gained experience of securing contract
 research income during the REF period. The number of (cross-disciplinary) grant applications
 submitted by members of the department as PI or co-PI has shown a very significant increase
 and, as a result, our total research income more than trebled from £50k (14 awards) in REF2014
 to £161k (21 awards) in REF2021. We can see a step change in behaviour with more
 applications and, increasingly, these are to funders with higher cost-recovery rates which will
 contribute to long-term sustainability.
 In absolute terms, we recognise that overall levels of external income are low. We have relied on
 internal sources of research support, which have been generous. We have begun to establish a
 successful track-record for external bids. Going forward, we intend to be more ambitious in our
 grant capture strategy. In addition to recognising grant applications in workload allocations (see
 section 2), we support bidding by senior staff through providing grant-preparation sessions for

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff who are also given access to previous successful grant applications from a range of funding
 sources. All proposals over £10k now undergo a recently instigated UOA peer review process by
 members of the professoriate and, with support from the University’s Research Office,
 institutional or paid external reviewers are now also used to advise where appropriate. Smaller
 bids are also routinely reviewed by senior team members although this is not mandatory. Ability
 to support grant acquisition by research groups will be a consideration for planned honorary
 appointments to research groups.
 Our strategy augments that of the institution which, over the current REF period, has instigated
 new grant capture reward mechanisms over and above existing ones such as promotion. Since
 2016/17, for example, the institution rewards financially successful grant applications by using
 centrally-held funds to allocate the equivalent of up to 10% of the value of grant funding secured
 to staff members as a ‘bonus’ to be spent flexibly with minimal institutional direction on (open)
 research-, dissemination- and impact-related activities. Over the current REF period the
 University research institutes have also become active in organising bid writing retreats and
 relevant workshops (including for knowledge exchange and consultancy), which our staff are
 encouraged to attend. Attendance of such events will feature in performance reviews going
 forward.
 Psychology secured 25 GTA studentships over the current REF period which is one of the
 highest numbers in the University. Nonetheless, in support of our goal to become less reliant on
 internal funding, a strategic aim is to increase bids for studentship funding. This has been
 assisted by an institutional initiative that ‘rewards’ departments for securing externally funded
 PhD studentships (i.e., for every externally fully-funded studentship secured, departments
 receive an internally funded one). Having established a track-record of successful PhD
 completions and securing two partially externally funded PhD studentships for alcohol research
 over the current REF period (compared to none in the REF2014 cycle), this UOA will seek to
 maximise its thematic strengths to target appropriate funders in pursuit of our long-term goal of
 filling gaps in doctoral training partnerships.
 Facilities and equipment
 With significant institutional capital-funding and support, the move to our new home represented
 an opportunity to transform our research facilities. To take full advantage of this, we established
 a working group which, via consultations with research groups, undertook a research
 infrastructure needs assessment with ‘bang for buck’ considerations at heart prior to building
 work commencing. As a result, and consistent with our collaborative and collegial research
 culture, all facilities were designed to maximise sharing across the department. Access is
 bookable via our technicians or controlled by relevant research groups themselves.
 We have expanded our research infrastructure very significantly from 2014 when we only had
 one observation suite and one specialist lab. To benefit all research groups, we now have an
 electroencephalography (EEG) lab with an adjacent dedicated data acquisition room to minimise
 interference from electrical sources, where we combine 64-channel EEG data with measurement
 of physiological variables (such as heart rate, and facial muscle movements) through BioPac.
 There are now also dedicated rooms for each of our three fixed eye tracking systems (Eyelink
 100; Tobi), a dedicated near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) lab, as well as a lab housing our
 transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)
 equipment. The department now also houses a VR suite.
 Supporting more ecological research in a controlled environment, we now have a ‘bar lab’ for
 alcohol research (with police-grade breathalysers and wheelchair-accessible back/front bar
 areas). We also have a social and infant observation lab to support our growing developmental
 research strand. These labs have state of-the-art video recording equipment. We have also
 established a human tissue lab in which we collect saliva, blood and tissue samples. The HTA
 lab is governed by a University oversight group and we now have technical support to ensure
 secure freezer storage. The department now also has two dedicated labs with high-performance
 computers for our modelling work.
 The University invests annually in infrastructure and upgrades. Our research groups have the
 opportunity each spring of identifying capital and revenue equipment needs of members for the
                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 benefit of both research and teaching. These are then prioritised by the RMG with consideration
 of how equipment can be shared, with the recommendations fed forward to the HoD, who
 submits the annual departmental plan and budget proposals to Faculty. Over the current REF
 cycle the department has been able to procure in excess of £100k worth of capital equipment
 (e.g., TMS equipment) via this route and we have collaborated on several successful bids
 exploiting synergies with other departments for shared equipment. We also receive a good
 allocation for revenue items: i.e., consumables under a ceiling of 10k each. In addition, through
 that annual planning route we appointed a research-support administrator and a second
 technician over the current REF period in recognition of our expansion.
 Through our external-grant proposal peer-review system we ensure that equipment needs are
 fully costed in. Finally, as part of our regional collaboration strategy (see section 4) we maintain
 links with the Liverpool Magnetic Resonance Imaging Centre to meet our scanning demands (to
 which we contribute financially on a project-by-project basis) at Liverpool University, which
 shares access to this resource.


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration, contribution to the research base and recognition
 A strategic focus throughout has been on strengthening existing, and forging new, significant
 links with research centres within our region and beyond. The aim has been to build strong
 connections in the region to provide a solid base from which to develop national and
 international ties.
 We made noteworthy progress towards our goal of better integration with partners in our
 region, including:
    1. Becoming a member of the Liverpool Neuroscience Research Group which includes
       researchers from all three Liverpool universities and clinicians from the NHS Walton
       Centre, which is the only specialist hospital trust in the UK dedicated to providing
       comprehensive neurology, neurosurgery, spinal and pain management services. Our
       department contributes financially to this interdisciplinary neuroscience network to
       support its activities and is represented by Wolohan on its committee.
    2. Our Health, Lifestyles & Wellbeing research group has become a member of the
       Liverpool Health Partnership (LHP) which is a major regional academic health science
       collaboration, covering Merseyside and Cheshire, that delivers research and education
       programmes to address population needs. The substance use and misuse laboratory has
       joined the LHP Alcohol Research Centre, Larkin is a member of LHP Psychosocial
       Oncology Research Group and Murphy is a member of the LHP Neuroscience Group.
    3. We now are represented by Litchfield on the BPS-funded North West Visual Cognition
       Group committee which brings together four regional universities to collaborate and
       share expertise.
    4. Powell holds a vising Fellowship at MARIARC (University of Liverpool).
    5. Levy holds a visiting fellowship at Liverpool Heart & Chest Hospital.
 We have also made good progress in establishing and sustaining collaborations with institutions
 across the UK and overseas. New appointments have helped to expand our networks and
 collaborations: Atherton (e.g., Pompeu Fabra University), Burns (e.g., Harvard University),
 Cross (e.g., Jyväskylä University), Reeder (e.g., Max Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and
 Brain Sciences, Leipzig), Tham (e.g., Sunway University), Van Rijsbergen (e.g., University of
 Glasgow), Karaminis (e.g., UCL), McPhillips (e.g., Queen’s University, Belfast), Nicolson
 (e.g., Universidad Autónoma de Chile), Wolohan (e.g., Western University, Ontario). These new
 collaborations have facilitated our department embarking on new avenues of inquiry (e.g.,
 prosopagnosia/face perception; atypical patterns of child development, supported by £16k
 internal funding).


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff in our UOA are actively engaged in peer review for a wide array of international journals
 as well as national grant review, including Cancer Research UK, MRC, ESRC, BBSRC, NIHR,
 British Academy, Wellcome Trust, The Lister Institute Research Prizes. A member of staff is a
 fellow of the ESRC peer review panel and served on the grants panel of Alcohol Change
 UK/Alcohol Research UK. Evidencing our growing international reputation, staff members have
 contributed to international grant reviews for diverse funding bodies such as European
 Commission ERC Consolidator Grant programme, Swiss Foundation of Alcohol Research,
 Austrian Science Fund, National Science Foundation (USA), Belgian Science Policy Office,
 British Academy Knowledge Frontiers, Neurological Foundation of New Zealand.
 The number of editorial positions held during the REF period has increased significantly in
 comparison to REF2014, as follows. Chief editorial positions: Addiction Research & Theory
 (Heim) and International and the Journal of Sport Psychology (Levy). Editorial board positions:
 Cyberpsychology, Behavior and Social Networking and Computers in Human Behavior Reports
 (Kaye), Addiction Research & Theory (Monk). Guest/Action editorial position: Journal of
 Social Psychology; Sage Open (Monk), International Journal of Environmental Research and
 Public Health (Kaye). Editor of book series: Current Issues in Psychobiology (Routledge)
 (Murphy).
 With regard to facilitating the development of our discipline, since 2014 members of staff have
 acted as external examiners for PhDs at more than 30 UK and five international institutions,
 representing a more than a ten-fold increase compared with the previous REF period. In firsts for
 our maturing department, colleagues have also (i) been awarded invited visiting fellowships
 which include Nanyang Technological University, Singapore (Burns) and invitations for research
 collaboration to the University of Toronto (Beattie), and (ii) hosted international researchers
 from Public University of Navarre, Autonomous University of Madrid, and the University of
 Toronto.
 Service to learned societies and research organisations has also improved since 2014,
 including: Chair of the BPS Cyberpsychology Section; member of the BPS Presidential COVID
 Coordination Task Force and BPS Task and, in 2017, chair of the Task and Finish group
 reviewing and updating the BPS Internet-mediated research ethics guidelines (Kaye); member
 of BPS Expert Review Group its 2020 theme of ‘From Poverty to Flourishing’ (Murphy); trustee
 of Alcohol Change UK (formerly Alcohol Research UK) (Heim); committee member of the BPS
 Psychobiology Section (Murphy); invited member of the Scientific Committee of the UN-based
 International Panel on Behavior Change (IPBC), a member of the Executive Board of the
 International Interdisciplinary Environmental Association (IIEA) and a member of the
 International Advisory Board of the Japanese research organisation and think-tank the
 International Academic Forum (IAFOR) (Beattie); co-founder in 2017 of the international
 Addiction Theory Network which already has 200 members (Heim).
 A further indication of our growing reputation is invitations to speak at over 80 research and
 public engagement events, of which more than 20 were plenary addresses. Exemplifying our
 growing international reach, events include Technology Enabled Mental Health Conference
 (Barcelona); TEDx Vienna Conference: “On the Edge” (Vienna) (Kaye), the International
 Symposium on Drug Policy and Public Health (Istanbul) (Heim), and the International Congress
 on Speech and Language Therapy (Thessaloniki) (Karaminis). Beattie’s many international
 keynotes included the Italian National Geographic Science Festival (Rome) and the International
 Psychology Conference (Dubai). National and international conference organisation
 involvement, including: Asia Pacific Conference on Vision, VS-Games, Emerging Methods in
 Addiction Research (London, UK; sponsored by the Society for the Study of Addiction),
 conferences for both IAFOR and the IIEA, all Annual Scientific Meetings of the BPS
 Psychobiology Section during the current REF cycle.




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Engagement with the public, research users and contributions to the economy and
 society
 Towards our goal of becoming better known among key stakeholders and the public (see section
 1), we are increasing engagement activities in line with our commitment to the Concordat for
 Engaging the Public with Research (see also impact case studies).
 We have marketed our research achievements and expertise more effectively across both social
 and traditional media. Through sustained activity, we enhanced our departmental presence on
 social media via our Twitter (2700 followers; January 2021) and Facebook (720 followers;
 January 2021) feeds. We encourage staff and PGRs to make use of personal Twitter accounts
 to promote their work and connect with other researchers and end-users. We have also
 increased exponentially our contributions to digital media outlets such as The Conversation and,
 illustrating significant reach, since December 2020 Balani, Beattie, Kaye, Larkin and Wall have
 had over 800k combined reads on this platform alone, with considerable subsequent coverage in
 both the print and broadcast media (including Newsweek). Enhanced social media visibility has
 helped initiate several new collaborations: e.g., a recently submitted meta-analysis on ‘screen-
 time’ and mental health of young people with colleagues from a wide range of institutions,
 including Stetson University, Northumbria University, Villanova University, College of Liberal Arts
 and Human Sciences, Institute of Technology Carlow.
 We also disseminate newsworthy research achievements via targeted use of media releases
 (not done prior to 2014). Our research findings have subsequently been reported in a much
 broader range of media outlets catering to different demographics. This included international
 coverage in more than 30 countries via Time Magazine, the BBC, ITN, The Guardian, and the
 Daily Mail amongst many others.
 Staff continue to develop their reputation as expert commentators drawing on their research
 findings and offering psychological insights on a range of important topics (e.g., autism, digital
 safety/wellbeing, substance use, sustainability, communication) across diverse, international
 media platforms. Our case studies also evidence increased service as expert advisors on
 policy and practice, both nationally and internationally. Locally, we actively participate in Edge
 Hill’s annual Festival of Ideas which attracts the general public.
 We have improved engagement with research users and industry in line with strategic aims: for
 example, Levy collaborated with the World Anti-Doping agency (WADA) to develop and validate
 a unique measurement tool for assessing adolescent beliefs about the use of performance-
 enhancing drugs; Nicolson worked jointly with the British Dyslexia Association and Dyslexia
 Association of Singapore on projects focussing on strengths and dyslexia; Beattie worked with
 the Leadership Vanguard, founded by Unilever, on sustainable decision-making; Makris is
 collaborating with industrial partner Ipsos Mori, on projects exploring object affordances for the
 design of novel products and packaging; Murphy worked with Alcooliques Anonymes in France
 to provide information and support for people seeking help with addiction; Atherton and Gray
 are working jointly with GameInLab (the R&D arm of Asmodee, France) to systematically
 examine if boardgames (particularly those involving social deduction and bluffing) may improve
 perspective taking in individuals with autism; and working with Children and Family Centres
 (Liverpool), Wall has been contributing to client-focussed work to encourage behaviour-change
 and support their wellbeing during the COVID-pandemic.
 Our strategy has yielded several impact successes both locally and (inter)nationally. These
 include Levy’s development of an e-learning tool to train healthcare professionals to facilitate
 behaviour change in patients undertaking prescribed rehabilitation programmes, Monk’s joint-
 working with a large national treatment provider (Richmond Fellowship) to better understand
 predictors of client-reported outcomes and Beattie working with the Born Free Foundation to
 understand the psychological motivations behind trophy hunting, which has fed into
 presentations by Born Free to the South African Government’s High-Level Panel on Wildlife
 Management. Karaminis has conducted experimental research on cognitive development in
 autism (supported by £18k internal funding) through a project that also developed an
 engagement scheme with children, their families and schools. As such, the work fittingly
 illustrates our ‘win-win-win’ approach to impact, demonstrating how working with stakeholders (i)

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 helps us embed end-user needs into our research whilst simultaneously (ii) facilitating access to
 research participants, and (iii) becoming better known with relevant stakeholders.




                                                                                           Page 15
