Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: York St John University

 Unit of Assessment: Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy (UoA 3)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure

 York St John University (YSJU) has delivered health-related professional education for over 40
 years, and health-related research is primarily conducted across two schools: Education,
 Language, and Psychology (ELP; Counselling and Mental Health) and the newly formed School
 of Science, Technology and Health (SSTH). The latter consists of four distinct subject areas:
 Biosciences; Allied Health; Sport and Exercise Sciences; and Computer and Data Science. The
 outputs submitted within UoA3 were produced by staff from Counselling and Mental Health
 (CaMH), Biosciences and Allied Health.

 Over £10m of infrastructure investment has occurred since 2014, including £1.1m to develop
 new Biosciences laboratories and a further £400,000 to double capacity within this research and
 teaching space. In the process, Physiotherapy was relocated with expanded research facilities.
 Recruitment of excellent early career and experienced research staff into Biosciences and
 CaMH has substantially enhanced our research capacity. The formation of the Institute of Social
 Justice and establishment of collaborations with local NHS Trusts and charities are enabling
 sustainable, high-quality, impactful research to be undertaken.

 Our UoA3 REF2014 submission included six staff (5.5 FTE), 21 outputs and two impact case
 studies. A third of these outputs were world-leading and internationally excellent (4.8% = 4*;
 28.5% = 3*). Our research environment was considered conducive to producing internationally
 recognised research (62.5% = 2*). However, since REF2014, significant changes in personnel
 and organisational structure have occurred, resulting in a shift away from previous research
 themes. All personnel submitted to UoA3 in REF2021 have either joined YSJU since 2014 (61%)
 or gained significant responsibility for research (SRR) status since the last REF. Personnel
 changes, coupled with the major institutional structural reorganisation, strengthened our capacity
 to produce world-leading and internationally excellent research through the appointment of new
 staff and investment in the physical environment and research resources. It enabled the unit’s
 research to be reorganised into three coherent themes:
 (1) Disease Detection and Prevention (DDaP; Baumgartner, Odell, Taylor, Kavanagh).
 (2) Health and Wellbeing (HaW; Laver-Fawcett, Boyes, Sinani, Spring, Bryan, Purton,
 Thompson, Yoward)
 (3) CaMH (Charura, Hobman, Edwards, Gabriel, McGivern, Shepherd).
 Our current REF2021 submission includes 18 staff (17.4 FTE), 44 outputs and two impact case
 studies, reflecting the substantial recruitment undertaken over the last six years.

 Research and impact strategy

 Progress in research and impact since REF2014
 The strategic aims of our REF2014 submission and key achievements against these are
 summarised below:

 1. To promote research as a key form of learning: All research staff are either higher education
    academy fellows or senior fellows, reflecting YSJU’s emphasis on excellence through
    effective research-informed teaching. Engaging students in research co-creation with
    academics is an important strategy to enhance knowledge transfer and nurture the next
    generation of researchers. This enables students to gain valuable real-world research
    experience and has been highly successful, as evidenced by the co-production of outputs
    (11% of journal outputs include undergraduate students as co-authors; InCites), positive
    student feedback and enhanced student employability. This is exemplified by the
    occupational therapy team, where a strong track record of student involvement in primary

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    research and service evaluations with community partners (e.g., City of York Council Health
    and Wellbeing Board) has resulted in co-authored national and international conference
    presentations and peer-reviewed journal publications (Spring, Laver-Fawcett). Physiotherapy
    also embedded collaborative research opportunities, generating outputs with students
    including service evaluations (York NHS Hospital Physiotherapy; Purton) and peer-reviewed
    journal articles (Yoward). Interdisciplinary Masters level research conducted in Biosciences,
    with colleagues in Sport and Exercise Sciences, was also published (Kavanagh).

    YSJU’s Students as Researchers programme, which supports undergraduate students to
    participate in research projects outside their degree, has provided further opportunities to
    engage students with research. Enhancing collaboration with external research and service
    evaluation partners (including York Foundation Hospital NHS Trust, Leeds and York
    Partnership NHS Foundation Trust and City of York Council) has enabled development of
    crucial community strategic partnerships and increased the accessibility of our research for
    end-users.

 2. To create a critical mass of sustainable research and increase the percentage of staff with
    doctorates: In 2014, YSJU invested (£1.1m) in the development of Biosciences. This
    included construction of teaching and research laboratories and recruitment of research
    active staff with doctorates (57% of whom are submitted to REF2021). A further £400,000
    investment in additional research and teaching laboratories has doubled available laboratory
    space (January 2021), enabling two recently appointed early career academics to develop
    research profiles over the next REF cycle and contribute to the generation of critical research
    mass. Physiotherapy also benefited from investment, including the purchase of a diagnostic
    ultrasound machine.

    At the REF2021 census date over 50% of academic staff from SSTH now hold a doctorate
    which is a significant improvement from the previous REF cycle, where 37.5% of staff held
    doctorates. For research income, a total of £67,240 was generated between 2008 and 2013,
    while a total of £189,240 has been generated since 2013, confirming our improved ability to
    attract external funding.

 3. To achieve research degree awarding powers (RDAP) with increasing numbers of students
    and high completion rates: Prior to March 2015, research degrees were awarded through an
    agreement with the University of Leeds. The awarding of RDAP to YSJU represents a
    significant milestone. It provided impetus and resources to improve our research
    infrastructure and training capabilities. In REF2014, UoA3 recorded a total of 6.5 research
    doctoral degree awards. In the REF2021 cycle, eight PhD postgraduate researchers (PGRs)
    were supervised by UoA3 staff to completion, of which four were solely supervised by UoA3
    staff and four co-supervised with colleagues from other units. When this co-supervision is
    accounted for, 5 research doctoral degrees were awarded in UoA3. This cycle, a higher
    completion rate has been achieved and there are currently eight doctorate students assigned
    to supervisors in UoA3, representing our largest cohort to date. The recent establishment of
    NHS clinical research fellowships with two of our NHS Trust partners is enhancing our
    capability to attract talented PGR students, and it will provide further opportunities for staff to
    achieve sole supervisor status.

 4. To engage with and influence research locally, nationally, and internationally: Staff are
    engaged with informing research policy, directing research endeavours and conducting
    scholarship activities at local, national and international levels. Through membership of
    advisory boards and organising committees, academics have successfully influenced
    research direction, approaches and wider policy. By serving on grant review panels (e.g., the
    National Institute for Health Research [NIHR], the Physiotherapy Research Foundation, the
    Australian National Health and Medical Research Council and the UK Medical Research
    Council), academics utilise their research expertise and demonstrate high reputational
    standing within the research community. Staff are actively involved in peer-reviewing book
    chapters, journal articles and conference proceedings, including editorial board membership

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (e.g., on editorial boards for Health Information and Libraries Journal and Annals of
    International Occupational Therapy). Several staff hold honorary positions at external
    universities including Bryan (Visiting Professor, University of Warsaw), Thompson (Associate
    Professor at SOMT University of Physiotherapy, Netherlands), Odell (associate scientist,
    University of Leeds) and Spring (Visiting Professor at Pacific University Oregon, USA). Staff
    expertise is acknowledged by membership on national and international guidance panels
    (e.g., developing advanced clinical practice for physiotherapists in Netherlands, Thompson).
    Launch of the institutional repository Research at York St John (RaY) in 2015 enabled an
    increase in accessibility of our research outputs. The percentage of our open access
    research outputs has increased from 5% (REF2014) to 46% (REF2021) (InCites/Web of
    Science), and further efforts to increase this are underway.

 5. Research activity through effective research management, tied to work planning systems
    and exceptional learning and teaching:

    Institutional level: Research at YSJU is led by the Pro Vice Chancellor for Research and
    Knowledge Transfer, who is supported by School Research and Knowledge Transfer Leads
    (SRKTLs) and UoA Leads. As members of the University Research Committee, which
    provides oversight of the university’s research, SRKTLs are responsible for driving strategic
    research development, while ensuring research integrity and ethical standards are
    maintained. The central Research Office (RO, established 2018) is responsible for
    overseeing research governance and compliance, supporting grant applications, managing
    the PGR student experience, coordinating staff research training, and monitoring school
    research performance. This has helped to increase and diversify grant applications from
    within UoA3. The work of the RPO is complemented by the Business Development and
    Knowledge Exchange Office (BDKEO) which is responsible for supporting schools in
    increasing the range and scope of applied research, business development and knowledge
    exchange. The BDKEO is a key conduit for creating and evaluating impact and public
    engagement related to UoA3 outputs.

    Researcher level: Our success in increasing research activity is evidenced by the increased
    number of staff being returned in this REF2021 cycle (18 staff; 17.4 FTE), with more than
    double the submitted outputs (44), compared to REF2014 (six staff, 5.5 FTE, 21 outputs).
    YSJU’s academic workload allocation model stipulates an upper limit of 450 hours per year
    face-to-face teaching activities to ensure time is dedicated to research. Staff work plans are
    reviewed annually through the performance development review process, where supported
    research activities are aligned to the strategic priorities. New staff are supported to complete
    the research continued professional development (CPD) programme, which is aligned to the
    Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (YSJU is a signatory).
    This standard directly informs our approach to staff development, which recognises that,
    although a core set of personal and professional skills underpins all successful research
    careers, the development needs of staff vary depending on their stage of career and
    research area and must be individually assessed. The training programme includes over 40
    CPD sessions aligned with the four core Vitae competency areas, delivered by our
    professoriate and other external providers. Several themes are targeted specifically to early
    career researchers (ECRs), as illustrated by the “Open and Accessible Research” workshop
    that coincided with the introduction of our new open data repository service Research at York
    St John Data Repository (RaYDaR), aiming to increase the impact and transparency of
    research at YSJU.

 Current approach to research and impact
 Our impact strategy since REF2014 has been primarily focused on growing research capacity,
 coupled with mentoring ECRs, with aligned interests of improving the overall health and
 wellbeing of individuals and societal groups. There were seven elements to the strategy: (1)
 research impact consultation between staff with key beneficiaries; (2) raising awareness of the
 importance of research impact through integration of impact considerations in staff personal
 research plans; (3) involving key beneficiaries and audiences in initial planning and development

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of research; (4) nurturing research partnerships with key beneficiaries; (5) engaging
 beneficiaries in the process of establishing impact; (6) ensuring that UoA3 research informs the
 CPD portfolio offered by the schools and (7) working with YSJU’s marketing department to
 ensure that the impact of UoA3 research has a positive media profile.

 Strategy implementation can be illustrated in two main ways:
 First, by two new impact case studies. One of these relates to the impact of research undertaken
 in the Counselling and Mental Health Centre (led by Gabriel). This focuses on the mental health
 and wellbeing of people experiencing a range of disturbances to circumstance, including mental
 ill-health, domestic or partner violence, bereavement and anger management training. The other
 (led by Laver-Fawcett) explores the benefits of two occupational therapy assessments for older
 people; one developed entirely at YSJU and the other a substantially improved second edition of
 an established assessment.
 Second, by strengthening and supporting burgeoning research areas where significant future
 impact is likely. This is exemplified by current research within Biosciences exploring the utility of
 biomarkers for assessing and monitoring human health (Kavanagh, Odell and Taylor).

 Against this backdrop, our REF2021 UoA3 submission reflects research performed within (a)
 Biosciences (four staff, 4.0 FTE), (b) Allied Health Professions (eight staff, 7.4 FTE) and (c)
 Psychotherapy and Counselling (six staff, 6.0 FTE). These staff are aligned to three distinct
 research groups within UoA3: DDaP, HaW and CaMH:

    1) Disease Detection and Prevention (DDaP): This recently established group hosted within
    Biosciences is a central hub for integrating cross-disciplinary, multi-school research activities
    where a biological read-out is desirable. This is evidenced by strong collaborations with Sport
    (based around quantifying the benefits of exercise at the cellular level) and Education
    (evaluating biological markers of chronic and acute stress). Research is focused on
    understanding the aetiology of non-communicable diseases including cancer, cardiovascular
    disease, dementia and immune disorders. Through the sub-groups of Biomarkers in Health
    and Disease, Cancer and Genotoxicity, and Microbiome in Action, DDaP explores methods of
    detecting and characterising changes in relevant biomarkers, alterations to cellular and
    genome architecture and most recently the public health risk of environmental pathogens.
    Research activities are further supported by the recent acquisition of specialist equipment
    (£16,900) for biomarker analysis.

    2) Health and Wellbeing (HaW): This is a more diverse theme, encompassing several groups
    from across the UoA, including Occupational Therapy, Physiotherapy and Health Studies, all
    aligned to improving public and patient health. Research activity is broadly divided into
    support and rehabilitation projects and the development and implementation of healthcare
    assessments.

    Support programmes are epitomised by the Refugee and Asylum Seekers Project,
    established in 2016 by Spring and involving close links with existing community support
    groups. Research was undertaken by staff collaborating with undergraduate students through
    our Student as Co-researcher (SCORE) group project approach. This provides meaningful
    research opportunities for students and staff to collaborate with community partners and is
    aligned with the Institute for Social Justice. Related studies involved 42 students between
    2016 and 2020 and included evaluating the value and meaning of a community drop-in
    service for asylum seekers and refugees. Academics (led by Spring) were awarded £5,000
    quality-related (QR) funding to develop and evaluate a craft and cooking group for women
    accessing a community refugee project. A further £6,000 was awarded from the university’s
    research development and innovation fund to set up a local community allotment in
    York. This funding enabled landscaping work and the purchase of gardening equipment,
    furniture and a greenhouse. The allotment is used by members of Refugee Action York and is
    supported by YSJU staff and students, with part of the allotment managed by the YSJU
    Occupational Therapy Society. It is used for teaching and research and remains accessible to
    other service users and community members. Current research explores the value and

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   benefits of using the allotment for refugees’ health, wellbeing and occupational lives.
   Physiotherapy staff (Thompson, Purton, Sinani, Yoward, Boyes) contribute to the design and
   implementation of community and hospital rehabilitation programmes, particularly focused on
   upper limb function and mobility. The importance of adverse development and ageing on
   language, communication and cognition is also reflected within our research portfolio (led by
   Bryan).

   Assessment and outcome measurement research (led by Laver-Fawcett) forms an impact
   case study. Here, research has facilitated improvements to the Structured Observation Test
   of Function (SOTOF) and enabled the publication of an open-access second edition. This has
   directly benefited occupational therapy assessment of older people with neurological
   problems and aids patients’ insight into their functional problems and abilities. The Activity
   Card Sort-United Kingdom (ACS-UK), developed at YSJU, is used in health and social care
   settings to assess older people’s engagement in domestic, leisure and social activities. The
   development and evaluation of ACS-UK has provided opportunities for several groups of
   undergraduate and pre-registration masters occupational therapy students to undertake
   collaborative research, presented at a European occupational therapy conference and
   published in British Journal of Occupational Therapy. ACS-UK and SOTOF SCORE projects
   have been undertaken with external collaborators including Age UK York and Dementia
   Forward. Knowledge transfer was demonstrated by enabling Eden Marrison, an occupational
   therapy clinician formerly based at York Hospital, to complete an MSc by Research
   supported by a £1,000 Council for Allied Health Professions Research (CAHPR) grant and a
   further York Hospital grant. QR funding has supported the evaluation of SOTOF and ACS-UK
   in occupational therapy practice in two NHS Trusts.

   3) Counselling and Mental Health (CaMH): This group, centred around a community mental
   health clinic, represents our most well-developed and impactful research in this submission
   and will remain a critical source of research activity moving forward. Since opening in mid-
   2016, the YSJU Counselling and Mental Health Centre (led by Gabriel) has engaged over
   800 citizens, addressing key areas of mental ill-health and challenges in living, including
   domestic violence, anger management and bereavement. YSJU recently committed to
   expansion of the centre by allocating the 32–34 Clarence Street premises for refurbishment
   and enlargement. The recruitment of Charura as professor of counselling psychology in 2019
   further exemplifies YSJU’s commitment to supporting research in CaMH, through working
   with refugee and asylum seeker groups. Peer-reviewed grants obtained by staff in this group
   include: PRaCTICED, £450,000 multi-university randomised controlled trial (with Gabriel as a
   co-investigator), of which £22,000 funding came to YSJU (reported as general income), and a
   Feoffees’ grant (£10,000) to support a research project with Independent Domestic Abuse
   Services (IDAS) a specialist domestic abuse charity in Yorkshire. A recent £220,674 grant
   application was submitted to the Global Effort on COVID-19 (GECO) Health Research
   (Charura). In 2018, the clinic established a Research and Training Clinic Consortium (RTCC)
   involving YSJU, Abertay University, Newman University and University of Salford. RTCC’s
   inaugural project involved testing a new outcome measure – Recovering Quality of Life
   (ReQoL), which the clinic is licensed to deliver – within the context of humanistic and
   pluralistic therapies. Following the move to online working during the Covid-19 pandemic, the
   clinic is leading on an RTCC and Open University collaboration to rapidly review the evidence
   for online therapy. A research group, which includes two external honorary research fellows,
   is also being piloted by the clinic to provide accessible support during traumatic loss. Since
   opening, the clinic has supplied eight work-related placements for undergraduate and
   postgraduate students and enabled four graduate internships. The clinic’s work has
   generated employment for local students with three students currently employed as clinic
   administrators. The clinic’s legacy has resulted in all former employees securing funded
   PhDs or graduate teaching assistant (GTA) posts. Building on the success of the clinic, the
   University has recently invested £17.2m in larger, dedicated facilities for the clinic which will
   be ready for occupation in September 2021.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategic AIMS for 2020–26

 The YSJU 2026 strategy has three priorities: inspiring learning, impactful research and enabling
 students to be clear about their careers. The research strategy emphasises interdisciplinary
 working, demonstrating greater research excellence through external recognition, and wider
 dissemination of research as key goals. Within this context, our UoA research aims are:

1. Continued focus on publishing internationally excellent and world-leading research, supported
   by developing research active staff (increasing percentage with PhDs) and providing
   appropriate infrastructure and staff training opportunities.
2. Continue to increase interdisciplinary research by collaborating with other schools internally,
   and with external partners from world-class institutions nationally and internationally.
3. Further enhance the sustainability of research by increasing external grant income.
4. Increase the volume, quality and interdisciplinary nature of our research and the production of
   impactful research with real-world benefits for individuals and communities.


 To achieve these aims, we have based our research strategy around our three research groups.
 In Health, because academics are predominately hired for their clinical experience and skills, the
 priority is upskilling staff (AIM 1). We will further establish Biosciences, through the DDaP group,
 as an exciting, fundamental and increasingly essential research hub by providing DDaP
 members with time, infrastructure and resources (AIM 2). Biosciences will increasingly be placed
 at the centre of enhanced sustainability across the school (AIM 3). Counselling is the most well-
 established research group and most reflective of impactful research across the school (AIM 4).
 This includes a counselling service run by Gabriel, a newly established clinical doctorate
 programme with York NHS Trust and enhancing links with York’s new Foss Park Hospital for
 mental health.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 In line with university strategic priorities and following substantial institutional reorganisation, this
 UoA submission consists of 18 staff (17.4 FTE; all with PhDs) drawn from counselling and
 mental health, allied health, and biosciences, with four professors (Gabriel, Edwards, Bryan,
 Charura), one associate professor (Laver-Fawcett), eleven senior lecturers (Kavanagh,
 Baumgartner, Taylor, Odell, Thompson, Purton, Spring, Boyes, Sinani, Yoward, Hobman) and
 two lecturers (McGivern, Shepherd). All staff are employed on permanent, open-ended
 contracts. Eleven (61%) academic staff were recruited after REF2014 to enhance capability in
 the priority research areas of mental health (CaMH), wellbeing (HaW) and biosciences (DDaP).
 We have laid the foundation in these three areas for creating critical mass, building our research
 identity and developing sustainable research activity.
 Heads of School and SRKTLs are part of the School Academic Leadership Teams (SALTs) that
 support research and succession planning through the recruitment and promotion of research
 staff aiming to enhance the sustainability and growth of research excellence. As well as ensuring
 teaching expertise, we use new appointments and promotions to enhance our research portfolio;
 this is reflected in the increased number of staff with significant responsibility for research. This
 includes six appointments at lecturer and senior lecturer levels in Biosciences; three of these
 lecturers have progressed to senior lecturer. All new appointments should have a doctorate or
 register for doctoral studies on appointment. REF eligible appointments are made whenever
 possible. We will invest in research leadership as a key stimulus for growth in areas of strategic
 priority. Senior management now complete a leadership and management CPD programme.

 Staff have an annual personal development review (PDR), with research as an integral part.
 Topics discussed include reviewing progress, setting objectives for published outputs, research
 engagement (grant applications, PGR supervision, scholarship, knowledge exchange) and

                                                                                                    Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research development (external visibility, conference attendance, networking). YSJU is a
 signatory on the Vitae Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, which
 directly informs our staff development approach. Our centralised open research CPD
 programme is aligned to the four core Vitae competencies and recognises staff individual
 development needs while also acknowledging that a common set of requisite personal and
 professional skills are needed for success. CPD delivery by external speakers has been
 provided; for example, staff engaged in workshops on research impact delivered by Professor
 Mark Reed and sessions on writing grants for health and social care funding and research
 impact provided by Professor Diane Cox. Our new open data repository service (RaYDaR) and
 research repository (RaY) will further increase the impact and transparency of research at YSJU
 and support researcher development.

 All staff are appointed on teaching and research contracts and allocated time for research and
 scholarly activity within their workload. The PDR process promotes, supports and celebrates
 research excellence. Career development is supported through promotion following institutional
 guidelines. This includes an accelerated promotions route, allowing staff to apply for senior
 lectureship up to three years prior to reaching the top of grade. Several staff in the UoA have
 been promoted via this route (Kavanagh, Odell, Taylor). All academics are encouraged to
 progress their research career through scholarship and training activities. This is reflected by
 three UoA3 staff having completed PhDs (Thompson, Spring, Hobman) with institutional support
 during the current REF cycle. In addition, academic leave, flexible working, remote working,
 special leave and career breaks are available to all staff. to improve overall staff satisfaction.
 Importantly, regardless of contract type, staff have the same flexible internal funding
 opportunities available to support research, scholarship and conference activities. Variations in
 contractual arrangements are also available to facilitate changes in staff circumstance, including
 additional support for carers, parents and staff who have a disability or ill-health.
 Associate professorships were introduced in 2013 to recognise outstanding contributions to
 teaching and research, raise career aspirations and provide a development route to full
 professorship. During this REF cycle, one UoA3 academic was promoted to associate professor
 and then professor (Gabriel), and another was promoted to associate professor (Laver-Fawcett).
 Gabriel was externally recognised for her outstanding contribution to research and community
 support. Gabriel was appointed chair of the University Research Degrees Committee, while
 Laver-Fawcett served on the University Research Committee (as School Research Lead) and
 the University Research Degrees Committee, and is now joint co-ordinator for the university’s
 Postgraduate Supervisor’s Forum.

 Support and training for postgraduate research students (PGRs)
 YSJU has well-established processes for induction, training, and monitoring of PGR students.
 Formal reviews of PGR student progress are conducted every six months by academics external
 to the supervisory team. Progress is monitored centrally four times a year (by Research Degree
 Committee). All supervisory meetings are logged. Supervisory teams are made up of multiple
 academic staff from the PGR student supervisory register. To be added to the register, staff are
 required to meet stringent criteria for PGR supervision eligibility pertaining to engagement in
 research, continual professional development and formal YJSU training. Endorsement from
 Heads of School or SRKTL is also required. Applications are assessed by a central committee of
 senior research staff (again, by Research Degree Committee). It is mandatory that all
 supervisory teams have at least one member of staff with experienced supervisory status (have
 previously supervised a PhD student to successful completion). In addition, all PGR students
 have a PGR tutor who is available to provide support outside of the supervisory team.

 All students undertake needs analysis periodically and an individually tailored training
 programme is created. The needs analysis is based on competencies in the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework. Support is provided by supervisory teams and via a centralised PGR
 training programme that includes core and supplementary workshops at each year of study. Like
 our staff training programme, our PGT training programme aligns with the Vitae Researcher

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Development Framework. Core parts of the programme include Research Ethics and Integrity,
 General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for Research, Data Management, and Copyright
 and Intellectual Property rights. These sessions are compulsory for all PGR students.
 A range of other central and local support is available to PGR students that include (1) access to
 centralised services (e.g. Student Services, Chaplaincy, Library and Learning Services,
 Careers); (2) access to a stipend of up to £900 (£450 part-time) to support travel and
 consumables associated with their research and professional development; (3) access to the
 YSJU Graduate Centre providing study space and remote access to a range of specialist
 software (e.g., AMOS, MPlus, Comprehensive Meta-Analysis); (4) opportunity to complete a
 postgraduate certificate in academic practice to achieve associate fellowship of the Higher
 Education Academy (HEA); (5) administrative support provided by the School and Research
 Office and (6) various PGR events held throughout the year (e.g., Three Minute Thesis (3MT),
 Bake Your Thesis, and the annual PGR conference). PGRs also benefit from schemes aimed at
 retaining our best undergraduate students. This includes alumni scholarships, which provide
 first-class students a 50% fee reduction for MSc by Research. Currently, there are three PGRs
 in UoA3 who are in receipt of similar internal scholarships (one in HaW, one in CaMH and one in
 DDaP).


 Equality and Diversity
 UoA3 sits within a broader context of support for equality and diversity at YSJU which has
 implemented several initiatives which ensure policies and practices relevant to researchers are
 inclusive, equitable and transparent. This is formalised in the YSJU Equality, Diversity and
 Human Rights Policy and the targets within the YSJU 2026 strategy (e.g., 10% BAME student
 and staff population; all staff are engaged in equality and diversity training and development
 appropriate to their role; median gender pay gap below 10%; 95% of staff think the university is
 a good place to work). Equality impact assessments are a routine part of annual monitoring and
 progress towards YSJU targets are reported to executive board and the governing body on a
 yearly basis. Of additional note, YSJU is a member of the Athena SWAN Charter (and is
 currently applying for a Bronze Award), a Stonewall Diversity Champion (ranked 49th place on
 the 2020 Top 100 Employers list) and Top 20 Trans employer, a Disability Confident employer,
 and a Mindful Employer. There are also several active staff networks available for staff to join
 that align with these awards and this agenda including the LGBT+, BAME and Disability staff
 networks.

 UoA3 complied fully with the YSJU institutional code of practice in selecting research outputs.
 The UoA lead also undertook Advance HE training on equality and mitigating bias as part of the
 role. Due to the small size of our submission, it is not possible to report a profile at UoA level
 here while also complying with HESA guidelines on anonymous reporting when presenting
 Equality and Diversity data (e.g., all our percentages would be based on less than 22.5 FTE).
 However, equality and diversity data for the UoA was reviewed internally following the
 completion of output selections and reported to both the SALTs and Athena SWAN development
 groups as part of promoting greater diversity and inclusion at UoA, school, and institutional
 levels. Our data was also included as part of an equality and diversity impact assessment at
 institutional level. We have a strong female leadership as highlighted in Section 2.

 We recognise that greater inclusivity, equality and diversity in practice and research requires
 ongoing work and improvement in the school. Furthermore, in keeping with the central ethos of
 YSJU, the issues of inclusivity and fairness are directly targeted through involvement with the
 Institute for Social Justice. Several UoA staff (Spring, Gabriel, Charura) are directly involved in
 research working with marginalised groups within the Institute, and wider UoA staff involvement
 will be promoted. The type of research being produced in the UoA is a key way in which equality
 and diversity is continuously promoted.




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Our external research income has more than doubled since the REF2014 period, from £67,240
 to £189,240 with a further £270,000 applications awaiting decision.

 Much of our income is from UK-based charities. Academics have predominantly targeted smaller
 funding bodies, societies and local charities (e.g., the Physiotherapy Research Foundation
 awarded £13,931 in 2014 [Yoward]). We have used QR money and other funding sources (e.g.,
 internal “Catalyst Funding”; £3,055) to support a range of research projects (e.g., enhancing the
 learning and teaching of helper skills). This has included a recent emphasis on interdisciplinary
 research collaborations between Biosciences and Sport, supported by substantial investment in
 UoA24, including a purpose-built campus with a Human Performance Laboratory (£158,000 in
 new equipment). In addition to research income (HESA return), service evaluation funding has
 been awarded from: (a) Armed Forces Covenant Trust (Laver-Fawcett, Boyes) for an evaluation
 project (£9,939) with the Sheffield Mind charity (to complete by July 2021); (b) Healthwatch York
 for two evaluations of stakeholder views (Laver-Fawcett, £1,000 2016, £1,000 2017) and (c) City
 of York Council (Laver-Fawcett, £3,000) to evaluate a new social prescribing service.

 Overall, supported by a significant investment in research infrastructure, staff recruitment and
 training capability, we are in a much stronger position to continue our upward trajectory of
 developing a sustainable and competitive research climate.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Senior research roles that directly feed into the UoA include SRLs, chair of school research
 ethics committee (SREC) and a public engagement lead (PEL) who sits across the UoA
 (Spring). The SRTKL is responsible for strategic development of research within the school and
 is a member of the University Research Committee, which provides oversight of the university’s
 strategic plans for research and issues of research ethics and integrity (via devolved university
 and school-based ethics committees). The SREC chair is responsible for implementation of
 YSJU’s Research Ethics Policy at school level and is a member of the University Research
 Ethics and Integrity Sub-committee. The PEL has oversight of public engagement activity in the
 schools, working with the BDKEO to seek out and co-coordinate public engagement activities.

 We have benefited from a new central RO, which includes a head (1.0 FTE) and 5.15 FTE staff.
 The RO is responsible for overseeing research governance and compliance, supports grant
 applications, manages PGR student experience, coordinates staff research training and
 monitors research performance. This has relieved academics in the UoA of substantive
 administrative duties associated with research supervision, allowing us to maintain a high-quality
 experience as we expand our PGR cohort numbers. The RO directly improved the quality of
 support for research grant applications, as evidenced in the increased number, range and type
 of the UoA’s grant applications.

 The new BDKEO, which includes a director (1.0 FTE) and 13.5 FTE staff, supports schools in
 increasing the range and scope of applied research, business development and knowledge
 exchange and is our main conduit for impact and public engagement. It helped gain
 accreditation for Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) and registered YSJU with Innovate
 UK, as an approved KTP knowledge base deliverer. It was integral to YJSU achieving Silver
 Watermark accreditation from the National Co-ordinating Centre of Public Engagement
 (NCCPE). Our community-focused work with refugee groups (Spring, Charura), community
 groups (Boyes) and mental health clinics (Gabriel, Hobman) was included as part of this
 submission. Moving forward, this office will support our engagement with business, policy
 makers, professionals and civil societies (e.g., charities, associations) and ensure that research
 impact is fully embedded in our research culture and practice.

 Major investment (£1.1m) in the development of Biosciences, including the construction and
 furnishing of teaching and research laboratories, has occurred since REF2014. Facilities include

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cell culture capability (two class II hoods, two incubators), spectrophotometric, fluorescent and
 luminescent plate readers, UV/vis spectrophotometers, microscopes (light, upright and inverted
 fluorescent systems, including an EVOS-FL2 system), electrophoresis equipment (SDS-PAGE,
 agarose), Gel Doc Systems (iBright and Syngene systems), PCR (4) and QPCR (1) machines,
 and a Pentra C300 Clinical Chemistry Analyzer. Biosciences have purchased a state-of-the-art
 Luminex MAGPIX system (from infrastructure and QR funding) for progressing research into
 biomarkers and related health-screening applications. This system will enable high throughput
 multiparametric analysis of a wide range of analytes and offers a unique research capability that
 is attractive to external partners including the local NHS Trust.

 Substantial investment has been made in supporting and enabling microbiological research, with
 the purchase of a dedicated automatic plate sterilisation/pouring/drying system and extra
 incubator capacity. Research is now supported by 3.4 FTE technicians, whose duties include the
 maintenance and upkeep of equipment, consumable ordering and general health and safety (all
 new appointments). 1.6 FTE technicians contribute to cell culture handling, microbiology and
 imaging applications directly related to research activities. The Bioscience laboratory facilities
 are currently being expanded to: enable research staff to supervise postgraduate research
 students and further develop independent research profiles, as well as accommodating growing
 apprentice numbers (arriving from NHS and Industry) and growth in the recent Applied
 Biosciences degree courses.

 These facilities complement those existing within Allied Health and the new £9.2m investment in
 sports and exercise to create the sport and recreation campus (which includes a Human
 Performance Laboratory). Direct investment in this UoA has seen the expansion and
 development of the Counselling and Mental Health Centre, the establishment of dedicated
 physiotherapy and occupational therapy rooms, the creation of a physiotherapy research space
 (including purchase of a diagnostic ultrasound machine) and postgraduate and undergraduate
 research activity. The physiotherapy labs, together with the sports hall, provide an extensive
 environment in which to undertake movement and exercise-based research and are utilised for
 both staff and student projects. Occupational therapy now has two converted research spaces
 for teaching and research related to performance of activities of daily living. Allied Health
 research activity is supported by a 0.6 FTE technician.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration
 At the core of our research strategy is the need to foster interdisciplinary research and engage
 with external partners to facilitate this process. With the introduction of Biosciences and the
 recruitment of experienced academic staff with existing research portfolios, there are now the
 facilities and expertise to begin developing a robust interdisciplinary research profile. For
 example, biomarker and disease-related research is supported by substantive equipment and
 infrastructure investment. The creation of effective research partnerships across schools and
 with the wider Yorkshire research and health community (e.g., NHS, AVIVA Health, Covance,
 Mind) is valuable. There are new collaborative initiatives between researchers within UoA3,
 UoA23 (Education) and UoA24 (Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism), culminating
 in joint research grant submissions and MSc by Research student supervision. Activities have
 extended beyond the YSJU environment, with a collaboration between the i2i Football Academy
 and academics in Bioscience and Sport investigating the role of vitamin D in performance and
 injury susceptibility.

 Recently, an important memorandum of understanding was developed and signed between
 YSJU and the York Teaching Hospital NHS Foundation Trust. The trust provides a
 comprehensive range of acute hospital and specialist healthcare services for 800,000 people
 living in and around York, North Yorkshire, Northeast Yorkshire and Ryedale. The memorandum
 aims to increase collaboration between researchers and clinicians to facilitate greater patient-
 public involvement in research activities. Following the memorandum between YSJU and the

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 York Teaching Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, York Hospital Research Department staff
 delivered seminars for academics and PGRs on the NHS Ethics application process and
 governance issues related to conducting research with NHS patients or staff. Collaborative grant
 applications for NIHR and Health Foundation funding are being targeted to increase income
 generation. The link between the university and local NHS trusts is strengthened by the
 establishment of an IBMS-accredited Level 6 Healthcare Scientist apprenticeship within
 Biosciences, with the first intake from York, Scarborough and Hull NHS hospital laboratories in
 September 2020. In addition, Allied Health academics have developed collaborative research
 and evaluations projects with numerous external partners including York NHS Foundation Trust
 Teaching Hospital, Tees, Esk and Wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust, Leeds and York
 Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, Dementia Forward, Age UK York, Healthwatch York, City of
 York Council, York Centre for Voluntary Service and Sheffield Mind (together with the Armed
 Forces Covenant Trust). Many other external collaborations exist within the UoA, including links
 with international institutions in Austria, Belgium, Netherlands, Norway, Germany, Sweden, USA,
 Hong Kong and Australia and national universities (Keele, Huddersfield, Leeds, Leeds Beckett,
 Bradford and Newcastle). An exciting collaboration was recently established with the University
 of Zambia and local Zambian community groups (Charura) to ensure young people living with
 HIV and AIDS are supported during the Covid-19 pandemic.

 Contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Staff are encouraged to support the research community and we have recorded a substantial
 increase in publications, editorships, editorial board memberships, ad-hoc reviewing for journals
 and conferences, grant reviewing, research degree examination, invited talks and other public
 engagement activities (e.g., media interviews). Examples are described below.

 Editorial positions
 Several academics hold editorial positions, including Spring (Health Information and Libraries
 Journal), Laver-Fawcett (Irish Journal of Occupational Therapy, Annals of International
 Occupational Therapy and previously Occupational Therapy International) and Charura (Open
 University Press Editorial Advisory Board, European Journal for Qualitative Research in
 Psychotherapy).

 Plenaries, invited lectures and conference presentations
 Engaged dissemination of research is a critical requirement of YSJU academics and is also a
 marker of professional standing. Examples of UoA3 academics selected or invited to present at
 national conferences include: British Society of Immunology (Odell), Royal College of
 Occupational Therapists Annual Conference (Spring, Laver-Fawcett) and Occupational Therapy
 Show (Laver-Fawcett). International conferences include: International Development
 Coordination Disorder Conference (Sinani), CSP Physiotherapy UK (Purton), European
 Association for Health Information and Libraries Conference (Spring), European Network of
 Occupational Therapy in Higher Education Conference (Spring, Laver-Fawcett), World
 Federation of Occupational Therapists Conference (Spring), 13th Person Centred and
 Experiential World Conference (Charura) and 2nd Annual Forensic Mental Health Conference
 (Charura as a keynote plenary). The excellent professional standing of our returned UoA3 Allied
 Health academics is reflected by the numerous invitations to share relevant research and
 applied practice outcomes, for example: Advanced Physiotherapy Practice conference
 (Thompson), World Confederation for Physical Therapy Congress Geneva (Thompson) and
 Annual Polish Occupational Therapy Conference (Laver-Fawcett).

 Conference and workshop organisation
 Academic staff have been members of the scientific organising committees of five conferences:
 Management of Falls workshop (Yoward), Food Integrity Conference (Kavanagh), 17th
 International Symposium for Health Information Management Research (Spring), 2nd Council for
 Occupational Therapists for the European Countries and European Network of Occupational
 Therapists in Higher Education Congress (Laver-Fawcett).



                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Committee and working group membership
 As members of various working groups, UoA3 academics can steer local, national and
 international agendas in their specialist fields and promote public engagement activities. Several
 examples are outlined below.

 As a former member of the Leeds Public Engagement Network, a founding committee member
 of University of Leeds Early Career Groups and current City of York Pint of Science coordinator,
 Odell has promoted professional development opportunities and science outreach across the
 local community.

 As chair of Yorkshire Council for the Allied Health Professions Research (CAHPR) committee,
 Sinani is directly involved in promoting the research agenda of local allied health professionals.
 Sinani is also on the committee of the International Society for Research into Dyspraxia (and
 Yorkshire Forum lead), member of the York AHP Research and Effectiveness Forum (now
 Yorkshire Council of Allied Health Professions Research), theme co-ordinator for the Yorkshire
 CAHPR (children with neurodevelopmental disorders and cerebral palsy) and co-ordinator of the
 Pan Yorkshire Specialty AHP(now Yorkshire Council of Allied Health Professions Research)
 research network.

 As a member of the Applied Clinical Research in Neurology Group, based at Keele University,
 Purton is actively involved in developing NIHR Research Design Service submissions.
 Laver-Fawcett is a member of the Occupational Therapy Europe Foundation Board and chair of
 the Research in Occupational Therapy and Occupational Science (ROTOS) Europe foundation.
 Laver-Fawcett has provided expert consultancy related to dementia services and teaching for
 interdisciplinary groups funded by the Ministry of Health in Singapore.

 Charura is chair of the UK Council for Psychotherapy (UKCP) research working group and chair
 for the education working group. Charura makes specialist recommendations to the board of
 trustees and other professional bodies and training institutions nationally to ensure that UKCP
 psychotherapy, training and research are of the highest quality.

 Journal reviewing
 Academics have reviewed for 32 peer-reviewed journals: Frontiers in Cell and Developmental
 Biology, Heliyon, PLoS One, Cellular Signaling, Microvascular Research, and Current Aging
 Science (Odell); Food Chemistry, Food Analytical Methods, Journal of Virological Methods, BMC
 Veterinary Research, Frontiers in Immunology, Immunotherapy & Vaccines (Kavanagh);
 Disability and Rehabilitation (Purton, Laver-Fawcett); Child: Care, Health and Development,
 Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology, European Psychomotricity Journal, Human
 Movement Science, Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders, Physiotherapy, Research
 in Developmental Disabilities (Sinani); Scandinavian Journal of Occupational Therapy,
 International Journal of Occupational Therapy, British Journal of Occupational Therapy, Annals
 of International Occupational Therapy (Laver-Fawcett); Biomolecules, BMC Cancer, BMC
 Complementary Medicine and Therapies, BMC Urology, Human Fertility, International Journal of
 Molecular Sciences, Journal of Histochemistry & Cytochemistry and Mutation Research
 (Baumgartner).

 Grant reviewing
 Members of the unit have reviewed twelve grants for various national and international
 organisations: Devices for Dignity Healthcare Technology Co-operative fund (Sinani); NIHR
 Advisory Panels (Sinani); Action Medical Research (Sinani); Program Grants for Applied
 Research (Sinani); Research for Patient Benefit Scheme (Sinani); Scottish Executive Health
 Department (Sinani); Physiotherapy Research Foundation (Sinani); Posture and Mobility Group
 (Sinani); NIHR Health Technology Assessment (Laver-Fawcett); Royal College of Occupational
 Therapists’ Research Foundation (formerly the UK Occupational Therapy Research Foundation)
 (Laver-Fawcett); NHMRC, Australia (Odell) and Medical Research Council UK (Odell).



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Public engagement and knowledge transfer
 Within Biosciences, academics host regular science clubs for local primary schools to conduct
 experiments. For three years Biosciences have hosted four-week summer placements for
 disadvantaged secondary students to gain valuable experience designing, conducting and
 analysing a research project through Nuffield Research Placements (Odell). Additional science
 outreach programs include: an annual summer three-day science residential compact scheme
 aimed at widening participation in science and higher education (Kavanagh, Odell, Taylor), local
 career fairs, York Festival of Ideas York Bloom! Festival and the annual Inspirations event, which
 celebrates STEM in education. Academics are also involved in public engagement and outreach
 events through STEM ambassador roles (Odell), social media platforms (Kavanagh), talks at
 Café Scientifique events and involvement in Pint of Science as presenters (Odell, Kavanagh,
 Beaumont) and York city event host and coordinator (Odell). Research by Laver-Fawcett has
 developed two clinical assessment tools (ACS-UK and SOTOF) for integration into wider
 occupational therapy practice, demonstrating substantial knowledge transfer and impact.
 Charura was an invited speaker at the Leeds International Festival 2019 discussing “What does
 it mean to be human?”. Charura has been interviewed on radio and ITV News, speaking on the
 impact of trauma, ageing, death and bereavement and on the long-term mental health impact of
 the Covid-19 pandemic on staff and residents in care and nursing homes.

 Contributions to the local community and environment
 An important attribute of graduates from YSJU is the desire to remain local and contribute to the
 surrounding community. This is also evident in graduates from Occupational Therapy,
 Physiotherapy and Biosciences This aspiration to give back was demonstrated by two recent
 final-year Biosciences students returning to York Hospital NHS laboratories to assist with
 screening for Covid-19 while continuing to complete their undergraduate degrees remotely.
 Former Biosciences graduates are also actively engaged in the national effort to develop Covid-
 19 vaccination and screening strategies. Furthermore, from a total 32 Biosciences graduates to
 date, nine (28%) have gone on to undertake research higher degree programmes in the north,
 with one directly involved in Covid-19-related vaccine production. A further fifteen (47%)
 graduates are employed either within local NHS Trust laboratories or private contract research
 organisations, with another four involved in additional healthcare-related roles. The research and
 clinical training provided by the Biomedical Science programme supports the development of
 skilled and valued graduates, reflecting the teaching excellence and research knowledge of the
 staff.

 A recent collaboration between Biosciences, Exercise Physiology, Physiotherapy and
 Occupational Therapy has established a community outreach programme to develop
 assessment and intervention strategies for tackling post-stroke fatigue in members of the
 Different Strokes community group. This will provide lasting benefit to the community stroke
 rehabilitation group and lead to external research funding strategies. Through additional diverse
 community-based research projects directed by Boyes, and performed together with Allied
 Health students, incremental improvements in the local community are being fostered (e.g.,
 Walking for Wellbeing, Beliefs and Attitudes of Staff toward Safeguarding, An Activity Toolkit for
 Use Within the Nursing Home Setting and Goal Setting Interventions). Charura explores the
 impact of ageing on psychological wellbeing (specifically dementia) and was recently awarded
 research development and innovation funding to engage in interdisciplinary research with
 refugees and asylum seekers in Northern England. The research is an exploration of practice-
 based evidence around the integration experiences of asylum seekers and refugees. This
 research is supported by regional agencies that assist these groups, including Refugee Action
 York, Solace (Surviving Exile and Persecution) and Refugees and Asylum Seekers Project
 Stockton (RASPS). The development of links with RASPS by Spring and Charura has led to the
 establishment of a drop-in support service for local asylum seekers and refugees, resulting in
 positive improvements in the wellbeing and inclusion of this community group, and has overseen
 the development of a community allotment space.




                                                                                           Page 13
