Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Exeter

Unit of Assessment: 26 Modern Languages and Linguistics


1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Modern Languages and Cultures (MLC) at Exeter is a dynamic department with demonstrable
excellence across seven language areas and multiple fields of enquiry. We are returning 48
members of staff (44.8fte), compared to 37 in 2014. We have seen over a 75% uplift in external
grant awards to £3.8 million (£2 million in 2014), with diversification of funding sources. Notable
successes include an ERC award and three AHRC Leadership Fellow awards.

Our Centre for Translating Cultures (founded in 2012), described in our 2014 statement as ‘the
capstone of [our] collective research effort’, has developed into a vital framework for our research
into how different cultures travel through and across languages. We have particular strengths
(underpinned by funding success and globally significant outputs and impact) in questions of
plurilingualism, gender and sexuality, material culture and transforming technologies. New
technologies themselves are emerging as central to our research, predicated on Exeter
University’s new Digital Humanities Lab. In 2014 we had seen recent strategic investment in
Chinese and Portuguese, with the objective of globalising and widening the reach of our research,
a process now well underway and reflected in the establishment of two further research centres:
The Global China Centre and The Exeter Centre for Latin American Studies. Strength in visual
studies has been significantly boosted in conjunction with resourcing the BA in Art History and
Visual Culture (AHVC, launched 2014) that sits within MLC.

The staff returned, along with our postgraduate community (currently 33), are attached to individual
language units (Chinese, French, German, Hispanic Studies, Italian, Portuguese, Russian) and/or
the subject areas of Linguistics, Translation Studies, History, Literature and Thought (medieval
through to contemporary), Comparative Literature, Film Studies and AHVC. MLC colleagues at
Exeter identify as modern linguists working in an inter- or cross-disciplinary frame, sharing interests
and expertise, mutual support and collaboration with colleagues in departments from Politics and
International Relations to History, Classics and Drama.

Our Head of Department (Watt) works closely with the Directors of Research (DoR, currently
Hipkins and Roberts, previously Watt and Percival) and of Impact (DoI, currently Capdevila-
Argüelles) to encourage colleagues to fulfil their potential and to achieve the department’s strategic
goals. Academic Leads (senior members of staff who meet regularly with 8-9 colleagues assigned
to them) help achieve cohesion across our large but close-knit group.

Research and Impact Strategy
Co-created by all research-active colleagues, our research and impact strategy is defined by four
key approaches:
1.     Understanding difference through an emphasis on plurilingualism and translating cultures;
2.     Developing the areas of gender and sexuality, material culture and emergent technologies;
3.     Promoting intercultural awareness through our socially-engaged research;
4.     Collaborating across disciplinary boundaries.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.     Understanding difference through an emphasis on plurilingualism and translating
cultures

The translation of culture is central to our research, touching upon areas as diverse as how
contemporary German museums display objects from their past (Paver), and new translations of
Proust (Watt). Our Centre for Translating Cultures hosts visiting speaker events and workshops
for staff, Postgraduate Research students (PGRs) and collaborators; it plays a major role in
bringing our extended community into productive dialogue, and underpins our grant capture.

Interest in language in all its manifestations, and the plurilingual nature of our global societies
come to the fore repeatedly in our research: Afonso’s work examines the emergence of the
transnational varieties of Portuguese in different contact zones, and with Goglia she has
investigated changing language policy in East Timor. This collaboration underlines how the
addition of Portuguese to MLC has broadened the global reach of our research.

Language variety and use is a strong departmental research interest: Boughton and Coveney also
examine language variation and use, in border regions and in multicultural contexts. This interest in
language intersects with literature too: Roberts's AHRC-funded project on ‘Excessive Language in
Renaissance France’ shows how nonsense was associated both with the cant language (‘jargon’)
of thieves and travellers and with merchants’ multilingual exchanges.

The centrality of Translation Studies in our research is evident across a range of examples that
employ diachronic, transnational, and industry-facing approaches. Bolduc’s work provides original
reflections on theoretical and disciplinary questions, demonstrating how a medieval concept is
topical for considering how to shape a multilingual form of civic discourse. Maestri shows how
contemporary women’s Anglophone autobiographical narratives are translated in French and
Italian, asking what translation and publishing strategies can be inferred from the comparative
analysis of these texts and their translation.

Thus our interest in translation and translating cultures clearly extends well beyond staff working in
the Translation Studies programme. It constitutes a major departmental strength, fortified by our
Russian expertise in particular. Maguire leads the ERC-funded project RusTRANS: ‘The Dark Side
of Translation: 20th and 21st Century Translation from Russian as a Political Phenomenon in the
UK, Ireland, and the USA’, investigating how individuals and governments exploit the political
potential of literary translation. Lygo asks related questions about how the translation of Russian
literature into English shaped British perceptions of Russia during the Cold War, whilst Phillips
examines how, and to what effect, cultural representations of the Russian Revolution were
transnationally disseminated during the long nineteenth century. These activities make the
department the leading UK research hub for Anglo-Russian studies and feed back into our Centre
for Translating Cultures.

2.    Developing the areas of gender and sexuality, material cultures and emergent
technologies

Staff expertise also leads the field in interrogating changing perceptions of gender and sexuality,
particularly in a comparative context. The recent appointment of Linge is significant here: her work
examines how contemporary concepts of sex, gender and sexuality build on and depart from early
20th-century sexual-scientific knowledge production. Linge’s appointment opens up productive
dialogue with Murphy, whose monograph on gender and degeneration in Baroja and Blasco Ibáñez


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
extends questions of gender and discourses of illness into studies of late nineteenth-century Spain;
with Parisi, who asks how stories of child sexual abuse are told and received; and with Florencio,
who has developed new paradigms for gender and sexuality studies, with his ongoing work on the
aesthetic and ethical significance of bareback porn and ‘pig’ masculinities in the era of anti-
retroviral drugs.

Our focus on material culture is also strong, especially across German, early modern studies, and
visual culture. Zitzlsperger examines Berlin Wall souvenirs as a reflection of changing patterns of
memory in unified Germany. Paver’s investigation into how, in an age of rapid digitization, we
account for the central importance of material culture to German cultural memory, is a reminder of
how closely intertwined the study of material culture is with transforming technologies. This is
evident in several colleagues’ engagements with material culture in the early modern period, such
as Bradbury’s exploration of illegal and dubious practices in the C17 Spanish print industry, or
Horsley’s examination of the role of manuscript culture in the writing, editing, printing and
dissemination of French libertine poetry. It reaches towards present-day transformations, as Guo
asks how the internet has transformed translation practice, or Jones investigates how
contemporary use of ‘archival’ media can be understood in terms of intermediality.

Putting transformative technologies into the service of research itself has made our leadership in
the field of digital humanities research a further departmental strength. Hinton, for example, is
preparing a digital edition of the 17 known copies of the C13 Tretiz text, which will allow users to
engage with the material by comparing readings from individual manuscripts, and searching the
textual record by date, place or theme.

3.     Promoting intercultural awareness through our socially-engaged research

Colleagues in MLC share a strong commitment to socially engaged research that also prioritises
the political contexts and impacts of culture. Feminism in particular is a driving force, as evident in
Capdevila-Argüelles’s Impact Case Study. Vassallo’s ‘Translating Women’ project seeks to redress
gender bias in the publishing industry, whilst Taylor asks why early modern women have been left
out of the classical reception canon, and Cox considers how classical reception has been shaped
by successive waves of feminism with changing agendas.

Our investment in Art History and Visual Culture, in Chinese and in Latin American Studies has
built on interests in politics to widen our global scope still further: Hale explores the functions of
political satire and its role in the political process throughout history. Zhuang asks to what extent
the Confucian view of personal development as a process of moral-aesthetic cultivation integrated
in politics interacts with European concepts of moral philosophy and politics. Brown obtained
GCRF funding to investigate the impact of political conflict on young people in Venezuela and to
explore culture as a tool to process and overcome conflict. Martins’ AHRC-funded project ‘Women
of the Brown Atlantic’ focuses on themes of mobility and memory in Lusophone countries, paying
particular attention to the repressed racial and gendered dynamics of history.

Martins’ work reflects far-reaching departmental interests in the cultural reverberations of the post-
colonial. Higbee’s AHRC-funded teamwork on Transnational Moroccan cinema examines the role
of diasporic film-makers in a ‘small’ national cinema. Rahman asks how practices of industrial
design and vernacular crafts illuminate the connections between empire, diaspora and everyday
life. Moore’s work interrogates how intellectuals and artists in Latin America have sought to give
voice to and represent the political and cultural ecology of indigenous communities historically

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
marginalised by hegemonic colonial structures, and Yin asks how the Afro-Asian movement
defined cultural decolonisation.

A culture of research integrity is assured by the Humanities Ethics Committee, which implements
the University’s Research Ethics Framework (see Institutional-level Environment Statement (ILES),
2.9). Within the wider sector we support research integrity through internal and external peer
review, and by serving on boards of grant-funding bodies, journals and subject associations (see
Section 4).

Our commitment to socially engaged research leads naturally to a desire to communicate this
research more broadly, through public engagement and impact. Alongside the activity outlined in
more detail in Section 4, and our Impact Case Studies, many staff activities have had an
immediate effect in the region. Paver, for example, has built on her research in German museums
to collaborate with Exeter’s Royal Albert Memorial Museum to advocate for wider use of Easyread
in cultural settings, enhancing public access to cultural history.

In addition to institutional structures (ILES, 4.8) and the role of the departmental Director of Impact,
we have established various mechanisms to develop and enhance impact activities (see Section
3). These have led to success with AHRC awards with defined impact components (Martins,
Florencio, Guo, Hinton) and AHRC Follow-on-Funding awards for impact (Nevola, Higbee). We
have devoted energy to tapping new funding sources for impact, e.g. commercial funding
(Santander for Capdevila-Argüelles). Other impact has come about organically through
engagement with schools (Goglia). These approaches have provided models for others to follow.

In this cycle we increased our participation in Open Access publishing through ORE, the UoE
online repository (ILES 2.8). MLC now has 229 publications in ORE and numerous others on
comparable online sites (e.g. collaborators’ institutional repositories). ORE records show over 24K
total downloads during this REF period. Thanks to the UoE Open Access fund, McAteer obtained
Gold Access for her Translating Great Russian Literature: The Penguin Russian Classics
(Routledge). Nevola’s Immersive Renaissance project is at the forefront of digital open access
scholarship and has been supported by a series of internal investments. His Hidden Florence 3D
won Best App prize at the 24th Conference on Cultural Heritage and New Technologies, Vienna
2019.

Several MLC colleagues make their scholarship freely available through dedicated websites, e.g.
Vonhoff’s digital edition of the works of Gutzkow, and Roberts’s database of obscenities in
Renaissance France. Maguire and McAteer’s ‘RusTRANS’ site provides updates, and records
work in progress, including sample translations, as the 5-year project unfolds (2019-2023).
Vassallo’s ‘Translating Women’ website fosters dialogue between academics, general readers and
the publishing industry.

4.     Collaborating across disciplinary boundaries

Colleagues make interdisciplinarity a strong feature of their work, engaging with fields as diverse
as psychology (Scott); medicine (Murphy); law (Horsley; Bradbury; Parisi); music (Plumley) and
theology (Flitter). Thanks to the integration of AHVC into the department, the dialogue between the
visual and literary imaginations has flourished. Alongside Percival’s work on the characteristics of
fancy (fantaisie) and how it manifests in C18 aesthetics and visual culture, Watt has examined the
intersection between poetry, painting and colour in Proust and Valéry and also ‘works in fibre,


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
paper and Proust’ by Kosofsky-Sedgwick, while Schmidt considers the means of representing
dreams in literature.

We also foster internal research collaborations: Cox’s work on classical reception involves local
collaboration with Taylor, and wider interactions with colleagues in Humanities and external
partners. This characterises how we collaborate on multiple levels. Colleagues work closely with
the university’s wider research community via involvement with and leadership of interdisciplinary
centres including Medieval Studies (Bolduc, Cayley, Hinton, Plumley); Early Modern Studies
(Taylor, Nevola, Roberts); Classical Reception (Taylor, Cox); Latin American Studies (co-directors
Brown, Martins), Global China (Yin, Zhuang, Guo) and Intermedia and Creative Technology
(Faulkner, Jones, Nevola). The Latin American Studies, Global China and Classical Reception
centres were founded or co-founded by MLC staff. We also promote interdisciplinarity via
externally funded platforms such as the Masculinities Research Unit (AHRC-funded, co-ordinated
by Florencio) and the Wellcome Centre for Cultures and Environments of Health.

Our collaborations frequently extend beyond the University: Hodgson led a three-scholar group for
the AHRC-funded ‘Reconfiguring the Canon of Twentieth-Century Russian Poetry’. Our many
edited/co-authored volumes bear witness to colleagues’ fruitful collaborations. Not only have these
won prizes, like Faulkner’s Middlebrow Cinema (Routledge 2016) (runner-up for Best Edited
Collection Prize, British Association of Film, Television and Screen Studies, 2017), but they also
feature global collaboration, for example, Higbee’s AHRC-funded project, ‘Transnational Moroccan
Cinema’ included colleagues in Morocco and Belgium.

How will we build on our achievements since 2014?

By fostering interdisciplinarity in a global context

We have developed key areas strategically, reflecting a more global and interdisciplinary approach
to Modern Languages, particularly in Translation Studies and AHVC. MLC is firmly rooted in the
humanities set-up at Exeter, integrated into interdisciplinary programmes, research centres and
institutes (ILES, 1.3).

We will build on recent strategic investment in posts in AHVC, Chinese, German, Latin American
and Translation Studies, all of which have been filled by scholars working in inter- or trans-
disciplinary ways, to play a key role in the future of Modern Languages in the UK HE sector. The
recent establishment (2020) of the Humanities-focused International Institute for Cultural Inquiry
(IICE) will provide a valuable platform for internal and external collaborations. We will continue to
expand our global reach: Nevola is to take up a teaching fellowship at Venice International
University in 2021, while Phillips and two MLC PhD students have recently become co-convenors
of the Anglo-Russian Research Network.

By building research leadership

Since 2014 staff at all career stages have made significant contributions to research, impact and
public engagement. We have published 34 book-length studies and over 150 peer-reviewed
journal articles and book chapters. We will capitalise on our success in external grant awards (over
a 75% uplift to £3.8 million), and further improve research income capture to build research
leadership. We have some exciting new projects unfolding, such as Plumley’s Leverhulme
International Academic Fellowship (September 2020 start), which combines traditional methods of
manuscript study with analytic techniques from Natural and Computer Sciences to study the

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
medieval musical tradition, working collaboratively with the Universities of Rome, Florence and the
École des hautes études, Paris.

By increasing opportunities for impact and public engagement

We have improved our culture of impact generation with four Case Studies and a broad portfolio of
impact and public engagement work (see Section 4), that has particular strengths in film, lifelong
education, the visual arts and Translation Studies.

We will continue to foster the links between individuals and the wider community, through a variety
of outlets. Ina Linge, for example, is offering new engagement opportunities with series of Zoom-
based comedy sessions together with an Arts and Culture Creative Fellow. We will also collectively
further develop key outreach activities that distinguish MLC at Exeter including the Translation!
Festival (2017, 2019), and the ‘Subtitling World Cinema’ project, maximising potential for outreach.

By supporting our research community

We have developed considerably as a UoA since 2014. Where previously we had just 4 Professors
and 6 Associate Professors, we now have a productive balance of more senior colleagues
providing direction and guidance (12 Professors and 9 Associate Professors), and a strong group
of early- and mid-career colleagues: 17 Senior Lecturers (18 in 2018), and 4 Lecturers (10 in
2014). Indeed, Early Career Researchers (ECRs) direct two centres homed in MLC, Latin
American Studies and the Global China centre. We have seen 40 PhDs to completion and
continue to diversify our areas of supervision and funding possibilities for postgraduate study. In
September 2020, in response to the pandemic we introduced MLC’s PGR Thursday Café: a
popular community-building online event at which staff share their research experiences with
postgraduates.

Our aim is to further improve our culture of collegiality to nurture all our staff, students and their
research, and to foster their collaborative potential, both within the department, nationally, and
globally, building on the advances outlined in more detail in the following section.


2. People

Ethos

Ours is an inclusive department, which has actively built diversity into its staff body, and reflects
collectively on how we can improve conditions for equality. We foster scholarly careers in a
collaborative environment where ambition, curiosity, experimentation and boundary-crossing are
encouraged and celebrated. When colleagues start in post the department supports and mentors
them in cross-disciplinary ways. Academic Leads (departmental mentors) are typically in different
fields to their mentees. Specialist support and critical friends (from within and outside the
department) are always available via research centres and networks, but colleagues’ development
is greatly enriched by their integration into a community of academics whose expertise covers
seven languages, periods from the medieval to the ultra-contemporary and fields as diverse as
cultural history, translation, linguistics and film.

Progression and Recruitment Strategy
We are presenting a larger return than 2014 (44.8fte v. 32.0fte). In the current period we have


                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
benefited from 9 new permanent appointments and 5 postdoctoral fellowships (see below).

Sustained career success has been recognised through 8 promotions to Professor, 7 to Associate
Professor and 7 to Senior Lecturer. ECR colleagues have also been recruited (see below) resulting
in a good overall balance of experience and promise, and provision for continuity and succession.

Our recruitment strategy has been to consolidate existing strengths and build up new ones.
Translation Studies have gained new stature since Bolduc’s appointment to a chair (2016);
moreover she adds to existing departmental strengths in Medieval Studies and comparative
literature. Translation Studies, and Italian, have also benefited from Maestri’s appointment to a
lectureship (2016). Two further new appointments explicitly develop global and interdisciplinary
research interests: Yin (2014), a specialist in Chinese politics and cultural history, founded the
Centre for Global China. Brown (2018), a specialist in Latin American Studies, took up co-
directorship of the Centre for Latin American studies from Martins. The appointment to a
lectureship in German of Linge (2020), an expert in early twentieth-century sexual sciences,
provides continuity and new impetus after two colleagues' retirements (Schmidt, Smart), and
strengthens MLC’s expertise in gender and sexuality.

The continued successful growth of the undergraduate programme in Art History and Visual
Culture, together with a new MA in International Contemporary Art: Curation and Business starting
in 2020, have enabled us to make 4 new appointments in diverse areas: Florencio (2015) in
contemporary visual culture, and gender and sexuality studies; Rahman (2016) in transnational
histories of design, with emphasis on Austria, Britain and South Asia; Hale (2019) in Dutch and
Flemish seventeenth-century painting and print culture, and Trevor (2020) who has created an
international portfolio of contemporary art curation.

As a consequence of Maguire’s ERC award we recruited Phillips to a 3-year lectureship in Russian
(2018). He brings a new strength in nineteenth-century cultural history. Phillips’ appointment,
alongside current ERC-funded and recent MHRA-funded postdocs (McAteer, 2019-23, Barker
2019), existing staff and a thriving postgraduate community, makes Russian at Exeter one of the
most dynamic and successful units in the country.

We have attracted talent at postdoctoral level. Taylor and Horsley chose to base themselves with
us during respectively a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (£91.2K) and a British Academy
Postdoctoral Fellowship (£283.3K). They were drawn by Exeter’s strengths in the Early Modern
period across the university and in MLC in particular (Roberts, Bradbury, Nevola, Smart, Percival)
and have made a substantive contribution to the department and the College of Humanities.
Taylor, together with a colleague in Classics, founded the Centre for Classical Reception. Horsley
has worked to strengthen inter-institutional collaboration between Exeter and the University of
Copenhagen. McAteer, an expert on the English reception of Russian literature was recruited as
an RA on Maguire’s ERC project; Rosenthal and Osborne (specialists in Renaissance art history
and public spaces) are working with Nevola on his HERA and Getty-funded projects.

Fixed-term contracts, arising from permanent colleagues’ grant success, have served as stepping
stones in the career development of early career academics who have gone on to take up
permanent positions at other HE institutions: Vellodi (AHVC) at Edinburgh College of Art, Colom-
Montero (Hispanic) at Glasgow, and Lennon (Hispanic) and Gardiner (Russian) at St Andrews.
Furthermore, a previous Head of Department (Cayley) has left us to take up an equivalent role at



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
another Russell Group university.

Our academic community profits considerably from inward and outward staff mobility. Research
collaborations have emerged from periods of time spent overseas: for example Percival undertook
a 6-month teaching exchange with Dr Muriel Adrien from University of Toulouse Jean-Jaurès; they
jointly arranged a conference and edited a book together. Visiting researchers who have spent
between a few weeks and one year at Exeter include: Viola Cadruvi-Pfeiffer, University of Zurich
(hosted by Schmidt); Dr Liying Sun, Henan University (hosted by Afonso); Alexander Guryev,
Geneva (hosted by Coveney). Further details of international partnerships are given in Section 4.

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (ILES, 3.14-17)

The department strives to be an inclusive and supportive environment. Our primary research
engages with questions of identity, as well as causes of inequity and intolerance. We believe that
studying and researching languages entails sensitivity to cultural difference and a desire to break
down boundaries, and we strive to put these beliefs and values into practice in our work
environment and the wider world.

More than a third of colleagues in Modern Languages and Cultures at Exeter are non-UK
nationals, from 9 countries and 3 continents. Our percentage of PGR students from outside the EU
has steadily increased and now represents over 50%. A small number of staff manage long-term
health conditions, and well over a third have caring responsibilities. The HoD and DoR work closely
with colleagues in Human Resources and Occupational Health to ensure appropriate support and
advice are always provided.

In 2020 for the first time we reached a point where more than half of our professors are female
(53% compared with 33% in 2014) although progress still needs to be made towards matching the
department’s 63% female overall demographic (higher if staff in non-research positions are also
counted). Women are well represented in the department’s senior roles and Strategy Group. An
MLC working group on Race, Anti-racism, Inclusion and Values was established by the HoD in
2020; the department has an Inclusion officer (Scott) as well as participation in College Anti-
Racism action planning and the Exeter Decolonising Network (also established 2020).

The department has striven to mitigate the effects of casualization by recruiting all of its new
Education and Research staff to permanent positions (subject to satisfactory completion of
probation) or, in one case, a temporary position with the longest possible tenure (3 years, funded
by a major research grant).

When compiling the department’s REF2021 return, due care has been given to Equality, Diversity
& Inclusivity (EDI) issues. All seven members of the Outputs Selection Panel received externally
provided unconscious bias training arranged by the University. Quantitative and qualitative analysis
of outputs data and evaluations has been undertaken and, in consequence, adjustments have
been made where appropriate to output selection to ensure equity.

In other ways EDI is built into our research practice. For example, during the annual allocation of
research leave, the department’s Strategy Group takes account of the relationship between the
recommendations and the overall demographic profile of the discipline. We support the needs of
ECRs by enabling them to apply for research leave relatively early, benefiting from time away from
teaching in their third year of employment. All colleagues complete a mandatory training course,


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
‘Inclusivity and Inclusion in Higher Education’, every two years.

Requests for part-time work and flexible work are accommodated wherever possible (ILES, 3.4).
Approximately one third of colleagues currently benefit from timetable restrictions to ensure their
work commitments do not conflict with caring responsibilities. Several colleagues work part-time,
on contracts ranging between 0.2 and 0.8. In 2019-20 the Directorship of French was a 50/50 job
share (Vassallo, Roberts), thereby supporting part-timers’ career progression. A number of
colleagues have taken advantage of parental, adoption, compassionate leave, or ‘Career Break’
unpaid leave. Those taking parental leave can opt to take up to 10 ‘Keeping in Touch’ days to ease
their return to work (ILES, 3.16-3.17).

Several MLC colleagues are driving forward the University’s inclusivity agenda by serving on the
College of Humanities Inclusivity Group (Florencio, Scott, Yin; previously Capdevila-Argüelles), the
College’s Workload Allocation Advisory Group (Faulkner, Watt), the University’s Positive Working
Environment Board (Watt), and the University’s Dignity and Respect Advice Network (Percival).
(ILES, 3.15.)

Career development
Colleagues are supported in establishing their careers and are offered every opportunity to develop
their potential. We operate in alignment with the Concordat to support the Career Development of
Researchers (ILES, 3.8). All colleagues are assigned an Academic Lead (AL) who is a senior
member of the department and stays with them for several years in order to develop a meaningful
working relationship (ILES, 3.6). Colleagues meet with their AL at least once per term, leading
towards an annual appraisal, the Performance Development Review (PDR). The PDR takes stock
of past performance and plans for the future. The Head of Department and the Director of
Research give additional support, and colleagues regularly avail of externally run programmes of
professional development: Maestri and Murphy have recently completed the Aurora Programme.
Murphy has since been promoted to Associate Professor and is preparing an application for an
AHRC grant.

Research leave (six months) is competitively awarded based on defined plans; excellent outputs
and/or impact and/or grant applications are the key criteria, and the system enables staff to meet
ambitious goals, for instance in recent years staff (e.g. Murphy, Scott) have completed major
monographs thanks to a period of leave. Part-time staff are eligible pro-rata. For career
development purposes ECRs are encouraged to apply after 2 years in post. EDI concerns are
always at the forefront of the department Strategy Group’s deliberations before their
recommendations are considered for approval by the College senior team.

ECRs have their teaching load reduced by 10% in their first year and 5% in their second year in
order to devote time to research. New appointees are enrolled on the ‘Academic Professional’
programme (ILES, 3.5). There is a separate pathway for colleagues on part-time or fixed-term
contracts. Within the department, career development of ECRs is also supported in other ways: an
ECR colleague serves on the department’s Strategy Group. ECRs and PGRs participate in the
Centre for Translating Cultures ‘Work in Progress’ seminars, which provide a supportive
environment in which to test ideas.

Research Ethics and Research Integrity
All academic colleagues undertake mandatory Research Ethics training, and ethical standards are
carefully integrated into grant applications, including data management plans. Our departmental

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Ethics Officer (Guo) supports colleagues’ project design and liaises with the College Ethics
Committee, as part of the broader university-level framework (ILES, 2.9). PGRs complete a
mandatory Research Integrity course upon registration. We are unequivocally committed to the
principles of honesty, rigour, transparency, care and respect as defined in the Concordat to
Support Research Integrity (2019). Examples of research engaging with challenging ethical issues
include Florencio’s work on gay pornography and Brown’s involvement in post-conflict situations,
both of which require trust-building with potentially vulnerable people.

Building community
Our research community thrives on mutual support, fostered by face-to-face interactions with the
DoR, who also acts as a point of contact between academic colleagues and the Research Support
administration and Finance teams.

We have adopted diverse approaches to research mentoring, which are embedded in many areas
of department life. Research is a standing item at departmental meetings, highlighting
developments and opportunities. We also hold twice-yearly departmental ‘away days’. Recent
sessions at the away days have focused not just on advice, but also on personal challenges, such
as receiving unfavourable reviews for a publication, and how to manage adverse reactions on
social media (building on two concrete case studies of recent challenging experiences). In this
way, together, we are able to address and better understand the evolving public role of
researchers. Informal mentoring takes place between colleagues: we provide one another with
feedback on publications and applications before submission.

All colleagues have direct input into the REF process. We review each other’s research outputs as
part of Exeter’s annual research monitoring, which feeds into REF outputs selection; colleagues
with relevant expertise also serve as impact case study reviewers.

Postgraduate Research (PGR) Students
Our PGR students (currently 33) constitute an important part of our research community, and take
the lead within cross-cutting College community activities such as the Postgraduate symposiums.
Our strategic aim (REF2014) to ‘to recruit and mentor the next generation of MLC researchers’ has
contributed to 40 (split fte with other disciplines) successfully completed PhDs during the census
period. This matches the figure of our previous period (41.4 PhD awards were made, split fte with
other disciplines). Our PGR numbers over the current cycle show some variation: in 2013/2014
they were particularly high because a number of university-funded PhD teaching bursaries were
coming to an end. Although our year-on-year completions have diminished over the period, our
total awards are commensurate with the previous period when we benefitted from these PhD
teaching bursaries which have been discontinued. We have nevertheless successfully sustained
our PGR recruitment by:

1. Diversifying sources of PGR funding, including Maguire’s Rus-TRANS ERC grant (3 current
PGRs); Nevola’s HERA and Getty grants respectively (2 current PGRs); 2 REACT (Research and
Enterprise in Arts and Creative Technology) collaborative PhDs (Knowles, completed 2016; 1
current); a collaborative doctoral award (CDA) with the National Gallery, London (Nevola, 2019-).
Following bequests from Professors Robert Niklaus and Michael Cartwright, we are funding 3
current PhDs in French. More standard routes to PhD funding include the AHRC’s South West &
Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW DTP) 1 (2014-18) and 2 (2018-) and internal funding,
and the University Global Excellence Scholarships for international PGR students (1 current). We


                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have also recruited two China Scholarship Council-funded PGRs.

2. Creating and building PhD programmes, including especially AHVC and Translation Studies.
The latter has recruited 4 current international PGRs for PhDs involving Arabic with second
supervision offered by Exeter’s Institute for Arab and Islamic Studies. Similarly, there are 3 current
PGRs working in Translation Studies and Chinese. Our MA programmes, especially in Translation
Studies, have allowed us to recruit to PGR programmes. Our new PhD in World and Comparative
Literature will be ready for a September 2021 start.

3. Offering highly flexible MPhil/PhD degrees, incorporating a variety of part-time and distance-
learning options, chosen by over 10% of our students on average over the cycle. We also
accommodate a range of shared supervision arrangements, including cross-disciplinary teams with
subject areas such as Film, and co-supervisions of SWW DTP students (e.g. Walmsley, Capdevila-
Argüelles with Cardiff).

During the census period, Scott, Hinton and Nevola won Exeter Guild of Students annual awards
for 'Best Research Supervisor'. Support for our PGRs includes: following a code of good practice of
PGR supervision, regularly reviewing research training needs, frequent communications from
Directors of Postgraduate Research (previously Roberts, currently Zhuang) and elected PGR
representatives, and the allocation of a pastoral tutor (ILES, 3.12). Incoming PGRs register for an
MPhil/PhD as standard and submit materials for upgrade to PhD after one year. PGRs regularly
present ongoing research alongside staff in a supportive setting at the work-in-progress sessions
at the Centre for Translating Cultures and AHVC lunchtime seminars. MLC students also have
access to university-level training and networking opportunities run by the Doctoral College (ILES,
3.12) and bespoke research training for Humanities PGRs. The Niklaus-Cartwright bequests fund a
dedicated annual travel bursary (£1k p/a) for which all MLC PGR students may apply. All
Humanities PGRs have a £200 annual research allowance and can apply for additional funds (e.g.
HoD discretionary budget).

Additionally, we integrate PGRs into our research culture and provide representation of
MLC/AHVC PGR matters at departmental and College level. Recent PGR reps have also
represented PGRs at College level in the Graduate Research Strategy Group. MLC PGRs
contributed significantly to a change in College policy, with the offer of a global extension to
upgrades during the COVID-19 lockdown; this change was subsequently adopted by the
University’s Doctoral College. From 2017-20 the College Director of PGR was an MLC colleague,
Vonhoff, who was a source of valuable insight and guidance. The MLC HoD discretionary budget
has been used to support PGR initiatives including, in particular, the production of Xanthos: A
Journal of Foreign Languages and Literatures, a double-blind peer reviewed journal with
contributions from scholars of varied career stages reflecting our PGR students’ broad international
networks.

Several of our former PGR students are now employed as university researchers and teachers:
Marjorie Gehrhardt (Lectureship in Twentieth-century French History, University of Reading);
Sandra Daroczi (Lectureship in Politics, Languages and International Studies, Bath); Laurie
Dekhissi (Lectureship, University of Poitiers); Damien Gaucher (Lectureship in French, Exeter);
Lucie Riou (Associate Lectureship in French, Exeter).

Former students have used their knowledge and skills to forge non-academic careers. At least
three work in academic support at other universities. Esme Nicholson is a Berlin-based producer

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and presenter for National Public Radio (USA), and Peter Knowles is a content designer for
creative technology firm Antenna International. On completion of her PhD in Linguistics, Sarah
Foxen was appointed to UCL/POST as Social Science advisor and promoted in January 2020 to
the position of Knowledge Exchange Lead in the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology
in the UK Parliament at Westminster. Most recently she was appointed as one of the panel impact
assessors for Languages and Linguistics for REF2021.


3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

We have honed our use of local infrastructure and engaged with newly-developed facilities to
increase grant income, using this more than 75% uplift in external grant awards to build our
contribution to the fields of plurilingualism, Translation Studies, gender and sexuality, material
culture, and Digital Humanities. We are maintaining this momentum as we take forward new
interdisciplinary grant applications, such as Maguire’s ‘Salt Babies’ (AHRC network), a study of
maternity in Russian and Comparative Literature.

Income and awards

Income has grown from £1.8 million in the last REF cycle to £2.8 million in the current REF cycle.
This is underpinned by growth in our external research awards which have increased by over 75%
since 2014. Such momentum has been sustained by major grant successes achieved as much by
ECRs as by more experienced colleagues. We built initially on the experience of those more senior
colleagues successful in securing external awards in the last REF period (e.g. Hodgson; Jones;
Roberts; Schmidt), and earlier in this cycle (Higbee, AHRC, £400k). All those projects came to
fruition in the form of major outputs for the current period. These awards boosted our research
culture and their PIs provided inspiration and guidance for colleagues, both informally and via
leadership roles. Since her Philip Leverhulme Prize (£70k) at the beginning of this cycle, for
example, Sally Faulkner has shared good practice from her leadership of the grant to influence
College and University research policy as Associate Dean for Global and then Assistant Deputy
Vice Chancellor (Europe). Senior colleagues’ experience and that of more recent grant-holders has
fed through both formal and informal networks of support for grant applicants. Grant-holders
present their projects at research seminars and away days, thereby spreading knowledge of
schemes and incentivising others. Ongoing awards (Guo, Martins, Hinton, Higbee) will sustain our
activity and outputs beyond the end of the current cycle.

We have conveyed to colleagues, especially ECRs, the sense that obtaining funding is an iterative
process that may entail multiple applications. Giving grant-holders the opportunity to tell the story
of how they achieved success enables colleagues to understand how the process may involve re-
packaging work for different schemes. Doing this via seminars and away days has increased
interest and participation. There is strong evidence that this is working because several of our
larger awards were preceded by smaller ones for related projects, suggesting a pattern of grant
success and momentum building. These major grants include: AHRC Early Career Leadership
Fellowships (Martins, £249K; Florencio, £192K); AHRC Leadership Fellowship (Hinton £250K),
Leverhulme Research Fellowship (Zhuang, £46K; Goglia £48K); AHRC Early Career Standard
Grant (Guo, £199K), and HERA (Nevola, €1M shared with 5 partner institutions). In the lead-up to
these funding achievements, Martins was CI on an AHRC Early Career Development Award
(£46.5k), Florencio obtained an AHRC Network Grant (£34K), Hinton won a British Academy Neil
Ker Memorial Fund award and an Open World Research Initiative (OWRI) project award, Goglia
(PI) (with Afonso as a participant) a Leverhulme International Network Grant (£94K), Guo won an

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
AHRC IPS Award and a Sino-British Fellowship Trust award, and Nevola won internal HEIF Open
Innovation Funding (£6K) for his Hidden Florence project: all of these provided stepping stones to
subsequent success.

Information about schemes is regularly disseminated and the DoR and Research Services are
aware of grant ideas in development so that timely support is available. The DoR also has a close
awareness of colleagues’ research activities and career stage, which means information on certain
schemes and calls can be targeted towards individuals. In the course of this REF period we have
increased and improved the support provided for grant applications. The DoR normally meets
colleagues early in the process and stays in contact with them throughout. S/he directs them to
sources of information (recent/current award holders, copies of previous successful applications)
and dedicated support staff in Finance, IT and Impact. Departmental and Professional Services
support was crucial to the ERC Starting Grant (£1.2M) obtained by Maguire: the opportunity for a
‘mock’ presentation offered by Research Services prepared her well for the actual event. We have
strengthened our system of internal peer review, with clear guidance and deadlines. Application
drafts are routinely read by the AL, the DoR, and reviewed by another member of the department
or College with relevant expertise. Larger grants are subject to anonymous College-level peer
review, benefitting from broader cross-disciplinary expertise before submission. We are well served
by wider experience on external grant panels and peer review colleges (e.g. during the census
period 12 MLC colleagues serve, or have served on the AHRC Peer Review College, from just 4 in
the previous cycle).

The success of these communicative and support strategies means that a feature of our awards
portfolio is its increasing strength across major funding bodies and a variety of schemes over the
census period, primarily the AHRC, including GCRF and HERA (Nevola, €1M shared with 5
partner institutions), the EU (Marie Curie Career Integration Grant, Zhuang, €100K), the ERC
(Starting Grant, Maguire, £1.2M), Leverhulme (Plumley, £139K), and British Academy. This
provides a strong platform from which to expand on other sources. We have also seen increasing
diversification with US-based funders including Getty (Nevola, £158K) and a National Endowment
for the Humanities Scholarly Editions and Translations grant (Bolduc, $116,000=£89K). We have
also obtained new funding from subject associations (e.g. Roberts’s £22.6K Society for French
Studies Prize Research Fellowship; grants from the Institute for Modern Languages Research for
Schmidt and Vassallo); the Spanish Embassy (e.g. AHGBI Hispanists conference) and Portuguese
Camoes Institute (Portuguese cinema conference), and private foundations (e.g. Percival’s Paul
Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art Conference Grant). Commercial sponsorship from
Santander Universities UK has also been obtained by Moore to fund a collaborative project on
Environment and Identity in Latin America. Capdevila-Argüelles obtained funding from the
Fundación Banco de Santander for her Cartasvivas project. The south west GW4 consortium
(ILES, 1.8) also funded a ‘tailored workshop’ for MLC colleagues from Exeter, Bristol, Cardiff and
Bath in October 2018 that allowed us to explore regional research synergies, leading to a shared
research community award for ‘Rhetoric in Society’ (2020-21, £5.8k). This broad spread of funders
for our research lends resilience to our research community and permits us to develop enduring
partnerships and collaborations at regional, national and global levels.

Finally, we have taken advantage of a crucial institutional development - the Exeter Academic
(ILES, 3.3) - which has fostered grant application culture by formalising its part in the probation
process. In MLC this has had particular success because our Academic Leads make best use of
this framework to encourage action. This has led to ECRs being well represented among recent
awards as noted above. Additionally Maestri was awarded a £15K British Academy Rising Star

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Engagement Award, Taylor obtained conference funding from the Society for French Studies, and
Brown won £22.4K from the GCRF ‘Changing the Story’ project.

Infrastructure

Internal sources of funding

Each colleague receives an annual allowance of £1000 for research-related expenses such as
conference participation and travel to archives. Centres can apply for funding (usually up to £2K)
from the College of Humanities to facilitate invited speakers, symposia and workshops.

We have had significant success with our competitive internal pump-priming schemes (ILES, 4.10).
Through short visits, lectures or exploratory workshops we are able to generate research dialogues
and build plans towards future funding bids. The College of Humanities manages the award of
Outward Mobility Academic Fellowships (OMAFs) and Visiting International Academic Fellowships
(VIAFs) which enable face-to-face exchanges to take place between Exeter colleagues and
international scholars and have led to collaborative publications (e.g. Goglia, with Hajek, University
of Melbourne) or grant awards (Nevola with Terpstra, University of Toronto, leading to their Getty
award). Exeter Global Partnerships run another internal scheme, European Network Funding,
which has facilitated valuable interactions between Exeter colleagues (Percival, Horsley, Maestri,
Taylor) and partners at a range of European institutions. Six colleagues have benefitted from the
Impact, Innovation and Business (IIB) Directorate’s Open Innovation Platform, which offers funds
to create partnerships with external organisations, such as publishers, film-makers, community
groups and local councils. The university has been successful in obtaining facilitation funds from
GCRF, Research England Strategic Priorities Fund, which MLC has drawn on. Cayley and Nevola
participated in the AHRC REACT Knowledge Exchange Hub. The GW4 consortium offers a range
of awards in the region from which colleagues in the department have benefited (e.g. GW4
Medieval Studies Community 2014-15).

Research, impact and engagement support

Grant application and management support is provided by professional services colleagues in the
Humanities Research Services Cluster Team (ILES, 4.8) with a dedicated team responsible for
European funding bids. Research Services also organise grant-building events such as funder-
and scheme-specific ‘hustings’ where colleagues pitch their bids to a panel of experts: Hipkins
recently obtained an AHRC award first pitched there (£798k, 2021). Research Services colleagues
also provide post-award training, e.g. how to be an effective PI, so colleagues maximise the
benefits of their awards.

Impact support is provided by the College’s Impact Case Study Researcher Sanja Djerasimovic,
who helps colleagues to plan many impact-generating activities (see Section 4). The Director of
Impact liaises closely with the university’s Impact, Innovation and Business (IIB) Directorate and
other DoIs via regular meetings and briefings. IIB acts as an interface where necessary between
academics and external partners (ILES, 4.6-8). The IIB directorate provides guidance on how to
connect with external partners, create opportunities and generate tangible outcomes: they have
worked productively with all of our case study leads. Impact activity is acknowledged in our
workload model (up to 200 hours p/a) and integrated into University appointment, progression and
promotion criteria and decisions.

The department’s web coordinator (Yin, previously Afonso) oversees updates to the department’s

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
webpages, supported by the university’s website team. Individual stories and developments are
promoted by the Humanities Communications and Marketing Services team and colleagues from
the Press office, who also provide media training and give advice on placing articles in
newspapers, magazines and other platforms. In March 2020, for example, these structures helped
Mansell’s research into translated fiction and the publishing industry to appear in an article in the
Guardian, which attracted more detailed attention in an article in The Bookseller.

Facilities

From 2016-2021 the University’s “21st-Century Library” Project has made an additional investment
of £1.6 million (in addition to routine spend) in Library resources (ILES, 4.15). Of direct importance
to MLC is new digital access to contemporary Russian and Chinese newspapers, and archives
such as Latin American Newspapers 1805-1922. We have also benefited from strategic investment
in art history and visual culture resources, e.g. Artstor, the Electronic Enlightenment. This material
investment streamlines the research process, granting colleagues rapid access to resources that
they would have otherwise had to travel to consult.

Exeter's £1.2M Digital Humanities lab, established in 2017, and its expert staff support colleagues’
research, including that of Nevola and Hinton, respectively, on immersive technologies and textual
editing and digitisation. This has been enriched by the cutting-edge resources now available in-
house.

We also benefit from local collections: the co-location on campus of the Bill Douglas Cinema
Museum (Hipkins), the University Special Collections, and the Devon and Exeter Institution
(Maguire). Colleagues regularly work with Exeter Cathedral and the Royal Albert Memorial
Museum (RAMM) (Jones, Bolduc, Rahman) and the Phoenix Arts Centre. Our research community
extends beyond campus to these institutions and their staff (a representative from RAMM sits on
the Centre for Translating Cultures board).

Awards of travel grants and fellowships have enabled colleagues to access libraries and archives
further afield (Zitzlsperger, Centre for Advanced Studies (CAS) Ludwig Maximilians Universität
Munich; Smart, Herzog August Bibliothek Wolfenbüttel; Phillips, AHRC International Placement
Scheme award, Library of Congress; Plumley, Netherlands Institute of Advanced Study). Whilst
enriching the research of those who visit such institutions, these awards also benefit our own
research culture, as the holders share details of their experience on their return.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

MLC at Exeter has built or consolidated over ten strong strategic collaborations over this cycle in
China, the US and Europe. Furthermore it has developed new models for opening up Modern
Languages research to a broader public, particularly within the fields of film, lifelong learning, the
visual arts and the translation industry. We advocate actively for our discipline and subject areas,
holding 16 leading roles in subject associations.

International research collaboration

The REF period has seen an increase in, and diversification of, our international partnerships
activity. At the institutional level, we have strengthened our links with Fudan, Peking and Tsinghua
universities in China (Bolduc, Cayley, Guo, Yin, Zhuang). The College of Humanities joined the UK


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
China Humanities Alliance in 2018. Funding was provided for Higbee and Gao (History) to attend
the annual UKCHA conference in Beijing, and also to deliver a workshop on ‘Transnational
Cultures’ with attendees from Chinese partners and UK institutions. Other strategic partnerships
are in development, e.g. LMU Munich, Paris III Sorbonne Nouvelle, Amsterdam and University of
Texas at Austin. We are engaged in research projects involving multiple institutions and also
bilateral partnerships. In 2019 UoE joined the Venice International University Consortium, creating
new research links.

We have been active in promoting strategic initiatives at a College and institutional level, facilitating
international research collaboration and raising the profile of MLC within the university and
overseas. The Department has a Director of Global (currently Phillips) who coordinates
international research and education. Faulkner was Associate Dean for International and
Development for Humanities from 2018-20, a role (renamed Associate Dean Global) to which
Percival was appointed in 2020 when Faulkner was promoted to a newly created position of
Assistant Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Europe). By our collective profile and initiatives we are securing
a future for languages and intercultural cooperation in the post-Brexit era.

The Department has actively built research through international exchange and collaboration. We
have had regular success in gaining university-funded awards to invite foreign academics to Exeter
as Visiting International Academic Fellowships (VIAFs), and for Exeter academics to visit overseas
universities as Outward Mobility Academic Fellowships (OMAFs). VIAFs enabled 4 visits in this
cycle, including that of Professor Alexandra Wettlaufer, University of Texas Austin (invited by
Scott), which led to the journal number ‘Baudelaire and Other People’. OMAFs enabled visits to
universities in the US, Singapore, Australia and China. We have also benefited from several
Erasmus HE Staff Mobility Agreement visits, for example Dr Heike Pintor-Pirzkall from Universidad
Pontificia Comillas, Madrid, who made annual visits in 2016-19 to collaborate with Moore on her
Santander-funded project. As well as generating further events and research publications, these
international visits have served as stepping-stones into larger grant-funded activity, for example,
Goglia's successful Leverhulme Research Fellowship.

Our non-academic partnerships similarly reflect the global reach of our research and impact efforts,
both as part of UKRI grants (Martins, Guo, Nevola, Hinton, Higbee, Florencio, Brown) and on an
organic level. Beyond the four impact case studies that exemplify our contributions to society and
the economy on a national, European, and global scale, the majority of our researchers foster
active collaborations with non-academic partners, often addressing acute contemporary social
issues (gender, sexuality, migration, conflict) broadly situated in the following sectors:

1) Film industry. In addition to significant impact activity highlighted in her impact case study,
Capdevila-Argüelles also serves on the board of the Edinburgh Spanish Film Festival, and acts as
a historical advisor to Netflix and Avalon Productions. Faulkner, in collaboration with Exeter
Phoenix Arts Centre, co-curated the 2019 VIVA Spanish and Latin American Film Festival, which
featured four films on tour from the Manchester VIVA festival, and a special screening of Fernando
Fernán Gómez's El mundo sigue (1963) subtitled by University of Exeter students – this is now one
of the four films forming part of the ‘Subtitling World Cinema’ project, which reached a UK audience
in November 2020 at the Being Human Festival. In collaboration with the Chagford Film Festival,
Faulkner also curated a Hispanic Cinema Day (2018 and 2019). This strength in Hispanic Film
Studies has also involved Exeter postgraduates (AHRC-funded Beaney and May), whose
collaboration with the Spanish Film Festivals has enabled them to develop their own outreach
projects: Beaney is organising an online Spanish film festival in 2021. Guo is collaborating with

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
QAFone and Jihua, two major LGBT subtitling groups in China, for the AHRC-funded project:
‘Translating for Change: Anglophone Queer Cinema and Chinese LGBT+ Movement’ (2019-21).
Through his AHRC-funded project, Florencio collaborated on the development of an experimental
documentary short on ‘pig’ masculinities, premiered at the leading independent UK LGBTQ+
festival fringe!. Our researchers have given public talks at the BFI (Faulkner, Florencio, Hipkins),
and Phoenix Arts Centre cinema (Brown, Faulkner, Higbee, Hipkins).

2) Education and lifelong learning. Colleagues engage with providers of formal education and
lifelong learning, to deliver lectures, teacher training, and new content (such as the Chinese team’s
MOOC on Chinese culture for FutureLearn). Hinton’s AHRC-funded project on Walter de
Bibbesworth establishes a long view of multilingualism in Britain via study of medieval manuscripts,
and partners with St James’s School, Exeter to challenge perceptions that England is a
monolingual country. In the distinctly multilingual context of Newham borough in London, Afonso
has been collaborating with Newham Partnership for Complementary Education, which will be a
partner in the Exeter Alumni Annual Fund Award project ‘Mapping the Portuguese Community in
East London’ (2020-21) and has contributed to teacher training at the INSET days of a Newham
primary school in 2019. Further afield, Brown’s GCRF funding enables her to collaborate with art
educators in Venezuela to provide tools for 78 young people who participate in the workshops to
develop critical thinking and active citizenship skills and to take an active role in leading the country
out of conflict. Since participating in an AHRC-funded project (2013-16) on Italian cinema
audiences, Hipkins has worked with the University of the Third Age in the UK and Italy on a
successful programme of collaborative memory-sharing activities. Hipkins also co-delivered (with
Handyside, English) activities in schools in the US, Exeter, and France, to increase girls’
awareness of how cinema shapes narratives of gender. Goglia is researching onward migration
and multilingualism through a collaborative relationship with Rokeby School, a secondary school in
Newham, east London, which counts 61 languages among its culturally and linguistically diverse
student body. Previously, engaging with the Global South through a Leverhulme International
Network project on language policy and multilingualism in East Timor (2014-2016), Goglia and
Afonso delivered two of five multi-lingual two-day conferences in Dili to over 100 students,
lecturers, and teachers (with many of the latter two groups also involved in developing the
country’s language policy).

3) Visual arts professionals, museums, and galleries. Our research has been enriched through
sustained collaborations with artists (Jones with Paddy Hartley, Roberts with Dominic Hills, Maestri
with Angela Cavalieri), and contributed to the work of museums and galleries in the UK and
internationally. Florencio’s AHRC-funded interdisciplinary research network ‘Rock/Body:
Performative interfaces between the geologic and the body’ led to an Exeter-based exhibition
featuring work of seven artists working across Europe and the UK in 2016. Trevor worked as
Associate Producer on artist John Akomfrah's ‘Vertigo Sea’, a three-screen video commission for
the 56th Venice Biennale in 2015. He has undertaken two substantial curatorial projects during the
census period, with commissions by some of the world's leading contemporary artists: The Atlantic
Project: After The Future (Plymouth, 2018) and Dojima River Biennale 2015: Take Me To The
River (Osaka, 2015). Percival curated Ceci n’est pas un portrait: figures de fantaisie de Murillo,
Fragonard, Tiepolo, an exhibition of 80 old-master paintings at the Musée des Augustins,
Toulouse, that attracted 35K visitors. Phillips was curator and project lead of the 2017-18 exhibition
‘The Russian Revolution and Its Impact on the British Left, 1917-1926’ in collaboration with TUC
Library. Rahman was external consultant and member of the research team for ‘Red Vienna, 1919-
1934’ at the City Museum of Vienna, April 2019-January 2020. Linge founded and ran a 2015-16


                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
cultural engagement project ‘Sex in Six Objects’ that involved collaboration with the Museum of
Archaeology and Anthropology (Cambridge) and the Freud Museum (London); she also co-
organised a Wellcome-funded public engagement project ‘Transformations’ (2018-19) in
collaboration with the charity Gendered Intelligence in Bristol to deliver a series of research-led
workshops for trans and non-binary young people. Focused on questions of gender, sexuality, but
also race and memory, Martins’ AHRC-funded ‘Women of the Brown Atlantic’ works with Museu
Afro-Brasileiro in Salvador, and Núcleo Museológico de Lagos in the Algarve. In linguistics, with a
colleague from the University of Minho, Afonso is working with The Hall of Biodiversity (the Natural
History and Science Museum, University of Porto) to explore visitors’ conceptualisations of
biodiversity and conservation.

4) Translation industry. Through our MA in Translation Studies we are closely affiliated with the
Chartered Institute of Linguists (CIOL) and the Institute of Translators & Interpreters. With both we
have crafted partnerships (Exeter Translation Studies Preferred HE partner) that afford our
students exemption from one unit of the Diploma of Translation. Additionally we work with local
translators and translation agencies, including Cadenza Academic Translations; Sure Languages;
and Anja Jones Translation. The partnerships involve guest lecturing, work placements; and other
collaborations. Vassallo’s ‘Translating Women’ project works with industry stakeholders to
challenge the inequalities and hierarchies in translation of women writers: in March 2019 it was
named by literary magazine Words Without Borders as one of 15 international literary women and
organisations ‘balancing for better’ in the arts. Mansell is active within the industry to promote
translation within UK publishing in general, having been invited, along with Vassallo, to join the
‘Promoting Literature in Translation’ working party led by English PEN and the National Centre for
Writing (2019-present), to speak at a policy-informing event for Galician regional government
(Spain) on public funding policy and translated literature in English in 2019, and to act as judge and
reader for various prizes.

Beyond the industry and the profession, we also engage the wider, lay, audiences with the
processes and benefits of translation work. In 2017 and 2019, Bolduc and Maestri, with
participation from numerous MLC colleagues and students, organised two very successful
‘Translation! Festivals’, held at Exeter Library, RAMM and the Phoenix, and supported by the
British Academy and the College of Humanities. These events brought together the university
community with schoolchildren, teachers, translators, writers, musicians, as well as international
artists and the general public, to celebrate the rich linguistic diversity in the UK. Other colleagues
also routinely create opportunities for public engagement with their research via the Being Human
Festival, or engagement with the media in the UK and abroad, for example Hodgson’s contribution
to a 2018 episode of the BBC Radio 4 series ‘In Our Time’ on the Russian poet Anna Akhmatova;
or Zitzlsperger’s interviews for NPR in 2017 on Martin Luther, in 2018 on 1920s Berlin, and in 2020
on Thomas Harding. Overseas, with his expertise on contemporary China, Zhiguang Yin makes
frequent contributions to media (Chinese Central Television Station in 2015; Channel New Asia,
2018; Sputnik radio UK, 2018-2019). Diversifying our forms of media outreach through field-leading
research and translation, Plumley’s ongoing 13-volume edition on the poetry and music of
Guillaume de Machaut, has led to a series of commercial CDs in collaboration with professional
early music ensemble ‘The Orlando Consort’ and Hyperion Records.

Assuring sustainability of the discipline within HE

Colleagues have given over 100 invited talks including keynotes in Beijing and Shanghai (Bolduc),
Indiana (Watt), Austin (Zhuang), Hong Kong (Higbee), Toronto and Complutense, Madrid

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Faulkner) and Porto (Martins). We have also been active in major conference organisation,
hosting the annual conferences of three subject associations in Exeter. These included the 60th
Anniversary Conference of the Association of Hispanists of Great Britain and Ireland in 2015,
organised by Murphy, Faulkner and Bradbury. Additionally we have made Exeter a venue for
themed conferences, often with an interdisciplinary focus. In 2015, for example, Jones organised
'Les Gueules cassées: Disfigurement and its Legacies’. With the Global China Research Centre
Yin and Guo organised ‘Global Discourse and Chinese Experience’ (2018) and ‘Transnational
cultures: Cultural Exchanges in the Global South’ (2019). Moros and other teaching-focused
colleagues have also played key roles in the annual language learning conference of the GW4
consortium, LanGW4, which addresses research in pedagogy and language learning; selected
recent keynotes were published as a journal number in 2019.

We have organised conferences in the UK and abroad, including Vassallo's OWRI and IMLR-
funded ‘Translating Women: breaking borders and building bridges in the English-language book
industry’, at the IMLR in 2019 (co-organised with Olga Castro, Warwick). Higbee received UKCHA
funding (£16K) jointly with KCL to organise a ‘Cinemas of the Sinosphere’ conference at Exeter in
2020. Colleagues have served as members of scientific committees for international conferences:
Boughton and Coveney for the Réseau Francophone de Sociolinguistique.

We are able to advocate for our discipline and subject areas through 16 leading roles in subject
associations. These are distributed between colleagues of differing seniority. For example, Watt is
on the Executive Committee of Association of University Professors and Heads of French
(AUPHF), and Paver is Trustee of Modern Humanities Research Association, and editor of the
MHRA Style Guide since 2016. Rahman is Membership and Outreach Officer of the Design History
Society, and Horsley is a permanent officer on the Executive Committee of the Society for Early
Modern French Studies. In these roles Exeter colleagues are able, variously, to influence
discussion and decision making in the sector and to campaign for our subject areas.

Colleagues hold 11 lead editorial positions with prestigious journals in our field: for example, in
2017 Lygo became Slavonic Editor for Modern Language Review, taking over from Hodgson who
had held the role since 2007. We are members of over 25 journal editorial boards, and we serve on
the advisory boards of 7 publishers. We have conducted manuscript reviews for over 15 different
publishers, including Routledge, OUP and CUP. We are active in refereeing academic work.
During the census period 12 colleagues serve (or have served) on the AHRC peer review college.
Hodgson was a member of the steering group that led to the launch of AHRC’s OWRI programme.
Colleagues review on an occasional basis for the Leverhulme Trust, the British Academy and the
ERC as well as for numerous prominent journals.

Our international prestige and voice are evident in the international peer review that we frequently
undertake, for example, Zitzlsperger has been an Outer Board Member for the Irish Research
Council's Postdoctoral International Assessment Board and acts as an assessor for the Austrian
Academy of Sciences. We actively foster future research, having acted as external examiners for
45 PhDs at national and international institutions (the latter including Adelaide, Neuchâtel, Paris III,
University Rey Juan Carlos and Carlos III, Madrid, Seville and Zaragoza).

Assuring sustainability of the discipline outside HE

Through our work with schools (see above) we are enthusing new generations of linguists. Our
Widening Participation programme that operates across the South West region and beyond brings

                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research-inspired teaching to students and thereby tries to remove the barriers to studying
languages at university. In 2019 we launched our ongoing ‘Languages in a Global World’ speaker
series, which brings together local MFL teachers and their students, University of Exeter alumni,
and current staff and students of languages and international cultures at the University, in order to
celebrate the importance of languages across our global community. Through our subject
associations we are able to advocate for the future of our discipline. In addition to the many 'live'
public engagement events outlined above, we also seek to educate and inspire by communicating
our research through the media. Modern Languages and Cultures at Exeter is building on its strong
position in the research landscape, nationally and internationally. We will continue to develop
creatively, sustainably and equitably, and to serve and advocate for the wider discipline.




                                                                                            Page 20
