Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: University of Winchester
  Unit of Assessment: C20 Social Work and Social Policy


  1. UNIT CONTEXT, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY
  1.1. Overview:
  REF 2021 is the University of Winchester’s (UoW) first submission to C20 Unit of Assessment
  (UoA). Driven by the University’s strategic vision for 2015-2020, the unit draws together, from
  across the institutions’ portfolio, an eclectic set of applied and theoretical social policy
  researchers with diverse methodological and geographical expertise. The unit’s core strategy was
  to coordinate this dynamic staff grouping; support international and world-leading research
  excellence; and develop organisational structures for a vibrant, impactful and sustainable research
  environment. Consequently, the two key features of C20 at Winchester are (i) highly collaborative
  research, that has delivered impact locally and nationally; and (ii) the development of a broad,
  interdisciplinary set of social policy research foci that encompasses the nexus of human and
  planetary welfare. These features can be seen in the diversity of the outputs submitted to this
  assessment, our success with grant capture from statutory and third sector agencies, the wide-
  ranging impact of our research, and the international reach of our research networks. As described
  here, these developments constitute a vibrant and sustainable foundation for coordinating and
  supporting the unit’s diverse community of social policy researchers, with substantial potential to
  make significant progress in future REF assessments.

  1.2 Unit context
  The unit emerged from the University’s 2015-2020 Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE)
  Strategy, which aimed to deliver social impact and collaboration across disciplinary boundaries. The
  aim was to develop a research grouping that extended both the reach and nature of Social
  Work and Social Policy, to enable researchers to respond to external priorities around the
  intersection between sustainability and social justice. This vision was realised in its initial creation in
  2015, drawing members from the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences and the University‘s
  Centre for Arts as Wellbeing, and through strategic investment in the interdisciplinary subjects of
  Geography and Animal Welfare. The growth of undergraduate numbers, alongside aforementioned
  institutional investments have led to the recruitment of talented new staff appointed for their
  potential, international reach, and interdisciplinary focus, replacing and in addition to original
  members who have left the institution (Mormina, Barton, Phelps, Daykin, Meads). The parallel
  creation of the Faculty for Health and Wellbeing added further practitioner expertise in community
  health. These developments offered scope for developing a vibrant, interdisciplinary and impactful
  research environment able to interrogate and respond to the social implications of environmental
  and planetary transformations.

  Overarching support for research is provided, in common with all REF units within the University, by
  a UoA Working Group. Membership comprises the current UoA Lead (Dickinson, since
  December 2018), junior and senior representatives of research themes (see below, Knight, Hall,
  Lees, Andow) and an Early Career Representative (Holyoak). This guarantees inclusivity and
  collegiality in the context of a highly diverse staff base. From 2018-19 onwards, the UoA had a
  devolved budget (see REF51, 4.1 and below, section 3.2). The devolved budget gave us
  considerable agency to target specific strategic areas for development. The working group meets at
  least three times per year for oversight of research and impact activities, use of internal research
  funds, researcher development and reviewing research and impact activity. It prioritises support for
  bids that support the strategy of the UoA. The collegiality of this system ensures buy-in from staff
  and the quality control has ensured success in the strategic aims of the UoA over the cycle.

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  1.3 Unit structure
  C20 currently comprises fourteen Category A staff (12.5 FTE), with 1.0 Early Career Researcher
  (ECR). Three were in post pre-REF2014 (Hall, Grattan, Clement) and two were appointed shortly
  after (Lees, Scalia). Nine have been appointed since 2014: Andow, Ball, Dickinson, Earthy,
  Holyoak, Knight, McCulloch, Ozaki, Riley. C20 draws staff from three departments and two
  faculties. The Faculty of Humanities and Social Science hosts the Departments of Applied Social
  Sciences, Forensics and Politics (DASSFP), and Archaeology, Anthropology and Geography
  (AAG), and the Faculty of Health and Wellbeing hosts the Department of Interprofessional Studies
  (IPS). Reflecting the University’s commitment to developing research through centres (Research
  and Knowledge Exchange Strategy 2015-2020 and 2020-2030), members contribute actively to two
  University Research Centres and three Research Networks: The Centre for Animal Welfare (CAW),
  the Winchester Centre for Climate Action, the Criminal Justice Research Network (CJRN), the
  Health and WellBeing Research Group (HWRG) and the Forced Migration Network (FMN). These
  are the drivers of engagement with local, national and international stakeholders, audiences and
  beneficiaries of research; collaborative interdisciplinarity in research and external funding bids;
  and training hubs for PhD and ECRs. Although the unit does not yet have its own PGR
  community, members bring to this UoA expertise in cross-UoA PhD supervision through these
  research networks and centres, as well as external to the institution, for future priority development
  (Section 2.6, 1.5b)

  This C20 grouping comprises several distinctive, intersecting research areas, reflecting and
  responding to the research interests of individual members, and the strategic priorities outlined in the
  UoW Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy 2015-2020 and 2020-2030. These areas are
  underpinned by a broad commitment to facilitate cross-faculty, inter-disciplinary and practitioner
  collaboration and urgent global concerns around social justice and the human consequences of a
  warming planet. These are: Youth, Communities and Institutions (e.g. young offender institutions,
  social movements, diaspora communities, conflict resolution), Health and Social Care Organisation
  (e.g. reflective practice and social prescribing), Critical Criminology (e.g. riots, global crime), and
  Planetary Welfare (e.g. social dimensions and inequalities of climate risk and mitigation; ethics and
  policy of animal welfare).

  1.4. Unit objectives
  Reflecting the vibrant, strongly interdisciplinary and newly established research grouping, the wider
  concerns of our research users, and the University’s commitment to impactful collaboration, the
  UoA’s core strategy has been to develop and support research excellence within respective fields
  while creating a research environment for consolidating this expertise around three inter-linked
  objectives:

  1.4.1. Developing an environment that fosters world-leading or internationally excellent
          research
 The creation of new organisational structures for research have underpinned the success of the UoA
 during the REF cycle in achieving international research excellence. Our aim was for staff to be REF-
 returnable with the highest possible quality output. Mentoring is provided in part by the UoA Lead,
 supplemented through mentoring allocations from the UoW institutional workload model for Readers
 (Ball, Scalia) and Professors (Hall, Knight), and reciprocal engagements within the UoA for
 commenting on work. Output quality has benefitted also from the comments of external, senior
 researchers selected for their expertise in the relevant disciplinary domain, providing a source of
 further advice for enhancing the quality of research outputs.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Investment has also been made in individual researcher development through provision of internal
  funding at UoA and Faculty level for conferences, research project expenses, impact and KE activities
  and teaching buyout. At the institutional level, £3,000 per annum allocations for all staff returned to
  REF 2014 and, prior to 2018, direct applications to university research grants committee, supported
  staff in various ways in the development of high-quality research and research outputs. This includes
  research monographs (e.g. Hall 2019, The Guilford Press; Clement 2016, Palgrave) and published
  research in refereed journals of international reputation in the researcher’s own areas of expertise.
  The devolved approach to research leave and research expenses to Unit level since 2018 has
  allowed greater flexibility for supporting research and the UoA has prioritised funding for ad hoc
  buyout from teaching or other responsibilities to support high quality outputs, funding bids or other
  projects. This resulted, or will result, in research outputs (e.g. Andow 2020). In the case of Holyoak
  and Andow, buyout provided significant support in the development of publications from their PhDs.

 Support for individual excellence in research is also provided through seminar series, research away
 days, workshops and writing retreats that provide training for research and impact development.
 Through these fora, researchers are encouraged to formulate innovative research agendas,
 develop high quality outputs, develop collaborative applications for external funding with statutory
 third sector organisations with clear pathways to impact and relevant stakeholders. Writing retreats
 resulted in several successes in generating high quality outputs (e.g. Clement 2020) and success in
 collaborative bids with local authorities and charities (Section 3.1).

  1.4.2. Supporting and maintaining existing interdisciplinary relationships whilst fostering
  new collaborations that push the conceptual and methodological boundaries of social work
  and policy
  A considerable proportion of the unit’s research is interdisciplinary, as reflected in the initial creation
  of the unit. Interdisciplinarity is a hallmark of social work and social policy, and the disciplines
  encompassed by this unit both reflect and extend beyond these norms by engaging with
  disciplines usually considered to be outside its purview, such as Geography, Performing Arts and
  Animal Welfare. Evidence of success in this objective is reflected in the interdisciplinary nature of
  both impact case studies submitted for assessment, which draw from these latter two fields.

  Most staff engage with inter-disciplinary research within their own fields, as reflected in the diversity
  of submitted outputs (e.g. Ozaki - Sociology/Engineering, Clement – Criminology/History). Some,
  such as Geography and Animal Welfare, are already inherently interdisciplinary. Hall, appointed
  Professor of Interdisciplinary Social Studies in 2013, continues to develop geographical and
  criminological research around global crime, supported through research buyouts and research
  project funding. Hall’s leadership in this area has resulted in several examples of successful
  collaboration within this UoA, including a co-edited collection with Scalia (A Research Agenda
  for Global Crime, Edward Elgar, 2019), and with colleagues in C19. Others were supported through
  funding for research buyout and impact work to engage in cross-UoA international research
  projects (Dickinson – D23) and impact (Lees – D33).

  Members contributed to the development of cross-faculty research centres and networks. The
  Centre for Animal Welfare, established in 2015 and led by Knight with the involvement of Riley and
  McCulloch, develops public and academic knowledge around topics such as human understanding
  of animal welfare, and the animal/human policy interface. Its success is demonstrated in
  commissioned research funding and diverse stakeholder impact and cross-UoA PhD completion
  (Sections 2.6, 3.1 and 4). Lees and Earthy contributed to the Health and Wellbeing Research
  Group, incorporating researchers from the Centre for Arts as Wellbeing, on research around faith-
  based social care, reflective practice, health literacy and social prescribing. Meanwhile Dickinson’s

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  involvement with the Forced Migration Network, comprising colleagues from Education, Arts and
  Interprofessional Studies, resulted in the development of an internally awarded QR GCRF research
  project (2019-2020) with a colleague in Education investigating the involvement of refugee
  communities in addressing legacies of mass violence in Rwanda. This research was further
  supported through UoA-funded teaching buyout in 2019-2020.

  Inter-disciplinary working is also supported by inviting colleagues from other disciplines to
  participate in research group meetings and by supporting staff to join inter-disciplinary research
  initiatives within the University. For example, colleagues from Politics attend Research Group
  meetings. Hall worked with colleagues in Politics and Digital Futures in formulating an innovative
  inter-disciplinary research project on cyber-crime, resulting in a successful award of a British
  Academy Small Grant in 2019 with Ziemer (C19).

  The organisational structures for research, both collaborative and independent, around the themes
  described in section 1.3 above underpin the consolidation of this interdisciplinarity within the UoA.
  Youth, Communities and Institutions brings together colleagues from the disciplines of
  Criminology, Human Geography and Sociology, whilst Sociologists, Physical Geographers and
  Animal Welfare experts working on the human and non-human dimensions of environmental
  change, mitigation, adaptation and ethics comprise Planetary Welfare. These structures will
  facilitate future interdisciplinary working, whilst deploying UoA-level funding to support activities
  such as workshops and seminar series to foster collaboration across these themes.

  1.4.3 Developing applied, impactful research with local, national and international
  stakeholders
  Closely aligned with the University’s core mission, impact has been a major focus of the UoA
  throughout this cycle. A key rationale for the creation of the UoA was to fuse areas of theoretical
  rigour with existing practice/practitioner-oriented research across the institution’s portfolio.
  The organisation of staff into the aforementioned themes was designed to achieve this objective
  and include impact in planning, mentoring, bid support, sharing of progress and best practice
  across and beyond the UoA.

  We identified potential impact case studies in the revised UoA Strategy in 2017, and chose two in
  2019 for targeted intensive support through the employment of impact officers and research buyout.
  Lees et al’s impact case study Impacting Social Prescribing, and McCulloch on Animal Welfare
  Impact Assessment, Brexit and Sentience Policy were chosen on the basis of the strength of the
  existing connections to service user groups and organisations developed through the respective
  research centres and networks to which they contribute – The Health and Wellbeing Research
  Group (incorporating the Centre for Arts as Wellbeing) and the Centre for Animal Welfare. This
  evidences their role as fora for exchange of knowledge, ideas and techniques between
  policymakers, practitioners and researchers.

  Impact within this UoA, including in the impact case studies and described in Section 4, takes
  diverse local, national and international forms. The work of the Health and Social Care Organisation
  group focused on service delivery improvement for local communities and groups in South-
  East England is testament to the depth of the group’s ties to local and regional stakeholders,
  partners and statutory organisations. The breadth of impact generated through the work of
  Planetary Welfare grouping encompasses both social, environmental and animal welfare (Section 4
  and McCulloch’s impact case study) evidences our ability to engage diverse communities with
  our research, which we take to include animals and non-human species.


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Following the introduction of devolved funding in 2018-2019 to UoA level, rounds of internal
  research funding late in this cycle were directed towards projects with potential for high impact and
  pump-priming in the next cycle, particularly those embedded within collaborative
  practitioner/researcher networks comprising multi-sectoral statutory, third sector and
  private foundations and organisations. Examples of internally funded impact work include
  Knight and Dickinson, whose internationally impactful research will come to fruition in the next
  cycle. Targeted support will be maintained in the next REF cycle, with possible impact case studies
  earmarked early on and regular reviews of impact activities undertaken by the UoA Working Group.

  1.5 Future Priorities and Opportunities
  The UoA aims to build on this developmental groundwork within our four thematic research
  groupings, to deliver internationally excellent research underpinned by our core principles of
  collaboration, impact and interdisciplinarity. We aim to deliver this through collaborative work
  actioned at three levels: within the UoA, through collaborations within research centres and
  networks; and through external collaboration with local, national and international experts and
  practitioners. This work will revolve around the following priorities, which will be revisited early on in
  the next cycle in light of the impact of Covid-19 on internal research funding, availability of external
  funding and on the sector as a whole.
      a. Deliver world-leading and internationally excellent research by i) continuing to build an
           academic culture that facilitates the production of high-quality research; ii) increasing
           visibility of research processes and structures that support staff development; iii) enhancing
           the work of the institutional research centres and networks that members contribute to, as
           drivers of internationally excellent research and impact.
      b. Have a growing and thriving community of research students by i) increasing the
           institutional visibility of existing supervisory capacity, research expertise and experience
           (Section 2.6) within the themes now established; ii) drawing on existing institutional support
           structures for internally funded studentships and PGR training (section 2.6); iii) supporting
           staff to bid for external funding, drawing on the opportunities provided by existing external
           stakeholder relationships. In the early stages of the post-REF2021 cycle, Lees secured
           funding for three NIHR Applied Research Collaboration Wessex PhD studentships.
      c. Continue to deliver demonstrative world-leading and internationally excellent impact,
           by i) Drawing on our strong existing relationships with stakeholder networks and statutory
           organisations; ii) continuing to include research users in the co-design of research where
           possible; formulate impact strategies early in the cycle; iii) sharing best-practice examples of
           collaborative research across the UoA; iv) deploying internal and external guest speakers to
           address factoring-in impact in research design; v) targeted support for staff with high
           potential for impact.
      d. Increase our external research and knowledge exchange income by i) seeking out
           diverse sources – project grants, impact awards, research fellowships and doctoral funding;
           ii) providing further research training, enhanced peer feedback via regular UoA-level funding
           workshops, and UoA and Faculty-level research mentoring; iii) tapping existing practitioner
           collaborations through research centres. Bids planned for submission in the first half of 2021
           include two by Dickinson to support work on Rwandan diaspora youth entrepreneurship
           (Leverhulme) and on low-income women’s entrepreneurship in Rwanda (Transforming
           Education for Sustainable Futures Network Plus), one by Hall to undertake research on
           Organised Crime in rural areas (Seale Hayne Trust), and one by Knight (Wild Earth US).
      e. Consolidate our interdisciplinarity by expanding the role of the research themes now
           established within the unit, as a forum for partnered funding bids for research and impact,
           joint publications and PhD supervision, mentoring and peer-support. This will also ensure
           ECR and mid-career staff are able to gather experience for leadership roles through working

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         alongside more experienced staff. In line with this aspect of the Unit’s post-REF 2021
         strategy, in 2021 McCulloch and Dickinson submitted a studentship application to
         Battersea Dogs & Cats Home for a project on rehoming stray animals in India, South Africa
         and Romania.

  Several developments late in this REF cycle will enable us to achieve this. These include the 2019-
  2020 internal investment of the QR Global Challenges Research Funding allocation in Dickinson’s
  collaborative research on the institutions of diaspora community engagement, targeted specifically
  to capacity-build social policy research engagement with Official Development Assistance recipient
  countries; the 2019 Memorandum of Understanding with Hampshire Hospitals Foundation Trust;
  early stage planning of an Environment and Social Justice Institute in 2020; and Hall beginning his
  British Academy-funded research on cyber-crime in Armenia.

  The Social Work and Social Policy Research Group is therefore now well-positioned to build
  upon the work achieved in establishing a framework and organisational structure for both
  collaborative and individual research excellence, and to emphasise and develop its research
  themes as we continue to support researchers to undertake high quality research of international
  impact and significance in social policy. UoA20, collectively, will look to build on its strong inter-
  disciplinary, highly collaborative and impactful foci. From its beginnings as a multi-disciplinary,
  but initially disconnected, group of researchers, this UoA has an upward and ambitious
  trajectory, looking to be of strategic importance for the University in the next REF cycle as we
  consolidate research around sustainability and social justice, whilst innovating social policy at the
  human-environment welfare nexus.

  1.6 Research integrity
  Throughout this REF cycle, the UoA has fully engaged with the University’s policies on ethical and
  professional standards in all its work and UUK’s Concordat to Support Research Integrity (2012).
  Staff ensure that the PGR students they have co-supervised here and at other institutions do also.
  Ethics approval for research projects is required at the start of research and when factoring in
  research design. To ensure best practice, members of this UoA sit on the UoW Ethics Committee
  (Scalia). Researchers have developed an additional range of ethical concerns and guidelines
  in relation to the non-human protection issues arising from social and human research. This is
  reflected in member’s outputs around the use of animals in human biomedical research (Knight),
  the role of animal welfare policymaking (McCulloch), in international social research knowledge
  governance (Mormina) and their role within respective professional bodies (McCulloch). The UoA
  ensures, and funds where necessary, researcher compliance with REF Open Access requirements.
  Researchers access funding for professional researcher development in ethics, and we are able
  when requested to provide staff with training and support in areas such as pre-registration of
  research and preparation of high-quality datasets (where possible) for open access deposit.

  2: PEOPLE
  2.1 Recruitment
  The creation of UoA20 was deliberately designed to expand the reach and disciplinary scope
  of Social Work and Social Policy. Driven by the University mission and values, Geography and
  Animal Welfare as interdisciplinary subject areas were added to the institutional portfolio, leading to
  appointments in Geography (Dickinson as Senior Lecturer and Ball as Reader) and in Animal
  Welfare (Riley and McCulloch as Lecturers, and Knight as Professor). They joined the 3 FTE staff
  in post prior to REF2014 (Hall, Clement, Grattan) and those appointed shortly afterwards (Scalia
  and Barton, the latter has since departed). Growth in undergraduate numbers - and therefore


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  staffing - of the Department of Applied Social Sciences, Forensics and Politics was a key
  development during the current REF period, enabling the unit to broaden the research base and
  achieve critical mass in key research areas. To build research capacity, complement and extend
  existing specialisms and enhance impact, recruitment was at earlier career stages (Andow,
  Holyoak, Ozaki; Mormina and Phelps since departed). To this grouping was added Lees, social
  policy practitioner expert appointed as Senior Research Officer in August 2014 and supported
  since, through researcher development activities, into producing measurable outputs and impact.
  Subsequent strategic growth of health and wellbeing research in the institution added Earthy. This
  grouping fostered an emerging interdisciplinary, rigorous and impactful research culture. The
  various UoA and institutional processes and activities established during this REF period, described
  below, supported the development of this wide-ranging staff grouping as confident, internationally
  excellent researchers.

  2.2. Staff development
  Three structures facilitate reflection on research and recognition of achievement. Institutionally,
  research success (outputs, external funding success) and achieving impact are rewarded and
  recognised through the allocation of additional time for research and impact in the workload model,
  and through career progression and promotion procedures (see REF5a 3.4, 3.5). At department
  level, the annual staff development review with the relevant Head of Department (which is
  developmental rather than performance driven) includes research and knowledge exchange. At unit
  level, an annual planning form for research and knowledge exchange is submitted by
  individuals and scrutinised by the UoA Lead, in part regarding appropriate use of pooled UoA
  funding but also for developmental aims, longer term output, impact and career strategies. The UoA
  Lead and senior staff operate as peer reviewers for both funding bids and outputs, in addition to a
  peer review college at Faculty level for external funding. Peer-review lunches operate for staff to
  present ‘works in progress’ for feedback and comments on work before submission. Outputs
  considered for inclusion in this submission also benefitted from anonymous external review and
  developmental feedback. Support for staff for impact work comes in several ways, notably the
  employment of impact officers working across a number of projects/potential impact case studies
  (Section 3.2) and support for ad-hoc teaching buyout.

  Support is provided for researcher development at both faculty and institutional level. Staff are
  supported to make full use of a wide range of additional development opportunities available to
  them organised through the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Centre, such as day-
  long workshops on grant writing, provided by external consultants, and Open Access days covering
  a range of topics such as open data, pre-registration of research and registered reports, and pre-
  print archiving systems and impact training. Staff can access funding for professional researcher
  development courses in areas such as methodological techniques and grant-writing.

  The UoA Working Group provides a forum for research leadership development. We anticipate
  that the now established research themes will provide further opportunities for researcher
  development. At faculty level, participation in Faculty Research and Knowledge Exchange
  Committees (FRKE) gives staff direct input into University-wide, research-related discussions and
  decision-making. Hall, Dickinson, Scalia and Lees have sat on this committee.

  2.3 Mentoring and Early Career Support
  The University allocates research mentoring time in the workload model for Readers and
  Professors, 50 and 75 hours respectively. Mentors are encouraged to meet with mentees on a
  regular basis for the purposes of support, setting individual career development goals, review and
  reflection. In addition, mentors may undertake activities such as commenting on manuscripts in

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  preparation, giving feedback on conference presentations, providing support with PGR supervision,
  helping with public engagement activities and inputting to the preparation of funding applications
  and impact planning and activities. Faculty and Institutional research mentoring schemes were also
  available during the REF cycle, supporting both Andow and Dickinson.

  In addition to the institutional-wide support for ECRs (see REF5a, 3.5), at the Faculty level ECRs
  benefit from:
      • Support from the UoA Lead and other members of the UoA with allocated workhours for
          mentoring;
      • Regular probation meetings with the Head of Department (every three months) in the first
          year of employment with stated SMART research targets and steps to achieve them;
      • Extra hours for teaching preparation (teaching of new modules) to ringfence research time.



  2.4. Research study leave
  Study leave to provide staff with dedicated non-teaching time to focus on research activity is
  underpinned by internal and external research funding. In addition to teaching replacement funded
  through external income, academic staff are able to use internal funding to support this – from a
  small number of taught sessions up to an entire semester. Internal funding sources included staff’s
  £3000 REF 2014 allocations, applications direct to Grants Committee between 2014-2018 or
  through the UoA Working Group, from 2018 onwards, which ensured that the proposed purpose of
  study leave was in line with the strategic goals of the unit. Staff with buyouts supported under
  devolved internal funding include McCulloch (18/19), Andow (18/19); Holyoak (18/19), Dickinson
  (19/20) and Knight (19/20). These resulted in the development of measurable outputs (e.g. Andow
  2020), impact development (e.g. McCulloch’s impact case study) and external income generation
  (Knight, £7,801); future PhD outputs (Andow, Holyoak) and completion of an international
  research project (Dickinson).

  2.5. Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (ED&I)
  As a small university, strategy in relation to supporting and promoting ED&I is centralised, covering
  all aspects of the institution’s operations and led by the HR Department and the Director of
  Equalities and Staff Development. The UoA takes a positive approach to equality diversity and
  inclusion, reflecting this wider University commitment in supporting and promoting equality and
  diversity in research careers (5a, 3.1, 3.2).

  Notwithstanding institution-wide Flexible Working Agreements (FWA) and programmes for
  developing women’s opportunities in academic leadership positions (attended by Dickinson), staff
  also benefit from University training and committee participation relevant for research. In
  compliance with the REF 2021 Code of Practice (p. 2), all members of the UoA Working Group took
  part in bespoke mandatory training in conscious and unconscious bias in relation to REF. This was
  led by the Director of Equalities and Staff Development and was in addition to online training in
  Equality and Diversity which all staff are required to undertake.

  Members of the UoA have also been active in promoting ED&I within the University and in our
  respective disciplines. Senior staff (Hall, Knight, Ball, Dickinson, Scalia) sit on interview panels,
  thereby implementing the University’s recruitment policies on ED&I. Dickinson is an ally member of
  the University BAME Network and led a workshop on decolonising the curriculum in June 2020.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  As a relatively small UoA, data which potentially identify colleagues with Protected Characteristics
  cannot be included in this statement. However, moving forwards, we will be working closely with HR
  and the RKE Centre to address any equality and diversity issues arising from the REF Equality
  Impact Assessments.

  2.6 Doctoral research
  The University’s Postgraduate Research team in the RKE Centre monitors and oversees the
  admission, training, supervision and progress of PGR students (See REF5a, 3.3).

  Supervisory teams are identified and established at a Faculty and RKE Centre level, with
  competitive PhD studentships awarded at institutional level. Owing to our recent establishment as a
  UoA, members have yet to supervise PGR students to completion at Winchester. However, in line
  with its interdisciplinary and collaborative values, and the activities of Research Centres and
  Networks, members have experience contributing to PhD completion in other UoAs in this
  submitting institution (e.g. UoA31 - Knight). Recent appointments also bring experience of PhD
  completions at other institutions (e.g. Dickinson, Earthy) and examining PhDs externally (e.g. Hall,
  Ozaki).

  This UoA therefore is well placed to supervise future PhD students to completion and improve this
  aspect of the UoA’s environment. Developing PhD supervision capacity in disciplines falling within
  the scope of UoA20, like Criminology and Geography, features explicitly in the 2020-2030 Faculty
  RKE Strategy approved in December 2020. As we enter the next REF assessment cycle, we will
  encourage staff and Masters students to apply for external funding to increase the breadth and
  number of doctoral candidates aligned with the UoA. Members contribute to several MSc
  programmes that could provide a pipeline for doctoral students to this UoA, including MSc
  programmes in Applied Criminology, Social Work, Animal Welfare Science, Ethics and Law, and
  Sustainability and Social Justice. Stakeholder relationships outside the institution give the UoA
  scope for the development of PGR funding streams.

  2.7. Research Apprenticeships
  To facilitate the embedding of a research culture across the University, staff participate in the
  Winchester Research Apprenticeship Programme (WRAP). This provides undergraduate students
  with experiences and skills in data collection, analysis and academic writing, and staff with a
  valuable opportunity to develop their mentoring and management of research projects (5a, 3.5).
  Over the period of this REF cycle, successful examples leading to measurable outputs include
  projects on conflict resolution and peacebuilding in Northern Ireland (Grattan 2014) and illicit
  economies (Hall 2017).

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  3.1. External research grant income
  During the current REF assessment period members of the UoA have been successful in securing
  a total of £221,658 external research funding from a range of national and international sources
  including: UK based charities, UK Government Local Education Authority (LEA), Non-EU Industries
  and organisations and private interest groups.

  Members of the Health and Social Care Organization have secured through their extensive
  collaborations with third sector organisations funding to support diverse research on social
  prescribing, reflective social work practice, young carers, and leadership development. Notable


                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  examples include Lees’ extensive research collaborations with the University of Southampton and
  Hampshire Hospital Foundation Trust, which has brought in a total of £57,961.

  Members of the Planetary Welfare grouping have brought in external funding from national and
  international sources to support their work on the human dimensions of climate mitigation, including
  Ozaki, funded by the National Institute for Environmental Studies, Ministry of the Environment,
  Japan for research on urban infrastructural innovation, social practices and sustainable lifestyles
  (2017-2020, £32,152).

  Members of this UoA whose work forms part of this submission have also contributed to the
  external income successes of other UoAs in the submitting institution including UoA19 (Hall, with
  Ziemer - Technology, development, culture and cybercrime: a case study of cybercrime and illicit
  internet use, British Academy £9,991); and with UoA33 (Daykin –What Works for Wellbeing and
  Creative and Credible, both ESRC).

  3.2. Organisational structures for supporting research and impact
  Support for research institutionally is provided by the RKE Centre covering pre- and post-awards,
  research income and knowledge exchange. Their provision for engagement with impact for all UoA
  staff included training and talks for staff, ECRs and PhD students by impact practitioners. Impact
  and public engagement are audited at University level with individual annual returns, while impact
  plans are part of the UoA level RKE returns. The services of a paid external Impact Consultant
  providing tailored, individual feedback supported the development of our impact case studies. This
  has proven invaluable for tailoring future research, impact and funding applications.

  Each of the faculties from which members of this UoA are drawn have a Faculty Research and
  Knowledge Exchange Committee, headed by a Faculty Head who, in coordination with UoA Leads
  briefs staff on funding opportunities, and provides support and guidance in applying for external
  research funding. They are supported by a Faculty Research Officer, who monitors internal and
  external research grants and a Knowledge Exchange Lead to support impact. This team together
  provides advice on income, sources, reviewing applications and circulating advice on other
  successful bids from across the faculty. Faculties also operate peer review for external funding,
  providing applicants with feedback from experienced colleagues. These processes have supported
  external bids in sharing good practice across the UoA.

  All staff at the University of Winchester who submitted to REF2014 were allocated a personal
  research budget of £3000 per year, pro-rata, from QR funding for much of this REF cycle. In
  addition, all staff have opportunities to apply for further funding, managed centrally and disbursed at
  multiple points in the annual calendar. Between 2014-2018 this was managed centrally through
  Grants Committee, and from 2018 onwards devolved to UoA Working Groups (5a, 4.1). The UoA
  has deployed strategically this more devolved approach to support teaching buyout and relief from
  other duties to free up time to write bids (as explained in 2.4), as well as pay for external speakers,
  Open Access charges, conference attendance, travel, fieldwork and impact work.

  The UoA has directly benefitted from both internal funding and the wider institutional and faculty
  structures. Our funds were strategically targeted towards pump-priming expenses, particularly
  those embedded within collaborative practitioner/researcher networks comprising multi-sectoral
  statutory, third sector and private foundations and organisations, with successful examples of staff
  going on to achieve external income generation. A notable example includes Lees’ internal funded
  project Engaging with vulnerable parents to develop tailored health literacy intervention (2014),
  which led to several successful collaborative bids.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  At the UoA level, whole group workshops underpin financial and infrastructural support. Within the
  context of the unit, the UoA lead and senior staff operate as peer reviewers for both funding bids
  and outputs. Prior to the disruptions of Covid-19, there were active plans to use our first research
  Away Day to boost success in external grant capture and impact generation, by sharing and acting
  on both successful and unsuccessful examples of grant applications. The UoA plans to use these
  as examples as part of its grant-mentoring strategy in the next cycle.

  3.3. Infrastructure and facilities

  All Category A staff above 0.7FTE have offices and are individually supplied with regularly updated
  desktop computers and networked access to standard software packages such as the Microsoft
  Office and Adobe suite of programmes, as well as qualitative and quantitative analysis software
  such as NVivo and Atlasti. Researchers can make use of in-kind infrastructure provided by the
  University such as meeting rooms and conference facilities.

  The UoA has made use of the University’s Visiting Knowledge Exchange, Research Fellow and
  Professor schemes to access research facilities, participants and sites outside of the
  institution. Dr. Sanjay Patel was appointed as a Visiting Research Fellow from Southampton
  Children’s Hospital as part of the Wessex Research consortium with Lees. This resulted in a
  number of externally funded research projects and supported this UoA’s policy interventions in
  reflective practice for social and clinical professionals, as well as social prescribing and the
  organisation of service provision, as described in the impact case study and section 4, below.
  Members of the Health and Social Care Organisation research theme expect to benefit from the
  formation of the Hampshire Collaboration for Health Research and Education, a formal
  collaboration agreement between the University and Hampshire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust
  (HHFT).
  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  Closely aligned with the University’s research impact aim, outlined in the RKE Strategy 2015-2020,
  and guided by the aforementioned objectives, staff have been encouraged to develop research
  impact in parallel to the impact case studies submitted by UoA20 through targeted support to
  developing collaborative relationships with research users and beneficiaries. These are
  encouraged, fostered through members’ contributions to university research centres and networks,
  through the distribution of QR funding to support engagement events, salary cover for independent
  researchers and in-kind benefits such as meeting rooms and refreshments. This has resulted in
  numerous and extensive collaborations with a wide range of private, third sector and statutory
  organisations.

  The support at UoA and institutional level for helping to develop impactful collaborations has
  helped members of Health and Social Care Organisation reach an extensive network of local
  service users across Hampshire through their relationships with key partner organisations, third
  sector groups and statutory social work bodies that both fund and benefit from their research.
  These collaborations constitute a significant contribution to community-wide health developments.
  In addition to those described in impact case studies, notable partnerships over the REF
  Assessment period include NHS South West Leadership Academy, Wessex Public Health
  Reference Group, Winchester Diocese and Shirley Health Partnership/Healthier Together.
  Examples of high impact work resulting from this support include Barton’s collaborations with NHS
  South West Leadership Academy, supported and developed through QR funding and in-kind


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  benefits, resulting in a collaborative research grant with NHS Leadership Academy Structure to
  create a national framework for evaluation that will allow a comparison of provision of services,
  return on investment and methodological approaches which will then feed back into a ‘what works’
  agenda. This research was made available to all NHS staff via the LeaDER Hub
  (https://www.hee.nhs.uk/sites/default/files/documents/Evaluation%20Framework%20vF1.2.pdf) and
  was already adopted as common practice by the NHS leadership Academies in the NHS England
  structure (http://ldphub.leadershipacademy.nhs.uk/strategy-and-framework/). This impact is
  described in Barton, A., et al (2017) Looking beyond tasks to develop flexible leadership in the
  British Journal of Healthcare Management 23(3): 225-230.

  Our collaborative and impactful values encourage researchers to engage with diverse
  communities for the dissemination of research findings and the formulation of research agendas.
  Examples include Holyoak’s housing activist research with Southampton Solfed, Andow’s
  research in collaboration with Surrey County Council exploring the use of secure care institutions;
  and Dickinson’s ongoing QR GCRF funded capacity building research with The Aegis Trust and
  Shibuka, both Rwandan non-government organisations working on youth entrepreneurship and
  post-genocide socio-economic reconstruction. Further, Dickinson worked closely on that project
  with UK Rwandese community through John Binama, a social worker and former chair of the
  National Association of Rwandese Communities in the UK and Chair of the International
  Organisation of Migration’s 2017 UK-Rwandan Diaspora scoping review.

  We take our diverse community of beneficiaries to include the non-human. Researchers in the
  Planetary Welfare group have been supported to develop collaborations with users to develop
  societal understanding of the ethics and adaptations necessary to care for its non-human elements
  through their collaborations with organisations such Kashiwa City Council (Japan) and EDF Energy
  and UK Power Networks (Ozaki), Scottish flood risk management agencies such as Scottish
  Environment Protection Agency (Ball) and zoos (Riley). Members of the Centre for Animal Welfare
  developed numerous programmes, workshop and talks aimed at reframing public and policy
  understanding of animal welfare. Beyond those described in McCulloch’s impact case study,
  members have participated in external workshops, consultations and exhibitions including at No. 10
  Downing St (Knight, November 2019).

  Staff have also been active in public engagement. The UoA has encouraged non-academic
  dissemination of research and profile-building through online outlets and popular media, including
  Clement, whose work on riots and protests contributed to ongoing conversations around Black
  Lives Matter through pieces in New York Daily News (June 2020), Al Jazeera ‘Inside Story’
  (October 2019), and an interview for BBC News online (June 2019). McCulloch writes up much of
  his research as blogs and short articles, whilst Hall has contributed articles on his research into the
  rural idyll for The Conversation. Knight, whose primary interest is increasing awareness of animal
  welfare within all levels of society, has a high profile of media interviews, several public
  presentations, YouTube videos and popular articles on animal welfare issues. Knight received a
  2017 Fellowship of the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons (its highest level of qualification),
  conferred in recognition of his success in raising the profile of animal welfare.

  In line with the UoA’s commitment to collaborative interdisciplinarity, we sought to maximise
  collaborative research, both nationally and internationally, as well as institutionally. For example,
  during the current REF period international Visiting Research Fellows and Professors were
  appointed to facilitate collaborative working and provide advice and workshops to colleagues.
  These fellowships facilitated collaboration on several research projects, reports and knowledge
  exchange activities: Professor Norma Daykin’s (University of Tampere) Visiting Research

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Fellowship assisted Lees with the development of the Health and Social Care Organisation group’s
  impact case study on social prescribing.

  Members have been able to develop national and international collaborations through targeted
  internal research funding. Notable examples include Lees, who has developed an extensive
  portfolio of research collaborations, networks and partnerships in the field of reflective practice in
  social work service provision, supported by UoA QR funding, Visiting Fellows and in-kind benefits,
  with Universities of Southampton, Bournemouth, Portsmouth as well as hospital trusts including
  Southampton Children’s Hospital, Tavistock and Portman NHS Trust, Bethlem Royal
  Hospital/Springfield Hospital. These collaborations have resulted in several peer reviewed articles
  and research evaluations in child/family public and health/service improvement. Examples of
  international collaborations supported through UoA funding include Ozaki (collaborating with
  Chiang Mai University, Thailand) and Dickinson (with Aegis Trust, Rwanda). Ball continues to
  collaborate with researchers at University of Portland OR and the University of Cape Coast
  (Ghana), resulting in two outputs (Dittrich et al 2019, Yawson at al 2019).

  At an institutional level, this UoA is important with regards to the number of centres and networks
  to which members contributed (Section 1.3). Knight established the Centre for Animal Welfare in
  2015 to undertake research, teaching and knowledge exchange activities in animal welfare and
  related fields. In the most recent reporting period covering three months from Oct. 2018 – Jan.
  2019, they have jointly published at least three books, 13 articles and chapters.

  All staff contribute to the research base by participating in international conferences and/or giving
  keynote papers and invited lectures. Members of the UoA have been active in conference
  organisation. Hall convened numerous conference sessions at the Royal Geographical Society
  Annual Conference (leading to outputs such as Sidaway and Hall 2018, Boyle et al 2019). He also
  convened three events for the Regional Studies Association Research Network on Illicit Actors,
  Regional Governance and Development in 2015, 2016 with funding from the Regional Studies
  Association, resulting in the publication of an output (Chiodelli, Hall and Hudson 2017). Riley
  convenes the BIAZA Research Conference in her role as Head of the Research Engagement
  Subgroup. Knight organised numerous conferences including in 2016 Animal Welfare and Religion
  at the University of Winchester. Keynote talks have included Lees at the Practice Learning
  Conference, East Anglia Ruskin University (May 2018); Knight at the Ludwig Maximilian University
  of Munich, IVSA Animal Welfare Conference (Oct. 2018); Hall at the ‘Urban futures: Challenges
  and Responses’, Deutscher Kongress für Geographie, Eberhard Karls Universität Tübingen
  (September 2017); Scalia at the Universities of Parma (May 2019), Palermo (May 2020) and Pisa
  (April 2019) in Italy and at various universities in Mexico in late 2019 (Universidad Ibero Americana,
  Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Penales, Escuela de Argomentacion). Invited presentations include
  Hall at Università Iuav di Venezia on ‘The geographies of organized crime’ (2016) and Andow (Feb
  2020) at Northumbria University to share her research findings about everyday life inside a Secure
  Children’s Home.

  Members of the UoA have also been recognised for their research excellence through national and
  international prizes for their research developed at Winchester. Lees won the Annual International
  Self-Care Foundation and SelfCare journal Award for Best Published Paper (£750 prize) for her
  paper 'A qualitative evaluation of parents’ experiences of health literacy information about common
  childhood conditions'. Knight won several awards for significant contributions to the field of
  veterinary medical ethics: the 2019 Shomer Award at the Society for Veterinary Medical Ethics,
  awarded at the Veterinary Meeting and Expo. Orlando, FL, US; and in 2019 the Humane Society
  Veterinary Medical Association Humane Achievement Award. In 2017 Knight was awarded a

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  personal grant by the Ketty and Leif Hjordt Foundation of £4,500 to continue his research in the
  field of animal welfare and ethics.

  Members of the UoA have also been recognised for their expertise and selected for various
  evaluating roles. In terms of editorial work and reviewing, Knight is on the Editorial Board of
  Animals, and the Advisory Board of the Animal Studies Journal, and the credentialing committee of
  the American College of Animal Welfare; Hall is on the editorial board for the Journal of Geography
  in Higher Education (2004 - ) Palgrave Communications (2014 - ) and Geography (2013-2019);
  Scalia is on the editorial board of the Italian journals Studi sulla Questione Criminale (2006
  - ); Antigone (2005 - ); l Rivista Italiana di Scienza dell'Amministrazione (2017 -); and McCulloch is
  section editor of Science, Politics and Policy for the journal Animals; and the Journal of
  Environmental and Agricultural Ethics (JAGE). Riley is Deputy Editor of Primate Eye, Editorial of
  Primate Society of Great Britain. Meanwhile, members of the UoA have been active on national and
  international funding advisory bodies and panels, including Andow (National Association of
  Youth Justice, 2016 to 2020), Lees (National Institute of Health Research Design Service, South
  Central Advisory Group member since April 2019), Hall (ESRC Transnational Organised Crime
  Funding Call Commissioning Panel 2018) and Scalia (Italian Ministry of Education for social
  sciences research projects).

  Staff have been active contributors to national and international professional bodies and learned
  societies taking on a range of steering and committee roles. Examples include Riley who is
  Research Engagement Subgroup chair of the British and Irish Association of Zoos and Aquariums
  Research Committee and is Associate Council Member of the Primate Society of Great Britain.

  Experienced members of the UoA regularly contribute to the sustainability of Social Policy and the
  adjacent disciplines included in this Environment Statement through acting as internal examiners
  for PhD candidates and examining PhDs at other universities (Ozaki, Hall) whilst experienced and
  earlier career staff members contribute through external examining of PGT and UG programmes.
  Examples include Riley who is an External Examiner for UCLAN for all undergraduate Animal
  Studies degrees (2018-present). Knight is on the Credentialing committee of the American
  (veterinary specialty) College of Animal Welfare, and in 2020 helped rewrite their curriculum.




                                                                                            Page 14
