Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 3 (Pharmacy and Dentistry)


 1. Unit overview
 UCL’s research in pharmacy and dentistry seeks to deliver transformative therapeutic advances
 in the discovery, delivery and administration of medicines and to accelerate the prevention and
 treatment of oral disease for patient benefit. The 86.2 FTE staff returned in this Unit of
 Assessment generate world leading basic, clinical and translational research, transfer
 knowledge throughout society and train the next generation of researchers. Our staff are
 engaged in UCL-wide, national and international collaborations, enriching our science at all
 levels.
 This submission comprises research activity within two major units to which staff are affiliated;
 the UCL School of Pharmacy (UCL-SoP; 50.1 FTE), and the UCL Eastman Dental Institute
 (UCL-Eastman; 36.1 FTE), which includes the research activity of the Dental Public Health team
 (3 FTE) employed within UCL Population Health. UCL-SoP and UCL-Eastman are part of the
 UCL School of Life and Medical Sciences (SLMS). In the 2020 World QS rankings UCL-SoP is
 ranked 5th in Pharmacy and Pharmacology and UCL-Eastman is 16th in Dentistry. UCL-SoP and
 UCL-Eastman have a long-standing collaborative relationship integrating research activities; for
 example, they jointly manage a major EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training and collaborate to
 lead major international strategic development projects including creation of new Departments of
 Pharmacy and Dentistry at New Giza University, Egypt.
 The vitality and sustainability of our research is driven by the world-class research environment,
 research culture and facilities of UCL (ranked 8th in the world; QS 2020). The environment has
 provided both major investment and extensive support over the assessment period, allowing us
 to deliver:
       Research grant income (£39M)
       Investment in outstanding unit-specific infrastructure and facilities (£49M)
       Significant strategic research funding (>£10M)
       Highly productive relationships with industry (e.g. £8.2M in consultancy income)
       Recruitment activity at all levels of seniority (22 appointments)
       Diverse clinical collaborations (including 19 current clinical trials)
       Growth in successful spinout companies (currently 13 associated with the unit)
 All parts of the unit enjoy collaborations with world-leading partners and international scientific
 communities (in a survey of unit staff, 76% were involved in international collaborative research),
 highlighting the global reach of our research.
 1.1 Overview of UCL-SoP
 UCL-SoP is a Division within the Faculty of Life Sciences with an annual turnover of ~£23M. It is
 led by a Director (Prof. Duncan Craig) and Divisional Executive Team and consists of four
 Research Departments, (Pharmaceutics, Pharmaceutical & Biological Chemistry, Practice and
 Policy, Pharmacology), each with a Head of Research Department who manages the academic
 and support staff. Associate Director of Research Rahim has the combined role of promoting
 research strategy and mentoring scientists at all levels of seniority. Research Clusters within
 UCL-SoP promote research interactions between Departments and throughout UCL. As one of
 the three international PharmAlliance partners, we form a tri-continental centre of excellence in
 collaboration with the Schools of Pharmacy at Monash University and the University of North




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Figure 1. UCL UoA3 key metrics at a glance
       Pharmacy                                          Dentistry
                         UCL-SoP                                          UCL-Eastman
                         50.1 FTE                                         33.1 FTE + 3 FTE in
                         165 PGRs                                         Dental Public Health
                         Annual turnover £23M                             54 PGRs
                         Infrastructure                                   Annual turnover £12M
                         investment £17M                                  New building £32M
                         >1350 publications                               >775 publications
                         Athena SWAN Bronze                               Athena SWAN Silver

 Carolina. UCL-SoP is also a member of ULLA, a cross-European confederation of pharmacy
 schools supporting EU grant applications and postgraduate training.
 During the assessment period, UCL has invested over £17M in new research infrastructure
 including fume cupboards, laboratory refurbishments and upgrades, heating, water handling
 facilities and improvements to the Biological Services Unit (BSU). UCL-SoP occupies an eight
 storey building on Brunswick Square plus clinical research facilities within the nearby British
 Medical Association complex. UCL-SoP has a dedicated library, IT suite, refectory, common
 room, and BSU as well as a wide range of dedicated analytical, synthetic, spectroscopic,
 microscopic and tissue culture facilities with technical support teams.
 UCL-SoP provides a thriving and opportunity-laden environment for researchers at all levels,
 evidenced in the assessment period by: the recruitment of 15 new permanent academic staff
 (73% female); creation of two EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT) in partnership with
 Nottingham School of Pharmacy with an EPSRC contribution of £11M; managing the
 Maplethorpe Fellowship scheme with King’s College School of Pharmacy to fund young and
 promising pharmaceutical scientists; and, recently, the £1M Thomas Marns Fund to support PhD
 students from disadvantaged and ethnically under-represented backgrounds. In the assessment
 period UCL-SoP staff published >1350 peer-reviewed research articles; these were cited nearly
 20,000 times and included 50 highly-cited documents (top 1% of their field). Two researchers
 (Basit, Gaisford) were recognised two years in a row (2019, 2020) as Web of Science Clarivate
 Highly Cited Researchers. Over 55% of published articles included international collaborators,
 highlighting the global reach of our work.
 UCL-SoP was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze status in 2014, and is in the progress of applying
 for silver (delayed by COVID-19). Our Equality, Diversity & Inclusion (EDI) Committee are
 represented at all management committees within UCL-SoP, and we have a highly active BAME
 awareness and support group.
 1.2 Overview of UCL-Eastman
 UCL-Eastman is a Division within the Faculty of Medical Sciences with an annual turnover of
 ~£12M. It is led by an Institute Director (Prof. Stephen Porter) and Institute Manager, supported
 by the Institute Management Board, and consists of three Research divisions, (Microbial
 Disease (MD), Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering (BTE) and Clinical Research (CR), plus four
 Teaching divisions.
 Following UCL capital investment of £32M during the assessment period, UCL-Eastman has
 moved into two major purpose-built facilities. Firstly, the UCL Rockefeller Building now houses a
 state-of-the-art Clinical Research Facility (Eastman Clinical Investigation Centre, ECIC) as well
 as upgraded offices and IT/AV facilities for research. It is adjacent to the UCL Bloomsbury
 campus and the new Eastman Dental Hospital (opened 2020), thereby accelerating translational
 research, widening collaborations and facilitating knowledge transfer. Secondly, the UCL
 Campus at the Royal Free Hospital (RFH) now houses UCL-Eastman’s laboratory-based
 research facilities supporting Microbial Disease and Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering,



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

              Figure 2. How UCL infrastructure supports research objectives in UoA3

                                                   Pharmacy and Dentistry Research Objectives
                                   Impacting policy      Supporting             Transforming,         Translating basic
                                    and harnessing         product              improving and          research to the
                                    data to improve    development and           repurposing               clinic
                                   patient treatment   working with the        treatments and
                                      and safety         commercial            diagnostic tests
                                                            sector
  UCL Supporting infrastructures




                                                        SLMS Research Coordination Office

                                                                     UCLPartners

                                                            Translational Research Office

                                                              Doctoral Training Centres

                                                         UCL Business & UCL Consultants

                                                             Global Engagement Office

 building on UCL-Eastman’s established research collaborations with UCL Divisions based in the
 RFH (Medicine, Surgical Sciences and Infection and Immunity). In addition to research facilities,
 the new accommodation provides excellent infrastructure support (library, office, social spaces,
 catering and IT). In the assessment period >775 peer-reviewed research articles were published;
 these were cited nearly 12,000 times and included 28 highly-cited documents (top 1% of their
 field). Over 50% of published articles included international collaborators, highlighting the global
 reach of our work.
 As with UCL-SoP, UCL-Eastman provides a thriving environment that ensures all researchers
 can flourish. Examples during the assessment period include the recruitment of 7 (29% female)
 permanent academic staff and major growth in our portfolio of NIHR IAT Academic Clinical
 Lecturers (5, 80% female). Reflecting the strength of the collaborations with the NHS
 (particularly the UCLH Eastman Dental Hospital, part of UCLH NHS Trust), UCL-Eastman
 secured £2.1M funding to create a new Oral Health & Disease Theme within the UCL/UCLH
 NIHR Biomedical Research Centre. This Theme now supports 15 staff delivering one of the
 highest numbers of NIHR Oral & Dental Portfolio trials in secondary care nationally.
 The Dental Public Health Group is based in the multidisciplinary Department of Epidemiology
 and Public Health where their research and teaching activities are integrated with broader public
 health agendas and with clinical colleagues at the Eastman.
 UCL-Eastman was awarded Athena SWAN Silver status in 2015, and has an effective Equality,
 Diversity Inclusion (EDI) Committee that, together with the Institute Manager and Human
 Resource Officer, ensures robust support for staff and students as evidenced by regular staff
 surveys.
 1.3 Strategy for facilitating the achievement of impact from research
 Our major research and impact objectives are in §1.4 and Figure 2. Strategies to ensure that our
 discovery research achieves commercial and clinical impacts include:
                           1. Accelerating research translation for patient benefit, evidenced in this REF period
                              through establishing a new clinical research facility (current portfolio of 19 clinical trials).
                           2. Establishing influential links to policy-making bodies, including informing MHRA on
                              the recent COVID-19 vaccine.


                                                                                                                         Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    3. Promoting active collaboration with commercial partners as evidenced by the
       number of spinouts (13 from the unit) and consultancies within the unit (attracting >£8M
       in income).
    4. Forging international networks to track and harness ‘big data’ to inform health
       policy, harnessing datasets covering >100M patients globally.
    5. Recruiting, developing and retaining a diverse team of researchers; during the
       period our new open-contract appointments were >50% (10) female and 47% (9) self-
       identify as BAME.
    6. Creating and delivering state-of-the-art PhD training programmes incorporating
       strong links to industry (our 2x EPSRC-funded CDT programmes have an intake of 60
       students joint with Nottingham University).
    7. Harnessing major UCL infrastructure and partnerships including collaborations with
       UCLPartners and access to >1800 pieces of shared equipment through the UCL
       Research Equipment Catalogue.
 1.4 Research objectives for the next 5 years
 Our goals for the next period cluster into four broad aims that link basic scientific innovation with
 clinical benefits.
 1.4.1 Impacting policy and harnessing data to improve patient treatment and safety
 Our goal is to deliver research that improves patient treatment and safety as well as influencing
 national and international policy, ranging from medicines safety to orthodontic care. We have
 established many effective collaborations that have delivered outputs and impacts: see Impact
 Case Studies from Franklin, Horne, Watt.
 Underpinning activity:
       Establishment (in 2019) of a designated World Health Organisation Collaborating Centre
        of Oral Health Inequalities and Public Health; this allows researchers to influence policy
        on global standards for dental health and input into forthcoming WHO Global Oral Health
        Report (Watt).
       Establishment (in 2018) of the Neurological and Mental Health Global Epidemiology
        Network (NeuroGEN) to address evidence-gaps in the treatment of neurological and
        mental health disorders. This brings together researchers from Australia, Asia, Europe
        and North America, with combined databases covering >100 million patients (Brauer,
        Lau, Wei, Wong and PharmAlliance partners).
       Establishment (building on a long-term relationship) of a joint UCL-Korea Dental
        Medicine Innovation Centre, funded by the Korean National Research Foundation and
        with a current portfolio of ~15 patents (Knowles).
       Structured senior leadership contributions to the external scientific community in
        medicines usage, including: membership of both the Commission on Human Medicines
        (CHM) and the CHM COVID-19 Vaccines Benefit Risk Expert Working Group involving
        the MHRA’s approval process for COVID-19 vaccines (K Taylor); co-authorship of the
        2017 global classification of periodontal and peri-implant disorders (Needleman); senior
        editorship of BMJ Quality and Safety (Franklin); authorship of PHE guidelines of Oral
        Medicine care during the COVID pandemic (Porter, Fedele).
 Supporting infrastructure: this involves building extensive collaborations with UCLPartners,
 the largest academic health science system in the world, responsible for treating more than 6
 million patients per annum with an annual turnover of ~£2bn, close relationships with UCLH NHS
 Foundation Trust (which includes the Eastman Dental Hospital) and with Imperial College
 Healthcare Trust. In addition, the unit has created close links with the World Health Organisation
 and the International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP).



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.4.2 Supporting product development and working with the commercial sector
 Since 2014 we have accelerated our commercial involvement as we have encouraged
 researchers to engage with industry (62% of staff submitted in the unit have been involved in
 collaborative research with industry), and this is also delivering impacts, see Impact Case
 Studies for Basit, Neidle. This is an area of considerable scientific trajectory as we have a
 growing number of early phase companies and commercial partnerships as well as well-
 established activities leading to marketed products.
 Underpinning activity:
       Harnessing 3D printing to develop medicines and biomaterials; this activity started as
        basic research but has now resulted in two spinouts, including FaBRx which was
        awarded > €5M with collaborators through the Interreg 2 Seas programme and £650k
        (InnovateUK) towards advancing healthcare aims to improve oral drug delivery
        (Gaisford, Basit).
       Creation of the spinout company Nanomerics, specialising in developing chitosan-based
        nanotherapeutics and supported by UCL Business. The company won the 2016 APS
        Innovative Science Award and the Royal Society of Chemistry's 2017 Emerging
        Technologies Award (Uchegbu, Shatzlein).
       Development and commercialisation (by the spin-out company Intract) of Phloral, a dual-
        mechanism coating to allow drug targeting to the colon, currently being used for the
        treatment of Crohn’s and other bowel diseases (Basit).
       Collaboration with AFYX to develop a revolutionary drug-delivery system for the
        treatment of chronic inflammatory disease of the oral mucosa (Fedele).
       Collaboration with SALIWELL Ltd to develop an intra-oral electrostimulation device for
        salivary gland dysfunction (Porter).
 Supporting investment: this takes advantage of UCL’s extensive funding schemes for
 translational, consultancy and start-up projects (§3.2). Staff are supported to engage in
 knowledge transfer and consultancy, which has dedicated professional support from UCL
 Consultants. We encourage researchers in this unit to dedicate up to 40 days per year to
 national and international consultancy and knowledge exchange. The achievements of our
 researchers in enterprise and external engagement are recognised in appraisal and promotion
 processes and thus these activities are encouraged for all staff.
 1.4.3 Transforming, improving and repurposing treatments and diagnostic tests
 Major investments to support researchers developing novel and world-leading approaches to
 treatments and diagnosis support delivery of this aim as it improves clinical trials and delivers
 clinical and therapeutic benefits to patients. Several Impact Case Studies (Wei, Tuleu) highlight
 the progress in this aim. Innovating to improve approaches via clinical, computational, statistical
 and policy-driven approaches is a growing component of our portfolio.
 Underpinning activity:
       A major investment supporting translation of treatments and diagnostics is the ECIC,
        allowing extension of trials of novel devices, including: neuro-electrostimulation devices
        in the treatment of Sjögren’s syndrome (SALRISE study); novel approaches to diagnosis,
        including of oral cancer (LEGEND study); the first UK trial for repurposing sodium
        valproate in epigenetic reprogramming of high-risk epithelial dysplasia in the
        chemoprevention of oral cancer (SAVER trial); and, repurposing pentoxifylline/tocopherol
        for soft tissue fibrosis of head and neck radiotherapy (Fedele, Porter).
       With Yale University School of Medicine, we are developing innovative diagnostic
        computational models increasingly used clinically to predict patient outcomes and plot
        treatment pathways in rare diseases such as sporadic congenital hydrocephalus
        (Haider).


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we are collaborating with an international
        consortium led by the National Research Council in Italy to optimise clinical trial design
        for treatments by applying virtual pharmacokinetic models to develop appropriate dosing
        regimens (Della Pasqua).
       Collaborating with Dundee University, Wei (see Impact Case Study) revealed the impact
        of sodium content in medicines leading to changes in European Medicines Agency and
        NHS guidelines and altered prescribing habits to reduce risks to patients with
        predisposition to cardiovascular conditions.
 Supporting investment: This objective is a high priority for the university, as evidenced by
 £0.45M investment creating six dedicated Therapeutic Innovation Networks (TINs), run by the
 Translational Research Office, and recently awarded an additional £1M from Wellcome. TINs
 promote internal collaboration across six priority areas and provide funding opportunities and
 connections with external partners. Staff in this unit chair the Drug Repurposing TIN (Della
 Pasqua), and co-chair the Regenerative Medicine TIN (Knowles).
 1.4.4 Translating basic research to the clinic
 We seek to link our research from fundamental discovery science through to clinical translation
 and clinic-ready treatments. In the previous REF period we laid the groundwork for multiple
 clinical treatments, including ATMPs and nerve engineering; in this assessment period we have
 made considerable advances in this area and are poised to deliver significant clinical impacts.
 Underpinning activity:
       Our work in Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products (ATMPs) has been awarded MRC-
        DPFS funding to support pre-clinical translation and first-in-human gene therapy trials for
        Gaucher Disease (£0.79M; Rahim) and epilepsy (£1.8M; Schorge). Momentum is
        evidenced by new funding since August 2020 for treatment of Neimann-Pick disease
        (£2M DPFS, Rahim), and further investment of >£3.5M from UCL Technology fund for
        projects with partners in the unit now progressing to clinical trials (§3.2).
       GeneTxNeuro, a self-contained gene therapy facility allowing synthesis of gene therapy
        vectors funded by UCL (SLMS-CEF, £99k) and a two-year research fellowship (£117k) in
        collaboration with UCL-Institute for Child Health and the Great Ormond Street Hospital
        for Children NHS Foundation Trust (GOSH) NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC)
        (Schorge, Rahim).
       We established the London Centre for Nerve Engineering (supported by a £1.1M EPSRC
        award), in 2018 to develop and translate engineered tissue towards clinical trials in nerve
        injury (Phillips).
       Completion of proof-of-concept clinical trial of novel, UCL-Eastman developed “SMART”
        restorative dental materials assuring strong retention, promotion of remineralisation and
        avoidance of the need for aerosol-generation making them safe for use during COVID-19
        (Young, Ashley).
       Establishment of a new theme (2016, £2.1M investment) within the UCL/UCLH NIHR
        BRC in Oral Health and Disease to develop new treatments for significant oral disease
        (Fedele, D’Aiuto, Young).
       Appointment of a founding member of open source drug discovery (Todd) to the unit.
        The Open Source Malaria (OSM, with MMV (Geneva)), Open Source Mycetoma
        (MycetOS, with DNDi (Geneva)) and Open Source Antibiotics consortia are now led by
        the unit, as is the broader Open Source Pharma movement.
 Supporting investment: During the assessment period, we have secured £10.7M for clinical
 trials including those conducted in the Eastman Clinical Investigation Centre (part of the
 UCL/NIHR UCLH BRC award), the Leonard Wolfson Experimental Neurology Centre and the
 NIHR UCLH Clinical Trial Facility, all of which have been used by researchers in this


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 submission. In addition, a UCL Translational Research Office Drug Discovery Unit is now
 embedded in UCL-SoP (£2.5M investment).
 1.5 Delivery of strategy outlined in REF2014
 1.5.1 Global healthcare
 Our considerable success in delivering this aim is now underpinning our first objective for the
 coming period (§1.4.1). In particular, our commitment to reducing global oral health inequality led
 to the creation of a WHO Collaborating Centre, and the award of £2M to the Oral Health &
 Disease Theme of the NIHR UCLH Biomedical Research Centre (Watt). Watt also now co-
 chairs the Lancet Commission on Oral Health, established in 2020 in light of the neglect of oral
 diseases in global health agendas, and his continuing impact is highlighted in our Impact Case
 Study on the social causes of oral health inequalities.
 Our strengths are exemplified by leading roles guiding international policy. The Impact Case
 Study of Wei describes research leading to development of international guidelines for safe salt
 intake from medicines. Franklin advised WHO guidelines on medicines safety. Bates serves as
 Director of Education Development for the International Pharmaceutical Federation (FIP) and his
 instrumental role in developing the Global Strategic Framework for Workforce Development.
 This Framework has now been adopted worldwide as a guide to education of existing and future
 pharmacists, and our work here is supported by the appointment of Mills. Additional
 appointments of Whittlesea and F Smith expand our research into the role of community
 pharmacies in public health, including in low-income countries.
 Fedele contributed to the European Association of Oral Medicine consensus guidelines on the
 management of oral lichen planus. Needleman and Ashley proved the importance of oral health
 to athletic performance, influencing national and international health policies in sport at any level
 (e.g. International Olympic Committee) and promoted these principles through many media
 outlets (e.g. BBC).
 Our investment in promoting safe medicines has led to academic teaching staff developing
 influential roles, including: in the internationally recognised Fight the Fakes Campaign against
 counterfeit medicines (led by Pyzik); broadcasting on COVID-19 developments for the BBC, Sky
 News and other media outlets; a UCL Global Ambassador with particular interests in female
 education in Pakistan and promoting inclusion of pharmacists in the doctHERs female health
 care promotion programme (led by Bukhari).
 1.5.2 Medicines for children
 Our research developing medicines for children is having global impacts through the work of
 Tuleu, who developed the Safety and Toxicity of Excipients for Paediatrics (STEP) database, a
 free global resource that compiles toxicity information on excipients for children’s medicines
 (§1.4.3, and Impact Case Study). In addition, a diamorphine treatment for severe emergency
 pain in children, Ayendi, was developed by Therakind, the company co-founded by Wong.
 A new initiative is the pre-clinical success of gene therapies for rare childhood diseases, which
 are in preparation for clinical trials, offering new hope to children with devastating disorders
 (Rahim). This work represents our growing strategy in translational research (§1.4.4). We are
 also pushing the boundaries of understanding of rare disease mechanisms by modelling genetic
 mutations leading to cerebral palsy, opening the door to rational treatments (Haider, Nature
 Genetics). The appointment of Haider from a fellowship to a permanent contract will allow
 continued support for this objective.
 This initiative is now being united with our work in global policy and medicines safety (§1.4.1) by
 Lau (appointed in this period) who has used global epidemiology data to reveal the increased
 risk of seizures upon starting treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in
 adolescents (Lancet Child and Adolescent Health).




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.5.3 Nanofabrication
 Facilitation of enterprise and commercialisation of research (§1.4.1) has been critical for
 advanced manufacturing techniques and their roll out to clinical trials. The sophisticated film
 coats for colonic delivery developed by Basit has passed phase III clinical trials, been licenced,
 and launched globally, offering effective treatment for irritable bowel disease affecting 7 million
 people worldwide (see Impact Case Study, Basit). Our investment in 3D printing techniques
 supports multiple spinout companies (Gaisford, Basit, Hilton) and a major EPSRC funded
 collaboration (£0.82M to UCL-SoP) with Cambridge University (Gaisford).
 We continue to lead in the development of new nanofabrication techniques, an area that
 underpins our objective to transform treatments (§1.4.2): Williams published the seminal
 monograph (UCL Press, 2018) on pharmaceutical applications of electrospinning (2,525
 downloads from 89 countries). Our world-leading expertise has led to key roles in large
 collaborative efforts to advance nanofabrication techniques. Knowles, has won EPSRC funding
 (£1.6M total, £1.14M to UCL) and established a collaboration with UCL Mechanical Engineering
 and Oxford University to develop core-shell nanoparticles for enhanced effectiveness for the
 treatment of oral cancers. Craig is part of a major INTERREG EU consortium (IMODE, €6.0M
 total, £0.2M to UCL-SoP), developing nanofabricated gene delivery systems, and two EPSRC
 grants (combined total £0.92M total, £0.47M to UCL-SoP) with UCL Mechanical Engineering to
 develop innovative nanofiber manufacturing approaches.
 To maintain our leading expertise in nanofabrication and support delivery of objectives §1.4.2
 and §1.4.3 we recruited three new academic staff: Parhizkar (nanofibers and
 electrohydrodynamics), Buanz (developing printing methods) and Carruga (acoustofluidic
 devices to develop ultrasound-responsive drug delivery vehicles).
 1.5.4 Microbial diseases
 Our research into the cause and treatment of microbial diseases has global impact; indeed, it
 has an impact beyond the planet as P Taylor advises NASA on the development of microbial
 resistance on space flights. Globally, Della Pasqua provides guidance to the WHO on the
 pharmacokinetics of drugs used in TB. We have also identified a promising new treatment for C.
 difficile, the Impact Case Study by Neidle outlines research and commercial collaboration that
 led to a Phase III clinical trial of ridinilazole.
 A less expected advance in our microbial work reflects the growing understanding of the
 importance of healthy microbiomes; A Smith showed that the environment rather than genetics
 shapes the structure and development of the oral microbiome, and led the expansion of the
 NIHR-funded (£0.3M) impact of the mouth-gut microbial interactions. Work in this area was also
 expanded by the recruitment of Evangelopoulos with expertise in microbial resistance.
 1.5.5 Chemical biology informing drug discovery
 Since 2014, we have recruited five new staff to support this strategy (Todd, Browne, Dickman,
 Woon and Waller). Todd leads on Open Source Drug Discovery as described above, while
 Browne develops novel catalysis and manufacturing approaches to drug synthesis, Dickman
 synthesises and evaluates antimicrobial peptides, Woon is identifying novel epigenetic disease
 targets, and Waller studies drug-nucleic acid interactions for the treatment of cancer and
 infections. In the past 10 years the TRO Drug Discovery Group, embedded in UCL-SoP, has
 supported 14 early drug discovery projects securing £3.9M in funding.
 Linking to our Global Healthcare objective (§1.5.1) Todd supports Open Source Pharma, a drug
 discovery initiative in removing intellectual property restrictions to facilitate access to new and
 existing medicines in low and middle income countries and indeed worldwide.
 1.5.6 Development of novel biomaterials and devices
 Our successes in this arena now underpin our objective to transform and improve treatments
 (§1.4.3). Knowles, with funding from EPSRC, RAFT and UCL TRO (total £0.23M), led the
 development of a new light curable degradable polymer that is now patented by UCL.
 Cunningham and Hunt, with colleagues at Bristol, developed an Index of Orthognathic

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Functional Treatment Need (IOFTN) that is now promoted by international care organisations
 and employed nationally for NHS commissioning of care. In response to the challenge of
 childhood tooth decay and the recent COVID-19 pandemic, Young and Ashley are driving a
 Phase II trial of their novel antibacterial, remineralising, no-drilling/no-aerosol generating dental
 restorative material (>£1M NIHR and NIHR BRC and ~£200k in kind support from industry). In
 addition, Fedele has received funding from NIHR i4i, NIHR BRC, and UCL Innovation &
 Enterprise (total £0.3M) to develop and validate novel devices for non-invasive early diagnosis of
 oral cancer and pre-cancer. To support this initiative, we have made three appointments
 (Nguyen, Poma, Chau).
 1.5.7 Advanced therapy medicinal products (ATMPs) in neuroscience
 We made four academic appointments to take the lead on cell and gene therapies for
 neurological diseases (Schorge, Rahim, Phillips) and using bioinformatics to model complex
 degenerative disorders of the brain (Manzoni). We now have >4 gene therapy treatments
 progressing to first-in-human trials, as well as hosting a UCL spinout developing engineered
 tissue for nerve repair (Glialign, §3.2) We have invested £0.2M in a facility (GeneTxNeuro,
 §1.4.4) designed to support gene therapy researchers across UCL. This places our unit at the
 centre of this vibrant research area, preparing to deliver on our objectives for both new
 treatments (§1.4.4), and attracting new venture investment bringing gene therapy products to
 clinical trials (e.g. UCL Technology Fund, §3.2) plus commercial collaborations (§1.4.2).
 1.5.8 Harnessing pharmacoepidemiology, data mining and artificial intelligence
 Pharmacoepidemiology research has thrived in our unit, as evidenced by 38 high quality
 research outputs since REF2014, and is underpinning one of our key current objectives (§1.4.1).
 Our global remit is supported by formal collaborations with Hong Kong University (HKU), Peking
 University and PharmAlliance partners; these collaborations have led to the shared availability of
 large international patient databases (e.g. 4M individuals from the UK; 23M from Taiwan; 150M
 USA). We applied data mining and artificial intelligence technologies to build on our strengths in
 pharmacoepidemiology (Wong, Wei). We recruited (Bauer, Lau) to support the next generation
 of epidemiological expertise within our community. Work in this area has resulted in publications
 highlighted in Objective 1, and our collaboration with HKU on AI and Pharmaceuticals in Non-
 Communicable Diseases (£3M total, £0.5M to UCL) is central to our aim to harness global data
 for global health (§1.4.1).
 1.6 Support for interdisciplinary research
 A majority of the researchers in the unit carry out interdisciplinary research (64%) with extensive
 collaborations in biomedical and other fields (§4.1). Our research is strategically aligned with our
 partner NHS Trusts, with co-location of UCL academics within the University College London
 Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust and the Royal National and Eastman Dental Hospital, and
 active collaborations throughout the network of NHS trusts of UCLPartners (§4.1.3).
 Examples of UCL funding supporting interdisciplinary work include awards from the UCL Global
 Engagement Office to establish collaborations with colleagues across the world (12 awards, total
 of £38k) and funding for UCL’s Grand Challenges (10 awards, total £32k). Support from the UCL
 European Research & Innovation Office (ERIO) has contributed to winning €6.5M of European
 grant income for the unit. We also receive support for our commercial and translational research
 (§3.2).
 1.7 Progress towards an open research environment
 UCL’s high-level commitment to research transparency and integrity are underpinned by the
 institutional statements/policies described in REF5a. All research in this unit complies with UCL’s
 Statement on Research Integrity (which incorporates the principles of the UK Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity), Code of Conduct for Research, and Statement on Transparency in
 Research. These include policies regarding the use of metrics for Open Research in the context
 of UCL’s commitment to the principles of the San Francisco Declaration on Research
 Assessment (DORA). UCL is a founding member of the UK Reproducibility Network. Extensive


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training and enabling mechanisms (including recognition in promotions criteria) have been
 developed as described in §2.1.2.
 To support our objective to deliver new treatments (§1.4.4), we recruited a world-leading expert
 in Open Science (Todd) who is a founder of the global Open Source Pharma movement, and
 aims to take new medicines to market using a patent-free business model. We also invested in
 open research methods, including the rollout of online laboratory notebooks for all PhD students
 in UCL-SoP. Additional flagship investments in promoting reproducibility include the Consensus
 Statement on Ethnopharmacological Field Studies (ConSEFS) establishing best-practice in
 research on traditional uses of medicinal and food plants (Heinrich), and research that confirms
 global targets for healthcare workforce are reproducible in a number of WHO regions (Bates).
 In the REF period, 38% of staff published research that reproduces key findings in their field,
 including publishing a textbook for research methods applied to pharmacy settings (F Smith).
 Systematic reviews provide widespread involvement in increasing reproducibility (including 7x
 Cochrane reviews).
 We uphold the highest levels of research integrity, and three main initiatives promote a culture of
 integrity from ‘pitch’ to patient. Firstly, major research proposals are subjected to internal peer
 review where they are vetted by ‘Peer Pitching’ sessions prior to applications for funding. These
 sessions aim to oversee not just the quality of the proposed science but the integrity and
 robustness of the team. Secondly, we support the 3Rs in Animal research, including sitting on
 the funding panel of the NC3Rs (Chau), co-chairing the UCL 3Rs committee (Schorge) and
 sitting on the UCL Animal Welfare Strategic Committee (Shah). Finally, as work progresses to
 the clinic, all academic staff involved in clinical and translational research maintain up to date
 good clinical practice (GCP) training overseen by the ECIC. Clinical Research Governance of
 all studies with human participants complies with the current national regulations (e.g. NHS
 Ethics, MHRA) and local (UCLH) SOPs.
 In addition to upholding the UCL standards for Open publishing, 33% of staff have deposited
 research data into open source public sharing platforms, including: whole-genome sequences,
 3D printing files, neuronal reconstructions, and novel chemical structures. Platforms include:
 Biological Magnetic Resonance Data Bank (BMRB), ModelDB, NeuroMorpho.org, Zenodo,
 CALIBER (a platform consisting of ‘research ready’ variables from electronic health records
 (EHR)).
 Both UCL-SoP and UCL-Eastman have been involved in improving research reporting, with 19%
 of staff delivering examples of best reporting practice. These include: meeting best practice for
 clinical trial designs, PROSPERO, PRISMA Extension for Network Meta-analysis, clinical and
 diagnostic studies fitting STROBE, CONSORT, and STARD guidelines and use of online public
 laboratory notebooks.


 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy and staffing development
 All parts of the unit are committed to securing the vitality and future sustainability of our research
 environment via staff development and recruitment. We attract, develop and retain academic
 leaders through a comprehensive programme of support and development opportunities to
 ensure a vibrant and inspiring research environment characterized by research excellence and
 contributions to research impact.
 Our HR team, Faculty and Institute-level leaders help staff thrive by offering comprehensive
 training courses and leadership development programmes, facilitated by industry-leading
 trainers, as well as online learning and bespoke activities. To ensure we are aware of any staff
 concerns, and to assist in the design of support mechanisms, UCL surveyed our staff in 2015
 and 2017.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.1.1 Staffing strategy
 All parts of the unit actively implement the 2019 “Concordat to Support the Career Development
 of Researchers” (https://bit.ly/3qtbD3o) at all career stages through appraisal probation and
 promotion schemes, mentoring, networking, training, succession planning, and by developing
 leadership that reinforces our commitment to the Concordat. We map skills with our research
 priorities to target recruitment of academic staff who will contribute to, and benefit from, a
 thriving research environment. Recruitment is based on excellence, and is targeted to sustain
 the critical mass needed to deliver real impact in our priority areas. All the academic
 appointments since 2014 match the themes outlined in REF2014 (§1.5). Professional support
 staff, including professional technical staff, support research and training activities across the
 unit (e.g. trained technical staff support our NMR and confocal imaging facilities). We also have
 a trial manager, a trial coordinator and 3 research nurses supporting our clinical trials unit ECIC.
 Supporting fair recruitment is central to our mission of increasing diversity, and a centrally
 supported programme provides Fair Recruitment Specialists to assist with this, while UCL
 Human Resources policies aim to ensure that all stages of the appointment process
 acknowledge core principles of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. Evidence of our success is that
 since REF2014, the unit has made 22 academic research appointments, of whom 55% are
 female. Transparent processes are applied to all recruitment along with well-defined recruitment
 procedures to ensure equitable practices. Along with gender equality, we ensure recruitment
 panels reflect the ethnic diversity of our community and applicants.
 2.1.2 Staff development and promotion
 UCL’s Academic Careers Office (ACO), which brought in £9.2M in grant funding in 2018/19,
 promotes, supports and develops all aspects of academic and clinical academic careers in
 SLMS through a range of programmes and support schemes. Their career schemes aim to give
 researchers the funding, skills and personal qualities necessary to succeed in research. In 2019-
 20, the ACO trained >1000 UCL research staff. UCL also offers a cross-institutional BAME
 mentoring programme and an Inclusive Advocacy sponsorship programme, which aims to
 increase the proportion of BAME staff in UCL leadership.
 We provide all new staff with structured induction and mentoring, opportunities for coaching via a
 recognized set of UCL-registered professional advisors, and provide funding and senior
 leadership support and mentorship for major leadership training courses (e.g. 22 staff attended
 the Women in Leadership course, 11 attended Senior Women in Leadership, and 11 staff
 attended the UCL Future Leaders course). UCL also invests in a large number of training
 courses within the Staff Development programme; this includes opportunities for our
 professional support staff to spend time working in other divisions to enhance their skills. For
 example, our Biological Services Unit technical staff now work across UCL rather than just in
 UCL-SoP, thereby enhancing their skills and experience.
 The UCL annual appraisal scheme provides a structured template for staff to develop ambitious
 but realistic objectives, help realise career goals, and mentor towards promotion (which is
 discussed at every appraisal), in particular identifying areas within the broad categories of
 research, teaching, knowledge transfer, and enabling where support may be required for
 progression. These appraisals and mentoring approaches have resulted in a successful
 promotions profile with 20 academic staff promoted since 2014.
 Many staff are allied to non-academic institutes, with 12 pharmacists and 28 dentists delivering
 research within the primary (e.g. Greenlight Community Pharmacy) or acute NHS sector (e.g.
 Imperial Hospital Pharmacy, and Eastman Dental Hospital). Five staff have taken secondments
 or periods of leave in order to establish or maintain links with non-university groups, including
 the Royal College of Surgeons (Hunt), secondments in the NHS (Franklin, Bates), a sabbatical
 at KAIST in South Korea (Murdan), and a Marie Curie RISE grant (Williams), which funds
 academia-university collaborations. We have also won three secondments from the UCL
 Innovation and Enterprise managed EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account aimed at embedding
 research in industry (total of £52k).


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Promotions follow UCL’s Academic Career Framework (ACF) which was comprehensively
 revised in 2017/18 to support every type of academic career path via a robust set of processes
 with clear criteria. Whether academic staff deliver research and education in equal measure,
 specialise in enterprise or focus on teaching or research, the framework ensures that
 contributions are assessed consistently and fairly. The ACF has explicitly recognised
 contributions to open science, incorporating UCL’s commitments as a signatory of the San
 Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment.
 Evidence supports that our efforts are having impact. Since REF2014, we have increased the
 representation of female professors from 12 (27%) to 16 (31%). We have also positively
 supported non-white staff with an increase from 6 (13%), to 10 (20%) at professorial level. While
 these data are encouraging, and suggest our activities are helping increase under-represented
 staff, we work to improve procedures to ensure the trends continue.
 2.1.3 Support for early career researchers
 Within the unit, our support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs) and researchers on fixed term
 contracts is evidenced by 7 staff on fixed term contracts or Fellowships being appointed to full
 academic posts within the unit (71% female).
 We also have access to specialised funding for ECRs. In collaboration with Kings College
 School of Pharmacy, UCL-SoP runs the Maplethorpe Fellowship scheme, whereby typically one
 Fellow is appointed annually for a two-year period, often leading to further positions including
 permanent academic posts (e.g. F Smith is a former fellow). UCL offers funding for ECRs to
 present at meetings, and the unit typically adds a further 50% to successful applications.
 PharmAlliance (UCL, Monash and UNC) also supports a scheme targeting ECRs for pilot and
 travel funding and we are developing a shared, international mentorship scheme for ECRs. To
 support effective grant writing, our ECRs work with UCL SLMS Research Facilitators, a team
 trained to advise on fellowship applications, including preparation for interviews. During COVID-
 19 UCL supplemented the furlough scheme, adding 20% to top up the salary to full rates, and
 ECRs were given priority as active researchers to return to our campus facilities where social
 distancing limited numbers.
 Our support for ECRs results in international prizes and awards, including: R. Earl Robinson
 Periodontal Regeneration Award at the 2018 Annual Meeting of the American Academy of
 Periodontology in Vancouver (Buti), and the EAPD Young Scientist Award (Lygidakis).
 2.2 Postgraduate research students
 Postgraduate Research (PGR) students form a key part of our research community. We
 currently host 219 Postgraduate Research (PGR) students (165 in UCL-SoP and 54 in UCL-
 Eastman). Since 2014, 304 full and part time PGRs completed their degrees. We work to
 maintain diversity of our PGR population, and are proud to have maintained a ~50% female
 intake since 2014, while increasing our population of students that do not identify as white to
 ~80% in 2019/20 (from 60% in 2013/14). Our programmes are highly international with >66% of
 students from outside the UK/EU (increased from <50% in 2013/14).
 Our PGR students have dedicated study spaces in the new 1000 seat Student Centre (§REF5a),
 new facilities for UCL-Eastman including a 1338.1 m2 Hub on the Bloomsbury site and 1005.8
 m2 in the Royal Free site, as well as dedicated library, study and social space in the ‘Junior
 Common Room’ at UCL-SoP.
 2.2.1 PGR Programmes
 We have had extensive success obtaining funding from prestigious funding bodies including
 fellowships from the Royal Society, Leverhulme Trust, EPSRC, NIHR, ESRC, European
 Commission. We co-host two EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training; the Advanced Therapeutics
 and Nanomedicines CDT (£4.6M from the EPSRC, joint with Nottingham, led by Williams, with
 Co-I Knowles), and the EPSRC & SFI CDT in Transformative Pharmaceutical Technologies
 (£6.4M overall; UCL £3.1M, led by Brocchini). Both CDTs link academic and industry research
 (60 PhD students over 10 cohorts/16 years). In collaboration with European academic and

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 industrial partners, the unit is building a new doctoral training programme funded by the
 European Commission (£225k to UCL, Orlu, Basit). UCL-Eastman has a successful research-
 driven Doctorate in Dental Surgery in Paediatric Dentistry (the D.Dent, led by Ashley and
 Parekh). Finally, following a recent gift, the Thomas Marns Fund (£1M) has been established to
 fund students from disadvantaged and diverse backgrounds to study for a PhD.
 2.2.2 Monitoring progress and supervision
 All research students are supported throughout their degree by the UCL Doctoral School which
 has regular milestones (literature review, progress reports), and upgrade from MPhil to PhD is
 expected after 9-12 months. A Departmental Graduate Tutor (DGT) is responsible for ensuring
 fair and equitable student recruitment, appropriate supervision, progress from MPhil to PhD
 registration, and thesis submission. Tutors also advise students about additional resources that
 may be necessary and provide support if they encounter difficulties. All students are allocated to
 an experienced principal supervisor, while subsidiary supervisors have specific expertise in parts
 of the research undertaken. Staff must attend a course on PhD supervision before being
 permitted to supervise (44 staff have completed this training since 2014) and must act as a
 subsidiary supervisor before being primary supervisor.
 Progress is monitored in real time using the online Research Student Log. This documents
 academic progression and skills development training and reflects a dialogue between students
 and principal and subsidiary supervisors. It allows students to record and reflect on their review
 meetings (including important milestones such as the MPhil to PhD upgrade) plus discussions
 on academic (subject discipline), generic and transferable skills training.
 2.2.3 Training and career support
 Particular emphasis is placed on careers guidance and skills development both via the Doctoral
 School and the student’s research group. The success of these mechanisms is confirmed by first
 destination data from the Graduate Outcomes Survey: of PhD students graduating in 2017-18,
 89% went on to graduate-level full- or part-time employment, and 4% to further study, and the
 median starting salary was £39K.
 All students are expected to take advantage of the Doctoral Skills Development Programme
 and/or appropriate departmental courses for a period equivalent to 2 weeks per year. There are
 over 220 different courses across the full range of skill domains defined by the Researcher
 Development Framework (RDF). Training activities are assigned points and students are
 expected to accumulate an average of 20 points per year. Examples include the following: we
 have had 33 students complete SPERO, the new entrepreneurship training programme for PhD
 students provided by UCL Innovation & Enterprise; >300 PGRs have undertaken the UCL
 ARENA introduction to teaching, and 69 have completed the first programme of training to
 become educators, while 17 PGRs have completed training in Public Engagement. The training
 record is documented in the Research Student Log for the supervisory team and DGTs.
 Research students regularly assess and plan their skills training needs in discussion with their
 supervisory team using the skills self-assessment tool in the Research Student Log.
 Students are encouraged to hone their presentation skills at the Annual PhD student days (with
 prizes for best poster and best talk) and engagement with the National 3MT (Three-minute
 Thesis competition). They also compete for sponsored prizes in dentistry, and philanthropic
 Medal prizes. All students are encouraged, and offered financial support, to present at major
 international conferences. PharmAlliance offers funds for travel and research for UCL-SoP
 students. UCL also offers support for financial hardship and wellbeing issues.
 Recent awards to our PGRs include: ‘Best Abstract’ from AAPS (2x 2019), Most Innovative
 Publication from Pfizer (2018), as well as being recognised as in the top 200 Women in
 Technology by We Are Women Tech (2019).
 2.2.4 Support during COVID-19 pandemic
 The COVID-19 pandemic and the temporary closure of non-essential research facilities and
 laboratories in March 2020 created major challenges for our doctoral researchers. To support all
 PhD students, UCL implemented several measures to ensure continuity of supervision, support,

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training, and funding throughout the period of lab closure and beyond. These measures include:
 (i) the UCL Stipend Extension Scheme to support final-year funded students in submitting their
 thesis, by underwriting funding at the agreed minimum London UKRI rate for up to 3 months and
 allowing Departments/Supervisors to top-up extensions for longer periods from their own funding
 sources; (ii) provision of 200 free places for online bespoke training for biomedical PhD students
 in computing and statistical methods, including artificial intelligence (SysMic).
 2.3 Equality and diversity
 Achieving representation of staff from diverse backgrounds is central to our aim of creating a
 vibrant, sustainable environment that facilitates world-class research. Since REF2014, we have
 4% more women, as well as a 14% increase in staff who do not identify as white. Moving
 forward, our focus is to increase the recruitment of BAME staff, and to better support the career
 development of existing BAME staff and students.
 Our active EDI committee provides representation on all senior committees. Institutional EDI
 practices include training on unconscious bias, gender equality, best interview practices and
 gender fluidity awareness as well as clear guidelines on inclusivity within committees, family-
 friendly working practices and data scrutiny on degree classification, promotions and staffing
 recruitment and seniority. All UCL-SoP staff undertake EDI training as part of the MPharm
 accreditation by the General Pharmaceutical Council. Local best practices include:
       UCL-Eastman extended Athena SWAN Action group to consider all aspects of EDI
        across all staff and students
       UCL-SoP established a BAME subgroup to the EDI committee immediately attracting
        over 40 volunteers
       UCL-Eastman runs unconscious bias training programmes and has extended externally-
        sourced unconscious bias and EDI training (by national groups – Goss consultancy) to all
        students
       Uchegbu and Ali are active members of the UCL Race Equalities Group
       Uchegbu is also the Provost’s Envoy for Race, a formal UCL leadership position.
       The Pharmacy Schools Council published a national BAME support policy drafted by
        Craig and Brown (UCL-SoP Principal Teaching Fellow)
       The unit supports one of the very few black female professors in the UK (Uchegbu,
        highlighted in Nature Career Feature ‘What does it take to make an institution more
        diverse?’ 2018).
       UCL-Eastman (Porter) contributes to the UK Diversity in Dentistry Action Group.
 2.3.2 Sustaining and tracking success
 The impact of our EDI work is monitored by annual staff surveys. Changes within UCL-SoP are
 overseen by the new coordinator of Wellbeing activities (Lever). The UCL-Eastman Athena
 SWAN (now EDI) group is overseen by Parekh and the Institute Manager. UCL-Eastman won
 Athena SWAN Silver status in 2015 (extended to 2021) and UCL-SoP achieved Bronze status in
 2014 (extended to 2022).
 2.3.3 Supporting flexible working
 The unit supports staff working flexibly, both to allow them to work in different environments such
 as collaborating universities or companies, and to support staff with family and other
 commitments. Examples include Wong (0.2 FTE with Hong Kong University), Della Pasqua (0.5
 FTE with GSK), F Smith (0.6 FTE), Mills (0.6 FTE). The success of this support is underscored
 by Franklin who on a 0.2 FTE contract (with Imperial College Hospital Trust) is leading one of
 our Impact Case Studies. The unit is supportive and flexible for welcoming staff back from
 individual and shared parental leave (which has no qualifying length of service requirements),
 including phased returns, realistic workload expectations and supporting progress towards
 promotions.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 We support integration of practice and clinical contracts with research. We have 12 GPhC
 registered pharmacists, 9 teaching practitioners, 12 NHS secondees, and 28 GDC registered
 dentists providing activities to the NHS, 24 (86%) of whom are specialists and/or NHS Honorary
 consultants. Two staff are also GMC-registered and provide research training to NHS medical
 trainees and undergraduates.
 2.4 EDI considerations in preparation of this REF submission
 One of our principal objectives in preparing our submission was to ensure that all staff,
 regardless of background, were equitably represented. Staff were invited to submit their best
 outputs and, to minimise the influence of bias, these outputs were reviewed by at least two
 members of a panel selected to be representative of the diversity of our staff population (33%
 female, 20% non-white). Equalities analysis carried out by the UCL REF team provides evidence
 that our approach has been successful, with BAME staff being more likely than white staff to
 have an output attributed to them (1.03 vs 0.89 probability), and increases were seen for both
 BAME men and women. The results for women were slightly less encouraging, however, with
 the likelihood of output attribution being 0.83 for women and 1.13 for men. We will feed this
 information into the ongoing implementation of our Athena SWAN action plans and, in particular,
 investigate whether success is correlated with any of our interventions e.g. leadership training
 (§2.1.2).


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income summary
 The unit has been awarded £39M in competitive research income since 2014 plus an additional
 £8.2M in consultancy funds. Research income is from diverse sources including Research
 Councils (£13M), charities (£3M), industry (£6M), government bodies (£13M) and other sources
 (£4M).
 Examples of major funding successes include:
       Two Centres for Doctoral Training (EPSRC contribution £11M) outlined in §2.2
       European Commission: The Discoveries Centre (£3.8M) Knowles
       MRC DPFS award for Gene therapy in epilepsy (£1.8M) Schorge
       EPSRC grant to support the Centre for Nerve Engineering in collaboration with UCL
        Mechanical Engineering (£1.1M) Phillips
       EPSRC grant for Raman nanotheranostics (£1M) Uchegbu
       NIHR for new dental restorations (£0.97M) Young
 The overview is in §REF4b; here we focus on how the environment has promoted the generation
 of income and funded research.
 3.2 Support from UCL for research funding, impact and best practice
 The UCL community provides a broad network of support, close links to major funding sources
 and opportunities for commercial and clinical funding. The SLMS Research Facilitators provide
 directed support to staff in the effective preparation of grants and fellowships, including support
 letters, internal peer review and mock interviews. UCL Research Services facilitates all external
 grant applications, including providing alerts for opportunities, specific support for Fellowships
 and large programme grants, costing and financial management of grants. The unit’s finance
 officers assist with costing and monitor our internal peer review system (a requirement for
 submission) to ensure best practice.
 We support and accelerate commercialisation, including patent protection and/or licensing,
 through UCL Business; one of the UK’s largest and most successful technology transfer
 companies), which provides dedicated professional support to researchers to develop, protect

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and exploit IP. Many of our collaborations involve funding beyond basic research and within UCL
 this work is supported by strategic funding schemes:
 Translational funding. The Translational Research Office funds research transitioning towards
 clinical or commercial realisation, including internal proof-of-concept funds (Therapeutic
 Acceleration Awards, TAS), and the EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account (for previously funded
 EPSRC research). TAS funding supports translational concepts, with >£200k awarded to the
 unit, including funding to: optimise nerve engineering work, translate gene therapy for rare
 diseases, and 3D printing of implantable devices. Internal funding is focussed on generating pilot
 data for applications to external funders such as the MRC Developmental Pathway Funding
 Scheme. We currently hold three DPFS awards (representing a total of £3.3M funding), and
 have had an additional award (£2M) since starting the new REF period.
 Venture Funding, including the Apollo Fund (£40M available) and the UCL Technology Fund
 (£53M), supports research projects close to commercialisation. These funds provide support to
 bridge the gap between basic research and industrial funding. Examples of such funding within
 the unit include £1M from the UCL Technology fund interrogating lead nucleotide targets in
 pancreatic cancer (Neidle), and £500k from Apollo to develop gene therapy for Gaucher disease
 (Rahim). The UCL Technology fund also supports spinouts: an initial £120k investment in
 Glialign (Phillips) has allowed the spinout to progress to a further funding round (in progress).
 The momentum in this area is evidenced by >£3.5M invested since the start of 2020 by the UCL
 Technology Fund in three projects with partners in the unit (Phillips, Rahim, Schorge).
 Consultancy UCL Business and UCL Consultancy are instrumental in assisting with the
 establishment of spinouts and major consultancy activities (£8.17M to the unit since 2014),
 including the joint (pharmacy, dentistry and medicine) project with New Giza University (§4.1.1).
 3.3 Research governance
 UCL has a set of research governance policies, detailed in REF5a, that underpin expectations
 about the conduct of research. The Code of Conduct for Research articulates UCL’s
 expectations and defines action to be taken if an individual is suspected or accused of research
 misconduct. All issues relating to confidentiality and security in the use of patient and participant
 data fall under UCL’s Data Protection policies and the Data Protection office provides extensive
 training, guidance, and support.
 3.4 Facilities and infrastructure
 The two main facilities for UCL-Eastman and UCL-SoP (described in §1.1 & §1.2) are
 complemented by additional hubs supporting specialised research needs. We have access to a
 number of central sources of funding for the infrastructure required for research, including direct
 support of facilities (£49M since 2014), and awards through a central Capital Equipment Fund
 (£1M since 2014) to purchase specialised equipment.
 3.4.1 New infrastructure at the UCL-Eastman
 Since 2014 UCL has invested £32M in relocation and new infrastructure for UCL-Eastman to
 support and extend research capabilities. Clinical trials and translational research have been
 enhanced by the establishment in 2020 of a research facility within the Rockefeller building (and
 by close apposition to UCLH Eastman Dental Hospital) that includes 8 fully equipped clinical
 rooms, all with disabled access, a biobank within a dedicated laboratory for the processing and
 storage of clinical samples (including new medicinal products relevant to tissue engineering, cell
 and gene therapies) and new on-site imaging facilities including Cone Beam Computed
 Tomography (CBCT) and Ultrasonography. UCL-Eastman also negotiated ring-fenced facilities
 within the new £100M UCLH Eastman Dental/ENT Hospital for clinical research.
 The construction of an innovative joint imaging facility at the Royal Free Hospital, led by UCL-
 Eastman Department of Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering, will consolidate existing facilities
 within the Department with those of the UCL Division of Surgery. An additional investment of
 ~£300k to install a new state of the art FE-SEM confocal and AFM-Raman microscope systems
 capable of TERS imaging enhances opportunities for several SoP groups (e.g. Phillips, Harvey)
 as well as those of UCL Surgery and Interventional Sciences and Medicine (returned in UoA1).

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research is supported at the Royal Free site by significant upgrades including: investment in
 three Category 2 laboratories, a new chemistry and characterisation laboratory, a new tissue
 culture facility and significant new imaging capabilities in a dedicated suite.
 The Dental Public Health Group offices have recently been extensively refurbished to upgrade
 the teaching and research facilities.
 3.4.2 New infrastructure at UCL-SoP
 Since REF2014, ~£17M has been invested in upgrading UCL-SoP facilities, including
 improvements to infrastructure, refurbishing research laboratories, and upgrading the dedicated
 animal facility (BSU) based within UCL-SoP to provide one-way flow and individually ventilated
 cages (IVCs) for animals. Central capital equipment funding supports specialised research,
 including: enhanced imaging for live cells using a Zeiss LSM 980 with Airyscan 2 capable of
 super-resolution imaging (down to 120nm). UCL-SoP also purchased two EVOS® FL Imaging
 Systems which are integrated digital systems for four-color fluorescence and transmitted-light
 applications. This live cell imaging complements an enhanced electron microscopy facility
 including AFM, TEM, and SEM microscopes with technical support.
 Growing success in research into applications of 3D printing for drug formulation and delivery is
 supported by 3D printing equipment; in addition to the bespoke printers in individual labs, a core
 facility featuring an Aether 1 Bioprinter that processes 24 materials simultaneously. Altogether
 there are ~40 3D printers available in UCL-SoP and two Form 3 printers.
 Drug discovery and pharmaceutics are supported by suites of analytical equipment that are
 managed by dedicated senior technical staff. This includes two LCMS analytical and preparative
 systems for mass directed purification from mixtures of compounds in solutions (£127k each), a
 Microscale thermophoresis instrument (£120k), and a Horiba XploRA Plus Raman Microscope
 coupled with Omegascope optical platform for SPM (£150k). These investments complement
 our existing suite of HPLC systems, mass spectrometry facility, shared x-ray diffractometer
 suitable for small molecule and protein work, as well as essential fume hoods, centrifuges and
 imaging equipment.
 3.4.3 Access to extensive institutional specialist research facilities
 Equipment purchased within UCL is available to all staff through the UCL Research Equipment
 Catalogue providing access to >1800 pieces of shared equipment (mostly above £25,000 in
 value). In the assessment period we have also sought to transform our shared research facilities
 (space, equipment and technical expertise) and to improve the career structure and support for
 our technical workforce. We have done this by launching an initial eight Science Technology
 Platforms (STPs): Genomics and Sequencing; NMR Spectroscopy; Mass Spectroscopy;
 Biological Services; Imaging; Radiochemistry; Cell Sorting. STPs have academic and technical
 leadership who provide strategic oversight of the services offered, its equipment and its technical
 support needs. STPs are subject to rigorous annual review and accountability, after which
 strategic goals are prioritised for funding.
 Two examples of how UCL resources support our objectives are:
       Our gene therapy in epilepsy studies use the world-leading wireless telemetry facilities
        based at Queen Square Institute of Neurology (total cost: >£100k). This facility allows
        24/7 EEG-video recordings of rodents (mice and rats) in their home cages for up to six
        months in randomised, blinded pre-clinical studies of treatment efficacy. All EEG and
        video data are uploaded and stored on UCL’s Research Data Storage Service (§REF5a).
       Our research studying biophysical processes, including studies of DNA and peptides
        which are informing our design of new medicines, uses the ONI nanoimager co-owned
        with the London Centre for Nanotechnology (cost >£250k). This equipment enables
        single molecule fluorescence studies of labelled biomolecules with excellent special
        (~10nm) and temporal (milliseconds) resolution in a range of physiologically relevant
        environments (in solution, membranes and living cells).



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Contribution through collaboration
 Collaborative research is at the core of our unit’s approach. Data contributing to this section
 were gathered in a survey of UOA3 staff in August 2020. 76% of staff collaborated internationally
 with academic colleagues and institutions; 79% of staff were involved in collaborative research
 projects with academic colleagues in other institutions in the UK, many involving shared funding
 or co-supervised PhD students and 63% of staff have collaborators from different disciplines.
 62% of staff collaborate with industry, commercial entities and third sector partners. External
 collaborations are supported through honorary positions. On the census date, 110 honorary
 research positions were held in the unit.
 4.1.1 International collaborations
 Larger strategic collaborations include participation in the PharmAlliance Partnership that brings
 together researchers based at schools of pharmacy at UCL, Monash and the University of North
 Carolina. Major long term funded collaborations are established with Dankook University
 (Knowles) and supported by joint appointments e.g. Wong (Hong Kong University). We have
 created new Pharmacy and Dentistry Schools at New Giza University, Egypt.
 We have a broad and successful portfolio of EU-funded collaborations through the FP7 funding
 stream (Transit, EpitTarget, CloSed, EpiMiRNA, GRiP, PERS), H2020 programmes (Infradev,
 conect4children, BATCure, EPTRI, BISON) and the EU Marie Sklodowska-Curie training
 networks. The Newton fund provides collaborative links with Thailand (Wong, Taylor) and
 Vietnam (Chau). Funded collaborations in emerging countries include: partners in Guatemala
 (Heinrich), Sri Lanka (Williams), Brazil (A Smith) and a strategic partnership fund with IITD-
 Delhi India (Parhizkar). These are in addition to our extensive links with USA, China, European
 and Middle Eastern partners, which are led by individual PIs. Twenty-two staff hosted
 international researchers in the REF period, ranging from established investigators to PhD
 students from countries such as Thailand, Brazil, India, Japan, Korea and Italy.
 4.1.2 Interdisciplinary collaborations
 Interdisciplinary collaborations across UCL’s partner hospitals are central to our strategy of
 translating our research into improved pharmaceutical and oral healthcare. These include
 collaborations with the UCLH Eastman Dental Hospital (six staff), Great Ormond Street Hospital
 (four staff), the Royal Free Hospital and The National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery,
 Queen Square (five staff).
 We collaborate with engineers within UCL and externally. These activities are often supported
 through funding streams where interdisciplinarity is encouraged e.g. EPSRC. Collaborations
 span the engineering disciplines including; Chemical, Electrical, Fluid, Mechanical, Medical and
 Tissue Engineering. Staff also reach across boundaries to develop and deliver new treatments
 through in silico research where there are growing collaborations with computational,
 mathematical and modelling experts.
 Less traditional collaborations include the European Space Agency (P Taylor) and Kew Science
 – Kew Gardens (Heinrich).
 4.1.3 Collaborations with industry
 Building close links to industry partners is a core objective for the unit (§1.4.2), and we support
 collaborations ranging from large pharmaceutical, biotechnology or engineering companies to
 smaller local community pharmacies. Examples with larger multi-national corporations include:
 Astra Zeneca (Chau, Haider), GlaxoSmithKline (Lane, Todd, Della Pasqua, Spratt), Merck
 (Woon), Pfizer (Tuleu, Browne, Craig), Procter and Gamble (Lane, D’Aiuto), Unilever (Hunt,
 Lane).
 We collaborate extensively with small-medium sized enterprises (SMEs) such as Cerner
 (Franklin), GW Pharmaceuticals (Ruiz, Ali), Hygiena International Ltd (Ng), Minerva Research
 Labs (Orlandi), Santen Pharmaceutical (Brocchini), Southern Implants Company (Petridis).

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Further collaborations reaching outside the biomedical space include Blockchain Systems
 (Heinrich) (sustainable sourcing of natural products), Cambridge Reactor Design (Browne),
 Dyson (Knowles), Rakuten (Hopper), Team Consulting Ltd (Chau).
 4.2 Evidence of interactions with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences
 4.2.1 Contributions to the economy
 Research from UCL-SoP and UCL-Eastman has made significant contributions to the UK
 economy. 23% of staff (19) had patents awarded (or approved) with some staff holding multiple
 patents (up to ten). 6 have licenced patents (often more than one). Through UCLC, 27 staff are
 engaged in consultancy.
 4.2.2 Spinout companies
 Our researchers have commercialised research through the formation of 13 spinout companies
 during the assessment period, including:
       Intract awarded £1.4M from Innovate UK to develop a scalable manufacturing process
        for novel oral antibody products using its proprietary Soteria® technology (see Basit
        Impact Case Study)
       Nanomerics spinout: 2016 APS Innovative Science Award and Royal Society of
        Chemistry's 2017 Emerging Technologies Award
       Keregen Therapeutics Ltd was started through the European OneStart competition in
        2014 (a bio-entrepreneur competition)
       senCeuTics Ltd is a services-based spin-out company to provide specialist pre-clinical
        and clinical human taste evaluation models
       Optceutics uses a dynamic ophthalmic pharmacokinetic model to develop intravitreal
        injection and implant based biologic and pharmaceutical products
 4.2.3 Translation of research towards patient benefits
 Translational research represents a significant strength for both pharmacy and dentistry. Clinical
 academics at UCL-Eastman have developed a large portfolio of NIHR-adopted studies with a
 focus on complex experimental medicine clinical trials, directly supporting the UCLH BRC Oral
 Health & Disease Theme. Over the last 5 years these unit staff have recruited 4 times more
 patients (1257 vs 304) than our nearest UK comparator, the NIHR BRC Oral Health Theme at
 Guy's Hospital - a difference of 122%, and presently have a portfolio of 19 trials funded by NIHR,
 MRC, Versus Arthritis and other charities. Trials cover a broad range of healthcare needs
 including devices (e.g. SALRISE), delivery systems (DERMTREAT), repurposing of drugs (e.g.
 SAVER and PIT-STOP), and probiotics (e.g. CABRIO). 20% of staff were awarded translational
 research funding in the REF period (Total >£6M).
 4.3 Contribution to society via engagement with wider audiences
 Staff in the unit (74% in total) developed relationships with many beneficiaries or audiences
 outside the university sector, including cultural organisations (e.g. museums, art galleries),
 schools, the media, patient groups, local communities. These activities include: media coverage,
 exhibitions, open days, public lectures, community-based teaching, student mentoring/work
 placements, and the involvement of the public in developing research.
 4.3.1 Working with schools and education professionals
 Examples of events in schools include British Science Week 2020 where 439 children and their
 parents consented to taking part in two academic research studies on the comparison of children
 and adult’s sensitivity to bitterness (Tuleu). Tuleu also designed and ran a study aimed at
 supporting the use of a swallowing aid (PillGlide), following guidance from a young patient with
 HIV at Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children (GOSH). Todd led open source work on new
 medicines for mycetoma (a fungal infection) with 6th form students from Sevenoaks school
 (Royal Society partnership funding). A Smith and Spratt have established a 3-year oral

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 microbiome and health study with Haileybury School (Hertford, UK) years 7-11 (ages 11-16).
 The importance of antimicrobial resistance was promoted by Allan via “Biology4all” programme
 in schools, whilst Heilmann and Watt were commissioned by NSPCC Scotland, Children 1st,
 Barnardo's Scotland and the Children and Young People's Commissioner Scotland to produce a
 report that was pivotal for banning smacking in Scotland. Overall 33% (26 staff) participated in
 career talks in schools, with many presenting repeatedly over the assessment period.
 4.3.2 Public engagement and the media
 In response to the significant interest in our research among both patients and the public, we
 developed an approach ensuring the effective communication of new findings to these
 audiences. We work with the UCL Media Relations office and the press offices of funding
 organisations (e.g., MRC, Wellcome) so publication of important findings is linked to press
 releases and media contacts.
 We track and record the media coverage of our research. Our staff appear regularly in print and
 broadcast media, and during the period ~30% of staff have been on major national and
 international channels, among them BBC1, BBC2, ITV, C4, C5, CNN, and German and Indian
 channels/radio, and all major print media (e.g., Guardian, Times, NY Times, Reuters, Evening
 Standard, Daily Mail).
 Unit staff have organised national and international events open to the public to disseminate
 research, including: “The Age of Anxiety” (Jovanovic, Mercer), a UCL-wide public engagement
 event held at the Wellcome Collection in London, engaging the public in discussions of anxiety
 disorders; “Death for life” exhibition (Royal Institution, London, UK, Teshima); “Future pharma”
 panel (Royal Institution, London, UK, Uchegbu).
 Unit staff have delivered talks to public bodies including Parliament (Buanz, Hunt), Royal
 Institution (Uchegbu, Tuleu), Royal Society Summer Festival of Science/Science Exhibition
 (Allan, Schorge, Teshima), Cheltenham Science Festival (Teshima).
 These activities have received awards in multiple occasions including the UCL Provost's Award
 for Leadership in Public Engagement for 2017 (Needleman), and helped us secure new funding
 to engage external audiences (e.g., Royal Society partnership funding, EPSRC/UCL-Trellis
 2020-21 award).
 Finally, we encourage staff to use social media to engage with the public, and staff are active on
 Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and LinkedIn, as well as exploiting dedicated websites/blogs.
 4.3.3 Engagement with patients and end-users
 We work with patient populations to solicit their input on our research questions. Leeson co-
 leads focus groups for temporomandibular disorders patients to develop PROMS (patient related
 outcome measures) and PREMS (patient related experience measures); Whittlesea leads three
 NIHR-funded research studies (CHAMP-1, CHEMIST, ADAM) which include patients and patient
 groups; K Taylor chairs the stakeholder consultation groups (including patient groups) of the
 Commission on Human Medicines (CHM)/MHRA that inform decisions on medicines legal
 classifications; Needleman developed a co-production team on diabetes-gum health research
 with community members.
 Staff also present their research to patients and carers. Examples include ARUK Oxford
 Research Dementia Day (Ali, Manzoni); Diabetes UK support group Science talks (D’Aiuto).
 Staff have authored guidelines for patients (e.g., Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, Lupus UK and
 Epidermolysis Bullosa. Porter).
 4.3.4 Researchers engaging with art
 Staff in the unit use art as a medium to convey scientific and medical concepts to the public.
 Examples include the EPSRC/UCL-Trellis 2020-21 award to work with artists Jane Watt and
 Sara Heywood, part of the UCL Public Art and Community Engagement strategy (Chau); the
 “Arts in Dentistry” exhibition project: A dry and silent world: living with hidden disabilities involved
 artists and researchers exploring dry mouth and hearing loss (Bush House, 2019, Teshima), a


                                                                                                 Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 neuroscience & art exhibition based on research “Action Potential” (Swiss Cottage Library
 Gallery, Ruiz).
 4.3.5 Working with policy makers
 We encourage staff to contribute their expertise to a range of national and international
 policymaking bodies, including:
       The Commission on Human Medicines: K Taylor, Lane
       The MHRA: Tuleu, Knowles, Heinrich
       NICE: Wong, Needleman, Ashley, Horne, Watt
       Public Health England: Watt, Needleman, Hunt, D’Aiuto
       Royal Pharmaceutical Society: Craig, Horne, K Taylor, Bates
       WHO: Franklin, Tuleu, Tsakos, Bates, Franklin
       International Pharmaceutical Federation: Bates, Franklin, Horne
       World Dental Federation: Tsakos
       British Pharmacopeia Commission (Chair), and Leader of the UK Delegation to the
        European Pharmacopoeia Commission: K Taylor.
 4.4 Indicators of influence and recognition, and overseeing research
 67% of staff have been elected or appointed to influential bodies, including learned societies and
 academies (33 members of staff), professional bodies (32 members of staff), and national or
 international research committees or boards (18 members of staff).
 Examples of these appointments include:
       Dean of the Faculty of Dentistry of the Royal College of Surgeons of Ireland (Leung)
       Dean of the Faculty of Dental Surgery of the Royal College of Surgeons of England
        (Hunt)
       Chair of the Pharmacy Schools Council (Craig)
       Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of England (Hunt)
       Eminent Fellowship of the Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences (Heinrich)
       Chair of the Oral Microbiology and Immunology Group of the British Society for Oral and
        Dental Research (Spratt)
       British Orthodontic Society Chair for research funding in Orthodontics (Ryan)
       National Deputy Lead NIHR specialty role (D’Aiuto)
       Chair of the Platform for Better Oral Health in Europe (Tsakos)
       Chair of working group for European Society of Paediatric Dentistry to develop
        international guidance on sedation in dentistry (Ashley)
       Honorary Secretary of the European Orthodontic Society (Cunningham)
 Our unit also includes many Fellows of: Royal Pharmaceutical Society (six in total), Royal
 Society of Chemistry (five in total), and Royal Society of Medicine (Leeson).
 48% of staff have been awarded scholarly fellowships or related awards. Major honours/prizes
 awarded include: OBE in Queens Honours for services to Dentistry and Orthodontics, Honorary
 Life Membership of World Federation of Orthodontists (one of only 15 ever), and Honorary
 Membership of British Orthodontic Society (Hunt); Uchegbu was awarded a Doctor of Science
 honoris causa degree by Lincoln University for services to pharmaceutical sciences; Society for
 Ethnopharmacology India Life time achievement Award & International scholar in
 ethnopharmacology (Heinrich); Lifetime Achievement Award in clinical PDT (Hopper); IADR

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Global Oral Health Distinguished Scientist Award, and Honorary Fellowship in Dental Surgery
 with Royal College of Surgeons (Watt); UKCPA Lifetime Achievement Award, and the Royal
 Pharmaceutical Society Charter Medal (Bates).
 4.5 Contribution to sustainability of the research base
 Staff contribute their time and expertise widely, serving on >35 national (Research Council or
 similar) or international grants panels (21 staff), whilst 75% of staff participate in grant peer
 review, including: US NIH Rare Disease Panel (Rahim); Daphne Jackson Fellowship Panel
 (Chau); EPSRC Physical Sciences Grant Prioritisation And Fellowship Panels (Chair of both,
 Uchegbu); Pharmacy Research UK Award Panel (Mills); Human Brain Science Project Grant
 evaluation panel (Shah); NIHR Applied Health Research Programme Grants (Watt); European
 Orthodontic Society Grants Committee (Chair, Cunningham); British Orthodontic Society
 (Director of Research, Cunningham).
 51% of staff gave invited keynote or plenary lectures (>60 during the census period), and 72
 members delivered invited lectures. Examples include: Northcroft Lecture for the British Society
 (Cunningham); Menzies Campbell Lecture at the Royal College of Surgeons (England)
 (Porter); Bradshaw Lecture at the Royal College of Surgeons (England) (Hunt); plenary lecture
 at the World meeting of Pharmaceutics, Biopharmaceutics and Pharmaceutical Technology
 (Basit).
 53% of staff chaired conferences or scholarly meetings, and 52 are standing members of
 organising committees for over 20 conferences (e.g., Gordon Research Conferences; World
 Biomaterials Congress; European Orthodontic Congress; Pharmaceutics; Academy of
 Pharmaceutical Sciences); and 78% examined doctorates (>600 in UK, >150 abroad); 94% are
 involved in some aspect of refereeing/peer-reviewing, and 23 helped peer review of candidates
 for national or international senior appointments (e.g. Chairs, Institute Directors).
 54% of staff serve on journal editorial boards of >40 different journals (49 members of staff),
 37% in editorship positions [including Executive Editor of the British Journal of Clinical
 Pharmacology (Della Pasqua, Wei), Editor in Chief for: Materials Highlights (Williams), BMJ
 Quality & Safety (Franklin), Pharmaceutical Nanotechnology (Uchegbu and Editor for Cochrane
 Oral Health (Needleman)].
 4.6 Responding to national and international priorities and developing best practice
 Our overall approach to research transparency and reproducibility is detailed in §1.7.
 We are also providing international leadership in pharmacy schools worldwide via a research-
 driven, teaching-led ‘Fight the Fakes’ campaign (Pyzik) to improve reliability and reproducibility
 in medicines. Since 2019, this global campaign has involved or facilitated 34 presentations in
 120 countries (of which 83 are LMICs) with 146 inter-governmental organizations and civil
 society groups, including the World Health Organization’s 72nd World Health Assembly event in
 Geneva in a campaign against counterfeit medicines, hence delivering on our REF2014 Global
 Healthcare aim (§1.5.1).
 5.0 Concluding comments
 The environment of our unit has advanced significantly since REF2014, supported by major
 investment in infrastructure. We continue to prioritise a vibrant, sustainable approach that
 supports our staff to solve problems affecting citizens and patients across the globe. We engage
 with industries and policy makers to maximise productivity, minimise public costs and deliver
 transformative benefit to individuals and communities.




                                                                                            Page 22
