Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Royal Holloway University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 12 Engineering

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 In 2016 Royal Holloway made the strategic decision to strengthen Engineering in the College by
 establishing Electronic Engineering as a new department. New appointments in Electronic
 Engineering and sustained growth in engineering research within the Department of Physics and
 the Information Security Group (ISG) led to the creation of the Engineering Research Centre
 (ERC) in 2018. The Engineering Research Centre represents Royal Holloway’s first submission to
 panel 12.
 The Engineering Research Centre acts as the focal point to develop our engineering community,
 unconstrained by departmental boundaries. Together with new appointments in Electronic
 Engineering since 2016, the Centre incorporates flourishing activities such as the Smart Card and
 Internet of Things Centre, Quantum Materials and Technology and Accelerator Engineering.
 Engineering research has been strengthened by the formation of the School of Engineering,
 Physical and Mathematical Sciences (EPMS), part of the College-wide six-School structure
 created in 2019. EPMS comprises Electronic Engineering, Physics, Information Security,
 Computer Science and Mathematics. The foundation of Electronic Engineering was supported by
 £23m investment in the new state-of-the-art Beatrice Shilling building, opened in March 2019.
 Engineering is playing a key role in all four of the new College Research Catalysts, as part of the
 Royal Holloway Strategy 2020-2024 (Ref5a). The catalysts will capitalise on key strengths and
 expertise to address contemporary challenges and provide a structure for the increasingly
 interdisciplinary nature of future research. Engineering is taking a leading role in two of the Catalyst
 subject areas, namely “Advanced Quantum Science and Technology” and “Transformative Digital
 Technologies, Security and Society”, and will also actively participate in the other two: “Digital
 Futures in the Creative and Cultural industries” and “Living Sustainably”.

 1.1 Unit structure
 The Engineering Research Centre comprises nine staff from Electronic Engineering, five from
 Physics and four from Information Security. Our strategy has been to organise around four central
 research themes, to which staff activity contributes:

 Nanomaterials and devices: Five academics contribute to this theme. Electronic Engineering
 researchers (Liu, Bryan) join engineering-focussed staff based in the Department of Physics
 (Meeson, Casey, Nicholls) to study a broad range of quantum materials and devices.

 Digital and security engineering: Digital and Security Engineering is the largest area of activity in
 engineering at Royal Holloway. It connects our expertise in Cyber-Physical Security and the
 Internet of Things (Markantonakis, Mayes, Wolthusen, Hurley-Smith) with signal processing,
 electronic hardware and devices (Howard, Cheong, Tisan).

 Microwave, photonic and accelerator engineering: The engineering team in Accelerator Physics
 (Boogert, Gibson, Lyapin (Senior Research Officer) and Microwave Photonics and Sensors
 (Haxha) joined to form the Microwave, Photonic and Accelerator Engineering Theme. This
 consolidates our flagship strengths in advanced electromagnetic engineering.




                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Energy: The energy theme draws together staff with interests in energy generation and distribution
 with wind and solar (Kuenzel, Nduka, Haxha and Hogg), conservation and efficiency via lightweight
 structures (Hogg, Haxha), and cyber security linked to critical national infrastructure and energy
 grids (Haxha, Wolthusen, Mayes).

 1.2 Research strategy 2014-2020
 Key research objectives in Engineering during the period 2014-2020, identified by each research
 theme, with achievements are as follows:

 Nanomaterials and devices research on superconducting quantum devices for quantum
 information operating at low temperatures; development and study of novel materials and
 structures for room-temperature spintronic data processing; emergent phenomena in a range of
 topological quantum materials with potential device applications. Key technological capability was
 established in the fabrication of superconducting quantum devices (of central importance in the
 strategy of the National Centre for Quantum Computing).

 During 2014-2020, the staff in this research theme have won (as PI/CI) £13.3m in grants, published
 81 peer reviewed publications and two monographs.

 Digital and Security Engineering provides wide-ranging expert capability, supporting industry
 and the digital economy, including the application of industry 4.0 principles with secure
 communications, supporting clean growth, boosting the expansion of the creative industries, all
 within robust frameworks of security privacy and trust. A major component of the theme is the
 Smart Card and Internet of Things Research Centre (SCC) which has undertaken significant
 collaboration with the University of Southampton and the 5G centre at the University of Surrey.
 The world-class research base at the College in Cyber Security, AI and Machine Learning located
 in Computer Science, Information Security and Physics has recently been augmented by creative
 digital experts on VR/AR in Media Arts, working in collaboration with Electronic Engineering within
 the AHRC £11m Story Futures Initiative (Howard is a CI). A further example of interdisciplinary
 reach is the EXFILES project (Markantonakis), funded by Horizon 2020 from July 2020, which is
 a multidisciplinary collaboration to extract forensic information from encrypted smartphones for law
 enforcement agencies.

 During 2014-2020, the staff in this research theme have won (as PI/CI) £8.8m in grants from
 industry, published 77 journal articles, four books, 21 book chapters and over 60 conference
 publications in the cyber security field.

 Microwave, photonic and accelerator engineering develops step changes in speed,
 miniaturisation and reliability in device applications, in the fields of charged particle accelerators
 and high-speed communications. This theme supports substantial overlaps in both underpinning
 methods and applied instrumentation between the fields of charged particle accelerators and high-
 speed communications. Research and applications in this theme has motivated a shift to higher
 frequencies (THz and optical) and new challenges.

 Current research programmes include non-invasive laser and high bandwidth electro-optical
 sensors for particle beam instrumentation, which share the technology base with single-mode
 telecommunication devices in novel architectures. The more traditional part of the spectrum is
 represented by electromagnetic devices for particle beam diagnostics in accelerators and
 complementary research into analogue radio over fibre, with novel frequency up-/down-conversion
 and nonlinear waveguide devices.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During 2014-2020, the staff in this research theme have won (as PI /CI) £6.8m in competitive
 research grants, published a total of 89 peer reviewed publications and two patents applications.

 Energy research supports the generation of renewable energy and energy efficiency, by
 contributing to the development of enhanced wind turbines and solar cells, improving the
 distribution, storage and security of energy supply via the modelling of power grids. Kuenzel and
 Nduka (both ECR’s) work with Wolthusen, on modelling energy grids with integrated low-carbon
 technologies, including photovoltaics, energy storage and electric vehicles. This establishes links
 with the Digital and Security Theme. Wolthusen is contributing his expertise on the analysis of real
 time cyber-physical systems to the security of power grids. Kuenzel is working on optimising power
 systems for renewables and energy storage, and as part of an interdisciplinary project on the
 impact of the large-scale roll-out of smart meters on freedom of choice and privacy.

 Research on solar cells is undertaken by Haxha, who has been focusing on improvements in the
 efficiency of silicon-based thin-film solar cells exploiting 3D layer structures and incorporating
 graphene and Au/Ag nanoparticles.

 Research on the structure of wind turbine blades is undertaken by Hogg in collaboration with the
 University of Manchester. The focus is on lightweight, damage tolerant, and fatigue resistant
 composite structures. This includes work on fundamental damage processes and toughening
 mechanisms in fibre composites, with an emphasis on the use of textile formats such as 3D woven
 fabrics, interlayers and the use of hybrid comingled fibre tows.

 During 2014-2020, the staff in this research theme have won (as PI /CI) £1.05m in competitive
 research grants and published a total of 50 peer reviewed publications.

 1.3 Strategic aims 2021-2026
 The Engineering Research Centre aims to support the delivery of innovation from discovery
 science across the EPMS School and Royal Holloway as a whole.

    •   Exploit the interdisciplinary structures of College Catalysts to maximise the
        potential of our themes. The Nanomaterials and devices theme will play a central role in
        the College Catalyst on Advanced Quantum Science and Technology. The Digital and
        Security Engineering theme is central to the Transformational Digital Technologies,
        Security and Society catalyst and will contribute to Digital Futures in the Creative and
        Cultural Industries catalyst. The Microwave, photonic and accelerator engineering theme
        will play a central role in the Advanced Quantum Science and Technology Catalyst, through
        established expertise and industrial links in quantum communication, to the interface with
        superconducting quantum technology, where the marriage of quantum-aware RF
        engineering to superconducting microwave resonators and quantum devices is critical.
        The Energy theme will contribute to the Living Sustainably Catalyst that incorporates
        research on fossil fuels and geothermal energy, new battery science and biodigesters.

    •   Further develop shared underpinning infrastructure. Invest in RF engineering for
        quantum technologies and wireless communications, building on expertise and capabilities
        within microwave, photonic and accelerator science theme. For example: a high frequency
        radiofrequency (RF) test and measurement suite (already under development) and
        enhanced facilities for SCC and automation/autonomy and robotics (planned).



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Promote and grow internal and external research partnerships and strategic
        collaborations. As the ERC and Catalysts evolve and strengthen, expand collaborative
        research with regional HEIs, laboratories (e.g. National Physical Laboratory), National
        Centre for Quantum Computing, companies (e.g. Leonardo) and organisations (QCHQ,
        NCSS). Underpinned by internal investment in staff through joint appointments, PhD
        studentships and support for research grant applications.

 1.4 Further support of Interdisciplinary Research
 Our interdisciplinary research, embedded in the College research strategy, aims to encourage
 collaboration to solve pressing real-world problems. This strategy has resulted in the development
 of the interdisciplinary research Catalysts, which will strengthen our links with industry and
 government. In other initiatives, interdisciplinary collaborations are supported by PhD studentships
 (Section 2.2). The collaboration between supervisors underpins applications for interdisciplinary
 grant funding. Collaboration with Psychology on sonic guidance for the blind using light detection
 and ranging (LIDAR) is an example.

 1.5 Strategy for enabling Impact
 The impact strategy of the ERC is to work on a mixture of pure and applied research, in
 collaboration with industry, government and standardisation bodies, at regional, national and
 international level. Our objective continues to be to support the national and regional industrial
 strategies, through our chosen themes. The Royal Holloway Research and Innovation office
 actively seeks opportunities to work with industry, interacting with the Local Growth Hubs, LEPS,
 and Chambers of Commerce. Hogg, when Vice Principal for Enterprise, was the HE representative
 on the local LEP (Enterprise M3) from 2017-20 and played a significant role in shaping the Local
 Industrial Strategy and Regional Economic Plan. He was a major contributor to the Science
 Innovation Audit for the South of England (Innovation South) published in 2018, which identified
 the major engineering strengths of the region. This informed Royal Holloway on the importance of
 digital enabling technologies and identified how Royal Holloway could act as an Anchor Institution
 for the regional economy in the areas of cyber security, AI and quantum technologies. The Local
 Energy Strategy (2020), developed by three LEPs (Coast to Capital, EM3 and Southeast LEP) as
 South2East, has also outlined where Royal Holloway can support regional energy projects in areas
 such as microgrids, solar, wind and domestic energy efficiency.

 Each theme in this Unit has its distinctive approach to enabling impact:

 Digital and Security Engineering: Cyber security is a key driver for regional business both in terms
 of protecting existing businesses and creating new cyber security start-ups. We will continue to be
 fully engaged with government via GCHQ/NCSC strategy, expanding academic activity in cyber
 security alongside investment in the Smart Card and IoT centre (SCC) to provide a practical vehicle
 for a range of applied research and developing impact with industry.

 These long and trusted relationships with industry and government are underpinned by a
 commitment to ethical security research and responsible disclosure; and this has led to important
 contributions to international security standards. Mayes’ work on evaluating the TUAK algorithm
 for telecommunications standards (Impact case study 1) was in support of the European
 Telecommunications Standards Institute, the GSM Association, and the Third Generation
 Partnership Project (3GPP).

 The current focus of the SCC is on hardware and cyber-physical security systems applied to
 business sectors including telecommunications, fintech, land transport, aerospace and other

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 critical infrastructures. Delivering impact will rely on the long-standing and established structures
 for industrial engagement within the ISG.

 Microwave, Photonics and Accelerator Engineering: We continue to work closely with industry,
 both within established partnerships and exciting new ones, directly adapting our expertise to
 address their needs. This relies on a combination of industry and UKRI funding. Two examples
 illustrate this approach:

 In communications technology, our research has been supported by direct industry funding
 (Leonardo-Electronics, Defence & Security Systems). This has allowed us to successfully develop
 and patent technologies that will be exploited by sponsors. For example, microwave frequency
 mixing technologies in an analog photonics link have been developed, delivering improvements in
 performance factors that allow higher data transmission rates for 5G/6G Networks. A novel
 approach to photonic microwave filtering, using non-linear optical waveguides, allows practical
 optical links with an unprecedentedly broadband dynamic range, free from spurious signals.

 In accelerator science, our strategy was supported by STFC through the John Adams Institute
 and STFC-IPS grants. Royal Holloway developed a device that controlled electron beam
 alignment, a key component for commercial Free Electron Lasers (FEL). This work was driven by
 demand for smaller-scale FEL facilities for industry, but business models tend to be hampered by
 the lack of commercially availability of essential components required to build them. Licensing our
 technology to an internationally-leading synchrotron component company in 2019, resulted in the
 world’s first commercially-available device of its type. This approach is captured in Impact Case
 Study 2.

 Our future strategy builds on this approach, pursuing diverse opportunities for exploiting our
 expertise. New and emerging areas encompass advanced particle acceleration techniques using
 solid-state materials and plasma; applications of novel acceleration and beam transport
 techniques; simulation tools in radiobiology, medical imaging and cancer treatment.

 Nanomaterials and Devices:
 Our aim has been to contribute to the second quantum revolution by establishing key capabilities.
 The strategic approach was to create a new nanofabrication facility, with UKRI and College
 support: the UK Centre for Superconducting and Hybrid Quantum Systems. Prior to this the
 development of quantum technologies was hampered by a lack of scalable capacity in
 superconducting hardware that could deliver transformative products for sensing, security and
 information processing at commercial scale. The development of foundry and measurement
 services that will underpin major commercial developments across the economy places Royal
 Holloway at the heart of the UK’s ambition to lead the international race in commercialising
 quantum technologies. This key role in the national supply chain to industrialise the design,
 manufacture and test of superconducting quantum devices, has significant Innovate UK support
 (consortium led by Oxford Quantum Circuits).

 A related strand of activity is the long-standing relationship with Oxford Instruments based on
 research that exploits the specialised facilities of the London Low Temperature Laboratory (LLTL)
 and nurtured by seven former research staff and students moving to the company from Royal
 Holloway, with knowledge exchange codified by memoranda of understanding. This has shaped
 research conducted under the framework of the European Microkelvin Platform towards novel
 cryogenic platforms.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Energy:
 This featured a strategic interdisciplinary response to the government’s Advanced Manufacturing
 Supply Chain Initiative in the area of lightweight composites, benefitting from the direct industrial
 experience of Hogg in this sector. We examined the ability of the UK supply chain to adopt and
 benefit from new technology applications, considering factors such as skills, labour availability,
 finance and upstream and downstream supply.

 Selection of impact cases for REF submission
 The two selected case studies emerged from our relationships with industry, government and
 standardisation bodies, representing our approach to enabling impact. Academics submitted
 proposals; these proposals were supported (and acknowledged in workload models) and
 reviewed. After due consideration, two were selected for submission by the Engineering REF
 team. Impact Case 1: Standardisation of the TUAK Algorithm for eSIMs: Transforming Security
 for Internet of Things and Consumer Devices Worldwide, resulted from an invitation to support
 international standards based on recognition of Royal Holloway security expertise. Impact Case
 2: Transforming the manufacture and global market in enabling technologies for Free Electron
 Lasers, relied on forming industrial partnerships (FMB-Oxford and Instrumentation Technologies
 (iTech, Slovenia)), to exploit Royal Holloway designs for Cavity Beam Position Monitors, in the
 supply chain for international Free Electron Laser facilities.

 1.6 Open Research, Ethics and Reproducibility
 Royal Holloway’s Open Access Policy requires researchers to submit copies of their research
 publications to Royal Holloway’s research information systems (Pure) within three months of the
 date of acceptance. Outputs are checked by the Research Support Team, who arrange Open
 Access in line with publishers’ policies. Funds are available either from research grants or centrally
 to pay article processing charges that make papers freely available.

 A new Research Data Management Service was introduced at Royal Holloway after REF 2014;
 Dropbox for Business provides secure unlimited storage for research data. The servers and data
 storage are in the EU and the accounts are managed by Royal Holloway IT Services. We can
 share data from our Dropbox accounts with Royal Holloway research students and with research
 partners in other institutions, ensuring data reuse and reproducibility. Long term storage of data is
 provided using figshare.

 Our research is governed by the ethical, legal and professional frameworks and standards of Royal
 Holloway. This policy is in turn based on the UK Universities Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity. It applies to both unfunded and funded research and to all employed staff, students or
 other individuals acting on behalf of the College. Heads of Department and Research Directors
 are responsible for providing ethical reviewers and supporting researchers via peer review process
 to address potential ethical issues and report them to the Royal Holloway Research Ethics
 Committee. A Research Ethics & Integrity Manager in the Research and Innovation office is
 responsible for supporting the Research Ethics Committee and an online ethics system.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 The Engineering Research Centre (ERC) draws together engineering focussed staff with teaching
 and research contracts across three Departments in the School of Engineering, Physical and
 Mathematical Sciences (ten category A staff from Electronic Engineering, five from Physics and
 three from Information Security). All Departments share College staffing policies and support
 structures, with implementation and strategy are coordinated through the School. Electronic
 Engineering is based in an attractive new building, purpose-built to be open, safe and welcoming
 for diverse groups of academics, staff and students.

 Staffing and Recruitment
 Recruitment has centred around establishing the Department of Electronic Engineering, which
 now hosts 12 academic staff members, of which 50% are from under-represented groups (based
 on gender and ethnicity). The ERC is supported by 10 technical staff and eight PDRAs. The
 recruitment strategy ensures that all new research and teaching staff are of the highest quality; to
 achieve a mix of theoretically-based and practical applied research, while supporting the
 succession and expansion plans of the core research themes. Recruitment is based on merit, and
 attempts are made to ensure that shortlists contain a good mix of candidates with a range of
 gender and other protected characteristics. Interview panels are always of mixed gender, and
 panellists receive interview and unconscious bias training, which led to diversity in our engineering
 staff.

 Staff Development Strategy
 The home departments for engineering (EE, Physics and ISG) make use of Royal Holloway
 resources for staff development, including the “Advance” programme for in-service training. In
 2019 Royal Holloway received the HR Excellence in Research award, demonstrating our
 commitment to the principles of the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers. The College Research Expectations document gives guidance to staff, at all career
 stages. All staff have an annual Performance Development Review (PDR), reviewed by their line
 manager. Annual workload allocation to staff is the responsibility of each Head of Department,
 using a quantitative workload model. This balances teaching and administrative duties and
 explicitly recognises impact activities and research grant submissions. An Individual Research
 Plan is an integral part of the annual Personal Development Review. The Research & Innovation
 Department supports grant applications by holding clinics where examples of both successful and
 unsuccessful applications are examined. All colleagues are supported by internal reviews of
 research grant applications before submission. The Engineering Research Centre provides an
 additional layer of mentoring and advice with senior staff from different departments encouraged
 to assist junior colleagues in reaching their goals, particularly with cross-discipline opportunities,
 and to nominate high-performing staff for the annual reward scheme.

 Recognition and Reward
 All staff are invited to apply for promotion annually. All promotions are considered anonymously
 and assessed against a criteria matrix under four headings: Research, Teaching, External
 Engagement, and Leadership and Enhancement. Royal Holloway also has an annual reward
 scheme to recognise exceptional staff contribution. Excellence within the ERC has been
 recognised and rewarded by four promotions to Reader and Senior Lecturer level and three
 Professorships (Boogert, Markantonakis, Meeson); and externally, through the award of a Royal
 Academy of Engineering personal fellowship (Liu).

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Supporting Early Career Researchers
 An EPMS school-wide ECR Forum, with two seats on the EPMS Research Committee, supports
 the ECR community, promoting peer-to-peer interactions, interdisciplinary research, and
 contributing to effective delivery of the Concordat. There is a small grant scheme that has been
 developed to allow ECRs to bid for up to £5K to support a research application, facilitate early-
 stage experiments, encourage innovation, or undertake research visits. Newly appointed
 academic staff, usually ECRs, have a probation period of three years with a lighter teaching load.
 Early career staff are mentored by senior colleagues, including help with writing research
 applications and advice on impact-related research and research funding. At its launch, the
 immediate priority in Electronic Engineering was undergraduate education delivery and a number
 of early career staff were recruited on teaching-focused contracts. Two were converted to teaching
 and research contracts, in recognition of their research potential, leading subsequently to
 promotion to Senior Lecturer (Kuenzel) and Reader (Liu). As a further example Bryan was
 promoted from a post-doctoral researcher to a permanent academic post in 2019.

 Policies for Research, Impact Leave/Sabbatical Leave
 All staff become eligible for a sabbatical of one teaching term for every five terms actively engaged
 in teaching. Staff may accumulate the qualifying teaching terms and take extended sabbaticals
 with the approval of the Head of School. To be granted this leave, a research plan must be
 submitted. For example, the sabbatical of Mayes (started 2018), was to explore research on the
 boundary of engineering and cyber security. This was supported with equipment from the
 MULTOS industry consortium and resulted in seven collaborative publications, including one on
 smart grid security, and work to underpin and quantify Impact Case 1. The sabbatical of
 Markantonakis (2017), expanded our research portfolio on memory protection and device
 forensics, and enable related grant applications.

 Exchanges and Secondments
 Staff are encouraged to apply for secondments and exchange programmes, to benefit their career
 development or support a specific research goal. So far take-up is limited, although staff taking
 visiting roles have been funded by research grants e.g. Cheong with the university of Jaen in Spain
 and Markantonakis with the Université de Bordeaux. Recent secondments (Mayes) were
 prevented by the pandemic.

 2.2 Research Students
 Recruiting Doctoral Students
 PGR studentships are advertised across departmental web pages and on external web sites. The
 allocation of PGR students to supervisors is undertaken via direct discussion between potential
 supervisors and students. Application details are circulated to all staff in the students’ area of
 interest. Where student/supervisor teams are competing for limited studentships, in the CDT for
 cyber security or the Leverhulme Doctoral School, an independent panel is constituted that assesses
 the merits of each research proposal. The College hosts a Leverhulme Doctoral Centre that focuses
 on individual freedoms in the digital age. Ten studentships/year were funded for three years with the
 college providing 50% of the funds. It was mandatory that each studentship had a co-supervisory
 team drawn from at least two departments, with both Electronic Engineering and ISG participating
 in the programmes, linking technical research with consideration of ethics, legal and societal
 concerns. Since 2013 the ISG has run EPSRC doctoral training centres focussed on cyber security,
 where it is common for students to have two supervisors, from different disciplines and departments.

 Support and Monitoring
 A Code of Practice governs PhD supervision. All students are interviewed and allocated a

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervisory team with at least two staff members (typically a supervisor and advisor). The
 frequency of meetings is monitored, and training needs are identified at annual review. These
 reviews are attended by a third and independent person, and upgrades from MPhil to PhD are
 considered within 20 months of full-time study or part-time equivalent. A Doctoral School, led by
 the Deputy Principal (Academic), was created in 2019 to further bind our community of PhD
 students together and provide training, administrative support and social activity. The School of
 EPMS Director of Post Graduate Research Education liaises with the Doctoral School, reports to
 School Research committee and serves on the Research Degree Programme Committee. These
 are also attended by student representatives. Induction events, social gatherings and an annual
 research symposium are regular features of the research community.

 Skills Development and Careers
 Each of the departments contributing to Engineering (Physics, EE and ISG) has bespoke training
 programmes to support and assist students to acquire practical skills with relevant equipment and
 analytical techniques. For example, the sequence of CDTs focussed on cyber security have
 supported training for their EPSRC funded students. The Physics department is a member of the
 SEPnet consortium of South East university Physics departments and this collaboration runs a PhD
 training programme linking students from all participating universities. All PhD students can present
 results at an International Conference, funded by the training allocation of their scholarship or the
 research grants of their group. Those students without an explicit allocation are supported by their
 host Departments.

 The CDT uses external experts to discuss intellectual property and start-ups arising from students’
 work. The SCC (Markantonakis), engages students in practical development work which has led
 to funding (Set-squared/Innovate UK) of two start-up opportunities (PrineSec and Seclea) within
 the past two years.

 2.3. Equality and Diversity
 Supporting career pathways and equal opportunities
 Royal Holloway has had a strong ethos of encouraging diversity in its staff and students since the
 founding of the original constituent colleges (Bedford College and Royal Holloway) which were
 both women-only colleges at their inception. The College carries out a comprehensive annual
 equality and diversity data monitoring and review exercise. For the Engineering Research Centre,
 the implementation of policy is reinforced by exchange of best practices across the EPMS School,
 supported by its Equality and Diversity lead, reporting to School Executive.

 We illustrate this environment as follows. Physics is a long-term Institute of Physics Juno
 Champion and Athena Swan Silver Award recipient, with a consistently above average recruitment
 of women at all levels. Within the engineering group, ISG (with the Department of Mathematics)
 recognised the importance of encouraging and funding the creation of WISDOM (Women In the
 Security Domain and/or Mathematics). The WISDOM group is an Equality and Diversity (E&D)
 success story, and was founded in May 2016 by two women, both PhD students, who wanted to
 raise the profile of women, working and studying in the field and encourage more women into
 these academic disciplines. The scope of WISDOM has since expanded, stretching across the
 EPMS School and addressing equality and diversity in its broadest sense. WISDOM greatly
 enriches the environment of the School and its achievements were recognised in 2017 with the
 Principal's award for enhancing fairness. Electronic Engineering has a founding objective to
 overcome the national gender imbalance by attracting more women to the subject, and has



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recruited over 30% female students with an overall academic staff complement that includes 33%
 women. The category A staff promoted in the assessment period were both women.

 Flexible working. All members of staff with at least 26 weeks service, are eligible for flexible
 working according to Royal Holloway policy. They may request changes in their working hours,
 including changing from full-time to part-time. Adjustments are agreed through discussions with
 the line manager and HR. One member of academic staff (from EE) has taken 12 months
 maternity leave in two 6 month blocks. Teaching and essential meetings are confined within
 10:00-16:00h under institutional policy. During COVID-19, following a shift to working from
 home for many staff and PGR students, equipment (laptops, graphics tablets, webcams, and
 mobile phones) and Internet access were made available to enable productive remote research.

 Support for conference attendance for those with caring duties follows College policy, as does
 support for those with protected characteristics. Office facilities, such as standing desks, have
 been provided where the need is identified.

 Encouraging ambition and supporting wellbeing
 Career pathways for part-time and fixed term staff are strongly supported by the Advance
 training programme and peer-to-peer groups such as the School ECR forum (reporting to School
 committees) and WISDOM and. WISDOM offers a strong support network of students and staff,
 who are interested in exploring ways that more women and minorities can enter and prosper
 within academia. Activities include monthly lunch meetings, workshops, discussion groups,
 outreach activities and social events.

 Equality and Diversity in the REF submission
 Based on the Royal Holloway Code of Practice for REF2021, all unit staff members assessed as
 independent researchers, were asked to nominate up to five preferred research outputs on Pure,
 the research information system used by Royal Holloway. The unit REF Lead and the heads of
 the three Departments have ensured a rigorous assessment of the quality of the outputs of each
 submitter. Assessment involved a critical engagement with the work by academic colleagues from
 our research themes and assessed internally by two reviewers. Where no suitably qualified
 academic staff was available to undertake this, or there was an indecision around borderline
 outputs, we engaged an external reviewer with the approval of the Chair of the College REF
 Steering Group. The REF Lead selected the highest rated item for each independent researcher
 for submission. The remaining items for selection to make up the required number was chosen by
 selecting the highest rated outputs from current and previously employed staff, taking Equality
 Impact Assessment into account. No gender or minority bias was detected in the selection of
 outputs.




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income

 The Engineering Research Centre plays a pivotal role in delivering innovation from discovery
 science. A key achievement has been to win a string of equipment grants to develop a unique
 portfolio of capabilities for manufacturing superconducting quantum devices, thereby supporting
 our strategy for growth. Successful bids were led by Meeson to EPSRC Strategic Equipment
 (2018) and EPSRC Capital Core equipment (2019), building on prior awards. This established
 the SuperFab nanofabrication facility, hosting the UK Centre for Superconducting and Hybrid
 Quantum Systems. Key to this success was a strong collaborative team involving National
 Physical Laboratory (NPL) and Oxford Instruments. This facility and expertise led to a major
 Innovate UK grant of £7m led by Oxford Quantum Circuits with the objective to industrialise the
 design, manufacture and test of superconducting quantum devices. This was part of the largest
 ever government grant (£7M in total) aimed at the commercialisation of superconducting quantum
 technologies, and positions the UK as a global leader in the field. This activity is a main thrust of
 Royal Holloway’s Advanced Quantum Science and Technology Catalyst.

 We have leveraged our expertise to participate in several large EPSRC programme grants.
 Nicholls (co-I): EP/K004077/1 (PI M Pepper UCL, £6.5m) explored technology and applications of
 nanoelectronic based quantum physics; EP/R029075/1 (PI M Pepper UCL, £7m) will
 experimentally realise a system with many body localisation for applications in quantum
 information and topological quantum protection. In related research Wenqing Liu’s work on
 topological spintronics has been enabled by an EPSRC New Investigator Award (EP/S010246/1)
 and a Royal Academy of Engineering/Leverhulme Trust Senior Fellowship. The London Low
 Temperature Laboratory is part of the European Microkelvin Platform (EMP), funded as a
 European Advanced Infrastructure from 2019. Casey’s participation in EMP has helped drive
 innovation in cryogenic technology with Oxford Instruments (an industrial partner in EMP), where
 the focus is on cryogenic platforms and thermometry, essential to future superconducting quantum
 technology.

 The Nanomaterials and Devices theme (Liu, Bryan) has secured access to the Diamond Light
 Source, with over £2m in beam time awarded over the REF period. This has been essential in
 pioneering studies of surface magnetism in topological insulators and to complement electrical
 transport studies. Liu also secured research time on specialised fabrication facilities in the
 USA and China.

 Significant and sustained STFC funding for the John Adams Institute has enabled the accelerator
 science group to both support next generation particle accelerators and exploit expertise to
 develop new technologies for industry and interdisciplinary applications.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 Our strategy has been to engage with national and international priorities and organisational
 structures; including investment in infrastructure delivering leading capabilities for research on
 Quantum Science and Technology. Across the Engineering Research Centre our facilities provide
 access to national and international research communities and industry, fostering collaboration,
 building new networks for ECRs, and driving diversification of research.

 The Electronic Engineering department has developed its in-house research facilities from
 scratch, largely around the new purpose-built Beatrice Shilling Building. This building

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 represents a £18m investment from the Royal Holloway together with £5m from HEFCE to
 support the Royal Holloway objective of developing a diverse and inclusive department
 with the building designed to feel safe and welcoming (e.g., for students working late at
 night) and to foster creativity and inclusivity. It features collaboration spaces for group
 working and networking of staff and students.

 Research laboratories in the new Shilling Building include a dedicated laboratory to
 facilitate industrial collaboration with defence electronics company Leonardo. This
 laboratory is focusing on quantum communications using photonics, and the laboratory has
 been equipped by substantial donations from Leonardo. These capabilities will be boosted
 further, by the new EPSRC capital equipment and UKRI World Class Laboratory funded EPMS
 radio-frequency laboratory, with a 70 GHz Vector Network Analyser, spectrum analyser and other
 equipment.

 To establish the UK as a key player in the development of a quantum computer, Royal Holloway
 invested £3M in creating a new cleanroom facility SuperFab, hosting the UK Centre for
 Superconducting and Hybrid Quantum Systems (Director Meeson), in association with NPL and
 JEOL. Opened in 2018, it is a user facility serving academia and industry; supporting fundamental
 research into superconducting quantum devices and technology. UKRI investment has
 established SuperFab as a key part of the supply chain in the global race for a quantum computer
 based on superconducting qubits, recognised by the National Quantum Computing Centre as a
 leading technology and investment priority. The nanofabrication facilities also support the wider
 nanomaterials and devices theme.

 Activities at Royal Holloway in Digital and Security Engineering have a track record of working
 closely with industry and government. The ISG was established in 1990 to serve the needs of
 industry and government, recognised with a Queen’s Award for Industry in 1998. In 2002 the Smart
 Card Centre was created with backing from the telecommunications industry (Vodafone and
 Giesecke & Devrient) and emphasis on SIM cards, which later evolved through card payment
 systems (UK Cards Association, VISA) into transport (Transport for London, ITSO) and into an IoT
 and embedded systems security centre (the Smart Card and IoT Centre, SCC). Industry
 supporters (Barnes, Comprion, Gemalto, Infineon and Mastercard) donated equipment for test and
 development of cryptographic algorithms, protocols and system implementations.

 Since 2019, the SCC has been hosted in a modern dedicated laboratory and development
 suite within the refurbished Bedford building. This facility allows building and testing of
 physical systems that can be evaluated for IoT applications, autonomous vehicles and in
 the near future broadcasting equipment. The SCC regularly invites companies to explore the
 security of their products within the centre.

 Advanced audio research work is supported within the Story Futures Academy by a 24.1 ambisonic
 studio with control room and voice recording space.

 Mechanical and Electrical Workshop: Research across all themes is supported by skilled precision
 engineers and technicians in the mechanical workshop (located in the Department of Physics) and
 electrical workshop (located in the Departments of Physics and Electronic Engineering).
 Interactions with the workshop team promotes early career involvement in R&D. Rapid prototyping
 and design support are essential for the development of the applied research skills base. A
 programme of upgrades with STFC and Royal Holloway funding has enhanced the capability of
 the mechanical workshop with new CNC machines. An RF Test and Measurement laboratory is

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 will to house high end equipment, including that recently funded an EPSRC Core equipment grant,
 and UKRI World Class laboratory support.

 3.3 Addressing equality and diversity
 All facilities are open access within Royal Holloway. Annual internal equipment bids are assessed
 openly and transparently. All staff are supported equally in bidding for grants, fellowships,
 sabbaticals, with input invited from WISDOM, the relevant Athena Swan Champion, Heads of
 Department and the Head of School.




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Supporting Collaborations
 Members of the Engineering Research Centre have established a number of high-profile
 collaborations both before and during this REF period.

 The John Adams Institute for Accelerator Science (JAI, Deputy Director Gibson) was
 established in 2004 by Royal Holloway and the University of Oxford, with Imperial College joining
 in 2011. It receives regular block funding (e.g. £1.5 million in 2017) from STFC. The JAI has made
 major contributions to the design and development of UK x-ray and neutron facilities and
 international particle physics accelerators. It has been instrumental in training a new generation of
 accelerator engineers. It supports the application of accelerator technology to areas such as
 cancer therapy, where we have recently collaborated through simulating proton beam facilities with
 the Université Libre de Bruxelles and Ion Beam Applications.

 Royal Holloway is strongly engaging with the UKRI Quantum Technology Programme through the
 UK Centre for Superconducting and Hybrid Quantum Systems (SuperFab, Director Meeson)
 and the wide spectrum of collaborations it supports. SuperFab involves collaboration with NPL,
 JEOL and Lancaster. Access to this facility is free to UK academic users, driving collaboration on
 quantum technologies across academia and industrial engagement, with Innovate UK support.
 Partners include: Oxford Quantum Circuits, SeeQC, JEOL, Chase Research Cryogenics, Kelvin
 Nanotechnology, Oxford Instruments Nanoscience, ColdEdge Technology, Qinetiq Ltd., and
 Johnson Matthey. Quantum Technologies for Fundamental Physics awards, announced after
 REF2021, will enable our interdisciplinary work on applying quantum sensing to fundamental
 particle physics. We lead the £3.4M QUEST-DMC consortium (PI Casey, RHUL), and collaborate
 on the QSHS axion search development (PI Daw Sheffield, co-I Meeson, £4.8M).

 The €10M EU Horizon 2020 European Microkelvin Platform, a European Advanced
 Infrastructure, links all major ultra-low temperature laboratories across the EU with several
 industrial partners including Oxford instruments. A further exemplar of international collaboration
 at the highest level is the International Cyber Security Center of Excellence (INCS-CoE)
 formed in 2019; with Mayes a Director and current Vice-Chairman. INCS-CoE was created to
 support international cyber security research, education and collaboration between academia,
 industry and government. There are six Founder institutions: Royal Holloway and Imperial College
 (UK), Northeastern University and the University of Maryland Baltimore County (USA) and Keio
 and Kyushu (Japan) The Centre is expanding, with the addition of the University of Cambridge
 (UK), Technion and Ben Gurion Universities (Israel).

 4.2 Contributions to the Economy and Society
 Royal Holloway is within the region of the Enterprise M3 Local Enterprise Partnership (LEP) and
 Hogg was an elected board member and chaired its Higher Education Working Group (2017-
 2020). He also served on the steering group of the “Innovation South” Science Innovation Audit
 (2018) that identified the strengths of the South of England in engineering. and stimulated new
 collaborations between its key universities and industry. Examples include: Story Futures;
 Collaboration in Quantum Technologies; Cyber security/AI links between University of Surrey,
 Royal Holloway and Brunel. We are active in influencing government policy on cybersecurity
 matters; Mayes was instrumental in the creation of the Cyber Security All Party Parliamentary
 Group, and now provides the secretariat, as well as being a guest expert in the security strategy
 workshops of the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI).


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Consultancy projects have often been linked to key national priority areas, such as energy, security
 and communications, as well as related international standardisation. Key organisations including,
 the National Grid, STATNETT (Norway), WSP, Pyterra, Leonardo, BSI, HP, GCHQ, ETSI, GSMA,
 have engaged Kuenzel, Cheong, Hogg, Shyqyri, Mayes and others. Haxha, served as CEO for
 the major Kosovo state telecoms business before moving to the UK, has now developed eight
 patents, mainly linked to the telecommunications and is working closely with Leonardo.

 Working with Composites UK, we created the first functional database for the industry. The
 database, maintained by Composites UK, has become a vital tool for businesses in the UK who
 are looking to source partners, products, technology and skills in this sector. This initiative was
 supported by an industrial consortium led by Solvay and Bentley and the UK Trade Association,
 Composites UK.

 Through the Story Futures Academy, Howard has advised creative industries on practical 3-D
 sound rendering and is developing technology to guide the blind through environments based on
 Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR). In January 2020, Howard’s work on synthesising the voice
 of the Mummy Nesyamun by CT scanning to produce a vocal tract output sound captured world-
 wide public imagination and was widely published in the international press with the original article
 being downloaded more than 360k times.

 Casey and co-workers contributed to a consortium of National Measurement Institutes to redefine
 the temperature unit (kelvin) adopted by the body responsible for the International Systems of
 Units (SI). Our focus was on the temperature range of critical importance for the cryogenic industry
 and or commercial superconducting quantum computing technologies. Thermometry developed
 by Royal Holloway, operating over a wide temperature range from 4K to sub-mK temperatures,
 were used to support and disseminate the scale.

 4.3 Contributions to the Sustainability of the Discipline
 The Information Security Group (ISG) was one of the first to be recognised by GCHQ and the
 National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) as an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security
 Research. As a leading centre for cyber security, Royal Holloway seeks to help develop the next
 generation of practitioners. At Infosec 2017 (the largest security exhibition/trade-show in Europe)
 the ISG won the award for best cyber security education programme. In 2018, a group of our
 female students won the award for best cyber security students. Boogert has organised the annual
 CERN Accelerator School.

 Cheong has a visiting research post at the university of Jaen in Spain, while Markantonakis is a
 visiting researcher at the Université de Bordeaux, the Université de Limoges and the Foundation
 of Research (FORTH), Heraklion, Greece. Hogg is a guest Professor at Beihang University,
 Beijing, Harbin Institute of Technology and Zhejiang University of Science and Technology, and
 has recently been appointed as Chair of the British Composites Society, a division of the Institute
 of Minerals, Materials and Mining. Mayes is an Adjunct Professor at the University of Maryland
 Baltimore County (USA).

 Multidisciplinary collaboration is very evident in the AHRC funded Story Futures project in which
 Royal Holloway collaborates with the University of the Arts, Brunel University and a consortium of
 industrial partners. Electronic Engineering (Howard) works with media arts, psychology and
 computer sciences at Royal Holloway in combining creative concepts and ideas with engineering
 hardware and software, to develop new technology platforms. This is in line with the national


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 priority to support the creative industries. The related Story Futures Academy, established in 2019,
 is a joint activity between Royal Holloway and the National Film and Television Institute. It is
 funded by the “Listening Across the Disciplines” AHRC industrial strategy challenge fund. It trains
 industry in these new technologies (400 professionals so far). It has leveraged £3.3 million, created
 229 jobs and supported 18 productions (annual report 2020). Howard is also an Invited Member
 of the Steering Group, for a separate “Listening Across the Disciplines” Project run by the
 University of the Arts, London and the University of Southampton.

 4.4 Contributions to the Research base
 Editorships
 Staff are active as Editors for journals such as: ”IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy”; “IEEE
 Power Engineering Letters” (Kuenzel); “IEEE Transactions on Neural Network; Learning Systems”
 (Cheong); Materials Science in the Sage Journal Composites and Advanced Materials (Hogg) and
 guest and associate editors for MDPI Sensor Journal Special Issue: Optical and Photonic Sensors,
 Associate Editor of IEEE Sensors Journal (Haxha), Guest Editor on special issue on Deep
 Representation and Transfer Learning for Smart and Connected Health at IEEE Transactions on
 Neural Networks and Learning Systems, 2021, Guest Editor on special issue on Deep Neural
 Network Representation and Generative Adversarial Learning at Elsevier Neural Networks, July
 2020 (Cheong) and Associate Editor for “Journal of Modern Power Systems and Clean Energy”
 (Kuenzel). Others, Mayes, Howard and Markantonakis serve on editorial boards. Mayes and
 Markantonakis have also edited: “Smart Cards, Tokens, Security and Applications” Springer
 (updated 2017), and “Secure Smart Embedded Devices, Platforms and Applications” (2014).

 Grant committees
 Staff regularly review proposals for EPSRC, STFC. Mayes reviewed for the Christian Doppler
 Forschungsgesellschaft, Austria and the Agence Nationale de Recherche, France. He is an invited
 mentor to the London Office for Rapid Cybersecurity Advancement and an invited advisor to
 Bwtech, the cyber security incubator of University of Maryland Baltimore County. Hogg has
 reviewed major proposals for the Research Council of Norway, chaired EPSRC equipment panels
 and regularly reviews industrial proposals for Innovate UK. Markantonakis is an expert reviewer
 for Horizon 2020, the Israeli Ministry of Science and the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific
 Research. Boogert is an STFC Reviewer for Ernest Rutherford Fellowships and Innovation
 Partnership Schemes and a UK representative on the European Committee for Future
 Accelerators. He participated in STFC’s 2018 Accelerator Review, is a STFC Strategy Board
 member, and recently stood down as a core member of the STFC Science Board. Hogg and
 Howard, both members of the 2014 REF sub- board UoA11 Electrical Engineering and Materials.

 Fellowships, prizes, recognition
 Staff are active via professional institutions such as the IET, IOP and the IoM3 with Hogg, Mayes,
 Howard, Haxha being Fellows. Howard was made a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering
 in 2016. Haxha is President of Kosovan British Academic Academy (KBAA). ECRs Kuenzel and
 Nduka both received the President’s award for an outstanding research team for their work at
 Imperial College prior to 2016.

 Keynotes and presentations
 Highlights from major international technical conferences include: Keynote presentations from
 Mayes, “Post Quantum Crypto Algorithms and MULTOS” at the MULTOS Annual meeting 2019;
 Markantonakis at SECITC 2015, "Secure and Trusted Application Execution on Embedded
 Devices" and SECITC 2017 “Ambient Sensing Based Relay Attack Detection in Smartphone


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contactless Transactions”. Five Keynotes from Howard “Acoustics of performance spaces and
 how to work best with them” at Ars Choralis 2017 Valetta, Malta; “In tune with pitch” at PEVOC-
 13 in Copenhagen; “Voice pitch and choral singing” at “Spheres of Singing 2020” in Glasgow; “The
 influence of timbre and other matters on unaccompanied choral singing” at TIMBRE-20 (on-line);
 “Restoring the voice of the 3000-year-old Egyptian High Priest, Nesyamun” to Foniatrian
 Luentokoulutusohjelma Syksyllä 2020. A Keynote from Casey “Extending cryogen-free
 experimental platforms into the microkelvin regime” was presented at the APS March Meeting,
 Texas, 2015.

 A number of significant presentations influencing strategy and policy include: Mayes to the All
 Party Parliamentary Group on cyber security: "Modern Challenges in Information/Cyber Security"
 July 2016: “Stand and deliver! Ransomware: how it works and how to combat it” and December
 2017: “Soft Cyber-Power- how our cyber security can be influenced through academia and the
 supply chain” June 2020. Casey presented “Implementing the new kelvin” at Quantum Fluids and
 Solids, QFS2019, Edmonton, Canada. Hogg presented papers on the future directions of the
 advanced composites industry, “The Role Of Textiles In The Next Wave Of Revolutions In The
 Fibre-Composite Industry (2016)” and “Evolution and Revolution: Parallels Between the
 Development of the Carbon Fibre Composite Industry in The Aerospace and Automotive Sector
 (2018)” at the Sino-British forum for Collaborative Partnership and Advanced Materials in
 Chengdu.




                                                                                         Page 17
