Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast
 Unit of Assessment: 3
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Overview
 Research carried out in Queen’s UoA3 lies within the Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life
 Sciences (the ‘Faculty’). Since the last REF period, there has been substantial reorganisation in
 both the University and Faculty. This has provided this Unit with opportunities for enhanced
 discipline-specific and interdisciplinary research in delivering health innovation, a marked growth
 in quality research funding, increased staffing and significant investment in infrastructure.

 Unit highlights since REF 2014 are:
      £198.9M in research grants awarded in the assessment period leading to £175.1M in
         spend
      An increase in Unit staffing from 125.63 FTE in REF 2014 to 149.36 FTE in REF 2021
      A significant growth in the number of doctoral degrees awarded from 141 in REF 2014 to
         428 in REF 2021
      Notable investment in estate and infrastructure, including £32M for the new Wellcome-
         Wolfson Institute for Experimental Medicine
      The establishment of two Pioneer Research Programmes to drive and enhance
         interdisciplinary research
      The launch of a Postdoctoral Development Centre to support and offer career
         development opportunities for early-career researchers
      Success in Athena SWAN awards including a new Gold award and renewal of two Silver
         Awards

 Overall structure: Faculty reorganisation has led to the replacement of the Faculty Dean with a
 Faculty Pro-Vice Chancellor, supported by four Deans with distinct portfolios (Research,
 Education, Innovation and Impact, and Internationalisation) and associated budgetary
 responsibility devolved from central University to aid agility and more localised decision-making.
 This restructuring has seen more strategic integration and development of the research portfolio
 across the Faculty and this UoA3 return now comprises researchers from the School of
 Pharmacy, School of Nursing & Midwifery and two dedicated research centres from the School
 of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical Sciences (SMDBS): the Wellcome-Wolfson Institute for
 Experimental Medicine (WWIEM) and the Patrick G. Johnston Centre for Cancer Research
 (PGJCCR, previously CCRCB). The WWIEM is a new Centre, created in 2016, merging the
 previous Centre for Infection and Immunity and the Centre for Vision and Vascular Science.

 Research Focus: While each of the UoA3 Schools and Centres have distinct research themes,
 research is interdisciplinary with an overarching focus on innovation for health and healthcare.
 As illustrated in Figure 1, we are motivated to deliver innovative discovery and translational
 science research, alongside insightful health services research, leading to real-world
 improvements in health and healthcare. Our research integrates the full translational and
 innovation spectrum, spanning from fundamental discovery science, leveraging
 molecular/cellular/human models, to co-design and evaluation of health and healthcare solutions
 with end-users and developing innovative solutions and therapeutics to benefit industry and
 healthcare




                    Figure 1: Research focus in UoA3 Schools and Centres

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Plans/Objectives following REF2014 and Unit’s Research Strategy to deliver the
 plans: The distinct strategies/plans for UoA3 Schools/Centres over the assessment period are
 summarised below. Health innovation and generating impact have been central to all strategies.

 School of Pharmacy: Research has focused on meeting global health challenges, notably
 HIV/AIDS, antimicrobial resistance, applying pharmaceutical sciences to intractable diseases
 (notably cancer and infection), and improving health and wellbeing in vulnerable and ageing
 populations. Specific research themes in the School are: Nanomedicine and Biotherapeutics,
 Pharmaceutical Materials Science and Formulation, Drug Delivery and Biomaterials, Infection and
 Antimicrobial Resistance, and Healthcare Delivery and Medicines Optimisation.

 School of Nursing and Midwifery: The research focus is on enhancing health across the
 lifespan, through co-design and evaluation of health and healthcare solutions with patients and
 carers. Maternal and Child Health concentrates on early interventions in sexual and reproductive
 health, improving maternity care and the quality of life for children with complex needs. The
 Chronic Illness and Palliative Care group delivers innovative solutions to manage conditions
 including cancer, renal, and cardio-vascular conditions. There is a strong overarching focus on
 enhancing supportive decision-making for all at the beginning and end of life.

 WWIEM: With a focus on dissecting the molecular basis of disease integrating different biological
 scales (from cells to tissue to human body) to develop new therapeutics, research spans three
 areas: (1) Immunobiology and Microbes focusing on molecular and cellular interactions
 underpinning the interactions between antibiotic resistant bacteria and the immune system, and
 inflammatory immune disease (multiple sclerosis); (2) Vision and Vascular Medicine targeting
 diabetic retinopathy and age-related macular degeneration (AMD); (3) Respiratory Medicine
 focusing on asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), cystic fibrosis (CF), and acute
 respiratory distress syndrome, with programmes in investigator-led pre-clinical development and
 clinical trials (Phases I-III). WWIEM programmes are supported by a set of technical units devoted
 to single cell analysis, and a portfolio of translational research models (human ex vivo lung, iPSC
 cells, 3D organoids, ex vivo blood vessels).

 PGJCCR: The strategy has focused on translational cancer research, using clinical data to inform
 research hypotheses that can be interrogated using appropriate model systems, and developing
 new advances that can positively impact patient outcomes. Tumour site specialisms include
 prostate, breast/ovarian, colorectal and blood cancers, underpinned by disciplinary strengths in
 three core research areas: (1) therapy resistance, (2) tumour microenvironment biology and (3)
 DNA damage signalling. This research is supported by technology strengths in molecular and
 digital pathology, radiation biology and advanced bioinformatics.

 While each of the Schools/Centres implemented these individual plans since REF2014, common
 overarching goals supported by the Faculty also drove development and progress across the
 Unit’s research portfolio:

 1. Greater excellence in research and research translation to improve health and society,
 through interdisciplinary and intersectoral working. Specifically, we planned to increase:
      UKRI, NIHR, Wellcome Trust and other high-quality funding
      Research partnerships with Industry and Health and Social Care Trusts leading to
        increased translation of research into practice
      Interdisciplinary research, and
      International collaborations.

 2. Developing people and environment. Specifically, we planned to:
      Develop the career opportunities of our post-doctoral community and the large cohort of
        early career researchers
      Recruit outstanding academic staff at all levels to integrate with existing groups and lead
        on new areas of investigation
      Invest in research facilities and investigator support mechanisms.

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The approach to achieving these goals was through an overarching University strategy, Vision
 2020, driving the development of globally competitive interdisciplinary research. Highlights of how
 Vision 2020 was realised in the context of this UoA and relating to our targets set from REF2014
 are summarised below.

 Greater excellence in research
 UKRI, NIHR and other high-quality funding- Specifically, there has been an increase in:

       New research grants of £198.9M awarded since REF 2014 compared to £75.8M in the
        previous assessment period, leading to income (spend) of £175.1M

  Notable achievements include:
           o A marked increase in research awards from UKRI: £12.6M in REF 2014 to
              £35.7M in this period
           o A significant increase in NIHR funding from £1.4M to £13.4M
           o UK charity funding has increased from £32.1M to £58.6M
           o Success with all EU funding sources: £5.0M in REF 2014 compared to £29.2M in
              this period
           o Industry funding has trebled from £3.8M to £9.9M.
 Research partnerships with Industry and Health and Social Care Trusts leading to
 increased translation of research into practice
     Thirteen Knowledge Transfer Partnerships worth £2.8m established nationally and locally
        with pharma and healthcare companies (£1.6M grant funding from Innovate UK and £1.2M
        company contributions)
     Sixty new research studies in partnership with healthcare trusts (nine awards funded by
        Trusts and 51 with Trusts as a partner)
     Research has led to 245 disclosures, 93 patents granted, 72 licences (69 non-software
        and 3 software related) and nine spin-out/in companies: ProAxsis, Re-Vana Therapeutics,
        Continga, pHion Therapeutics, CV6 Therapeutics (NI), VascVersa, Univ8 Genomics,
        ReproGo, and GenoMe Diagnostics.

 Interdisciplinary research
 As part of Vision 2020, and after a competitive review process, the University established Pioneer
 Research Programmes (PRPs) to enhance interdisciplinary research. This Unit successfully
 competed for support to establish two interdisciplinary PRPs in areas of major societal challenge
 with a strong impact focus: The Centre for Evidence and Social Innovation Research and
 Impact (CESI), formed in 2016, co-led by the School of Nursing and Midwifery with the School of
 Social Sciences, Education and Social Work collaborating with the School of Psychology, the
 Centre for Public Health, the School of Natural and Built Environment, and Queen’s Management
 School; The Materials and Advanced Technologies for Healthcare (MATCH) PRP, led by the
 School of Pharmacy, collaborating with the Schools of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering,
 Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Biological Sciences, WWIEM, and Nursing and
 Midwifery. Since their formation, these PRPs have been particularly successful in forging new
 successful interdisciplinary partnerships, attracting research funding and supporting ECRs as
 described under The Unit’s Approach to Interdisciplinary Research.

 International collaborations
 Internationalisation of our research is evidenced by sources of our grant income from international
 funding agencies and charities such as NIH, Horizon 2020, with significant contribution from
 international co-investigators on grants and co-authors on outputs. These collaborations are
 described in Section 4. Since REF 2014, PGJCCR began two international doctoral training
 programmes (DTP) in conjunction with international partner institutions, the US National Cancer
 Institute (NCI), and Princess Margaret Cancer Centre (PMCC) in Toronto. WWIEM led one
 international training programme for early-career scientists supported by the EU Commission

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (INBIONET, £3M; Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions), and has been a partner in another two
 (BactiVax and OcuTher). The University, in conjunction with China Medical University in
 Shenyang, China, has established the China Medical University–Queen’s University Belfast Joint
 College (CQC) which provides undergraduate programmes in Pharmaceutical Sciences and
 Pharmaceutical Biotechnology, degrees developed by the School of Pharmacy. This initiative has
 led to a steady pipeline of CQC graduates to undertake Queen’s postgraduate programmes,
 primarily doctoral degrees. A more recent collaboration with the Mohammed bin Rashid University
 of Medicine in Dubai is now leading to promising research links in data science, child health and
 infectious diseases.

 Developing people and environment
 Developing career opportunities for post-doctoral staff and ECRs: An institutional £4M
 investment in a Queen’s Fellowship Academy has been established to provide professional and
 career development for research fellows recruited through a number of University Fellowship
 initiatives or staff holding specified externally funded Fellowships. Applicants will be in the early-
 stage of their careers with research interests that align with current research strengths at
 Queen’s, and given comprehensive support over the course of the fellowship as described in
 Section 2.

 A £263K investment has been made in a dedicated Faculty Postdoctoral Development Centre
 (pioneered by WWIEM) to support training and development of all post-doctoral fellows. This has
 been largely driven by an increase in post-doctoral researchers from ~100 in REF 2014 to 170 by
 REF 2021, and recognising the need to provide more support and guidance to this cadre of
 researchers.

 Recruit outstanding academic staff: There has been growth in Category A academic staff from
 125.63 FTE in REF 2014, to 149.16 FTE for the current census period. In Pharmacy, one
 Professor, two Readers and one Senior Lecturer were appointed in this time period, together
 with six Lecturers. In Nursing and Midwifery, four Professors, one Reader and two Lecturers
 were appointed. In PGJCCR there have been three University Fellows, one CRUK Career
 Development Fellow, and 18 academic appointments including one Professor, two Readers and
 three Senior Lecturers recruited externally. In WWIEM, one Reader, two Senior Lecturers and
 eight Lecturers were recruited over the period, as well as four University Fellows, three
 Wellcome Trust Fellows, one Marie Curie Research Fellow, and one RD Lawrence Diabetes UK
 fellow. Further details are provided in Section 2.

 Invest in research facilities and investigator support mechanisms: Infrastructure development has
 included £32M investment to develop and equip the WWIEM building, and ca. £3.5M, in the
 development of strategic interdisciplinary research initiatives such as the CESI (Nursing and
 Midwifery) and MATCH (Pharmacy) PRPs. The School of Pharmacy underwent a major internal
 refurbishment in laboratories, along with equipment investment, costing £3.6M. Other significant
 developments over the assessment period have been the investment (£4M) in the new Wellcome
 Trust-Wolfson Foundation Northern Ireland Clinical Research Facility (NICRF), the £2.7M QUB
 Cellular Therapy Facility and The Precision Medicine Centre (£10M). These are described further
 in Section 3.

 Investigators are supported through the availability of postgraduate studentships and the provision
 of a bench fee initiative to attract high quality international research students. Schools/Centres
 support conference travel, alongside institutional support to develop new collaborations for major
 grant initiatives e.g. UKRI, Horizon 2020. There is a Faculty Peer Review College for research
 applications, and the Vice-Chancellor’s Research Prize with seven categories, each aiming to
 recognise and reward individuals or groupings of researchers, and research support staff, at
 various stages of career, who demonstrate exceptional leadership in the areas of research,
 engagement and impact. Nine members of this Unit have been awarded such prizes. Our
 commitment to the Athena SWAN Charter is translated into support for researchers, with an



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 emphasis on equality and diversity; this commitment has been recognised through SWAN awards
 across the Unit’s Schools/Centres (see Section 2).

 The Unit’s Approach to Impact
 Inextricably linked to the Unit’s research is its approach to impact. The latter has been embedded
 in our strategies and the Unit provides a range of support mechanisms:

 Institutional support investment in the University’s Research and Enterprise Directorate, has
 provided a new dedicated research engagement hub to support public involvement and the values
 of partnership and collaboration in Queen’s research https://www.qub.ac.uk/Research/Our-
 research/Engaged-Research/. There has been increased investment in business, Intellectual
 Property and contractual expertise to support entrepreneurial activity, out-licensing and the
 formation of global research consortia. The Unit has also received investment from an Institutional
 ESRC Impact Acceleration Award of £1.05m, which has been used to develop impact locally and
 globally, and is not limited to ESRC funded studies.

 Involving Patient and Service User-Groups as part of our Unit’s research and education
 committees has ensured our research is grounded in the reality of clinical conditions and their
 debilitating effects on individual patients. The Unit has pioneered the interaction with patient
 groups as an integral part of the research design. These collaborations comprise annual events
 and Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) meetings for specific projects and new research
 programmes. The Unit benefits from a close partnership with Northern Ireland Health and Social
 Care services. For example, the impact case study (ICS) Transforming supportive cancer care
 for patients and families (ICS 219628916) grew from a process of engagement with
 stakeholders, including all five Health and Social Care Trusts (HSCT) in Northern Ireland,
 Macmillan Cancer Care, Northern Ireland Cancer Network (NICAN), and the Northern Ireland
 Cancer Consumer Forum resulting in service development solutions in relation to identified needs
 for cancer care. This led to a redesign of follow-up care for cancer patients in Northern Ireland,
 and the co-design with a carers’ advisory group of Cancer Caring Coping, an online intervention
 to support carers which is integrated into the health services of all five healthcare trusts in Northern
 Ireland. Other examples include the Night with the researchers, co-sponsored by the British Heart
 Foundation to raise awareness of cardiovascular disease in Northern Ireland, and the annual All-
 Ireland Ophthalmology day co-led by patient groups with diabetic retinopathy.

 Entrepreneurial and Industrial partnerships. Impact through commercialisation has been at the
 forefront of activities within this UoA, representing one of the most important areas for QUB in
 attaining recognition as the top spin-out institution in the UK in 2020
 (https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/queen-s-reigns-supreme-in-universities-league-table-
 8fnml9b2m). Well-established spin-out companies such as Fusion Antibodies Plc. have now been
 listed on the London AIM stockmarket and PathXL was acquired by Phillips NV (and subsequently
 Cirdan in 2020). Several new spinout companies have been formed, including pHion
 Therapeutics, Re-Vana Therapeutics, VascVersa, ReproGo and Sonrai Analytics, as well as spin-
 in company CV6 Therapeutics which has relocated from the USA. In addition to entrepreneurial
 activity, strong collaborations with various researchers are in place with large companies such as
 Teva, Randox and the Almac Group. Indeed, Almac Discovery occupies space in the PGJCCR
 facilities with two joint appointments (Harrison and Kennedy) to facilitate and develop new
 strategic projects in drug discovery and precision medicine. The School of Nursing and Midwifery
 has developed collaborative research with NI companies Leckey and Neurovalens in rehabilitation
 innovations for children with disabilities. Ongoing collaboration with Randox and WWIEM is
 delivering diagnostics at the point of care funded by Innovate UK’s Precision Medicine
 Technologies project (£1.6M), in addition to Randox-supported projects on near-patient testing in
 Pharmacy.

 Future Strategy
 The future strategic plan for the Unit is to increase research capacity, research excellence and
 research relevance to improve health and healthcare. As highlighted in the University’s

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institutional Environment statement (Section 2c), QUB is a key partner in the Belfast Region City
 Deal, (https://www.brcd-innovation.co.uk/), a £1 billion investment bringing regional government,
 industry and universities together to develop Northern Ireland’s economy and society. Included
 within this investment are the Research Innovation projects, including the Global Innovation
 Institute (GII; data security, informatics, analytics), the Institute for Research Excellence in
 Advanced Clinical Healthcare (iREACH) and the Advanced Manufacturing Innovation Centre
 (AMIC), all of which will present significant opportunities for this Unit. In addition, we will continue
 to build on the core research domains as articulated in the individual Schools/Centres strategies
 below, while strengthening our interdisciplinarity and collaborative links within and outwith the Unit:

 School of Pharmacy: The future Research Strategy of the School of Pharmacy will be driven by
 our current research strengths and dynamic responsiveness to developing global health
 challenges and will map to the ongoing priorities of major national and international funders. The
 School will further develop its focus on pharmaceutical global health and healthcare delivery,
 patient care and translational medicine, healthcare technologies and biomedical engineering, with
 a focus on drug delivery and biomaterials, nanotherapeutics, infection and antimicrobial resistance
 and vulnerable populations, and consolidation of the MATCH PRP. These activities will be driven
 by opportunities provided by the Belfast Region City Deal, particularly within AMIC and iREACH,
 which will enable a step change in activities leading to optimal use of medicines.

 School of Nursing and Midwifery: The future Research Strategy will advance its central focus
 on driving transformational improvements in health and healthcare both nationally and
 internationally. We will build upon research strengths in Maternal and Child Health and Chronic
 Illness and Palliative Care focussing on under-served populations and the inclusion of carers
 within communities of care. Building on the intentionally interdisciplinary staff base within our
 School and Unit, we will have an increased focus on leading transdisciplinary health innovations.
 Our research will continue to deliver evidence-informed innovations and clinical guidelines with
 international policy partners, notably the World Health Organization and European Society of
 Cardiology as well as with local practice partners, such as the Health Trusts and charities such as
 Marie Curie Hospice Care.

 WWIEM: We will continue our focus to find new ways to treat vascular complications of diabetes
 (retinopathy), lung inflammatory diseases, and to tackle the threat of antimicrobial-resistant
 infections. The key pillars of our new research strategy are to focus on grand challenges common
 across the diseases of interest, using an experimental medicine approach. These are the
 molecular forces governing tissue homeostasis and regeneration, how resilience to disease
 develops and breaks down, and the molecular basis of natural protection. Therefore, humans, and
 where appropriate, translational models of research, will become the ultimate experimental subject
 in all our research programmes. We envision that this approach will dramatically accelerate the
 translation of discoveries into health delivery by overcoming current limitations due to the use of
 models far removed from humans.

 PGJCCR: The PGJCCR will continue to use its unique strengths in digital health, molecular
 pathology and advanced radiotherapy to underpin the development of clinically-informed research
 hypotheses that will define our discovery programmes in the areas of therapy resistance, DNA
 damage signalling, tumour microenvironment and early detection, feeding back to the clinical
 setting to enhance outcomes for cancer patients. This will build on our partnerships with regional
 and international pharma, while extending our track record in spinout creation to drive the
 development of impact from our research. A critical and potentially transformative development
 will be integration of our clinical trials and discovery pipelines within the new iREACH facility
 planned to become operational in 2025.

 The Unit’s Approach to Interdisciplinary Research
 The focus of our research on developing innovation for health and healthcare and the
 intentional interdisciplinary staffing of each School and Centre means that the research which
 happens within as well as between our Schools/Centres is naturally interdisciplinary.

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 There are multiple examples of such research projects which progressively grew across our Unit,
 driven by the synergy of our staff’s expertise including:
      The EU IMI-funded inhaled antibiotics in bronchiectasis and cystic fibrosis (iABC)
        programme, involving WWIEM, Pharmacy, the Belfast and Health and Social Care Trust
        and 17 other academic and industrial partners from across Europe, is developing new
        inhaled antibiotic treatments for patients with these conditions and investigating novel
        methods to improve clinical trials of treatment.
      The FASTMAN Movember Centre of Excellence (together with University of Manchester,
        funded in 2014 and renewed in 2019) is one of two national Movember centres and brings
        together physicists, molecular biologists, geneticists and clinicians to rapidly translate
        precision medicine approaches for prostate cancer.
      The EU-funded BREATH (Border & Regions Airways Training Hub) Project which involves
        Pharmacy, WWIEM, academic and industry partners is increasing our understanding of
        chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) across the themes of epithelial, neuronal
        and smooth muscle cell biology and physiology, as well as inflammation to identify new
        targets for intervention and novel biomarkers to enable earlier diagnosis and management
        of the disease.
      ‘The Passion HF’ study (led by Nursing and Midwifery and involving WWIEM and Belfast
        and Health and Social Care Trust and funded by an EU Interreg project) is developing
        personalised digital technologies for patients living with chronic heart failure to self-manage
        their day-to-day care
      Development of new enhanced therapeutic delivery approaches for cytotoxics and
        antibiotics to cancer and infectious diseases respectively funded through NIH, MRC,
        EPSRC
      An EPSRC-funded programme between Pharmacy, WWIEM and Chemical Engineering to
        bridge the gap between the Engineering and Physical Sciences and Biomedical disciplines
        to tackle antimicrobial resistance. The programme has focused on developing new
        materials to prevent bacterial colonization, design new systems for antibiotic delivery
        systems, and establish new therapeutics based on boosting the immune system.

 The CESI and MATCH PRPs led from this Unit have reinforced the approach to interdisciplinary
 research. MATCH members from across the Unit and beyond the Faculty have been awarded
 high quality research funding to support work in antibiotic resistance, 3D bioprinting (Wellcome
 grants), and the use of microneedle arrays in plasmonic photothermal therapy of basal cell
 carcinoma (EPSRC). CESI has over 100 fellows from all University Faculties and has been
 awarded significant funding on early child development (NIHR, Nuffield Trust; MRC GCRF) and
 hosts the national (UK and Ireland) centre of the international Campbell Collaboration for Evidence
 Synthesis.

 The Unit’s Approach to Open Research Environment/Culture of research integrity
 This Unit embraces QUB’s general commitment to supporting open access (OA) and we are
 committed to ensuring timely and accurate OA to publicly funded research and supporting public
 funder mandates for OA to research.

 From November 2015, QUB has used Pure to ensure that we adhere to open access policies of
 HEFCE and funding agencies in accordance with policy highlighted in this link:
 https://libguides.qub.ac.uk/openaccess). The University also supports payment of OA fees for a
 number of journals, including those from the BioMed Centre suite of publications. To complement
 the University OA system for pre-published versions of publications, Unit Schools/Centres have
 paid for open access fees for selected publications.

 We are committed to ensuring that our researchers adhere to the University’s Code of Conduct
 and Integrity in Research (https://www.qub.ac.uk/home/media/Media,598962,en.pdf). Since
 August 2019 the University’s Research Governance, Ethics and Integrity Committee has been a
 formal part of the University’s governance structures. It is responsible for the development and

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 implementation of policies, procedures and training to support researchers and provides oversight
 through regular audits and review of reports. We fully adhere to the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity as developed by Universities UK (UUK) since 2012, in collaboration with the
 Higher Funding Council for England (HEFCE), UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) and the
 Wellcome Trust. The University endorses the Russell Group’s Statement of Cooperation in
 respect of cross-institutional research misconduct allegations.

 As part of the University’s Research and Enterprise Directorate, the Research Governance, Ethics
 and Integrity unit provides advice and support on all aspects of research governance and ethical
 approval. It has developed its Policy and Principles on the Ethical Approval of Research focussing
 on the protection of the rights, dignity, health, safety, well-being and privacy of research
 participants, the welfare of animals and the protection of the environment. All staff and research
 students working within or on behalf of the University are expected to adhere to the Policy. For
 research not requiring NHS Research Ethics approval, the Faculty Research Ethics Committee
 will review all relevant applications and provide Full or Proportionate review, and a number of Unit
 staff are members of this Committee.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 As part of Vision 2020, the University has supported a sustained recruitment drive across all
 categories of staff. Recruitment was guided by a Faculty goal of securing high calibre research
 and education appointments to support collaborative innovations in health and healthcare.

 Overall, there has been a 19% increase in staff numbers across the Unit over the assessment
 period. Table 1 summarises the growth within each School and Centre over the assessment
 period, based on FTE figures, with recruitment figures pertaining to the range of academic staff in
 terms of seniority reported in Section 1.

 Table 1: Growth in Academic Staff since REF 2014

                            N&M*      Pharmacy      WWIEM         PJCCR        Total
  REF 2014
  Staff numbers (FTE)       19.03         33          44.6             29     125.63

  REF 2021
  Staff numbers (FTE)       23.21         39          47.75           39.20   149.16

  Growth in Staff
  numbers (FTE) over         4.18          6                  13.35            23.53
  assessment period
 *Nursing and Midwifery

 Particular focus was placed on generating a vibrant supportive structure to promote future success
 for ECR staff. Since the last REF, Queen’s invested £4M in a major early career fellowship
 programme (The Illuminate Vice-Chancellor and Patrick Johnston fellowships) establishing the
 Queen’s Fellowship Academy. Our Unit has been awarded six fellowships. Each successful
 appointee was provided with a minimum of £20,000 in start-up funding, a PhD studentship,
 protected research time and mentorship to a permanent academic position. The programme has
 attracted successful candidates such as Hobley, Plouffe, Jafarnejad, Beli, Atlasi and Malinova
 from leading research institutes such as McGill University (Canada), Indiana University (USA) and
 The Francis Crick Institute as well as enhanced career pathways for research fellows already at
 Queen’s. These fellows, alongside equivalent externally-funded fellows (Cancer Research UK, the
 Academy of Medical Sciences and Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund), are
 mentored through the Academy. It provides a comprehensive and bespoke development scheme,
 including access to a Fellows’ Network, Mentorship Programme and a range of professional


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 training and development opportunities, underpinned by central university funding (totalling
 £130,000). These supportive structures enabled two early career fellows to be awarded UKRI
 Future Leaders Fellowships and enabled all early-career fellows to be part of our Unit’s REF
 return. Our coaching has also helped secure seven Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard
 awards for Queen’s ECRs over this REF period.

 The current staff cohort, supported by some 170 postdoctoral researchers, provides for long-term
 stability and succession planning, with staff well-distributed across all grades of academic staff.

 Career Development of all Staff
 Driven by the goal of listening to and supporting our staff, two staff surveys undertaken in 2016
 and 2019 have led to the development of three main pillars of support in this Unit: (1) Personal
 Development Review; (2) Training and development opportunities and (3) Mentorship.

 Personal Development Review (PDR) is a continuous process over the academic year, offered
 to all staff to facilitate critical self-reflection on performance and to plan for academic
 progression/promotion. PDR offers greater agency and flexibility to staff to outline their own
 ambitions for education, research and citizenship (contribution to university and wider society).

 Training and development opportunities are wide and varied, ranging from School-based (e.g.
 core skills training, seminar programmes) through to a selection of courses appropriate to
 development of multidisciplinary research skills offered by the University Learning and
 Development team. Since 2014, Queen’s has also invested in developing high-level leadership
 skills, with 10 staff from across the Unit completing a 10-day Leadership and Management
 Excellence Programme; all of these staff have taken on higher leadership roles in research or
 education. In April 2019, also in response to the staff survey, the University launched a Connected
 Leaders Programme, a re-invigorated leadership programme provided by Queen’s Clinton
 Leadership Institute. Four staff in the Unit are currently enrolled on this programme.

 Mentorship opportunities were expanded during this REF period, offered to all ECRs on
 appointment and in agreement with the mentee for a period of three years to optimise opportunities
 for development. An Athena SWAN-inspired mentoring scheme was launched in September 2018
 to extend voluntary mentoring opportunities to all staff categories (academic and academic-
 related), regardless of length in post. Senior staff across the key constituencies act as mentors.
 The scheme has significantly increased staff engagement and enhanced progression readiness.
 Further bespoke mentorship opportunities aimed at enhancing equality of opportunity in academia
 are central to our Equality and Diversity policies as outlined later in this section.

 Developing early career researchers (ECRs): Across our Unit, ECRs are assigned lower initial
 teaching loads and minimal administrative duties to allow them to develop independent research
 programmes. In addition, newly appointed lecturers are provided with a minimum of £10k ‘start-
 up’ career development award. An individually agreed, three-year structured development
 programme forms an integral part of the academic probation process, monitored by a support
 group of senior staff and informal mentor. Schools and Centres within the Unit also have a ‘pump-
 priming’ policy of funding a studentship for each new staff member and provide enhanced funds
 for conference attendance. A key aspect of support for new staff on their first academic
 appointment is the Faculty Collaboration Seed Fund (based on a scheme initially established in
 the School of Pharmacy) designed to help ECRs establish new research links with world-leading
 programmes related to their research discipline. Funding, up to a maximum of £5K, is available
 for research visits of 1-3 months in duration. Within the current REF period, 28 ECRs have been
 supported to work in leading institutions abroad (e.g USA, Australia, Singapore) to establish
 productive new research collaborations. This policy has been highly successful, with maturing
 research collaborations, reciprocal visits and joint outputs published.

 Post-doctoral research fellows (PDRFs): This group of staff is also allocated protected time (10
 days per annum) to enhance their career development. Our colleagues are encouraged to use


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 this time to attend training externally or internally or engage in activities not part of their normal
 work, e.g. committee involvement, or publishing from other studies.

 PDRF staff also benefit from support from the Faculty’s Post-Doctoral Development Centre
 (PDC) https://www.qub.ac.uk/about/Leadership-and-structure/Faculties-and-Schools/Medicine-
 Health-and-Life-Sciences/PDC/). This model, begun in 2016 as an individual Institute initiative at
 the WWIEM focusing on supporting their large postdoctoral cohort, was adopted and expanded to
 the Faculty in 2018. The aims, as highlighted in Figure 2, flow from the key words of Welcoming,
 Training, Supporting, Informing and Recognising.




 Figure 2: An overview of the activities of the Post-Doctoral Development Centre

 PDC activities are part of a concerted effort by Queen's to offer outstanding support to its
 researchers through a Concordat to support the career development of researchers’ action plans,
 resulting in the University’s HR Excellence in Research award being renewed in 2020. It has led
 to tangible improvements for PDRFs such as enhanced training opportunities, formal recognition
 of contribution to PhD students’ supervision; guidelines to improve access to teaching
 opportunities for PDRFs; and inspiring best practices in the sector. For example, in 2018, Queen’s
 was the only UK university celebrating National Postdoc Appreciation Week, but the PDC’s
 communications around this inspired other universities in London, Oxford, Manchester, Sheffield,
 and Dublin to organise events in 2019.The approaches to staff development and support have
 also led to staff promotions for one third of our Unit’s staff since REF 2014 as summarised in
 Table 2, and almost equally so for female and male colleagues (46% female, 54% male).

 Table 2: Promotions by Grade 2014-2020

                                  Senior
                                           Reader Professor Total
 Promotions to:                   Lecturer
 School of Pharmacy               11         5         6          22
 School of N&M                    12         2         2          16
 PGJCCR                           3          6         2          11
 WWEIM                            5          4         7          16
 Total                            31         17        17         65

 Finally, our Unit also contributes to the leadership of the University across a range of portfolios,
 again appointing an equal number of male and female colleagues to these positions. The School
 of Pharmacy currently provides the Pro-Vice-Chancellor for Education and Students (Jones), the
 Vice-Dean, China Queen's College (Andrews) and the Associate Dean, Graduate School
 (McCarthy). The current Head of the School of Pharmacy was the former Dean of

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Internationalisation for the Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences (McCoy). The School of
 Nursing and Midwifery provides representation on University Senate (Fitzsimons). The WWIEM
 currently provides the Faculty Pro-Vice Chancellor (Elborn) and the Dean of Innovation and Impact
 (Stitt) in the Faculty of Medicine, Health and Life Sciences. The PGJCCR provides the Director of
 the Queen’s Gender Initiative and Academic Lead for Athena SWAN (McCloskey) and Faculty
 Associate Pro Vice Chancellor (Lawler).

 Research students
 Studentship provision for postgraduate research is a critical driver in research development. Since
 2014, the Unit has graduated 428 doctoral researchers (compared to 141 in REF 2014), a rate
 of 61 per annum, a clear indication of the vitality of the Unit and its research activities. We
 currently have 425 registered doctoral students across the Unit. In addition to PhD programmes,
 we have developed MSc and MRes programmes in areas such as Industrial Pharmaceutics,
 Pharmaceutical Analysis, and Experimental Medicine. These programmes provide research
 training and a pathway into PhD programmes for many students and are integral to our
 internationalisation and sustainability strategies of creating next generation thinkers and
 innovators with the transferable skillset to become future leaders. We recruit internationally and
 32% of our current research students are non-EU (21% in REF 2014). Our students consistently
 highly rate their experience in the Unit Schools/Centres in the Postgraduate Research Experience
 Survey (PRES). In the most recent survey (2020), 92% of PGR respondents across the Unit
 strongly agreed/agreed (SA/A) that supervisors had the skills and subject knowledge to support
 their project; 92% SA/A that they received an appropriate level of feedback on their work. With
 respect to environment and resources: more than 80% SA/A on all categories (working space
 86%; computing 81%; library facilities 89%; access to specialist equipment 86%). In relation
 to professional development: 92% SA/A that their project management skills had been
 enhanced; 86% had developed better communication skills and 86% had developed research
 independence; and 75% reported that their professional network had expanded.

 Formal admissions and assessment procedures, allocation of supervisors and good supervisory
 practice are the responsibility of Postgraduate Research Committees (PGRC). They are chaired
 by the Director of Postgraduate Research in each School/Centre. PGRCs, responsible to the Head
 of School/Centre, operate within all quality assurance regulations. PGRCs are responsible for the
 annual review of student progress and the formal Continuous Action for Programme Enhancement
 (CAPE) Review of research degree programmes. Since REF 2014, a Faculty PGR group has been
 established which has ensured best practice across the Faculty. The creation of a new Graduate
 School (https://www.qub.ac.uk/graduate-school/) during the assessment period has enhanced
 the reputation of the University and is central to provision of postgraduate training and the
 development of a supportive and nurturing research culture for students across the University.

 Funding and recruitment: PhD studentships in the Unit are funded from a range of sources
 including government (Department for the Economy NI Research Studentships and Co-operative
 Awards in Science and Technology [CAST] Studentships), Research Councils, Research
 Charities (e.g, Prostate Cancer UK, Breast Cancer Now, British Heart Foundation), European
 Union and Industry (Randox, TG Eakin Ltd). A number of students are also funded through
 fellowships such as the NI Health & Social Care Research & Development (HSC R&D) Doctoral
 Fellowship scheme. International students are supported through overseas government
 scholarships, with these increasing through international strategic partnerships. For example, the
 PGJCCR four-year DTP with the National Cancer Institute (US), established in 2016, provides a
 unique opportunity for PhD students from the UK and Ireland to perform their PhD studies with
 one of more than 300 potential mentors at NCI (1-year MSc QUB + 3-year PhD NCI model). With
 the PMCC in Toronto DTP, our clinical pathway PhD students can avail of its Drug Development
 Programme (2-year PMCC and 1-year QUB). The China Medical University-Queen’s University
 Joint College (CQC), a long-standing partnership, has resulted in a number of graduates opting to
 come to Queen’s to undertake postgraduate studies. In this REF cycle, the University has
 developed a strategic educational partnership with Mohammed bin Rashid University of Medicine
 and Health Sciences, with a key partner being the School of Nursing and Midwifery. The first
 cohort of PhD students from this collaboration is now enrolled at Queen's. WWIEM coordinated a

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 European training network –INBIONET- including seven academic institutions from Ireland, UK,
 Austria, France, Germany and Switzerland, an intensive research SME, Preclin Biosystems, a
 multinational pharmaceutical company, Sanofi-Aventis, and a technological park (ParcBit), This
 network is training the next generation of European scientists in the competitive field of “microbial
 anti-immunology” focusing on new preventatives and therapeutics. The success of the training
 and the excellent results were highlighted by the European Commission in a report translated to
 six languages (https://tinyurl.com/y4aaxqqd).

 All funded PhD projects are advertised on the School/Centre websites, on the FindaPhD.com
 website and through social media channels. Our websites have been recently re-designed to
 thematically profile academics and their research areas and we have developed a search tool for
 prospective PGR students; web-pages link directly to the prospective supervisor, the Faculty
 Recruitment Hub, the Graduate School and the online application portal. We also recruit doctoral
 students from clinical professions, most of whom have been working in clinical practice since
 graduation. We provide bespoke supervision and training with joint clinical/non-clinical supervisory
 teams actively encouraged. Since 2014, we have hosted 61 such doctoral fellows. We have also
 developed flexible approaches to supervision to facilitate doctoral completion by members of
 academic staff, part-time clinically active students and students with caring responsibilities.

 Internal University funding is used to support interdisciplinary capacity-building initiatives. For
 example, 14 PhD studentships were provided to support the MATCH PRP, with each studentship
 involving formal cross-School/Centre supervision. Other examples of PGR student supervision
 outside this Unit include: Physics (Cold plasma treatment of infection), Computer Science (Artificial
 intelligence algorithm development for predicting disease), Social Science (Suicide Reduction)
 and Architecture/Built Environment (Configuring the home to improve health in chronic diseases).
 The period has also seen a number of joint studentships (10 FTEs) in the area of ‘microbe/host
 interactions’ funded through a University DTP led by Pharmacy, WWIEM, and the School of
 Biological Sciences. This offers an opportunity for doctoral researchers to study within a
 multidisciplinary setting and undertake integrated training in the emerging field of microbiome-
 enabled machine learning analysis, and the well-established fields of microbe/host interactions,
 immunology and translational research involving cross-School supervision within and outwith the
 Faculty.

 Supervision, support and training: The supervisory team normally comprises a principal
 supervisor, a secondary or co-supervisor, and when required, a third supervisor e.g to provide an
 interdisciplinary link or to facilitate international engagement. Where a lecturer on probation is
 appointed as a principal supervisor, the member of staff must have gained a doctoral degree and
 have at least three years’ experience since its award and should be employed on a contract that
 would cover the duration of the proposed research degree to be supervised. The second
 supervisor must be a senior academic with experience of successful doctoral supervision.
 Supervisors new to the role of supervision must attend a one-day training course, delivered by the
 Graduate School, which also provides updates and examples of best practice for existing
 supervisors. PDRAs who make a significant contribution to the training and development of the
 postgraduate student can be appointed to the role of Assistant Supervisor.

 All research students must complete 30 days of skills training over the course of their 3-year
 research degree. High quality training programmes, compliant with UKRI recommendations, are
 provided centrally through the Graduate School which provides training designed to connect
 students across faculties to mentors, leaders and employers within the University and beyond. All
 Graduate School training events are bookable through the University’s MyFuture platform.
 Schools/Centres in the Unit also provide a number of specific compulsory courses for all
 postgraduates, including an Induction Session, Health and Safety Training, Laboratory
 Demonstrator Training and Library Orientation. PhD students can demonstrate in undergraduate
 laboratory classes, following appropriate training, and many have an opportunity to teach.

 PhD students have formal monthly supervisory meetings to monitor progress against their agreed
 research plan and to discuss future research. Supervisors in the Unit operate an open-door policy

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 encouraging more frequent discussions. Minutes of formal meetings are recorded using the online
 Research Student Lifecycle (RSL). Progress is monitored formally at Annual Progress Review
 (APR). For each student, an APR Panel is appointed by the PGRC. First and second year students
 provide a written report on their progress to date, an updated research plan and details of
 postgraduate training undertaken. Second year students also deliver a presentation on their work,
 with third year students providing a sample thesis chapter. The Panel meets individually with all
 students to discuss their work and makes recommendations to the PGRC regarding progress, with
 supervisor input. On this basis, the PGRC decides if a student can proceed to the next level. There
 is an established Appeals process. Students receive written feedback from the Progress Review
 Panel once the progress recommendation has been approved by the School/Centre PGRC.

 The Student Voice: Postgraduate Student-Staff Consultative Committees operate in each
 School/Centre. Meetings are organized once per semester and provide an opportunity for students
 to raise issues with staff in an open and supportive environment. PGR year group representatives
 are also encouraged to report any issues that arise to the Chair of the relevant PGRC on an
 ongoing basis. Students have an opportunity to provide feedback on their experience by
 completing the annual PRES. Results are analysed and reported to Schools/Centres and senior
 management committees, where they inform the development of new policies and the monitoring
 of existing ones. The Student Voice component of the annual CAPE review has highlighted areas
 to which Schools/Centres have responded in the assessment period. For example, ‘scientific
 writing as an international student’ was highlighted in 2018 as an area where further support was
 required. To address this, a teacher of English for Academic Purposes (EAP) was appointed in
 2019 to run courses for students on scientific writing. As part of his role, he visits the Schools and
 Centres and provides drop-in sessions, for one-to-one meetings. WWIEM/PGJCCR have access
 to their own EAP teacher. Similarly, students highlighted in 2017 that additional career support
 and advice would be beneficial. The Unit recognised that medium-long term career planning is an
 important activity, introducing students to options outside conventional academic pathways.
 Therefore, a Careers’ event has been run annually by Faculty for both PhD students and PDRAs.

 Financial support for PhD research students: All postgraduate students funded by the
 Department for the Economy receive £800 per annum which may be used as a research resource.
 The Unit also supports students through School/Centre funding, for example, by providing each
 student with between £400 and £900 per annum to support conference attendance. International
 students, along with their supervisors, may competitively apply for ‘bench fee support’ for new-
 start PhD students.

 Opportunities to present research: Students are actively encouraged to use their research
 stipends to travel and to present research at national/international conferences with additional
 support provided by supervisors, bequests and scholarships to support conference travel. There
 are a number of dedicated postgraduate conferences throughout the year, at University, Faculty
 and at School/Centre level. All Schools/Centres in the Unit facilitate and support the organisation
 of these events which take place annually. PGR students take responsibility for organising the
 programmes and meetings are well-supported by academic staff, facilitating engagement with
 presenters.

 Enhancing Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Queen’s inclusive environment celebrates and values diversity. Our core values (Integrity,
 Connected, Ambition, Respect, Excellence) synergise quality and attainment. Queen’s is a
 recognised leader in gender equality due to the Queen’s Gender Initiative (QGI), founded in 2000
 (Director, Prof Karen McCloskey, PGJCCR), an independent, female-focussed entity that
 champions women, and promotes participation and progression.
 Our Unit’s strength in gender equality is recognised through Athena SWAN awards (one Gold, two
 Silver); moreover, we lead Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) work across Queen’s, including
 chair of Institutional Self-Assessment Team, co-leads for the QGI Academic and Professional



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Services Mentoring Programmes, coordinators of the Women’s Early Career Academic Network
 (WeCan) and QGI Executive Committee members.
 Innovative strategies promoting gender equality across this Unit are:
1. Sharing best practices and acting together Through the establishment of a Faculty Athena
   SWAN group, comprising SWAN Champions, a co-ordinator and data analyst, this highly
   effective group shares best practice, delivers events/initiatives, challenges decision-making
   around allocation of research resources to be viewed through a gender lens and has prompted
   changes to promotion/probation criteria e.g. highlighting gender bias in teaching evaluations.
   The group stipulated prioritisation of gender/broader EDI principles for post-COVID lockdown
   return to laboratories (see Annex to the Institutional Environment Statement).
2. Role models and promoting visibility of women in our Unit over the last decade are
   combatting under-representation of senior female academics. The ‘Women of the Faculty’
   portraits project, new public lectures named after former prominent women in the Unit,
   review/challenge of speaker lists, all identify role models. Importantly, there is significant new
   work around racial equity (see below).
3. Family-friendly policies and flexible working illustrate Queen’s commitment to equal
   participation, recognising that our diverse community is composed of parents and carers, who
   need a healthy work/life balance. Our Unit actively encourages uptake of family-friendly
   policies including Flexible Working, Parental Leave, Dependant Leave and Career Breaks.
   Maternity, adoption, paternity and shared parental leave are significantly enhanced in Queen’s
   compared to statutory provision. In alleviating family pressures during the COVID-19
   pandemic, 10 additional days of dependant leave are available. Female academics returning
   from maternity/adoption leave have a teaching-free semester for re-establishing research.
   Core meeting hours (10am–4pm) apply across the Unit, enabling caring responsibilities. Staff
   avail of on-campus Childcare and the supplemented Summer Sports Scheme.
4. Leadership and Mentorship Programmes have actively addressed under-representation of
   female professors. The Schools of Nursing and Midwifery, and Pharmacy have been led by
   women; Prof. Carmel Hughes was the first female Head of School of Pharmacy. We
   consistently challenge barriers to progression and provide Academic Progression workshops.
   Our Unit participates in QGI’s Academic Mentorship Programme where female academics are
   mentored by senior female academics from a different School; a Professional Services scheme
   supports academic-related women. Our Unit has enabled participation of ten early/mid-career
   women in the Aurora Leadership Programme. Participants are mentored via QGI Mentoring
   Programmes and peer-support groups. Further tailored career planning support in the Unit
   includes Workshadowing Programmes, offering individualized opportunities to gain insights
   and demystify career pathways, and bespoke events through WeCAN and Faculty SWAN
   group. The next generation of researchers is inspired through public Open Days, Summer
   Research Programmes and undergraduate taster Internships.
5. Addressing the gender pay gap: since REF 2014, our Unit and the University identified that
   the dominant gender pay gap was at professorial level. From 2014-2018, two actions halved
   the professorial gender pay gap from 14.5% to 8.6%: (1) review and recalibration of Academic
   Progression criteria to ensure the leadership domain fully recognised all responsibilities,
   including SWAN leadership; (2) refinement of the number of points in the professorial scale.
   Sustained improvements to Academic Progression further reduced the gap to 6.8% in 2020.
 Queen’s is a member of the Race Equality Charter (REC) and is establishing an institution-wide
 Racial Equity Working Group. Staff and students in our Unit have proactively challenged
 stereotypes and exclusion within curricula and we are challenging/addressing racism. The REC
 academic lead is from our Unit; moreover, our Unit is appointing six Racial Equity Champions to
 work in their Schools and across Queen’s. Our Unit is diverse with local and international staff and
 students from many backgrounds; many are members of the University’s staff group iRISE
 (Internationally focused, Racial diversity, Inclusivity for all, Social cohesion and Equality of
 opportunity) and several student societies. In Queen’s, 12.3% of academics and researchers


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 identify as Black, Asian, Minority Ethnic, representing significantly higher diversity than the
 Northern Ireland population (2%, 2011 Census).
 Our Unit promotes wellbeing, recognising that productivity and creativity align with balanced
 home-work life. Self-care and good mental health are supported through a suite of wellbeing and
 social events. The QGI COVID-19 lockdown survey (developed by a Steering Group has two
 academics from the Unit) identified reduced wellbeing due to the pandemic, and has delivered
 recommendations to the University Executive Board.
 We monitor compliance of the Unit’s staff in taking mandatory online EDI training programmes
 that address gender, race, ethnicity, sexuality, gender identity, religion and disability. Staff from
 our Unit co-delivered Unconscious/Implicit Bias Awareness training and are currently leading the
 introduction of ‘Active Bystander’ training to Queen’s. Our Unit is supported by the University
 Diversity & Inclusion unit that has responsibility for developing policies, monitoring EDI issues,
 staff training and statutory compliance with Section 75 Northern Ireland Act 1998. In preparation
 of this Unit’s submission, EDI was paramount, and we adhered to the University’s Code of
 Practice, including the output selection process.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 As outlined in Section 1, there has been a significant increase in research awards to the
 Schools/Centres in the Unit, together with substantial development and investment in
 infrastructure and facilities to support our research and impact strategies over the assessment
 period. The sections below describe the income (awards) for the Schools/Centres in the
 submitting Unit, followed by a description of infrastructure and facilities.

 Income for the Unit
 Since REF 2014, our awards have increased markedly (160%) from a range of prestigious funders
 such as UKRI, Charities and EU sources and Industry, supporting a diverse portfolio of research,
 leading to important impact. Our awards reflect the breadth of research undertaken in the Unit,
 spanning discovery science to intervention implementation, leading to innovation in health through
 impact. This reflects the success of our strategies to increase awards from these funders and
 provides an excellent foundation for our future research plans.
 Across the Unit, awards from funders during REF 2021 compared to those obtained in REF 2014
 are summarised in Table 3, confirming the significant uplift in awards from all major funding
 sources.
 Table 3: Total Awards to Schools/Centres in UoA3 in REF 2014 compared to REF 2021
  Funder                                              Amount (£M) 2014        Amount (£M) 2021
  RCUK/UKRI                                           12.6                    35.7
  UK Charity                                          32.1                    58.6

  UK Government and Health Authority                  18.6                    50.0
  (including NIHR)
  UK Industry                                         3.8                     9.9

  EU sources                                          5.0                     29.2
  Other overseas                                      3.6                     15.4
  UK Others                                           0.09                    0.1
  TOTAL (£M)                                          75.8                    198.9




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 School of Pharmacy
 Over the assessment period, research awards for Pharmacy have increased significantly from
 £12.4M in REF 2014 to £37.4M. There has been a marked increase in funding from UKRI sources
 (notably EPSRC and BBSRC; overall UKRI total £5.7M), NIHR and other central government
 bodies (£6.2M), EU government bodies (£10.3M) and industrial support (£4.1M). The charity
 sector continues to be a fruitful source for research grants notably the Wellcome Trust, Prostate
 Cancer UK, Cancer Research UK (CRUK), Breast Cancer Now, Dunhill Medical Trust and the
 Cystic Fibrosis Foundation (£3.3M).
 Selected grants of significance supporting our key research themes, which endorses the strategic
 approach as described in Section 1, are highlighted below:
 As part of the Nanomedicine and Biotherapeutics theme, grants have been awarded to support
 the development of unique genetic therapies and delivery systems with applications in the field of
 cancer (McCarthy: Touchlight Genetics £541K; McCarthy, Coulter and Kett: CRUK £141K, Al-
 Jamal: Prostate Cancer UK £301K), the development of novel strategies for the detection,
 characterisation and inhibition of proteases implicated in chronic diseases (Martin and Tikhnova,
 with colleagues from WWIEM: Interreg £2M), and the isolation and characterisation of bioactive
 peptides for potential therapeutic use and computational biology for drug design and molecular
 modelling (Tikhonova: BBSRC £310K; NI DAERA £235K; EU £163K).
 Pharmaceutical Materials Science and Formulation has focused on the development of
 formulations to address major global issues including HIV prevention and multipurpose prevention
 technologies (including contraception) (Malcolm, Boyd, Kett: Wellcome Trust £467K; Malcolm and
 Boyd: International Partnership for Microbicides £340K, £337K and £566K); this research has
 contributed to ICS 219629101. The work on hot melt granulation and polymer extrusion/injection
 moulding technologies to produce unique formulations has important applications for industry
 (Andrews, Jones, McCoy: Department for the Economy £535K and £285K). Further formulation
 work has focused on veterinary products (Jones: Provita Eurotech Ltd £650K), which has also
 contributed to impact (ICS 219628894). The use of microneedles for transdermal drug delivery,
 patient monitoring and vaccine delivery, implantable delivery systems and ocular therapeutics has
 received extensive funding, highlighting the importance of these technologies to health care and
 urgent global challenges (Donnelly: Randox Laboratories £959K; EPSRC £821K; Wellcome Trust
 £506K; Thakur: EU £504K; Re-Vana Therapeutics £431K)
 Drug Delivery and Biomaterials research engages closely with the two preceding themes and
 antimicrobial work outlined below. Research has attracted significant funding in photoactive
 biomaterials, polymeric medical devices, and sensor development (McCoy, Irwin, Carson, Jones:
 EPSRC £446K; Invest NI £142K; Irwin: Academy of Medical Sciences £99K). A recent award
 from EPSRC on peptide-mimetic hydrogels as a long-acting multipurpose drug delivery platform
 for combined contraception and HIV prevention complements work ongoing in material science
 and formulation as previously described (Laverty £766K).
 Infection and Antimicrobial Resistance is a major global challenge and a long-standing strength
 of the School, with our research spanning the translational spectrum. Areas of activity include the
 management of infection in respiratory conditions such as CF and bronchiectasis (Tunney and
 Gilpin, with colleagues from WWIEM: EU-IMI £12.8M; also noted below), post-surgical infection
 (Gilmore: HSC R and D £549K), antimicrobial stewardship (Hughes and Tunney: NIHR £393K;
 Tunney and Gilpin: Randox Laboratories £535K) and novel antimicrobials and anti-infective
 biomaterials (Gilmore: BBSRC £649K and £94K).
 Healthcare Delivery and Medicines Optimisation has focused on the appropriateness of
 prescribing in chronic disease and in care home residents. Funding has supported testing
 interventions to improve adherence to medicines in those living in the community (Hughes; Dunhill
 Medical Trust £157K), polypharmacy in older people and prescribing in dementia and care homes
 (Hughes and Barry: Special EU Programmes £613K; HSC Research and Development £278K;



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Hughes: NIHR £233K) and the management of pain in those with dementia (Parsons: HSC
 Research and Development £275K).

 School of Nursing and Midwifery
 Between REF 2014 and REF 2021, the research income (spend) of the School of Nursing and
 Midwifery more than doubled, increasing from £2.9 million to £6.2 million. Our staff numbers have
 not substantially changed over the time period [a return of 19 full time equivalent (FTE) staff in
 2014 to the current return in 2021 composed of 23 FTE staff], meaning that the research capacity
 of our staff has substantially increased during this time.

 In Maternal and Child Health, research focuses on early interventions and includes an innovative
 focus on male engagement in maternal and child health. We have led the first UK-wide cluster
 RCT of a schools-based relationship and sexuality education (RSE) programme targeted to boys
 (‘the Jack Trial’) with Cardiff, Glasgow, LSHTM and UCL (Lohan & Aventin: NIHR £1M). The team
 has been awarded grants to co-design RSE and develop sexual health services within prisons
 (Lohan: MRC, £150K; Kelly & Lohan: Burdett Trust, £50K) and for young people with intellectual
 disabilities (Brown & Linden: Burdett Trust, £90K). Underpinning the School’s early intervention
 research is the development of two NI longitudinal population health registers, the Cerebral Palsy
 Register (Kerr and Perra: PHA NI £502K) and Neonatal Intensive Care: Outcomes Research and
 Evaluation (McNeil: PHA NI £412K). This population-based research has led to research awards
 to develop early interventions to address identified needs, for example, amongst very preterm
 infants (Perra: NI HSC R&D £34.5K) and interventions with industry to support child friendly activity
 diagnostics for children with cerebral palsy (Kerr: MRC, £85K).

 A second key focus is on maternity care. This team has been at the forefront of ensuring a robust
 framework for maternity care in NI through its leadership of Birth NI, the national survey of
 women’s preferences (Alderdice, McNeil & Lynn: PHA, £90K); interventions to support continuity
 of care (McNeil & Lynn, PHA, £80K) and interventions to support mothers with mental health
 difficulties ‘family focused practice’ (Grant: HSCB, NI, £83K). Our portfolio of global maternal and
 child health research has expanded during this period, funded by MRC GCRF (Aventin, Lohan &
 Tomlinson: £500K), UKAID (Aventin & Lohan: CEDIL programme, £199K) and WHO (Tomlinson,
 £74K; Lohan £79K). Together, the team’s research on sexual and reproductive health, specifically
 in prison healthcare and globally with WHO has informed an ICS (219629201), as has the Cerebral
 Palsy population-based research and follow-on interventions (ICS 219628984).

 The Chronic Illness and Palliative Care research theme is tackling some of the world’s greatest
 challenges: from using Artificial Intelligence to provide 24-hour personalised support for patients
 with heart failure [Hill, Fitzsimons, Thompson, Ski, Watson (WWIEM) & international partners:
 INTERREG, £360K] to interventions designed to support carers as part of communities of care
 locally and with partners in the Global South (Fitzsimons: CH&S, £85K; Santin: HSCR&D, £94K;
 DFE,NI & MRC GCRF, £255K). Working together with PGJCCR, in the field of cancer care, our
 team has been awarded research grants to improve quality of life through exercise interventions
 (Prue, O’Sullivan, Jain & Turkington: CRUK, Movember & HSCR&D, £485K) and to support
 management of cachexia and nutrition for patients and carers (Reid: HSCR&D & Marie Curie
 £210K). Together, the team’s work on cancer care services and the inclusion of carers’ needs
 locally and globally has informed the ICS (219628916): Transforming cancer care services.

 In palliative care, the team’s research is leading innovations in end-of-life supportive decision-
 making for underserved populations, such as patients with dementia in care home settings and
 patients with kidney failure. Grants awarded include the ‘EU Joint Programme’ award to support
 care home staff to engage in decision-making with family carers of patients living with dementia
 across six countries (Brazil: EU JPND, £464K) (https://mysupportstudy.eu/). A further example is
 an exploratory study of patients and carers: ‘Decisions not to dialyse in advanced chronic kidney
 disease’ (Noble & O’Halloran: NIHR, £512K), followed by a phase II RCT of an intervention to
 support advance care planning with older patients who have end-stage kidney disease
 (O’Halloran, Noble & Brazil: Dunhill Trust £145K). Recognising the increased vulnerability of care-
 home patients and patients with renal failure during the pandemic, the team has prioritised

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research on optimising supportive end-of-life care decision-making with patients and relatives
 impacted by COVID-19 (Brazil, Reid & Noble: ESRC, HSC R&D & NI & Kidney Research Fund,
 £280K).

 WWIEM
 Over the assessment period, WWIEM experienced a 90% growth in overall research income, from
 £27.4M in REF 2014 to £52.1M in this current assessment period. This has resulted from success
 in attracting support from diverse funders, including a 146% increase in funding from UKRI,
 equating to £11.7M. NIHR funding grew from £3.9M (REF 2014) to £9.9M, EU grants increased
 to £8.3M and industrial research funding grew by £4.8M. Charity sector funding amounted to
 £11.9M, with a £3.2 M contribution from Wellcome Trust including the first ever Wellcome Trust
 Investigator Award to the University. The award of the Wellcome-Trust Institutional Strategic
 Support Fund to the Institute, to the value of £600K (matched by the University) has supported,
 among others, the career development of six postdoctoral researchers in the areas of WWIEM
 expertise, and three 3-month clinical placements.

 Currently, WWIEM hosts 55 research groups, encompassing the fields of immunology, molecular
 and cellular biology, microbiology, and clinical trials. The discovery science teams work closely
 with colleagues practising in the Belfast Health and Social Care Trust who have their laboratories
 at WWIEM. Selected grants reflecting the success of the strategy outline in Section 1 are
 highlighted below:

 The Immunobiology and Microbes theme researchers have secured grants to dissect the
 cross-talk between respiratory pathogens and their hosts with a focus on the innate immune
 system. Teams working on uncovering the infection biology of antibiotic resistant pathogens
 (Klebsiella, Burkholderia, Legionella, Pseudomonas) have received significant support from UKRI
 (Bengoechea: BBSRC £2M in five consecutive projects; Valvano: BBSRC £900K in two projects,
 MRC £343K, Schroeder: MRC £372K), as well as those working on respiratory viruses
 (Mousnier: Medical Research Foundation £300K; Power: BBSRC £378K, Wellcome Trust
 £212K). This knowledge platform has advanced to the pre-clinical stage, exploring first-in-kind
 directed therapeutic approaches against antibiotic resistance (Bengoechea, Kissenpfennig: MRC
 £285K, with Astra Zeneca), a blocking antibody against RSV (Ablynx £147K), a point-of-care
 diagnostic kit for infections in critically-ill patients [McMullan: NIHR £1.5 M (STOP trial)], and
 trialling new therapeutics against bacterial infections found in cystic fibrosis and bronchiectasis
 patients (Elborn, Ingram and Pharmacy colleagues: EU-IMI £12.8M). This expertise has also
 been mobilized to tackle COVID-19, securing grants to understand the pathophysiology of the
 virus, and identify new therapeutics (Power and PGJCCR colleagues: MRC £296K, Bengoechea:
 BBSRC £486K). This theme has further secured grants to harness the power of the immune
 system to foster tissue regeneration of the central nervous system, and the lung following
 inflammation-induced injury (Fitzgerald: BBSRC £467K, Wellcome Trust Investigator Award
 £1.7M; Ingram GSK: £298M in two projects).

 The Vision and Vascular Medicine theme includes teams of basic and clinical scientists focusing
 on two of the major causes of vision loss in developed countries, namely, diabetic retinopathy and
 age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Several teams are addressing how early molecular and
 cellular events contribute to the development of late-stage complications associated with these
 diseases with an emphasis on microvascular circulation [Margariti: BBSRC £383K, Stitt: EU
 £360K, USA (NIH)-Ireland (HSC Research and Development) £512K, Medina and Stitt: USA
 (NIH)-Ireland £339K, Grieve, McDonald, Stitt, Watson: British Heart Foundation £2.5M in 12
 projects]. The innovation and translational potential of this work is reflected in the attraction of
 significant funding in partnership with industrial stakeholders (Medina and Stitt: Novo Nordisk
 £1M, Xu: Novaliq £243K, Lengyel: F.Hoffman-La Roche £483K in two projects). This basic
 research work has informed UK-wide clinical trials led by WWIEM researchers to define the
 effectiveness of multimodal imaging for the evaluation of retinal oedema (Lois: NIHR £677K;
 (EMERALD total trial £816K)], and whether micropulse laser treatment is a useful therapeutic
 alternative to the use of conventional laser therapy [Lois: NIHR £982K (NIHR DIAMONDS trial)].


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Respiratory Medicine theme includes clinical academics and basic scientists providing
 mechanistic insights into the molecular and cellular events underlying lung inflammation and
 tissue destruction in acute respiratory distress syndrome, and cystic fibrosis (Taggart, Weldon,
 McAuley: MRC £481K) (ICS 219629399). This research has informed the use of mesenchymal
 stem cells to mitigate lung injury and to aid in the clearance of bacterial infections
 (Krasnodembskaya: MRC £1.2M in three projects), and to assess the impact of the lung
 microbiome (Elborn, Ingram, Taggart, Weldon and Pharmacy colleagues: EU £844K). This
 discovery science is complemented by experimental medicine respiratory research exploring new
 therapeutics supported by the NIHR and the Wellcome Trust [Elborn, Bradley: NIHR £986K
 (CLEAR trial), McAuley: NIHR £2.08M (REST trial), Shyamsundar: HSC Research and
 Development £891K, O’Kane, McAuley: Wellcome Trust £1.8M (REALIST trial)]. This work
 aligns with research to define robust criteria of quality and assessment of c ar e wh i c h c a n
 b e u s e d a s outcomes in clinical trials (Blackwood: NIHR £1.8M SANDWICH trial; ICS
 219629352). Researchers in this theme lead the only UK-wide project on asthma personalized
 medicine [Heaney and McGarvey: MRC £3.2M (RASP)] which has secured additional funding
 from industrial stakeholders (Heaney: Amgen £575K, GSK £450K, Boehringer Ingelheim £450K)

 PGJCCR
 The PGJCCR is a multi-disciplinary research environment that forms the hub of translational
 cancer research in QUB. Since the previous REF period, PGJCCR has more than doubled its
 research income from £33.6M to £74.9M. The development of patient impact for early-stage
 clinical trials is supported by our CRUK ECMC (CRUK £1.35M and HSCNI £373K) and the Trials
 Acceleration Programme (TAP, Bloodwise, £128K and Cure Leukaemia £147K). Since REF 2014,
 PGJCCR has expanded its operation to a second building (5000m2), the Health Sciences Building
 (HSB) as a translational hub to develop impact emanating from the PGJCCR. The HSB houses
 the Precision Medicine Centre of Excellence (PMCOE), spinout companies Sonrai Analytics and
 GenoMe Diagnostics, and California-started spin-in CV6 Therapeutics. Additionally, a strategic
 partnership with Almac Discovery and Almac Diagnostic Services has been established to drive
 innovation and development of research impact.

 Research in the Centre focuses on themes of (i) therapy resistance, (ii) tumour microenvironment
 and (iii) DNA damage signalling; supported by cross-cutting technology specialisms. Funded
 programmes that support these areas include:

 Therapy Resistance: Understanding molecular mechanisms of drug resistance is supported
 through a CRUK programme award (Longley, £856K) and BBSRC (McDade, £384K). Molecular
 insights from these programmes have pioneered the development of novel first-in-class small
 molecules towards a key resistance target FLIP (Longley, Harrison: Wellcome £5.8M; MRC
 £885K) and intrabodies towards key oncogenic proteins (Scott: BBSRC £346K). In blood cancers,
 Mills examines the interaction between molecular mutations, treatment strategies and therapy
 resistance (Children’s Cancer and Leukaemia Group: £174K). The molecular insight into
 treatment strategies underpins the development of clinical impact in the treatment of
 myeloproliferative diseases as described in ICS 219629334.

 Tumour microenvironment: A major focus is the development and application of sophisticated
 ex vivo and in vivo genetic engineered murine models to more accurately reflect the complex
 milieu of tumours such as the CRUK ACRCelerator (Dunne: £101K to QUB, collaboration with
 Beatson Institute); development of new models to define metabolic mechanisms in colorectal
 cancer (Kerr: CRUK, £957K), hypoxic endothelial biology (Branco: Breast Cancer Now Fellowship,
 £165K to QUB) and antiprotease imbalances in lung cancer (Small: MRF £163K). LaBonte-Wilson
 is also using novel genetically engineered mouse models for the examination of extracellular
 signalling in prostate cancer (PCUK £482K).

 DNA damage response and signalling: Research into the DNA damage response and signalling
 in tumour progression and therapy response has led to the development of marketed
 transcriptomic biomarkers (The DNA Damage Immune Response assay; Harkin, Kennedy,
 Savage, InvestNI and Almac, £2.8M total), which has been validated to predict benefit/response

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to adjuvant chemotherapy in breast and oesophageal cancers (Kennedy, Savage, McIntosh,
 Turkington: CRUK £1.8M total) and colorectal cancer through the MRC S:CORT UK consortium
 (Kennedy, Dunne, Lawler: £1M to QUB).

 Technology Specialisms: PMCOE: launched in 2019, PMCOE brings together high-throughput
 genomics, digital pathology, artificial intelligence and big data analytics in a new clinically
 accredited state-of-the-art facility (InvestNI £4.1M initial investment further supported by national
 network research programmes from CRUK £3.3M and InnovateUK £5.2M) and the NI Biobank.
 The PMCOE is also partnered with the Belfast HSCT to deliver NGS-based cancer diagnostics for
 the whole of NI. Digital Health: The PGJCCR is one of only six national Health Data Research UK
 sites (Lawler: MRC £716K in partnership with Swansea University); developing new paradigms in
 the interpretation of disease prognosis and treatment prediction. In addition, Lawler is leading the
 HDR DATA-CAN, a digital Innovation Hub Programme (MRC £915K to QUB). As evidence of the
 impact of this research, Sonrai Analytics was spun out of QUB in 2019 within the field of multi-
 omics data analytics and AI. Advanced Radiotherapy: This team brings together clinical oncology,
 radiation science and radiotherapy physics (PCUK FASTMAN, O’Sullivan, Jain, Prise, Mills,
 McArt, Kennedy, Wilson and Butterworth). The first 5 years of this programme were completed in
 2019 (£2.7M) and subsequently renewed to at least 2022 (PCUK £850K). This programme is
 involved in the development of clinically applicable diagnostic/prognostic assays, delivery of three
 biologically-informed, biomarker guided clinical trials, and theoretical modelling of Radium-223
 mechanism-of-action which had led to the adoption of new clinical practices as detailed in ICS
 219629019. These translational programmes are complemented by fundamental research
 programmes (Prise: EC Framework 7, £620K, McMahon: UKRI FLF £1.1M).

 Operational infrastructure, facilities and specialist equipment
 To support the Unit’s research activities, there has been a concerted approach to providing
 outstanding operational support and a physical environment in which all staff and students
 can undertake the highest quality work. Such an environment, along with the necessary
 equipment and other facilities have ensured that we were able to meet our goals as articulated in
 the Schools/Centres’ research strategies.

 A prime example of this is the new WWIEM £32M 9,000m² facility (completed in 2015) and
 associated laboratories in the Medical Biology Centre (MBC) (920 m²). The funding for the new
 facility and the research equipment was provided by a number of charities and individual donors,
 the Wellcome Trust, the Wolfson Foundation and UK capital investment. The WWIEM building is
 a state-of-the-art research facility containing a large suite of open-plan multipurpose research
 laboratories including numerous tissue culture, molecular biology, biochemistry and microbiology
 laboratories. Its award-winning design aims to facilitate interdisciplinary research and collaboration
 between groups. The building is an example of sustainable and carbon-limiting laboratory design
 through the application of the 3Rs “Reduce, Recover, Renewable”. The WWIEM was officially
 opened on September 14th, 2018, by Prof Sir Paul Nurse. The capital raised was also used to
 purchase multimillion value state-of-the-art imaging equipment and genomics that crystalized in
 the creation of the Faculty Core Technology Units (CTUs) on advanced imaging and genomics. In
 addition, part of the equipment capital was used to improve the high computing capacity in the
 health campus.

 The School of Pharmacy has undergone a three-phase major refurbishment and expansion of its
 facilities completed in 2019. The School now occupies 5800m2 over five sites (compared to 4600
 m2 in 2014). This reflects growth in academic staff numbers, the post-doctoral research fellow
 cohort and research students. The £3.6M refurbishment resulted in improved laboratory and
 associated facilities (write-up space) and dedicated equipment areas. Each laboratory has
 appropriate technical staff support, who are trained in relevant techniques and oversee health and
 safety requirements, including training and induction for new staff and students. Technical staff
 are also responsible for equipment maintenance. Over the assessment period, there has been
 ~£4M investment in research equipment to support programmes across the research themes
 including state-of-art microscopy, next generation sequencing, 3D-printers, spray dryers, mass
 spectrometers and cell imaging readers. As noted above, central facilities such as CTUs are also

                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 available and are extensively used by staff. As part of the MATCH PRP, the University has
 provided £515K for equipment, administrative and technical support to further enhance the
 interdisciplinary research within the University and to engage with research end users, notably
 industry and the health service.

 The School of Nursing and Midwifery has received significant investment in infrastructure and
 research support through the creation of the CESI PRP interdisciplinary workspace bringing
 together staff from all faculties (£500K from QUB and Atlantic Philanthropies). The impact of the
 new investment in CESI has led to increased interdisciplinary university-wide research projects,
 including those led by early career researchers and enhanced training opportunities for PhD
 students and post-doctoral research staff. Additional investment through staffing and studentships
 have also contributed to overall infrastructure support.

 A £4M investment in the new Wellcome Trust-Wolfson Foundation Northern Ireland Clinical
 Research Facility (NICRF) has supported clinical trials research. Based in Belfast City Hospital,
 the NICRF has the infrastructure to support clinical trials from conception to completion. With
 dedicated staff, the NICRF allows researchers to access a specialised area for clinical research,
 including equipment not available in the NHS. It contains ten clinical rooms, a blood processing
 facility and a diet kitchen for nutrition studies.

 Funding (£2.7M) has been invested in the QUB Cellular Therapy Facility. Based in the Royal
 Victoria Hospital and maintained in conjunction with the Belfast Health and Social Care Trust, it
 was jointly funded by Medical Research Council (£1M), Health and Social Care Research and
 Development Division (£1.3M) and QUB (£0.4M).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our approach to collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society is
 embedded in our research and impact strategies, reflecting the Unit’s commitment to these
 activities. We have deliberately moved beyond conventional academic aspects of collaboration
 and contribution to encompass key stakeholders and end-users of research, recognising the core
 element of our mission- the centrality of patients and the public in our research. Below, we outline
 key examples of collaboration which reflect this broader mission, including public engagement and
 patient and public involvement in the development, conduct and implementation of research and
 subsequent findings, through to policy. Many of these activities have also contributed to impact
 generation, examples of which were described in Sections 1 and 3.

 Academic and industrial collaboration: Through research dissemination and communication,
 staff have forged key collaborations across other institutions on the island of Ireland, the UK, the
 EU and across the world. Specific funding initiatives (Science Foundation Ireland, Interreg, All-
 Ireland Institute of Hospice and Palliative Care) have supported collaborations with colleagues in
 Irish institutions, while the Interreg North-West Europe Programme, Horizon 2020 and the IMI
 initiative have supported EU applications. A unique tripartite arrangement between funders in
 Northern Ireland (HSC Research and Development Division), the Republic of Ireland (Health
 Research Board) and the USA (National Institutes for Health) have facilitated world-leading
 research programmes to be supported in the areas of cystic fibrosis (CF), pancreatic cancer and
 post-surgical treatment of infection. Other examples (not exhaustive) of collaborating partners
 include: National Universities of Cambridge, Oxford, Manchester, Liverpool, UCL, London School
 of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Warwick, Newcastle, University of East Anglia, ICR. European
 Trinity College Dublin, Technical College Munich, Academisch Ziekenhuis Maastricht, University
 of Strasburg, Leiden University. International Purdue, Buffalo, Toronto, NCI, University of
 Massachusetts, University of Auckland, University of Melbourne, University of British Columbia,
 McMaster University, Université Catholique de Louvain, Leuven. Industrial: GSK, Roche, Astra
 Zeneca, Pfizer, Amgen, Randox, Astex Therapeutics, Celerion.

 In addition to funded collaborations though research grants, we have formal agreements for
 collaboration and student transfers in place with organisations such as the National Cancer

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institute, Bethesda, and Princess Margaret Cancer Centre Toronto. Our approach to supporting
 collaboration such as the ECR Faculty Collaboration Seed Fund (see Section 2) helps to develop
 partnerships, particularly for those at the formative stage of their careers. The PRPs within this
 Unit (CESI and MATCH) have enhanced collaboration across Centre/School/Faculty and the
 University, while engaging with end users of research such as area-based communities
 ‘innovation zones’, patients, practitioners and industry, including health providers. These
 approaches are aimed at extending our international research reach to enhance the quality of our
 research and drive impact generation.

 Patient and Public Engagement and Involvement: At an institutional level,
 the University Engaged Research Action Plan has established a Patient and Public Involvement
 (PPI) Network reflecting the NHS ‘INVOLVE’ principles as a key objective. It includes members
 from across the three faculties with Unit member, Professor Alan Stitt, as academic lead. An all-
 Ireland PPI Network being led by NUI Galway in collaboration with QUB, University of Limerick,
 University College Cork, University College Dublin, Trinity College Dublin, Royal College of
 Surgeons in Ireland, Dublin City University and a range of other partners, including charities and
 patient advocacy organisations, has recently been approved for funding support by the Health
 Research Board in the Republic of Ireland. These Networks reflect what is already common
 practice in the Unit as patient and public engagement and involvement has been central to much
 of our research over the assessment period. Many Unit staff use the resources provided by the
 HSC Research and Development Division and its Public Involvement Enhancing Research
 Group (PIER NI) PIER NI (Public Involvement Enhancing Research) | Public Health Agency -
 Research & Development in Northern Ireland (hscni.net) Other key examples of how engagement
 and involvement have been implemented are described below:

 PGJCCR works closely with clinical and trial staff in the Northern Ireland Cancer Trials Network
 (NICTN), the Northern Ireland Cancer Research Consumer Forum (NICRCF) and the Belfast
 Health and Social Care Trust. These collaborations have led to-

       A regular PPI induction and training day
       The establishment of a Prostate Cancer Patient Advisory Group which feeds into studies
       A Public and Patient Involvement and Engagement group as part of the DATA-CAN
        initiative, which is the UK's Health Data Research Hub for Cancer.

 Within WWIEM, PPI in cystic fibrosis studies has been progressed through the NICRF and the
 European Cystic Fibrosis Clinical Trials Network (ECFS-CTN). People with CF or parents are
 part of the trial review process to ensure that the study design is acceptable to patients. Elborn
 founded ECFS-CTN, which Downey now co–directs. ECFS-CTN sites prioritise trials for which the
 protocol has been reviewed and approved by teams of CF patient/parents, doctors, research
 coordinators, and statisticians. This improves trial design, ensures an acceptable burden of
 participation and prioritises impactful trials (to best use the limited patient population). To date,
 140 protocols have been reviewed. WWIEM is implementing a cross-community post-primary
 schools’ initiative in which students will work together to investigate major microbial research
 problems using mobile laboratory demonstrations, research projects on grand challenges in
 health, documentary recording and open lectures. This initiative will introduce students to the
 centrality of science in society and the importance of teamwork in addressing important problems
 in health.
 The Northern Ireland Cerebral Palsy Register (NICPR) at the School of Nursing and Midwifery
 (Kerr and Perra) is one of 10 ‘test-bed’ projects that will test the NIHR National Standards for
 Public Involvement in Research. This will establish if the NIHR standards work in practice and
 to share what is learnt from using the standards. As a ‘test-bed’ the NICPR will (i) create a public
 involvement (PI) group (persons with CP and their family, carers and friends), (ii) collaboratively
 determine terms of reference, activities and training needs of this PI group, (iii) develop jargon-
 free communication methods to meet the needs of different audiences, and (iv) record, monitor
 and        evaluate          our        PI        activity.        https://www.qub.ac.uk/research-
 centres/NorthernIrelandCerebralPalsyRegister/GetInvolved/

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Policy activities: During this REF period, the School of Nursing and Midwifery has developed a
 sustained contribution to the work of the WHO in Geneva. Tomlinson, a Consultant to the WHO is
 one of the co-ordinating writers of the WHO document ‘Nurturing Care for Early Childhood
 Development: A Framework for Helping Children Survive and Thrive to Transform Health and
 Human Potential’. He is co-author of the WHO-Lancet commission ‘A Future for the World’s
 Children?’ and is currently a member of the WHO Strategic and Technical Advisory Group of
 Experts (STAGE) for Maternal, Newborn, Child, Adolescent Health & Nutrition. Lohan is the WHO
 Consultant leading on synthesising the global evidence on ‘Engaging Men and boys in Sexual and
 Reproductive Health and Rights’ This research is shaping WHO’s global agenda for the
 improvement of sexual and reproductive healthcare by effective engagement with males. The
 School’s appointment of Fran McConville, Lead Midwifery Advisor to the WHO as an Honorary
 Professor of Practice 2020-2023 will enhance this sustained partnership between our School and
 WHO.

 Contributions: Unit staff play significant and meaningful roles in the wider research community
 which have been recognised through prestigious awards/prizes, membership of learned bodies,
 scientific advisory boards, funding panels, editorial roles including membership of editorial boards
 and regular reviewing activities for funding bodies and journals. Collectively, over the assessment
 period, Unit members have been awarded 104 prizes/honours, 43 fellowships of learned societies,
 delivered more than 300 keynote conference presentations and served on 51 UK and 22 non-UK
 funding panels. Below we have provided selected examples to illustrate these contributions.

 Honours and Prizes (selected): Hill, Nursing and Allied Health Professional Award, European
 Society for Cardiology; Linden, Fellow of the British Psychological Society; Thompson, Academia
 Europaea; Tomlinson, Academy of Science of South Africa (ASSAF), Fitzgerald, MS Society
 (UK and Ireland) Researcher of the Year; Krasnodembskaya, Stem Cells Young Researcher of
 the Year; Stitt, Eva Kohner Prize Lecture European Association for Research in Vision and
 Ophthalmology, Royal Society-Wolfson Merit Award, 5th Fincham Medal, Member of Royal Irish
 Academy; Al-Jamal, GSK Emerging Scientist Award; Donnelly, Controlled Release Society
 Young Investigator Award; Gilmore, WH Pierce Prize, Society for Applied Microbiology; Jones,
 Academy of Pharmaceutical Sciences Innovative Science Award, Griffith Medal of the Institute of
 Materials, Minerals and Mining; Lamprou, Royal Pharmaceutical Society Science Award; Allott,
 Irish Cancer Society Research Fellow of the Year; Blayney, Women in Tech Award and the
 TechWomen100 Award; Butterworth, US Radiation Society Early Career Investigator Award,
 Dunne, Best paper, European Alliance for Personalised Medicine Congress; Mullan and Beirne,
 TP Gunton Award; Prise, Bacq and Alexander Award, European Radiation Research Society and
 the Douglas Lea Lecturer, Institute of Physics and Engineering Medicine (IPEM); Evergren,
 Ambassador for the American Society for Cell Biology; Andrews, Eminent Fellow Academy of
 Pharmaceutical Sciences; Elborn, Elected Fellow, Academy of Medical Sciences.

 Professional Bodies and Roles (selected): Bengoechea, Chair of the Sustainability and
 Development committee and Trustee of the Microbiology Society; Buckley, Council, Irish
 Association of Cancer Research; Coulter, Chair, Association of Radiation Research; Gilmore,
 Wellcome Trust/DoH Alternatives to Antibiotics Consortium, President of the Society for Applied
 Microbiology; Hughes, Former Chair of the Scientific Advisory Board, Pharmacy Research UK;
 REF Sub-Panel 3 member; McNeil, International Confederation of Midwives Research Standing
 Committee; Hill, European Society of Cardiology Heart Failure Association, Fitzsimons, Board
 member European Society of Cardiology and UK Council of Deans Executive Board member;
 Reid, Chair of the All-Ireland Palliative Care Research Network; Elborn, Member of SAGE;
 Fitzgerald, Wellcome Trust Neuroimmunology Scientific steering committee; Research Strategy
 Group, MS Society; Multiple Sclerosis Society Expert Clinical Trials Consortium; McAuley,
 American Thoracic Society Critical Care Assembly Nominating Committee; NIH PETAL Network
 International Advisory Committee; International ECMO Network, Chair; NIHR HTA General Board;
 McMullan, NICE Sepsis Guideline Development Group; Power, COVID-19 expert advisory group,
 British Society for Immunology and Academy of Medical Sciences; Chair, International Respiratory
 Syncytial Virus Society, extended to 2022; Valvano, Themes Panel, Biochemical Society, UK; Xu,

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trustee of Association for Ocular Pharmacology & Therapeutics; Stitt, Fighting Blindness Ireland,
 Scientific Advisory Board; Sir Jules Thorn Charitable Trust, 50th Anniversary Award 2014, Panel
 Chair, Moorfields Eye Hospital/Institute of Ophthalmology; Branco, Breast Cancer Now Scientific
 Advisory Board; Coyle; CR-UK ECMC Combinations Alliance Joint steering committee; Gonzalez
 de Castro Chair UK Molecular Pathology Scientific advisory group UKNEQAS; Jain, Chair of the
 Irish Radiation Society; Kennedy, member of MRC Stratified Medicine group; McIntosh, Chair,
 Early Disease Subgroup of NCRI Breast Research Group; Member, NCRI Strategic Advisory
 Group; Mills, Member of the Scientific Advisory Panel for Leuka; Scott, Trustee, British Society
 of Nanomedicine; Lawler, European Research Council Ethics Committee, Horizon 2020 Health,
 Ethics Committee; Vice President, European Cancer Concord; European Alliance for Personalised
 Medicine; O’Sullivan, Advanced Prostate Cancer Consensus Committee, Royal College of
 Radiologists Clinical Academic Committee, NCRI -Prostate CSG, Advanced Prostate Cancer Sub-
 group member

 Research Funding Committees (selected): Al-Jamal, Prostate Cancer UK Research Advisory
 Committee; Gilmore, Hungarian National Research, Development and Innovation; Hughes,
 Member of selection panel for the NIHR School for Primary Care Research; NIHR Health Services
 and Delivery Research Review Panel; Irwin, Royal Academy of Engineering; Tunney, La Caixa
 Scientific Foundation, European Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases; UKRI FLF peer
 review college; Wagner, EPSRC prioritisation panel, Science Foundation Ireland; Bengoechea,
 Co-chair ANR (France)-BMBF (Germany) on Antimicrobial resistance; UKRI FLF Deputy Chair sift
 and interview panels; BBSRC core member committee D; Chair Peer Review Panel, INFECT-ERA
 (EU FP7 Programme), MRC Infection and Immunity Board; core panel member Infection and
 immunity ANR (France); Brazil, NC3Rs panel member; Fitzgerald, Wellcome Trust Cellular and
 Molecular Neurosciences, BBSRC Research Committee E; Chair, Wellcome Trust/HHMI/Gates
 Foundation/Gulbenkian Foundation International Research Scholars; MS Society of Great Britain
 and Northern Ireland; Lundy, Newton Foundation; McAuley, Chair of NIHR/MRC 2019-nCoV
 Rapid Response Call 1; MRC/NIHR Efficacy and Mechanism Evaluation Programme Director;
 Stitt, Diabetes UK Research committee member (2017- present); National Eye Research Centre
 UK; Royal Society: Commonwealth Science Grants Committee; French Agence Nationale de la
 Recherche (ANR): International Scientific Review Panel for University Hospital Institutes; Taggart,
 European Respiratory Society College of Experts; Heaney, MRC Populations and Systems
 Biology Board; Xu, Fight for Sight UK; Bright Focus USA; Brazil, Deputy Chair, Policy Research
 Unit Commission of NIHR; Member of the Health Services and Delivery Research Programme,
 NIHR; Fitzsimons, Northern Ireland Chest Heart and Stroke Scientific Advisory Committee;
 Lohan, MRC Global Health Research Board; Harrison, MRC DPFS panel; Jain, Prostate Cancer
 UK Research Advisory Committee; Scott, UKRI FLF Peer-Review College, MRC DPFS panel,
 EuroNanoMed (ERA-Net CoFund); Grieve, Vice Chair, BHF Grants Committee, NC3Rs;
 O’Sullivan Irish Cancer Society: Career Fellowship Committee Chair; Expert member CRUK
 Fellowship committee. Chair of Fellowship Committee- Friends of the Cancer Centre; Kennedy,
 CRUK New Agents Committee, MRC Stratified Medicines Board.

 Selected Editors/editorial board members: Boyle, Neonatal Nursing; Brown Learning
 Disability and Practice; Thompson, European Journal of Cardiovascular Nursing; Santin,
 Frontiers in Public Health; Coulter, Cancer Nanotechnology; Gilmore, Journal of Applied
 Microbiology and Letters in Applied Microbiology; Jones, Journal of Pharmacy and Pharmacology;
 Fitzsimons, Journal of Cardiovascular Nursing, European Heart Journal – Acute Cardiovascular
 Care & British Journal of Cardiac Nursing, Ge, Nanotechnology: Nanomedicine &
 Nanobiotechnology; Tomlinson, PLoS Medicine; Hughes, Pilot and Feasibility Studies, Cochrane
 Collaboration (Effective Practice and Organisation of Care); Lamprou, Pharmaceutics; Tunney,
 Journal of Cystic Fibrosis and Critical Reviews in Microbiology; Bengoechea, Infection and
 Immunity, Microbiology-UK, Curtis, Microcirculation; Fitzgerald, Journal of Cell Communication
 and Signalling, American Journal of Clinical and Experimental Immunology; Krasnodembskaya,
 Frontiers in Pharmacology; Lundy, Archives of Oral Biology; Margariti, Insights in Stem Cells;
 International Journal of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology; McAuley, BMJ Open, Power,
 Pathogens, Stitt, Current Eye Research, Diabetologia, Clinical Ophthalmology, Microcirculation;
 Taggart, Journal of Cystic Fibrosis, Valvano, The Journal of Biological Chemistry, Nature

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scientific Reports, Infection and Immunity; Xu, Experimental Eye Research, Frontiers in
 Immunology; McArt, PLoS Computational Biology; McCloskey British Journal of Pharmacology;
 Mills, Molecular Cancer; Adrain, The FEBS Journal, Scientific Reports; Longley, Clinical Cancer
 Research, Molecular Cancer Therapeutics, Journal of Chemotherapy, Nature Communications,
 Cell Death & Differentiation, Cell Death & Disease.




                                                                                        Page 25
