Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: The University of Manchester
 Unit of Assessment: 11 (Computer Science and Informatics)
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.i) Research Structures
Computer Science (CS) is central to modern societal challenges, and UoA11 activity stretches
across the University. Connections are facilitated by the institutional Digital Futures Platform, a
network of over 1000 researchers across 30 disciplines. The Department of Computer Science is
at the core, delivering the fundamental CS that underpins University capabilities: housing 54/58 Unit
staff, with 4 in the Medical School. In the REF period, income per FTE increased 79%, and Unit staff
published over 1200 peer-reviewed outputs; partnered with 46 UK universities, and 660 EU
organisations (e.g. contributing leadership in the EC FET Flagship Human Brain Project) and
received 14 competitive fellowships, including an RAEng 10-year Chair, a RS Wolfson Research
Merit Award, and a UK Parliamentary Fellowship.

The Department is part of the wider School of Engineering – connecting us to a breadth of expertise
from electronics to materials, and reflecting our commitment to CS as an engineering discipline.
Faculty, School and Unit strategies work synergistically to support research and its impact, providing
economies of scale and barrier-free interactions. We pursue 6 themes: Data Science, Artificial
Intelligence, Human-Centred Computing, Theory & Foundations, Software & e-Infrastructure,
and Future Computing – each with an assigned academic lead – with cross-theme support from a
Director of Research, Impact Lead, Outputs Champion, and Director of Business Engagement. Each
of our academics self-identifies as a member of (at least) one of 9 research groups, which comprise
the expertise to pursue our themes: Advanced Processor Technologies, Autonomy & Verification,
Formal Methods, Human Computer Systems, Imaging Science, Information Management, Machine
Learning & Robotics, Nano-Engineering & Spintronics, and Natural Language Processing & Text
Mining. The themes provide breadth, while groups provide depth, supporting subject-specific
nurturing of talent.

To bridge disciplines, we support joint appointments (currently 11), channelling impact across
boundaries. Data Science/A.I.: 4 staff (imaging science) are joint with the Medical School; and 4 joint
with the Manchester Institute of Biotechnology. Future Computing: 3 staff based in CS, work in
device nano-engineering (returned with UoA12).

1.ii) Research Strategy
In the REF2014 statement, our strategy was to foster a “virtuous circle” of pioneering and
outward-looking research, illustrated in the figure below.

                                    Pioneering ideas, setting the agenda,
                               and solving hard problems, within the discipline




                           Outward-looking research, engaging in knowledge transfer,
                              and tackling grand challenges, beyond the discipline


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The plan for the REF period named 5 actions, for which we now review outcomes:
   promoting studentships within the virtuous circle: Of 245 current PGRs, 15% are co-
    supervised by other Units, facilitated by 4 interdisciplinary doctoral programmes (fuelling
    outward-looking research). The Unit spent GBP5,500,000 (see 2.viii) to support 178 PGRs
    unrestricted in topic, fuelling either outward-looking or pioneering research
   encouraging models of collaborative research: We promoted a range of collaboration through
    pursuit of diverse funding: e.g. UKRI (104 projects overall including 4 programme grants), EU
    (52 projects); KTPs (12); and CASE/iCASE studentships (14).
   engaging with our industry club: Our Industry Club has 200+ organisations (double 2014).
    This provides PGR recruitment pathways, and new research (e.g. we initiated a 5-year BBC Data
    Science Partnership, raising challenges in ethics, data science, and psychology).
   supporting sabbaticals and extended visits: Our flexible processes (2.iv) mean we regularly
    achieve our target of 10% of academics on sabbatical: many industry or public sector, e.g. one
    impact case builds on a sabbatical at NASA.
   encouraging different forms of dissemination: Our research was profiled at high-profile
    events (e.g. BlueDot 2018-19), TV, media and local events (4.iv).

To ensure critical mass covering both directions around the circle, we invested to link our themes:

   Data Science/A.I.: Following a worldwide talent search, Kaski took up a “President’s Chair in
    A.I.”, and a role as Research Director for the UoM Christabel Pankhurst Institute for Health
    Technologies. This is a prime example of the virtuous circle – Kaski, well-known for
    fundamental ML, now leads research in an institute with focus on applications.
   A.I./Human Computing/Theory & Foundations: We built cross-theme bridges by hiring
    Cangelosi in cognitive robotics, and Fisher/Dixon/Dennis in verification of robotic systems. This
    includes a RAEng 10-year Emerging Technologies Chair (Fisher), developing automated
    reasoning theory (pioneering) applied to responsible autonomous systems (outward-looking).
   Theory & Foundations/Future Computing: Building links to the UoM Digital Trust & Security
    Initiative, we recruited to grow cyber-security: in pioneering theory (Lammich) and outward-
    looking applications in UAV firmware security (Cordeiro), and secure networks (Mustafa).
   Future Computing/A.I.: 5 new academics including Petoumenos, using Deep Learning for
    compiler analysis (pioneering); and Rhodes, developing computational neuroscience models
    on our ground-breaking SpiNNaker machine (outward-looking).
   Human Computing/Software & e-Infrastructures/Future Computing: “People-Data-Chips”
    was an integrative initiative in ubiquitous computing, hiring Kotselidis/Clinch/Freitas. Kotselidis is
    now 0.5FTE industry (3.v), and Freitas is 0.5FTE with the UoM Cancer Research institute, both
    closing the virtuous circle again.
These actions enabled significant outputs, where the virtuous circle is evident.

As examples of pioneering ideas within the discipline: In our A.I. theme, Kaski contributed a
new Deep Learning paradigm for differential flows that learn stochastic differential equations. In
Future Computing, Koch developed the first method to detect malicious FPGA configurations by
directly investigating binaries – the security patches adopted by Amazon Web Services. In Theory
& Foundations, Cordeiro developed the first algorithms to verify multi-threaded software using
shared-memory synchronization, identifying previously unknown vulnerabilities in Intel firmware.
Voronkov/Reger made major advances in first-order logic theorem proving, implemented in the
award-winning Vampire theorem prover - established as the world’s most powerful (with CASC/SMT
competition victories and industrial deployment) theorem prover for first-order logic – with
implications for adjoining areas such as verification and program analysis.

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

As examples of outward-looking research: In Future Computing, Rhodes/Furber demonstrated
the world’s first real-time simulation of a cortical microcircuit with over 300 million synapses, utilising
our million-core SpiNNaker neuromorphic machine. Bridging our Future Computing/Theory &
Foundations themes, Korovin developed the world’s first implementation of a non-deterministic
Turing Machine using DNA, confirmed with in-vitro molecular biology. In A.I., Cootes/Lindner
transformed the challenge of shape model-matching in medical images – the methodologies were
commercialised and form an impact case, focusing on bone fracture assessment. In Human
Centred Computing, Jay developed ECG visualisations for diagnosis of life-threatening conditions
by non-specialists: subsequently shortlisted for the Parliamentary and Scientific Committee’s STEM
for Britain Awards.

What we learnt: The “virtuous circle” works well as a high-level strategy. However, a finer-grained
approach is necessary to have continued meaningful influence on our environment. In the period,
our strategy has evolved with time, maintaining the “circle”, but expanding its influence.

In the REF2021 period, our major policies/initiatives/actions can be summarised as following a set
of guiding principles, which also form the basis for our future strategy. These articulate our vision
for what it means to be a world-class environment, and are intentionally light-touch, and “people-
focused”. These align with University priorities (e.g. parity of support/esteem between research
discovery/application, see REF5a 2.iv). Throughout this document, we highlight (where not self-
explanatory) how the Principles were implemented.

Principle 1: Critical Mass & Complementarity. Ensuring we have an appropriate spread of
intellectual capital to solve hard CS problems, tackle interdisciplinary grand challenges, and grow
future leaders for both. For example: our recruitment strategy (2.i) targets individuals to naturally
interface with colleagues across the new UoM Engineering structure (REF5a).

Principle 2: Empowerment & Support. Ensuring our researchers feel trusted, with the weight of
the University behind them, with the time/motivation to take our Unit in new directions. For example:
our duties assignment process supports short-notice secondments; the approval process for PGR
training funds (2.x) encourages autonomy (empowerment), whilst mentoring/training (2.iii) provides
essential ECR support.

Principle 3: Ambition & Curiosity. Ensuring we tackle ambitious real-world and interdisciplinary
challenges, targeting “quality over quantity”, whilst also valuing curiosity-driven research with no
short-term application. For example: we have increased interdisciplinary PGR activity, and promoted
the “quality-over-quantity” agenda for all, with emphasis for ECRs as they launch careers.

Principle 4: Responsibility. Ensuring our environment fosters open research and reproducibility,
and is committed to equality, diversity, and inclusion. We have (i) engaged in leadership of the open
research agenda; (ii) monitored/maintained EDIA as a key element of hiring policy, taking affirmative
action where necessary; and (iii) continued to promote open research to all staff.

The Next Five Years

The Principles form a framework for future strategy. In the current period, we have made strong
progress, though we see further areas to address for each.

In Principle 1, we will continue to support our current investments: robotics and formal verification;
data science for healthcare, and hardware/software security, whilst strengthening capabilities in the
fundamentals of A.I. via a new pan-University centre exploiting the appointment of Kaski. In
Principle 2, we will increase ECR involvement in leadership roles, within/beyond the department. In
Principle 3, we will exploit the new UoM Engineering structures, increasing engagement in cross-
disciplinary challenges. In Principle 4, we will pro-actively seek to recruit individuals with “non-
traditional” career paths, bringing a diversity of perspectives to the environment.

                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.iii) Fostering Impact
Our strategy is founded on collaboration (exemplars in Section 4) and the institutional infrastructure
for business engagement (3.ii). We support, enable, and incentivise our researchers in as broad a
range of impact as possible, letting the talent speak for itself – the following actions implement
Strategy Principle 2 (Empowerment/Support) and 3 (Ambition).

Support:
     Shortening Pathways to Impact: The UoM company “Innovation Factory” (IF) accelerates
     all IP opportunities: e.g. legal issues, and Click2Go, a web-platform for licensing software.
     The Manchester Enterprise Centre develops/supports entrepreneurship via events/courses.
     Outcomes: IF assisted in founding 3 Unit spinouts (ExGence, Eurimatics, Data Value
     Factory); and Click2Go deployed the BoneFinder software (see impact case).

       Faculty Impact Officers and Business Engagement Teams: The Faculty retains 3 full-
       time Impact Officers whose duties include liaison between industry/academics at the point of
       exploitation. The Business Engagement team (3.ii, also REF5a 4.1), provides opportunities,
       via regular events and connections to major organisations.

       Strong support for EPSRC IAAs/KTPs as a catalyst for long-term activity, supported by a
       dedicated Knowledge Exchange team (5FTE) at Faculty level. Outcome: We held 29 IAAs
       (GBP851,359) and 12 KTPs (100% success rate, total GBP2,610,767, e.g., cross-
       disciplinary KTP with Bott&Co. Solicitors).


Enablers:
      Fostering partnerships: We have long-term partnerships (e.g. ARM, BBC, BAE Systems,
      AstraZeneca, Pfizer), via one-to-one contacts, and our wider Industry Club activities (e.g.
      invitations to the PGR Symposium provides opportunities). For academics, this affords
      collaboration, and for PDRAs/PGRs, a pathway to impactful careers. Outcomes: In the
      period, 20% of visitors were industry-based, and our club grew from 50 to 200+ members.

       Releasing time via workload adjustments: We award 0.1FTE reduction for fostering a
       recognised potential REF impact case, and ad-hoc adjustments for any (non-REF) impact
       activity. Sabbaticals can be used for impact (2.iv). Outcomes: Embury took two semesters
       (2018-19) to build relations with ARM, returning with an ARM/RAEng Industrial Fellowship.

       Providing people & bridging funding: The Faculty funds PDRA “Impact Fellowships”
       (currently 18, 6-24 months). UoM employs a baseline-funded team of Research Software
       Engineers (3.ii). Strategic funds are available from Unit or central sources, to bridge PDRAs
       on flagship projects between contracts. Outcomes: One Fellow supports a potential impact
       case on virtual reality for amputee rehabilitation. The Unit provided bridging funding for a
       REF2021 impact case (SpiNNaker), supporting the long-term ambition in the project.

       Enabling PGRs to play a role: Impact and public engagement are part of PGR training (2.x),
       and PGR internships are encouraged. Outcomes: PGR Seaton (2015, supervisor Lujan)
       interned at Oracle, with results built into a product, GraalVM. PGRs also engaged via the IAA
       account, e.g. Del-Pinto worked at SNOMED International, implementing sub-ontology
       generation, with the outcome built into the company’s strategic roadmap.

Incentives: Impact is an explicit factor in promotions (2.ii), and recognition/reward structures (2.vi),
whilst a culture of supporting the parity of esteem for impact/fundamentals is embedded in all
departmental communications.




                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Future vitality is supported by growing our ability to influence industrially-relevant funding
programmes (e.g. Goodacre is Challenge Director for UKRI’s GBP75,000,000 ISCF “Digital Security
by Design”); and attracting researchers with interests in impact, e.g. our staffing strategy (2.i)
explicitly pursues part-time appointments. Future sustainability is supported by: (i) duty roles for
impact, e.g. public engagement (Reger/Cordeiro, each 0.1FTE); and Impact Champion (Embury
0.15FTE). (ii) supporting staff contributions in all areas (REF-eligible or not, see 4.iii); (iii) leadership,
e.g. Jay in the UKRI Software Sustainability Institute (1.vi).

Linking Strategies to Impact Cases:

-   Biorelate: A programme of research on contextual text-mining (led by Nenadic) was
    commercialized by a PGR, aided by a GBP10,000 grant from the Manchester Enterprise centre,
    and Nenadic’s pre-existing partnership with Pfizer.

-   SpiNNaker: Original funding (EPSRC) was bridged to the EU funding via GBP250,000 UoM
    internal impact funding, retaining key PDRAs as they constructed the million-core machine. A
    sabbatical (2016) for Furber gave time to build up demonstrators for the machine, and
    SpiNNaker workshops were entirely coordinated by PGRs/PDRAs.

-   NASA spacecraft: Barringer (retired) was introduced to a problem in runtime verification of
    spacecraft command sequences while on sabbatical at NASA. Barringer/NASA co-created a
    solution, used in space missions that continue to date. Reger (then PGR, now Category-A)
    contributed the QEA formalism, significantly reducing computational complexity, making it more
    attractive for NASA.

-   Facial Performance Capture: Taylor/Cootes led basic research in face image modelling,
    stimulated by applications in face recognition, tracking, and synthesis, with early-stage support
    from IF. PDRA Edwards and PGR Walker led commercialisation of the ideas in two companies:
    ImageMetrics (both) and Cubic Motion (Edwards), with major impact in films and computer
    games.

-   Improving Healthcare & Animal Welfare: Cootes/Taylor led research stimulated by
    challenges in medical imaging, on fundamental work for statistical models of shape and
    appearance of anatomical structures. Its success led to spin-out company, iMorphics, supported
    by the IF.


1.iv) Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
The University supports the Unit via several “Interdisciplinary Institutes” and platforms: some
physical, some virtual, all resourced with staff-time. The Digital Futures platform (led by Taylor)
involves Unit members in multiple multi-disciplinary challenges. The Institute for Data Science & A.I.
cuts across UoM, connecting e.g. Physics and CS, in a Turing A.I. Fellowship (Scaife, UoA9). The
Thomas Ashton Institute interfaces with the UK Health & Safety Executive (Jay leads on
Digitalisation of Work; Ananiadou leads A.I. in health/safety). The Christabel Pankhurst Institute (led
by Taylor/Kaski) channels expertise in A.I. for healthcare technologies.

The University also enables high-profile partnerships relevant to the Unit: e.g. the
GBP10,000,000 Smart-City CityVerve project interfaced with local government/SMEs, and a 5-year
institutional BBC Data Science Partnership (led by the Unit) raises challenges in data science/ethics.

Within the Unit, our virtuous circle strategy requires that clusters of interdisciplinary expertise be
sustained and recognised, implementing Principle 3 (Ambition/Curiosity) of our strategy.



                                                                                                      Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Sustaining inter-disciplinary expertise is enabled by: a recruitment policy (2.i) that supports
bridging compatible disciplines; a staff development strategy (2.ii) that supports diverse career paths
(2.v); a sabbaticals policy (2.iv) that supports a range of leave types; an infrastructure for fostering
partnerships (2.v) to support ambitious new endeavours; a PGR funding model and 4 inter-
disciplinary doctoral programmes (2.vii, 2.viii) that encourage interdisciplinarity; and our seminar
culture – 60% of Departmental seminars (from 200+ in the period) were tagged as ’interdisciplinary’.

Recognising inter-disciplinary expertise is enabled by: our strategy (1.ii) based fundamentally on
the “virtuous circle”; promotions (2.ii) that explicitly recognise interdisciplinarity and impact;
reward/recognition structures for all staff/PDRAs/PGRs (2.ix, 3.vi) that value a range of
contributions; an institutional Open Research Policy (1.v) stating freedom of choice for the
publication outlet; and ensuring ECRs have sight of interdisciplinary role models (e.g. Cangelosi in
robotics/psychology; Furber in chip design/neuroscience; Goble in biology/e-infrastructure; Taylor in
medical imaging/machine learning).

Evidence of Success:
    Funding: Awards from 8/9 UKRI councils, and collaborative grants with all UoM faculties and
      major organisational units.
    Outputs: We published in journals across 191 Scopus areas, and contributed to the
      REF2021 return of 7 other UoAs (see 4.i).
    PGRs: 10 Unit staff co-supervise 29 PGRs in other departments, e.g. Mathematics,
      Psychology. The reverse is also true: 36/245 PGRs in CS are co-supervised by e.g. Law,
      Physics. 8 staff co-supervise 10 PGRs beyond UoM, e.g. Edinburgh, ETH Zurich.
    Leadership: Taylor leads the national UKRI-funded NewMind Technology for Mental Health
      Network (4.v), building a multidisciplinary UK community of over 450 academics, clinicians,
      patients, and industrialists. Nenadic founded the UK healthcare text-analytics network,
      HealTex, with 250+ members.


1.v) Our Open Research Environment

The institutional strategy (for details, see REF5a 2.v) is set by the Open Research Strategy Group
and the Open Research Working Group (ORWG), co-founded/chaired by Jay. ORWG defines
institutional policy, which states that (i) outputs will be as open as possible, as early as possible; (ii)
researchers have freedom of choice for the publication outlet; and (iii) the University is committed to
responsible metrics. The policy implements the F.A.I.R. principles, constructed by an international
consortium where the Unit (Goble) was a contributor.

Open Access is an institutional commitment, with library staff supporting the procedures. Web-
based systems enable depositing outputs, paying fees, and managing embargoes. Institutional
spend on Gold OA for the Unit was GBP165,022. The UoM OpenAccess+ scheme uses a Media
Team for press releases and professionally edited articles (e.g. The Conversation).

Our staff support and lead Open Research: Locally: Our MSc/PhD programmes have open
research and reproducibility embedded in the curriculum. Nationally: We play key roles in the UK
Software Sustainability Institute (co-founder: Goble, Research Director: Jay). Internationally:
Harper founded the ACM Emerging Interest Group on Reproducibility; Goble is UK representative
on the European G7 Open Science Working Group, and sits on the UK Open Research Data Task
Force.




                                                                                                   Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


1.vi) Ensuring Research Integrity
The Institution maintains a Code of Good Research Conduct, articulating our commitment to
research integrity, mirrored by a Code of Practice for Investigating Concerns on the Conduct of
Research – ensuring strict but fair investigatory procedures (REF5a 2.v). The overall approach is to
raise awareness and monitor compliance.

Maintaining ethical standards.

       Awareness: a 3-hour Research Integrity course (renewed every 3 years) is mandatory for
       PDRAs/academics, with PGR training (2.x) provided by the Unit. A quarterly University-wide
       Ethics e-Newsletter, and (in the Unit) a monthly staff newsletter highlights relevant events.

       Compliance: Research Ethics Committees (REC) are in place across the Institution,
       reporting to the University REC (UREC). Departmental Leads (Vigo/Clinch 0.1FTE) act as
       gateway to procedures. There are five levels of approval, from departmental (low-risk PGR
       projects), to UREC (high risk, staff/PGR), to national regulations (including NHS REC). The
       Unit processed 184 applications (161 approved) 2014-20, at all levels, supported by a
       bespoke online ethics system.

Meeting legal obligations.

       Awareness: Training (mandatory for all academics, renewed biennially) includes: Export
       control (2 hours), Information Security & Data Protection (1 hour), EDIA (3 hours). Data
       Management: All proposals are required to engage in Data Management Planning
       (supported by the Library) via dmponline.ac.uk.

       Compliance: The Research Lifecycle Project (3.ii) includes enterprise-grade systems for
       confidential data, requiring the highest security. Data Sharing: The central legal team
       coordinates NDAs/data-sharing contracts — e.g. recent arrangements include AstraZeneca,
       Oracle. Employment Law: All staff involved in PGR admissions and any recruitment panels
       must take an Unconscious Bias training course.


Exemplars of Contributing to professional standards:

      In programming languages, Pop sits on the OpenMP Language Standards Committee.

      In robotics/ethical autonomous systems: Fisher is a member of the BSI’s AMT/010/01
       Ethics for Robots and Autonomous Systems standards committee. Work by Dennis/Fisher
       was cited in BS8611 (“Guide to the ethical design and application of robots and robotic
       systems”), the first published standard related to robot ethics.

      In web-accessibility, Harper is a member of W3C WAI Coordination Group.

      Jay led the Software Sustainability Institute on REF2021 software guidelines (4.v).




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    2. People

Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
2.i) Staffing and Recruitment Strategy
We seek researchers from a range of backgrounds, guided by 4 processes, each of which is derived
from one of the 4 research strategy principles.
-     Develop/maintain critical mass (implements Principle 1: Critical Mass & Complementarity).
         o Actions: We recognise and build on clusters of expertise: establishing leadership, and
            ensuring a continuous flow of new talent through succession planning.
         o Outcomes: New leadership in cognitive robotics (Cangelosi), Machine Learning (Kaski),
            and computer architectures (Goodacre, 0.4FTE joint appointment with ARM). We
            ensured a flow of talent by hiring at least 2 ECR academics every year 2015-2020,
            covering all 6 of our themes). In total 20/58 staff are new in post (14 ECRs) since 2014.
            We maintained critical mass via succession planning within the Future Computing
            theme (hiring Rhodes), and in Theory & Foundations (hiring Fisher/Dennis/Dixon).
-     Seeking input from staff (implements Principle 2: Empowerment & Support).
         o Actions: The HoD actively solicits input from all staff on our recruitment strategy. When
            investment is available, the Head of Department (HoD) polls all academic staff on what
            the ‘Next Big Thing’ will be, and for names of rising stars in their area. All are encouraged
            to take a role in shaping the Unit, contributing their expertise/experience.
         o Outcomes: Our People-Data-Chips initiative (1.ii), was suggested by an academic
            without a leadership role, and recruited 3 ECRs in ubiquitous computing (Kotselidis,
            Clinch, Freitas) who all secured external PI funding within 2 years of appointment.
-     Bridging compatible disciplines (implements Principle 3: Ambition & Curiosity).
         o Actions: We use strategic hires to bridge clusters and avoid ‘sole-traders’, through e.g.
             advertising complementary new posts simultaneously.
         o Outcomes: In 2017 we bridged cyber-security/formal methods by hiring Cordeiro and
             Lammich. In 2018 we hired Cangelosi in cognitive robotics, naturally interfacing with the
             new UoM Engineering structures. In 2020, activity in robotics and formal verification was
             bridged by hiring Fisher/Dixon/Dennis.
-     Pursuing equity in applications (implements Principle 4: Responsibility).
         o Actions: All academic job postings are run through software to identify gender-biased
            language. All shortlisting uses a ‘second-look’ policy to ensure equitable reasons for
            inclusion/exclusion. All panels involve at least one female academic, and all undergo
            mandatory EDIA training. Part-time appointments are considered for all posts and
            explicitly pursued when appropriate (e.g. personal reasons, or to maintain industry roles).
         o Outcomes: Our Category-A gender profile (at the census date) is 26% female, versus
            22% nationally (source: 2019 HESA centre 121), and 30% of all in-period appointments
            were female. The breakdown by gender profile is below. At the census date, among all
            research and academic staff, 19% are BAME – compared to 14% in the UK working
            age population (source: BCS Diversity Report 2020).
                                   FTE         Headcount       #male : #female       % female
              Lecturer             13.3            14                9:5                36%
           Senior Lecturer         14.9            16                13 : 3             19%
               Reader              4.8             5                 2:3                60%
                Prof               20.1            23                19 : 4             17%
                Total              53.1            58               43 : 15             26%

To ensure long-term critical mass (Principle 1) and provide career stability (Principle 4), we have
no short-term Category-A contracts.

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.ii) Staff Development
Our staff development strategy (see also PDRA-specific support in 2.iii) pursues three goals, that
emerge from our guiding principles.

   to identify/support upward trajectories (P2: Empowerment): We recognise that our variously
    talented staff benefit from specific resources to continue their trajectory. This is enabled via
    regular appraisal, mentoring, and support to pursue fellowships (e.g. feedback rounds on drafts,
    and mock interviews).

   to actively consider ‘growth opportunities’ at critical career points (P3: Ambition): When
    career-defining opportunities arise, individuals benefit from specific encouragement/support
    breaking into leadership roles. This is enabled via interlinked senior staff meetings (e.g.
    Promotions Committee makes recommendations to Duties Allocation committee, which assigns
    leadership roles and in turn recommends sabbaticals to the Leave of Absence Committee (2.iv).

   to ensure diverse career paths are recognised (P4: Responsibility): Excellent people come
    from a wide range of backgrounds, and many have non-traditional career paths. Recognising
    this, recruitment and promotions policies acknowledge a range of contributions.

Further details on how the strategy is implemented:

Mentoring is mandatory for ECR academics, via trained staff balanced in gender/seniority. Many
ECRs benefit from early/mid-career mentors, who have empathy with their situation. The University
“Manchester Gold” scheme provides cross-discipline mentoring , matching junior/senior staff (e.g.
Cangelosi mentors a UoA12 PDRA). Appraisal/individual development needs are supported via
line managers in annual Performance & Development Reviews, offered to all academics/PDRAs.
Individual ambitions and training needs are discussed, and action plans agreed. This is iteratively
refined, and reported back to the Probation Committee (for ECR academics) and to the HoD.
Fellowship eligibility/deadlines are tracked (see support teams in 3.i), and cases actively solicited.

Probation lasts 3 years: specific tailored objectives are agreed during induction, discussed annually
with managers, reviewed by the Department Promotions Committee. Expectations are set at Faculty-
level, in 4 categories: (Research, Teaching, Knowledge Transfer, Service/Leadership), with precise
wording, e.g. “Submission of at least one research proposal per year that achieves good reviews”.

Promotions are considered annually, assessing 4 areas: research, teaching, service/leadership,
and knowledge transfer – where parity of esteem is emphasised. Expectations have unambiguous
language and measurable outcomes. Two meetings consider cases and provide feedback; each
applicant has an assigned “shepherd” from the committee, to develop their case. As some
demographics tend to underestimate their chances, the committee actively solicits cases. Off-
schedule one-off pay increments are possible under a separate “Rewarding Exceptional
Achievement” policy, for any academic/PDRA.

Training: The VITAE Researcher Development Framework maps directly to a portfolio of 38 courses
(1-5 hours each) across 5 areas: Career Management, Research & Enterprise, Communication,
Leadership & Management, Teaching & Learning. UoM holds a European Commission HR
Excellence in Research Award for the Concordat Implementation Plan, awarded in 2011, retained in
2020 after external review. The Inspiring Leaders programme provides 50 hours over 6 months for
senior leadership. The Unit provides CS-specific training: e.g. role-playing mock EPSRC panel to
clarify how funding decisions are made. Encouraging female leadership is a priority: four staff (Zhao,
Jay, Clinch, Batista) were funded for leadership training (StellarHE, AdvanceHE Aurora).




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.iii) Support for Early Career Researchers
The Unit develops ECRs (PGRs, PDRAs, and new academics) through: (i) training that provides a
foundation for a diversity of careers; and (ii) the provision of time/resources that launch independent
research careers – implementing Principle 2 (Empowerment/Support). The Institution assists with
full implementation of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, which
permeates our environment (REF5a 3.3.2).

Training: The institutional “New Academics Programme” comprises a mandatory 50 hours (HEA-
accredited) over 18 months, also available to PDRAs (2.ii). For research, this includes e.g.
grantsmanship, PGR recruitment. For knowledge transfer/impact: e.g. IP, and public engagement.
In the Unit, a budget is available for national ECR events, e.g. CHERISH-DE “Digital Economy
Crucible” (Batista/Clinch). PDRA support: ECR academic, Mustafa, holds a duty (0.1FTE) as
“PDRA Champion”, fostering a PDRA culture of social/professional development. All PDRAs are
informed of (and encouraged to participate in) the various opportunities in the Researcher
Development programme.

Time/resources: To establish research, new academics “ramp-up” to full teaching/administrative
duties: initially 40% of their FTE (whether full/part-time), increasing 20% annually. All new academics
(regardless of FTE or contract) receive GBP5,000 unrestricted funds and a PhD studentship. An
induction pack welcomes all academics/PDRAs, and an informal but professional culture is
supported with frequent social events. A bi-monthly ECR Lunch is hosted by the HoD, on themes
chosen by ECRs: e.g. supervision skills, and managing workload.

Evidence of success: In the period, we hired 14 new Category-A staff (Lindner, Olivier,
Petoumenos, Lammich, Rhodes, Mustafa, Cordeiro, Freitas, Kotselidis, Battista, Mu, Clinch, Reger,
Vigo) All of these obtained funding as PI/Co-I within 2 years of appointment; 5 with competitive
fellowships (Lindner, Batista, Pop, Mustafa, Petoumenos). Two hold major awards as PI: Cordeiro,
(EP/T026995/1, GBP1,721,559), Reger (EP/V000497/1, GBP1,034,989).

Many PDRAs grow careers within the Institution: 5 of our Category-A staff were PDRAs in REF2014
(Vigo, Kotselidis, Batista, Rhodes, Reger). Others choose industry: e.g. Ghasempour (PDRA 2012-
15, now Head of Machine Learning, The Hut Group); Sechidis (PDRA 2015-18, now Senior Scientist,
Novartis); Haines (PDRA 2014, now institutional Head of Research IT, also UK Society for Research
Software Engineering co-founder).


2.iv) Policies for Research/Impact/Sabbatical Leave
The policy: Academics are eligible for sabbaticals of 1 semester after 3 years’ service, or 1 full year
after 6 years. These are unconstrained; on-site, cross-departmental, or international, and target
outcomes are broad: e.g. industrial/social impact, grant preparation, or re-focus of research area.
We allow ‘mini-sabbaticals’ from duties like tutorials/projects, to protect contiguous blocks of time.
We encourage multi-year leave, e.g. two second semesters, enabling longer-term activity.

Procedure: Cases are solicited annually, including actively seeking applications, and taking
recommendations from other senior committees. Cases are prepared with line manager support,
and reviewed by the Leave of Absence Committee, with membership monitored for diversity.

Outcomes: 29 took major leave: 13 for a single semester, 16 for a full year, and 10 had ‘mini-
sabbaticals’. Nenadic took a 2015 sabbatical to shift focus to temporal text-analytics – enabling
BBSRC grant (GBP730,460, BB/N019547/1) on modelling veterinary health records.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.v) Fostering Interfaces for Knowledge Exchange
Our impact strategy (1.iii) is further supported by fostering relationships, via 3 key activities which
together implement Principles 1 (Critical Mass/Complementarity) and 3 (Ambition).

      We pursue and maintain strategic partnerships: We engage with both top-down MoUs
       (e.g. ARM Centre of Excellence) and bottom-up (e.g. personal contacts at local SME,
       Peak.ai). Our Industry Club is a stepping-stone to deeper relationships – the 200+ members
       are invited to events (e.g. PGR Symposium) and informed of activity via quarterly newsletters.
      We recruit from diverse career paths, e.g. 4 academics had industrial careers of 5+ years
       (Cordeiro, Goodacre, Kotselidis, Rhodes) prior to Manchester, and 5 Category-A staff have
       joint industrial appointments (Voronkov, Paton, Goodacre, Kotselidis, Pavlidis).
       Secondments can be taken at short-notice, and duties adjusted – e.g. a short-notice part-
       time post at ARM Ltd (Brown), led to a patent and investment (GBP50,000) to the Unit.
      We connect MScs and PGRs to the pipeline: The early stages of a relationship require
       small-scale interactions, which we achieve by engaging new researchers — in the period 64
       industry-partnered MSc research projects, and 9 PGR internships, were arranged.

Further outcomes: We enjoyed major new collaborations with e.g. AstraZeneca, BBC R&D, Oracle
(4.ii). We hosted 14 CASE/iCASEs (6 in REF2014). We supported the foundation of 3 spinouts by
staff/PGRs (ExGence, Eurimatics, Data Value Factory), and growth of two others (Cogniscience,
iMorphics), both of which aided our impact case portfolio.


2.vi) Recognising, Rewarding, and Supporting Research with Impact
Details of how we support the achievement of impact from research are in 1.iii, 3.v, and 4.ii. To
recognise/reward successes, a variety of mechanisms are in place. Examples: In Abstract is a
Faculty-level web-archive of world-class papers, with press releases curated by Marketing &
Communications, recognising success regardless of subject. Better World is an institutional
ceremony for research with social impact, and Postdoc Appreciation Week has web-
profiles/interviews with PDRAs, and funded social events. Personalised letters from the President
recognise major successes (e.g. fellowships). In the Unit, the weekly newsletter names and
celebrates all successes, from PGR prizes to Professorial Inaugurals.


Our Postgraduate Researchers

2.vii) PGR Recruitment
The recruitment of diverse and excellent PGRs is central to our mission, enabled by initiatives which
implement Principle 1 (Critical Mass and Complementarity) and 4 (Responsibility). These are (i)
dedicating significant resources to recruitment; (ii) having a diversity of programmes (iii)
pursuing a diversity of candidates; (iv) achieving the ‘right fit’ through meaningful engagement.

   (i) Resources: Processes are unified across the Faculty, ensuring applicants can be
   recommended cross-departmentally. In the Unit, academic roles: PGR Director (0.2FTE), Deputy
   (0.1FTE), PGR Marketing lead (0.1FTE), are supported by administrative staff, and in-house
   software to distribute applications, collect feedback, and send out offers. The average time from
   application to decision is 4 weeks. At institutional level, Nenadic is Faculty PGR Committee Chair.
   (ii) Diversity of PGR Programmes: We participate in 4 interdisciplinary doctoral training
   programmes: 4IR-STFC CDT in Data-Intensive Science, ESRC Data Analytics & Society CDT,
   EPSRC Graphene NOWNANO CDT, and a psychology/robotics programme with the Italian
   Institute of Technology. A new EngD programme was established (2019), to support PGRs based
   primarily in industry, and we changed progression timings to support extended internships.
                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  (iii) Diversity of Candidates: We offer 50+ annual fee waivers for the China Scholarship Council;
  and UoM advertises 100 President’s Doctoral Scholarships, the first annual round restricted to
  overseas applicants (10 in-programme). We “grow our own” via Manchester MSc/UG
  programmes aligning with research strengths; e.g. of 245 current PGRs, 9% came from our UG
  programme, and 28% hold a Manchester degree (UG/PGT, any discipline). EDIA: Disability
  Support is advertised widely, and we provide structural adaptations to the environment (2.xi).
  (iv) Achieving the right `fit’: Virtual and physical PGR Open Days allow candidates to meet
  staff, and experience the environment before committing. Interviews for all admissions/funding,
  have a rotating panel of 5 academics (membership, and interviewees, monitored by PGR Director
  for equity in gender, ethnic origin, and research area). In the period, 15 PGRs have opted for part-
  time enrolment to suit personal circumstances (9 in-programme).

Outcomes: Our programmes have attracted applications from all over the world (34 countries;
normally 70% overseas). In the period, 16 declared a disability, with 7 receiving explicit funded
support (e.g. screen-readers and adapted office space).


2.viii) PGR Studentships
To enable a high-quality, diverse PGR cohort - following strategy Principle 4 (Responsibility) - we
access a broad range of funding sources, and Departmental funds/fee waivers support PGRs without
funding. Departmental funds support new academics’ start-up packages, strategically important
proposals, and areas of research growth. In addition, UoM provides Dean’s Awards and President’s
Doctoral Scholarships to outstanding candidates, competitive across the University.

We have taken active steps to grow our PGR activity as a driver for research vitality. At the census
date the unit had 245 in-programme PGRs (a 91% increase, compared to 128 at the end of the
previous period – see REF2014 5b). Of these 42 were UKRI-funded: 28 EPSRC CDT/DTP, 11
EPSRC iCASE (e.g. BAE, EDF), 3 EPSRC CASE; 22 were funded by competitive President’s and
Dean’s awards, 62 by overseas governments, 7 split-site funded by the Italian Institute of
Technology, and 44 self-funded. Furthermore, we have significantly increased departmental
investment in PGRs, with an average spend of GBP836,000 p.a. on a combination of studentship
fee-waivers and stipends, up from GBP500,000 in REF2014 – a 67% increase. This resulted in
full/partial funding for 178 of our current cohort, up 254% from 70 in 2014.

2.ix) PGR Support and Progress Monitoring
PGR Support
   Supervisory teams: Every PGR has a main supervisor, one or more co-supervisors, and a
     cohort advisor. Supervisors monitor technical progress; advisors provide pastoral support
     with weekly meetings in groups of 6, and on-demand one-on-one meetings.
      Peer support: All spend their first 6 months in the ‘PGR Home’ area (custom-built 2017
       GBP60,000); where cross-group cohorts support multi-disciplinarity. Senior PGRs participate
       in our PGR Mentors scheme, and representatives sit on Staff/PGR committee.
      Recognising/rewarding success: The PGR Symposium is an annual highlight, with talks
       by 3rd-years, posters by 2nd-years, keynotes (2019: Simon Segars, ARM CEO), industry
       prizes (currently IBM Research), and two Professor’s prizes for best paper/thesis.
      Mental health: In 2018, Research England and the Office for Students awarded funds for
       UoM’s “Well Bee-ing” PGR Mental Health Project. Among the outcomes (implemented in
       UoM policy, recommended nationally by OfS) was to review length/structure of programmes,
       and to promote mindfulness in PGRs.
      Extensive training (for details see 2.x)

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

PGR progress monitoring
   An institutional electronic progression system tracks PGR milestones, records training
      needs, and sets expectations at quarterly intervals, with supervisor and PGR Director sign-
      off. The annual progression process requires the PGR to deliver a report and presentation
      on progress and plans, with interviews by two academics outside the area.

Evidence of Success:

A step-change in PGR pastoral care (2017, e.g. cohort advisors) helped first-year progression: 75%
(2014) to 98% (2018) to 100% (2019).

At international conferences, our PGRs won 11 Best Paper prizes with the PGR as first author –
e.g. D’Antras et al 2017 (PLDI Distinguished Paper), and Arrelanes et al 2018 (ICIoT Best Paper);
whilst a journal article resulting from a PhD thesis (Nikolaou, EPSRC CDT-funded) received an ACM
Computing: Notable Article of 2016 commendation (Nikolaou et al, 2016).

In REF2, 35% of our outputs have a PGR as first author.


2.x) Details of PGR Training

Unit-level: All PGRs attend 4 full-semester courses on Scientific Methods (40 contact hours plus
130 offline), plus skills workshops (30 hours). Optional computing courses are available for cross-
disciplinary PGRs. Attendance on MSc modules is encouraged to specialise knowledge. Faculty-
level: All PGRs can take mini-courses across 49 topics: research (16), TA training (6),
impact/engagement (12), career management (3), and wellbeing (12)..
Individual Training Funds: Every PGR has GBP3,000 to enhance training: e.g. conferences,
regardless of publication – approval is light-touch, and via supervisor, group lead, or PGR Director.
IT resources are separate, with machines replaced as needed. EDIA: Some PGRs were reluctant to
request funds from their supervisor, so we heavily promoted the fund and alternative approval
mechanisms (implementing P2: Empowerment).
We prepare PGRs for diverse careers. Industrial: 9 PGRs took internships, e.g. BBC, IBM.
Outreach: 3 PGRs joined our Project Malawi programme; PGRs co-hosted 7 Nuffield Foundation
placement pupils; 4 PGRs are STEM ambassadors. For academic careers, EPSRC Doctoral Prizes
are a springboard (6 in-period) e.g. Nikolaou 2016, now senior RF, UCL Astrophysics.


2.xi) Equality and Diversity

Social Responsibility is one of three core goals of UoM, reflected in duty roles at Faculty, School,
and Department level. Policies embedded throughout the Institution create the desired culture: for
example, an appointments policy that implements a version of the Mansfield Rule. At Departmental
level, strategy is coordinated by the EDIA committee (4 academics, 1 RF, 2 PGRs) meeting
quarterly. For oversight/guidance, we follow charter schemes, e.g. Athena Swan Bronze award,
renewed 2020 (for full list of schemes, see REF5a 3.2).

Commitment to EDIA in Career Pathways

Appointments: Adverts are vetted by a software gendered-text analyser. Part-time appointments
are considered for all roles at advertisement-stage wherever possible. Internal research leadership
roles are advertised to all and applicants are encouraged to have informal discussions with relevant
senior staff. At all panels, a member of EDIA committee is required.


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Support for promotions: Our ‘shepherding’ scheme (2.ii) ensures writing support for all applicants,
strengthened by explicit support for social anxieties (3.iv), and three rounds of drafts/reviews before
submission.

Support for acquiring funding: Statistics are monitored by Faculty, and corrective actions taken
as appropriate, e.g. soliciting fellowship applications from under-represented groups (also 3.iv).

Part-time staff: Several academics choose part-time employment (11/58 individuals, 0.3-0.8FTE),
for maintaining industry roles, or personal reasons. Reduced FTE does not restrict progression—all
committees (e.g. promotions) explicitly acknowledge individual circumstances, scaling expectations.
In the period we promoted one individual (0.4FTE) to Professor (teaching-focused), one (0.8FTE) to
Reader, and one (0.5FTE) to SL; and 8 academics/senior RFs reduced FTE for flexible retirement.

Fixed-term staff: The UoM Policy Contracts of Employment (revised 2017) provides protection for
fixed-term employees. At contract end a PDRA is placed on the Redeployment Register (enabling
preferential consideration for internal posts).


Commitment to EDIA in Support of Staff/PGRs

The Leave of Absence Committee manages study leave via transparent processes. Membership
ensures representation across ethnicity, gender, career-stage, and career track. We recognise many
types of leave (2.iv). In the period, 29 took sabbaticals: 35% female, 14% BAME, 10% with disclosed
long-term health issues.

Caring responsibilities are supported by a broad recognition of leave-types: maternity, paternity,
shared, and adoption (3 staff took parental/adoption leave, and 2 reduced hours for child-care).
Arrangements with local nurseries permit salary-sacrifice. A New Parents’ Room has a fridge and
appropriate privacy. PGRs access Equal Mobility Grants (GBP500 per trip) for caring responsibility.

Long-term health issues are accommodated by workload adjustments (e.g. one individual was
removed from teaching requiring a lot of typing, due to severe RSI). Arrangements for healthy
working follow occupational health guidelines (e.g. 8 standing desks on-site, GBP2,000 spent
annually on specialist seating). Exemptions are made to the policy norm (of off-peak and non-first-
class travel) for health reasons (2 staff use Business Class when appropriate).

Returning from leave is supported by institutional phased return policies. New academics retain
their FTE ramp-up, while PGRs receive 12-month interruptions for parental leave, and on return have
a no-fees extension, phasing back to studies. In the period 60 PGRs interrupted for personal reasons
(16 paternity/maternity; 4 switched full to part-time).

Flexible/remote working is supported. Duties allocation processes acknowledge part-time
working, various types of leave, and requests for caring/wellbeing issues. Departmental meetings
are scheduled during core hours (10:00-16:00), and VPN access enables secure home-working. On-
site, a fully multimedia-equipped room is used for Departmental Leadership meetings, enabling 2
staff to participate remotely (due to caring responsibilities/health issues).

Support for protected characteristics is embedded in University policies. Targeted promotions
guidance is provided for under-represented groups. Occupational Health guidance is available to
advise on reasonable adjustments for accessibility. Support for acquiring funding and accessing
infrastructure is addressed in (3.iv).

Wellbeing is supported by the built environment and a culture of healthy-working. We have a rolling
programme of refurbishment, e.g. daylight-LED lighting, and increased social space for
serendipitous meetings. Monthly “Coffee with HoD” coffee-mornings (maintained virtually during
lockdown) encourage mingling.
                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Commitment to EDIA in our REF return

In our return we increased the proportion of female REF-eligible staff: 20% (9/46) in 2014, to 26%
(15/58) in 2021.

Our output return had multiple EDIA checks. Unit-level: A committee of senior and ECR academics
estimated grades. The grading protocols and membership were under continuous revision to avoid
bias. We examined attributions on gender/ethnicity for systematic bias. All submitted outputs were
discussed 1-on-1 with authors. Institutional: Statistics were examined by an HR team with access
to protected characteristics, reporting anomalies to Units where necessary – none arose for our Unit
(across ethnicity, gender, and nationality, the number of attributed outputs matched the staffing
profile). Our environment statement uses exemplars drawn from across the Unit. We polled staff
3 times soliciting “success stories”, and making clear that anybody, at any career stage, can
contribute. Our impact portfolio was selected on merit alone, with multiple checks at Unit, Faculty,
and University level, after polling staff for cases on multiple occasions 2016-2020.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.i) Research Funding
We aim to maintain a diverse funding portfolio, whilst increasing collaboration as much as possible.
Our strategy is to promote awareness for a range of mechanisms, and release scholarly time to
apply, all facilitated end-to-end by support staff.

     Promoting awareness: A monthly digest of diverse opportunities is distributed to all academics.
      Time-critical calls are monitored by the Research Support Manager, cascaded to staff. Annual
      fellowship cycles are tracked in an electronic system, with automated alerts.
     Releasing ‘scholarly’ time: Our workload system leaves 0.2FTE unassigned, enabling time for
      free-thinking. ECRs benefit from gradual duty ramp-up (2.iii), managed via fully-open workload
      formulae. Regular rounds of institutional seed-funding (light-touch review) support new ideas
      (e.g. 3 academics hired by our People-Data-Chips initiative were supported by GBP45,000 to
      establish a new IoT lab).
     Peer support: Examples of successful grants are shared, alongside an established internal
      peer-review culture by experienced staff, and internal workshops (e.g. an annual EPSRC mock
      panel) disseminate best practice. School-level initiatives encourage fellowships with a wider suite
      of engineering perspectives, supporting cross-departmental collaboration. Mock interviews are
      organised for fellowships, sourcing experienced staff from across UoM.

     Administrative support: The Unit has Research Support/Finance teams providing end-to-end
      support for project lifecycles, including all costing/administration of proposals, HR liaison,
      contracts, export control, and financial reporting. Each member of academic staff has a named
      Research Support and Research Finance officer to work with. Research Support Managers
      provide leadership to teams, and strategic support to the HoD.

The average annual Unit income (sum of all REF4b categories) increased 12% to GBP8,348,693,
with total EU government sources more than tripling in the period, from GBP5,238,585 to
GBP17,968,580. Income per FTE, per year, is shown below – in 2013/14, the Unit ranked 12th in the
UK for this metric, rising through the period (2017/18, 1st), and 2018/19 (3rd).




This income came from a diversity of awards (e.g. funding from 8/9 UKRI councils) with a total of
225 awards from 80 distinct funders, equating to GBP80,905,374 revenue. The number of awards
annually increased 54% in the period (26 in 2014, up to 40 in 2019). Our ECR academics are
successful – of those in-post at least 2 years (8 staff), all were awarded external funding as PI.

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Major awards (revenue to Manchester) include: 4 programme grants (totalling GBP4,699,231),
H2020 EuroEXA (Goodacre/Lujan, GBP5,113,623), MMPATHIC (Ananiadou GBP2,923,765),
EPSRC RAIN Hub (Furber, GBP4,131,580), EnnCORE (Cordeiro, GBP1,344,249), SCorCH (Reger,
GBP1,034,990), ERC Advanced Grant BIMPC (Furber, GBP1,804,332), UKRI Software
Sustainability Institute (Goble, GBP2,944,433).




Prestigious awards (i.e. highly competitive) include: EU FET Flagship Human Brain Project
(Furber, 2013-23); 2x RAEng Fellowships (Pop 2015; Petoumenos 2019); RAEng 10-year Emerging
Technologies Chair (Fisher, 2019); CityVerve SmartCity Demonstrator (Taylor, 2016); RAEng
Industrial Chair (Lujan 2019), Wolfson Research Merit Award (Lujan, 2019).

Exemplars of funding enabling high-quality outputs:
      PAMELA programme grant (EP/K008730/1) enabled the Distinguished Paper Award at the
       PLDI conference (REF2: D’Antras et al 2017).

      EPSRC CDT (EP/I028099/1) supported PGR Nikolaou on an output which unified 20 years
       of work in Boosting algorithms, awarded “ACM Computing Notable article of 2016” (REF2:
       Nikolaou et al 2016).

      A Royal Society URF for Korovin supported research (REF2: Currin et al 2017) which
       developed the world’s first implementation of a non-deterministic Turing Machine in DNA.

      EPRSC grant (EP/N035127/1) developed a unified statistical foundation for the stability of
       feature selection (REF2: Nogueira et al 2018).

Exemplars of funding enabling high-quality impact:

      EuroEXA (H2020-754337, Goodacre) investigated co-designing systems and low-level
       architectures in collaboration with an SME, Iceotope Ltd - leading to the company being
       named the UK’s fastest growing hardware company (2,331% growth during collaborations,
       source: 2019 Deloitte UK Technology “Fast 50”).
      MRC grant (MR/L01078X/1, Ananiadou) supported RobotAnalyst, a text-mining system to
       accelerate document screening in systematic reviews: the system influenced NICE
       guidelines, and is used by over 200 organisations worldwide. The techniques were adapted
       for industrial impact via Pacific Life (PL) Insurance, for text-mining to support underwriting
       in health insurance. In 2017, PL funded a project (GBP366,000) and extended 2019-21
       (GBP580,000), to build this into a commercial system, underwriteMe, now used by several
       major insurance providers.



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


3.ii) Organisational Infrastructure (institutional level)

Institutional investment for Research Support: The Research Lifecycle Programme is a
GBP15,000,000 series of investments (2017-22), with Taylor in the Unit is academic lead, aiming to
transform research support, removing administrative barriers.
During the REF period, Faculty Research Support Teams and separate Research Finance Teams
(totalling approximately 60FTE, where 5 support the Department of Computer Science) assisted with
all aspects from outlines/costings, to HR-liaison for appointments, and end-of-project financial
reporting. In parallel: a Research Strategy and Innovation team (9FTE) assist with strategic
partnerships; the Knowledge Exchange team (5FTE) support KTPs/IAAs, and the Innovation Factory
Ltd (IF), a wholly-owned UoM company, handled commercialisation of University innovations - the
Unit has an assigned IF “partner”, based in our building, who pro-actively pursues IP opportunities.
A central Contracts team deal with all legal issues and NDAs.
Investment in Relevant Research Areas: The institutional Digital Futures platform stimulates and
supports collaboration in digital technologies – UoM employs 6FTE support staff for this, and the
Unit plays a leading role with Taylor as Director, and Jay on the Management Board. The Pankhurst
Institute channels expertise in healthcare technologies: two Unit staff provide leadership - interim
Institute Director (Taylor) and Research Director (Kaski), and investments from UoM, EPSRC, and
The Alan Turing Institute provide a working budget of GBP25,000,000.
Technical/Support Staff: Research IT maintains 40FTE baselined staff: 2 group leaders, 25
Research Software Engineers, 13 infrastructure engineers. This enables an agile approach to tools
and secondment, whilst supporting institutional memory. Outcomes: The Unit costed 33.5 years of
RSE time into funded projects, e.g. a COVID rapid-response collaboration (Jay, COV0659,
GBP412,720), an evaluation framework for the Test & Trace programme: two reports (using the
software) delivered to Sage via SPI-M.
High Performance Compute: The Institution maintains a compute facility of 18,512 CPU cores
(varying for workload) and 90 Nvidia v100s. This pool is regularly refreshed (2014-20,
GBP4,000,000), plus GBP100,000 annual spend on AWS GPU time. The Unit utilised over 284
CPU/GPU years, e.g. large-scale GPU benchmarks against our SpiNNaker neuromorphic machine.

Subscriptions/Collections: UoM provides site licences for Overleaf, Dropbox, Office365, Zoom,
Teams, and Mathematica — available for all staff/PDRAs/PGRs. CS-specific licences are paid by
the Unit (e.g. Cadence for circuit design).


3.iii) Support Infrastructure within the Unit
Unit investment for recruitment into strategic research areas is covered in 1.ii.
Estate/Facilities: The Unit invests to support distinctive areas of research, for example – bespoke
power/air-con space for SpiNNaker (GBP200,000), securing availability to the EU for the foreseeable
future; and a ‘Living Lab’ for cognitive robotics research (GBP250,000). The Unit benefits from the
ongoing GBP1,000,000,000 institutional master-plan, developing labs to support interdisciplinary
research in robotics and computer engineering.
Technical and Support Staff: In the period, the Unit funded four technicians to support specialist
research infrastructure, requiring expertise beyond that available from institutional Research IT –
e.g. one provides extensive experience with chip design CAD software (helping PGRs/PDRAs), and
another was a key contributor to SpiNNaker, assembling and fault-checking the final machine.
The Unit also baselined a Software Engineer who developed a comprehensive infrastructure to
support our REF submission, also deployed across the entire Institution. This included a fully-
algorithmic optimisation scheme to select/attribute outputs, (thus avoiding unconscious bias, and
ensuring compliance with REF2021), collaboratively developed with academics (Brown, Pratt-
Hartmann).
                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


3.iv) EDIA in Acquiring Funding/Accessing Infrastructure
We summarise some specific actions in the Unit, implementing strategy Principle 4 (Responsibility).
The overall EDIA initiative is detailed in Section 2.xi.

Individual Mentoring: We host highly-focused individuals, some challenged by social interactions.
On 2 specific occasions during the period, individuals received additional mentoring (from a trained
senior Professor) on grant-writing and PGR supervision.

Workload: The Departmental Leadership Team is conscious that individuals with protected
characteristics are often requested to serve on institutional committees/initiatives – and can be
overloaded, which may affect research. To avoid this, our duty-allocation system is fully-transparent,
and statistics on such assignments are delivered annually to the HoD for any corrective action.

Opportunities: We heavily promote gender-specific opportunities (e.g. L'Oréal-UNESCO For
Women in Science Programme), via the departmental newsletter.

Accessibility: All buildings are wheelchair-accessible. Visually-impaired colleagues (1 academic, 2
PGRs) receive support for meetings across campus. An office was converted to fully dark-space for
a PDRA with light-sensitivity (cost GBP1,500). We repurposed 2 toilets to gender-neutral. We have
1 Stonewall-trained LGBTQ+ ally to support gender-transitioning staff/students. UoM provides
licences for assistive technologies (e.g. MindGenius for dyslexia, JAWS screen-reader).


3.v) How we use our Infrastructure and Expertise for Impact
Significant institutional infrastructure exists to support KTPs/IAAs, IP exploitation, and general
acceleration of impact opportunities (1.iii for details).

Unit staff provided short-term consultancy for large organisations, e.g. ARM (Brown/Furber),
GCHQ (Pettifer), BBC (Jay), Babylon Health (Schmidt), Elsevier (Goble), and for local SMEs:
UrbanChain (Banach), Tachyum Ltd (Furber).

Examples directly relating to our REF impact portfolio and inward investment:
    Cootes consulted for Aviagen, one of the world’s leading breeders of chickens, applying
     computer vision systems to improve health of their stock (see impact case).

      Kotselidis is 0.5FTE as Cybersecurity Manager for KTM A.G., the largest EU manufacturer
       of powered motorcycles: this enabled ELEGANT (H2020-957286, EUR4,983,250),
       developing secure vehicle-to-vehicle communications.


3.vi) Specialist Research Infrastructure

Cognitive Robotics Lab: a dedicated “Living Lab”, for human-robot experiments, laid out as a living
space. The lab has 9 robot platforms including iCub, Pepper (×3), Sawyer, Giraff, and Nao (×3),
enabled by a GBP250,000 institutional investment.

Interaction Analysis/Modelling Suite: equipped for user evaluations, including Tobii eye-trackers,
and galvanic skin-response equipment. This enabled collaborations with BBC, that in turn supported
the BBC Data Science Partnership.

Internet of Things: An institutional investment (GBP45,000) supports IoT research, including
Meshlium Scanners for estimation of crowd density, and Libelium CymbIots for monitoring
environmental parameters.

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


3.vii) Shared Research Infrastructure
SpiNNaker is a unique neuromorphic computer, designed/built at Manchester, available through the
EU FET Flagship Human Brain Project. This is available for use by any lab world-wide — and at the
time of writing has run 5 million jobs for over 400 users worldwide.

FAIRDOM-SEEK (led by Goble) is a software platform for systems biologists to organise FAIR
research outputs: the system is used worldwide by 140 major projects - including national
programmes in patient data-sharing (Germany), and crop plant data-sharing (Belgium, France).
Within this, FAIRDOMHub is a web-accessible registry for assets of biology projects: used by 204
projects, including the COVID disease paths international collaboration of 259 researchers.

Robotics: Several UoM projects (e.g. H2020 MoveCare) enable equipment-sharing between
institutions, e.g. the Giraff telepresence robot, and the GBP30,000 Sawyer, used by students from
Italy, and Waseda University (Japan).

An exa-scale HPC system is being constructed by the Unit (H2020 EuroEXA) that minimizes
energy consumption, with a world-leading 100kW per-rack thermal density infrastructure. With 256
compute nodes (each consisting of a hybrid FPGA+CPU custom architecture) the system is one of
the largest FPGA-accelerated clusters in the world, consisting 544 Xilinx Ultrascale+ FPGA devices.
The system is currently used by 15 development teams across 7 European nations.


3.viii) Benefits In-Kind

Intellectual Property:
     ARM Ltd donate design specifications for the ARM Cortex-M4, valued by ARM at
        GBP1,500,000 annually - this enables the SpiNNaker2 project. A previous similar in-period
        donation of the ARM968 architecture enabled the original SpiNNaker. ARM also donate
        GBP50,000 annually (unrestricted funds) to maintain our ARM Centre of Excellence status.

      BBC donated GBP380,000 plus industry-confidential data (e.g. interaction data for iPlayer).
       This supported 3 iCASE studentships and 5 internships.

Equipment:
    Robotics: including a GBP200,000 iCub robot, from Italian Research Council on indefinite
      loan to Cangelosi – this is used in e.g. the UKRI TAS Node on Trust, EP/V026682/1.

      FPGA hardware totalling GBP100,000, from Xilinx Inc., e.g. VCU118 kits (Koch/Kotselidis)
       enabling a novel secure FPGA Operating System (REF2: Vaishnav et al 2020).

      Computing power: A collaborative research agreement with AIST Japan enables access to
       the AIST Cloud Compute Facility providing over 400 GPUs.




                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.i) Enabling Academic Collaboration

Our recruitment strategy (2.i, implementing P1: Critical Mass/Complementarity) leads to a
diverse pool of expertise, with complementary interests – staff willing and able to “look outwards”
to other disciplines/institutions (P3: Ambition/Curiosity).

This expertise is sustained and recognised - see Section 1.iv for how this is achieved.

Building on this solid base, Principle 2 (Empowerment/Support) leads us to provide the funding
and opportunities to launch new collaborations, as our people see fit.

      Funding: University-level seed-funding is available to stimulate collaboration - e.g. School of
       Engineering collaborative grants, GBP50,000 maximum, multiple annual rounds, with light-
       touch review. Within the Unit, an equal distribution of flexible funding to groups (GBP120,000
       in 2019/20) supports both serendipitous and planned cross-institutional visits.

      Opportunities within/beyond UoM are promoted widely, while local events enable meetings,
       e.g. the IDSAI “Advances in Data Science” seminars (43 since 2016) are highly cross-
       disciplinary, and cross-institutional in audience. In the Unit, our culture of collegiality and
       openness (P4: Responsibility) leads to exchange of opportunities among staff (example in
       4.ii) and a light-touch visitor policy supports short-term visits.

Outcomes:
Collaborative projects: Across 52 EU projects, we partnered with 660 different organisations. We
have 8 long-standing partners, each collaborating on 10+ EU projects: Barcelona Supercomputing
Centre (23 projects); CNRS France (14); INRIA (10); CNR Italy (10); Fraunhofer (14); EMBL (14);
CEA France (10); and Edinburgh (11).

For UKRI, we held 104 collaborative projects (with 46 UK academic institutions) where 44/104
involved another UoM Unit, showing local cross-disciplinary working. We hosted 195 visitors (35
different countries): 41/58 staff hosted an international visitor in the period.

Collaborative outputs: We published over 1200 papers with co-authors from 66 countries: including
27 EU member states (34/44 European countries), and 19 outputs with African nations: South Africa
(12 outputs), Egypt (3), Zambia (3), Namibia (1). Our top 5 collaborating nations: Germany (142
outputs), USA (115), China (91), France (78), Brazil (69).




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Exemplar academic collaborations/networks/partnerships:

Local:
    Authors from the Unit contributed to Manchester’s REF2 return for 7 other UoAs, with a
       total of 17 outputs across Medicine, Public Health, Allied Health, Psychology, Biology,
       Physics, Business and Law.

      Vigo (collaboration between UoA11 and UoA5) led the CS elements of BritainBreathing, a
       nationwide Citizen Science project, to study seasonal allergies/asthma. The project works
       with the British Society for Immunology, and is an impact case (UoA5).

      UoM Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence has 974 members: 685 UoM
       academics/PDRAs, 137 PGRs, 106 businesses, 46 from other academic institutions. In the
       Unit, Ananiadou is Deputy Director, allocated 0.2FTE.

      Thomas Ashton Institute is a faculty-led initiative, with elements led by the Unit (Ananiadou,
       Jay) - a partnership with the UK Health/Safety Executive, focusing on understanding
       workplace injuries.

National:
    The VADA Programme Grant (GBP4,557,635, with Oxford/Edinburgh) developed end-to-
      end automation of a data preparation pipeline — results commercialised in a spin-out (VADA
      Ltd), applied (via KTP) to reduce the cost of on-boarding client data with a local SME, Peak.ai.

      In Robotics and Autonomous Systems, the RAIN hub (GBP12,203,190, EPSRC)
       develops nuclear robotics for extreme environments, stimulating collaboration between EEE
       and CS, including verification of systems (Fisher/Dixon), and ethics/transparency in human-
       robot interaction (Cangelosi/Dennis).

International:
     EU FET Flagship Human Brain Project. The Unit (Furber, Lester, Garside, Rhodes) plays
       a leading role, joining a consortium of over 100 universities to explore brain-inspired
       computing, and how SpiNNaker can accelerate brain research. Furber leads the HBP
       neuromorphic sub-project, and sits on the HBP Science Infrastructure Board.

      ELIXIR. In eScience (Goble) we have long-standing collaborations to develop infrastructure
       managing biological data, e.g. ELIXIR, the European inter-governmental Research
       Infrastructure for Life Sciences, where Goble leads the UK Node (18 organisations), enabling
       our participation in seven EU projects (46 organisations, 23 countries), including the US
       National Institutes of Health and seven pharmaceutical companies.

      OpenPHACTS: Goble/Pettifer/Stevens developed an entity-matching method, incorporated
       into the EU OpenPHACTS platform for pharmacological data. This prompted adoption of
       knowledge graphs by the pharma industry - the system (with our method at its core) has
       processed over 500m queries, from public/private organisations worldwide.

      EuroEXA: Goodacre is Technical Director for the 16-partner, EUR19,949,023programme,
       delivering infrastructures for exascale technology - deployed by 15 international application
       teams in climate/weather, physics/energy, and life-science/bioinformatics.

      Japan AIST: We maintain a partnership with the Japanese National Institute of Advanced
       Industrial Science & Technology (AIST). Funding (donated by AIST) enables extended visits
       by Cangelosi/Ananiadou, and PGRs/PDRAs (total 50-person months). In 2017-20 this
       enabled 16 published articles.

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


4.ii) Developing Relationships with Research Users
Fostering our interfaces for impact (1.iii) provides a base of long-standing industrial partners. These
are exploited by ECR academics, who regularly partner with established staff as mentors to “bring
them on-board” (Principle 4: Responsibility, our open and collegiate culture). New partnerships are
also enabled by sabbatical/secondment policies (2.iv), for example, Kotselidis extended a sabbatical
at KTM A.G. Ltd into a part-time industrial appointment (3.v), enabling the H2020 ELEGANT project
(EUR4,983,250) on secure vehicle communications.

We provide examples where the virtuous circle (1.ii) has enriched our environment: materially
(via inward investment) and intellectually (driving new cross-theme research directions), e.g.:

AstraZeneca. Senior staff member, Brass, introduced an AstraZeneca contact to a then junior staff
member (Brown), leading to a fruitful reciprocal research collaboration. This was supported by Unit-
funded visits, and 2 PhD co-supervisions (2014-15), leading to an AstraZeneca investment of
GBP400,000 (2016) to support Brown (A.I. theme) and Jay (Human Centred Computing). Outcomes:
Methods for statistical biomarker selection, with a user-informed and co-designed visualisation, now
being integrated into AstraZeneca workflows.

BBC Research & Development. In 2017, UoM started a 5-year Partnership with BBC R&D. The
Unit funded initial interactions – enabling a funded project (EP/M017133/1), and a PGR internship.
This stimulated institutional investment of GBP22,000 (2016, matched by BBC) to create a
university-wide network fostering interdisciplinary data science. We authored a White Paper,
‘Challenges/Opportunities in Data Science’ (now a standard BBC reference), and embedded PDRAs
into BBC labs. This led to a BBC investment of GBP380,000, enabling 5 internships and 3 iCASEs.

ARM Ltd. A long-term relationship enables access to ARM IP. Exemplar outputs include the
SpiNNaker architecture, and a 28nm System-on-Chip architecture (EuroEXA). In 2018 we were
awarded the ARM Centre of Excellence status, providing a recurring donation (GBP50,000 p.a.) to
support activities. This supports ECRs in establishing career directions (e.g. Pop, Cordeiro, Pavlidis).


4.iii) Wider contributions to the Economy and Society
Translational research in text mining of MP enquiries. As a Parliamentary Fellow, Batista has
contributed to Government efficiency – the research is being deployed in the House of Commons
Library to accelerate searching 600,000 historical MP enquiries.

We helped define the national curriculum. Furber chaired the Royal Society advisory committee
“After the reboot” (2017), advising government on the CS curriculum. Supporting this, the Unit hosted
the North-West Regional Centre for the ‘Computing at School’ initiative, providing professional
development opportunities for teachers.

Responding to demand from local SMEs for skills in A.I. and Data Science, we co-lead the
GBP6,000,000 ERDF “AI Foundry” project providing A.I. expertise to 170+ Manchester SMEs,
helping them develop new products/services.

A collaboration between Vigo and Salford NHS authority increased usability of NHS software.
A medication safety dashboard, deployed in 43 GP surgeries (local population: 250,000) was
analysed by Vigo, resulting in changes to the layout/interaction protocols.

We enhance the economic efficiency of academic networks via the EasyChair conference
management system, designed/maintained by the Unit (Voronkov) – with over 3,000,000 registered
users, and serving over 83,000 conferences worldwide.

We contribute to national digital skills training via the Institute of Coding (Embury/Jay). We
develop tools for teaching software engineering based on industry input, informed via empirical
software engineering research on historical student code collections.
                                                                                       Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


4.iv) Engaging with Diverse Communities via our Research
We partner with several NHS organisations (e.g. Christie Cancer Hospital), to deploy research:
e.g. local Christie clinicians use the work of Embury/Brass on ‘data journeys’ (see REF2) to assess
patient data-flow.

Batista works with Amnesty International human rights investigators (ESRC ES/R00899X/1) on
hate-speech detection.

Jay/Vigo engaged with the Manchester Museum to develop a citizen-science app for digitisation
of a fossil collection (800+ downloads), also resulting in a CHI workshop paper.

Parsia leads our LegalTech Initiative engaging with a consortium of local law firms—the initiative
won “Alliance of the Year” at the 2019 British LegalTech Awards.

Public engagement: Jay presented programmes (BBC, ITV) about robots and society.
Reger/Cordeiro have duties (0.2FTE) for Public Engagement/Liaison supporting events such our
presence at British Science Week, and BlueDot Festival.

Pupil work placements: The Unit welcomes young people (age 15-17) for research-based
placements—in the period we hosted 10 (plus 4 cancelled due to COVID). For example, 3 pupils in
2019 created a dataset, used by Batista in a proposal.


4.v) Contribution to Sustainability of the Discipline

REF2021 Guidelines: Jay led the Software Sustainability Institute team (9 authors, 36 reviewers:
including UKRI and the Society of Research Software Engineering) to create REF2021 software
output guidelines.

The Software Sustainability Institute facilitates the advancement of research software through
training, advocacy, policy, and research. As Research Director, Jay leads the SSI’s Open Evidence
Bank and research strategy.

Training: Our staff taught in 17 events over the period, e.g. Estonian Summer School in ML (Brown)
2019; European Summer School on Logic, Language and Intelligence (Sattler/Parsia) 2014-2019.
The Unit hosted events, e.g. SpiNNaker workshops 2016-19: 146 people (18 countries), supporting
international activity in neuromorphic computing.

Responsiveness to national and international priorities:

      Mental health: In recognition of a national need, NewMind (with Taylor as academic lead)
       built a community around technology for mental health, and (via its road-map) fed into the
       cross-council mental health initiative.

      Open Data in Research: We are a founding contributor (via Goble) to the influential FAIR
       (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Reusable) principles for data management. Goble
       maintains leadership roles in various FAIR advocacy organisations.

      Hardware Security: Goodacre led a bid from 26 businesses across 8 sectors, and 8
       universities, for the ISCF Digital Security by Design programme. This resulted in a
       GBP200,000,000 programme — GBP70,000,000 from government, and GBP130,000,000
       industrial co-investment (e.g. Microsoft, Google) — with Goodacre as the Director. To date,
       12 projects across 15 Universities have received GBP20,000,000 in funding.


                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       SmartCities: CityVerve (GBP10,000,000, 2016-18) was a landmark DCMS/InnovateUK
        project, led by the Unit for the University (Taylor), partnering with 20 organisations, delivering
        a more connected Manchester – sub-projects included data collection/analysis on COPD
        symptoms in the Manchester Corridor (Jay).

       Trustworthy Autonomous Systems: Fisher was academic lead for the development of a
        Strategic Priorities Fund bid, leading to a UKRI programme totalling GBP33,000,000.

Exemplars of interdisciplinary research:

In collaboration with the Institute of Neuroscience/Medicine at Julich Research Centre, Furber et
al. used SpiNNaker to implement a cortex model in biological real-time (Rhodes et al, 2019), out-
performing HPC/GPU implementations (see impact case). Working with AstraZeneca, and closing
the virtuous circle, Brown extended a theoretical foundation for feature selection (see REF2014) to
cover prognostic/predictive biomarker selection in personalised medicine (REF2: Sechidis et al
2018). In Medical Imaging, Cootes/Lindner developed methods in Computer Vision, and
commercialised BoneFinder, identifying skeletal structures in 2D medical images.


4.vi) Indicators of Wider Influence

Journal Editorships (65 total), including 5 Editor-in-Chiefs, e.g. Computer Journal (Furber, 2016-
20); J. Biomedical Semantics (2009-19); 29 Associate/Guest Editors, e.g. Machine Learning Journal
(Brown), J. Logic & Computation (Fisher); and 31 Editorial Board Members.

Exemplars of participation on grant/awards committees: EPSRC peer review college (9 staff);
staff acted for national awards committees, e.g. RAEng Chair Sift/Interview Panels (Goble, 2015-
17), RS Newton Awards (2015-present), and EPSRC UKRI Innovation Fellowships Interview Panel
(Dixon, 2018). Unit staff also contributed expertise for international agencies, including FNRS
(Olivier), Polish National Science Centre (Pratt-Hartmann), Canada Research Fellowships (Harper),
Heidelberg Laureates (Goble), Netherlands Organisation for Research (Dixon).

Fellowships (14 total): 2x RAEng Research Fellows, (Pop, 2015; Petoumenos, 2018); ERC
Advanced (Furber, 2013-18); RAEng Emerging Technologies Chair (Fisher, 2019); RAEng Industrial
Chair (Lujan, 2019-24); RAEng Industrial Fellowship (Embury); renewal of Royal Society URF
(Lujan, 2013-16); Royal Society Wolfson Merit (Lujan, 2019); SSI Fellowship (Jay, 2016); Royal
Society Newton International Fellowship (Palomar-Perez, 2016); AstraZeneca Data Science
Fellowships (Brown, Jay 2016-18); UK Parliamentary Fellowship (Battista, 2018-20); Rutherford
Fellowship HDRUK (Lindner, 2015-20).

Prizes:

   Best Paper awards at international venues (27 total), e.g. ECML 2014, PACT (2016, 2017),
    CGO (2017, 2019), VEE 2019, SWSA 2019 Ten-Year Award, and FG 2015 Test-of-Time Award.

   Elected Fellowships/National-level awards: FREng (Goble/Furber/Taylor); FRS (Furber);
    FBCS (Fisher/Cangelosi/Goble/Harper); Distinguished FBCS (Furber); FIET (Fisher, Furber);
    CBE (Goble, Furber); OBE (Taylor); BCS Lovelace Medal 2014, RS Mullard Award 2016,
    Science Council 100 Leading UK scientists 2014 (Furber); nomination by the President of Poland
    to a Professorship of Mathematics (University of Warsaw, Pratt-Hartmann).

   Discipline-specific awards: ELLIS Fellow (Kaski); IEEE (Furber); FIAPR (Cootes/Taylor);
    Herbrand Award (Voronkov); Member of Academia Europaea (Paton/Furber/Sattler); 4 Turing
    Fellowships (Ananiadou/Cangelosi/Jay/Nenadic); honorary doctorates: Goble (Maastrict),
    Furber (QUB), Ananiadou (Thessaloniki).
                                                                                   Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Memberships of national/international councils: BBSRC council (Goble); Athena Swan panel
(Clinch, 2016-21); Italian REF panel "Valutazione Qualità Ricerca" (Cangelosi); RAEng Membership
Panel 9,10 (Taylor, Goble); EPSRC ICT Strategic Advisory Team (Fisher); Chair of EPSRC
Healthcare Technologies SAT (Taylor, 2014-17); Director of N8 Centre of Excellence in
Computationally Intensive Research (Taylor, until 2018); Chair of the Royal Society Sectional
Committee 0 for CS (Furber); President of Extending Database Technology Association (Paton,
2016-20); National Engineering Policy Centre’s Safety & Ethics of Autonomous Systems committee
(Fisher); Management Board for UKRI/Turing A.I. for Science & Government programme (Taylor);
Research/Innovation Council of Finland (Kaski).

Invited Talks: 262 total, including 78 keynotes e.g.: Jisc Digifest 2015 (Goble), IJCNN 2015
(Furber), IDA 2015, PAKDD 2020 (Kaski), FV 2017 (Dixon).

Conference chairing: Unit staff held over 150 organisational roles in conferences/workshops in the
period. Noting only senior roles: General Chair (35 times, e.g. Goodacre, HiPEAC 2018), Programme
Chair (31 times, e.g. Nenadic/HealTAC 2019), Area/Track Chairs (16 times).

Other: 5 staff (Taylor/Goble/Cootes/Stevens/Sattler), are in the UK Top 100 scientists for CS &
Electronics (Guide2Research, 2020), and 2 (Goble/Stevens) in the WoS/Clarivate Highly Cited list.




                                                                                         Page 26
