Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newman University

 Unit of Assessment: Unit 24 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Unit is situated in the Sport and Health subject area within the Department of Social
 Science, Sport and Business, one of two departments in the Faculty of Arts, Society and
 Professional Studies. Unit membership has grown by 125%, from submitting four scholars to
 each of the previous two exercises (RAE2008 and REF2014) to currently submitting nine
 scholars (8.6 FTE), comprising seven members from within the Sport and Health subject area
 along with two members from outside the subject (one from within the same faculty and one
 from the Faculty of Education). Given its size, and the size of the University it belongs to, the
 Unit carries out research in a wide range of disciplines which are strategically framed into
 research groups around a combination of well-established (e.g., ‘Physical activity and health’
 and ‘Sport performance’) and emerging areas (i.e., ‘Sport in Society’), based upon staff
 expertise. Research is themed into four areas:

         Research areas                    UoA members
         Physical activity and health      Dr Birch, Dr E.Powell, Dr Woodfield

         Sport performance                 Dr Akubat, Prof. Myers*, Mr A.Powell

         Mental skills training            Dr Holland

         Sport in society                  Dr. Benkwitz*, Dr Lawrence

 * Prof. Myers’ and Dr Benkwitz’s outputs are presented here in Sport performance and Sport in
 Society respectively, although they have both also co-authored outputs in ‘Physical activity and
 health’.

 This growth has resulted from Unit and University strategies of staff formation and retention of
 research active staff, and the appointment of staff with research profiles and potential. For
 example, expertise in ‘Sport in society’ has been developed through the appointment of
 Benkwitz and Lawrence (both since REF2014); Birch, appointed lecturer in Health Social
 Care in 2019, and E.Powell, a long serving lecturer in the Faculty of Education who gained a
 PhD in 2017, both contribute recognised expertise in ‘Physical activity and health’ alongside
 Woodfield (entered REF2014); and Myers (entered REF2014) has developed internationally
 recognised expertise in quantitative analysis across disciplines within the sport and exercise
 sciences, and physical activity and health and is now a Professor in Quantitative Methods.
 Researchers in this cross-department Unit comprise the now well-established Sport, Physical
 Activity and Health Research Centre (formed in 2010).

 The Research Centre contributes to the wider university research culture within a comparatively
 small, single-campus academic community. As outlined in the institutional statement, Newman
 is a modestly sized but diverse University in south-west Birmingham, with approximately 2,800
 students, including over 40 research students, taking a range of subjects at undergraduate and
 postgraduate level. Originally a Catholic teacher training college, Newman attained University
 status in 2013 and maintains a strong reputation for student support and socially oriented
 research. The University’s Catholic ethos underpins the strategic plan which seeks the
 advancement of research for the benefit of the public and is ‘dedicated to the construction of the
 common good, the transformation of its members’ lives and of the world they serve and engage
 with’. The University’s vision for research is underpinned by its core values and mission to make
 a positive difference to individuals and communities through the contribution of its staff,
 students, and graduates.

 The Sport, Physical Activity and Health Research Centre shares the institutional mission to
                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 make a difference to people’s lives through high-quality research which increases
 understanding of and provides potential solutions to a range of issues relevant to physical
 activity, sport and health. The work of the Research Centre is dedicated to advancing
 knowledge, impacting on the broad fields of sport, exercise and health and meeting the needs
 of users and interest groups. The Centre also aims to contribute to the health and well-being of
 the local community and society at large. Its strategic approach to research related activity has
 been achieved through a variety of scholarly activities which uphold the University’s Catholic
 ethos and which have produced outputs of internationally excellent quality and have enabled
 considerable and long-standing impact across a range of communities and groups regionally,
 nationally, and internationally. The research published has met the Centre’s target to contribute
 knowledge to: develop effective practice across a range of settings (from educational to elite
 sport environments), enhance performance in sport and exercise, and promote health and well-
 being. Since 2015 the Research Centre has had a strategic focus on securing more external
 funding to support our environment, and subsequently external funding has increased by over
 9000%, from £15,000 in 2014 to £1.4 million in 2021. Our capacity for field and laboratory
 based research is also a key factor in the Centre strategy, allowing us to bring participants in
 but also conduct our research projects in applied settings. Research-informed practice has
 been developed and disseminated through various knowledge transfer, training and
 consultancy activities. Examples of these activities are illustrated throughout this submission.

 The growth of the Research Centre since REF2014 demonstrates its evolution. Newman
 University’s and specifically the Centre’s reputation has attracted new staff and also PGR
 students (discussed in greater detail in section 2. People). Liverpool Hope University currently
 validates Newman’s research degrees, but during the next REF period Newman will seek
 Research Degree Awarding Powers (RDAP), which is a key part of the University’s strategic
 aim to become ‘recognised nationally and internationally for the integrity and quality of our
 research and scholarship’. The Centre has made and continues to make a major contribution to
 this strategic aim. The University’s systems and policies and the Research Centre’s long-
 standing research culture all come together to support staff development and the pursuit and
 diversification of research interests.

 The broad areas of research expertise set out in both the RAE2008 and REF2014 (i.e.,
 ‘Physical activity and health’, ‘Sports performance’, and ‘Mental skills training’) remain at the
 core of the ongoing work within the Research Centre, however, through the appointment of
 research active staff, and staff formation in a supportive research culture, the Centre has
 continued to move forward and to expand in size and scope from REF2014, and now includes
 additional expertise in ‘Sport in Society’. The growth and diversification has resulted in
 increased research collaboration both within the Centre and beyond. Several published outputs
 are co-authored by members of the Centre and are interdisciplinary in nature, with each
 contributor bringing their own expertise to the research as well as to postgraduate research
 (PGR) student supervision. Also, through our networks beyond Newman University, external
 collaborations with colleagues at other academic and professional organisations has resulted in
 additional opportunities including research student supervision, funding bids, and published
 outputs. For example, Myers’s ongoing collaboration with academics in the UK and Portugal is
 producing multiple outputs (Towlson, et al 2020 is included in this REF submission) and a
 successful funding bid, and Akubat, Holland, Myers and E. Powell have been invited to join
 doctoral supervisory teams as external advisors, which have and are resulting in the publication
 of co-authored outputs.

 The University’s Research Committee takes as its remit a strategic role in all aspects of
 developing and sustaining a successful research culture and research performance. Its major
 function is to protect and enhance the University’s areas of research strength and comparative
 advantage, to nurture research potential, and strategically target resources to build an
 externally recognised research presence. The implementation of the University’s research
 strategy is underpinned by support from the Research Office and Graduate School, including:
 the maintenance of a University-wide repository and research database; the preparation and
 provision of up-to-date information on research performance in the University for the Research

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Committee; coordination of all matters relating to PGR students; oversight of the establishment
 and operation of the University’s research centres; organization of a seminar programme
 bringing together researchers with internal and external speakers to debate research findings,
 discuss methodologies, and share academic insights; coordination of the University’s links with
 relevant research networks; and support for the administration of the University’s forthcoming
 submission for Research Degree Awarding Powers. Members of the Research Centre embrace
 and play an active role in this University strategy, not only through their involvement with
 research and scholarship carried out through the Centre and PGR supervision, but also through
 their strategic positions. The Centre is represented on the Research Committee (Myers,
 E.Powell and Woodfield), Research Ethics Subcommittee (E.Powell and Woodfield),
 Research Degrees Subcommittee (Akubat and Woodfield) and Professoriate (Myers), as well
 as supporting the Graduate School as Postgraduate Research Coordinators (Akubat and
 Woodfield).

 Newman’s institutional research strategy for the coming five-year period 2021-2025 will build on
 the current research plan while focusing on specific areas of implementation: an attainment of
 Research degree awarding powers, research integrity, Open Research compliance, and the
 equal promotion of disciplinary, cross-disciplinary, and interdisciplinary research. The Research
 Centre will continue to make important contributions to the University’s strategy and reputation
 for research. Through ongoing internal collaborations and external networking, the Centre
 expects to consolidate the progress made since REF2014. Aiming to continue to develop in size
 and research scope by recruiting new research active academic staff from within the University,
 through new appointments, and by attracting more PGR students who will further diversify and
 enhance our research. The Centre will to continue to uphold the University’s commitment to
 staff formation by supporting colleagues in the early stages of their academic careers and to
 foster new talent, as this has been an effective strategy over recent decades as is evident from
 our development and the production of higher quality of research which affects people’s lives.

 2. People

 Unit staffing strategy and development

 Fundamental to Newman University’s Strategic Plan is its commitment to the formation of its
 staff and students, and this commitment to human flourishing is expressed in its People
 Strategy 2015-20 “The University is committed to advancing equality of opportunity and
 eliminating unlawful discrimination, harassment and victimisation, to foster good relations
 between people from different groups which embraces and celebrates diversity in line with our
 values and principles”. In line with the institutional strategy of staff formation, the Research
 Centre has sought to retain research active staff, providing support and opportunities for their
 development as researchers, whilst appointing new members of staff with developing research
 profiles. As a result, alongside retaining the four scholars (two of whom were early careers
 researchers) submitted to REF2014 (i.e, Akubat, Holland, Myers and Woodfield), another
 three colleagues appointed to the Sport and Health academic team have joined the Research
 Centre (Benkwitz, Lawrence and A. Powell), along with another two staff from beyond the
 Sport and Health subject area; Birch from Health and Social Care academic team (within the
 same faculty as Sport and Health; appointed in 2019) and E Powell from the Faculty of
 Education (who was initially supported by the Centre as a research student and graduated in
 2017). The Centre’s disciplinary research expertise continues to include ‘Physical activity and
 health’, ‘Sports performance’, and ‘Mental skills training’ (as entered into REF 2014), whilst
 evolving and diversifying through the appointment of additional scholars to the Research Centre
 to include expertise in ‘Sport in society’.

 The University’s research environment, community, and culture is supported by the Graduate
 School which has the primary responsibility for PGR student training and social and intellectual
 integration, while playing a key role alongside Faculties, Subject Areas, and Programmes in
 developing career pathways for researchers. The Centre is part of a longstanding culture in
 Sport and Health subject area which supports the research activities of all staff including those

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 registered for research degree, whose interests are aligned to physical activity, health, exercise
 and sport in order to grow and diversify. Members of this submission have been both supported
 by, and supportive of, colleagues within and beyond the Centre. Several published outputs are
 co-authored by research teams within the Centre, with early careers researchers and PGR
 students publishing alongside more experienced researchers. For example, A.Powell and
 E.Powell have, alongside studying for their doctorates, published jointly with their supervisors
 Myers and Woodfield, who themselves studied Newman research degrees.

 The University’s Workload Allocation Model ensures that all members of the Centre get time for
 research, which is evaluated as part of the annual appraisal scheme. The University and the
 Centre has supported Akubat and Holland, previously early career researchers for REF2014,
 to pursue their research interests and to collaborate internally and externally. This has resulted
 in published outputs, applied practice, and eligibility to supervise research students. For
 example, Akubat has been assisted to progress his research through the support of colleagues
 and the University’s sabbatical scheme, which provides a Semester of paid research leave.
 Benkwitz, Lawrence and A.Powell have also taken advantage of the scheme; all have been
 successful through the competitive process and in meeting the targets of their sabbatical.
 Moreover, since REF2014 the Centre has been successful through the University’s academic
 promotions scheme, which affords Readers and Professors with additional research time.
 Myers first achieved the title of Reader in 2016, and in 2020 was promoted to Professor in
 Quantitative Methods. In 2020, Benkwitz was awarded the title of Reader in Sociology of Sport
 and Health.

 The University’s appraisal scheme and Workload Allocation Model also supports Centre staff to
 become active members of academic bodies and professional organisations through the
 allocation of time for such activity. Akubat and Myers have substantial involvement with
 BASES. Akubat is currently BASES board director and Chair of the Sport and Performance
 Exercise Division while Myers is the founder and Chair of the Sport, Exercise and Health
 Analytics Special Interest Group. Since REF2014, and until recently, Akubat was the BASES
 CPD rep (2016-2020). Benkwitz, through his research for their recovery college and his
 membership of the Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health Foundation Trust since 2016, is now
 Chair of the Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health Foundation Trust's Recovery Steering
 Committee (2018-present) and has been the Chair of the Birmingham and Solihull Mental
 Health Foundation Trust's Recovery College Advisory Board (2016-2020). This involvement
 points to the Centre’s commitment to support the activities of instrumental national
 organisations using the disciplinary expertise of staff. Since 2019, both Benkwitz and
 Woodfield have been members of, and contributors to, Birmingham City Council’s ‘Creating a
 Physically Active City’ Forum, with Benkwitz also contributing to the Council’s 'Creating a
 Mentally Healthy City' Forum. Through these involvements the Centre contribute expertise
 which makes a difference to the strategic direction, implementation and evaluation of local and
 regional physical activity projects.

 The Research Centre has further strengthened its academic leadership since REF2014. As
 well as the internal promotion of Myers to Professor and Benkwitz to Reader, we have
 continued to utilise Newman’s long maintained Visiting Professor and Fellow scheme for
 distinguished scholars. One part of the Research Centre’s strategy to support the development
 of the research environment has been to seek external knowledge and skills which contribute
 expertise and help to develop early careers researchers. Visiting academics have had a pivotal
 role in developing the research and scholarship potential of staff through appropriate forms of
 advice, training and support, and the Centre has continued to take a strategic approach to
 appointing and renominating a number of eminent Visiting Professors and Fellows. Visiting Prof
 A. Nevill (visiting Prof for REF2014) has been renominated and has co-authored several
 publications with Benkwitz, Myers, E.Powell, and Woodfield, and contributed to the supervision
 of five of our PGR students since REF2014, three of whom have successfully completed and
 two have successfully defended their research at viva voce. Visiting Prof. S. Mellalieu has
 joined the supervisory team of A.Powell, contributing expertise and collaborating on future
 publications, and has supported the Unit in its development, including preparations with this

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF submission. Visiting Prof M. Hesselink (University of Maastricht) was a member of the
 supervisory team for an international student who successfully completed their PhD in 2018.
 Furthermore, Visiting Research Fellow, Dr Grant Abt, as well as supporting the supervision of
 another successful PhD completion, has collaborated on research publications with both Akubat
 and Myers, and Dr. Abt and Myers have a number of ongoing collaborative projects including
 externally funded research. The expertise and experience of these visiting academics has
 provided support and advice, and made a significant contribution to the Centre’s evolution since
 2014.

 Research Students

 The University’s commitment to formation and to human flourishing includes the community of
 our research students, and our approach to supervision is characterised by individual support
 and high-quality supervisory teams. The Research Centre creates an environment that
 develops our supervisory capacity and enables our doctoral and MPhil students to reach their
 goals and realise their potential as early career researchers. Working with partners, as
 individuals or external supervisors, we aim to work within the Researcher Development
 Framework to enable our researchers successfully to make their own significant contribution to
 knowledge and to advance their own professional and career opportunities.

 The Graduate School provides institutional development and support for research students,
 while the Postgraduate Research Coordinators provide pastoral support and mentoring. In their
 current roles as Postgraduate Research Coordinators with responsibilities for training and
 development and student experience and liaison respectively, Akubat and Woodfield make
 significant institutional contributions to the central programme overseen by the Graduate
 School. The Centre also makes substantial contributions to the PGR training programme with
 Akubat, Benkwitz, Holland, Lawrence, Myers and Woodfield all contributing workshops and
 training sessions on topics such as quantitative methodology, undertaking literature reviews
 (including systematic reviews) and research ethics. The University offers training to PGR
 students preparing for a career in teaching in Higher Education. While the Graduate School
 has the primary responsibility for the training and development of research students, Research
 Centres and Faculties also contribute to this. The Centre offers training to its PGR students to
 support their career aspirations (for example, research collaboration opportunities and providing
 students to gain in-class teaching experience). All students are eligible to apply for an annual
 financial contribution to research training activities, printing is free, and supervision takes place
 in teams to ensure a range of expertise and continuity. Through our partnership, research
 students also have access to the facilities, virtual and physical, available at Liverpool Hope
 University. All research students have access to a dedicated PGR room for facilities on-
 campus and to help build community cohesion, and in Sport and Health research students have
 benefitted from their own dedicated room for on-campus study which has helped build a
 supportive environment and foster working relationships with fellow PGR students, researchers
 in the Centre and the wider University community, which has ultimately contributed to
 successful doctoral completions.

 The Centre has made and continues to make a substantial contribution to the University’s
 preparations for RDAP and is a leading centre for PGR student provision and supervision with a
 track record of successful completions. Five PGR students have been awarded PhDs since
 REF2014 and another two students successfully defended their theses at viva in January 2021.
 Currently, the Centre has a further five students registered for research degrees, all at various
 stages. Many of these students have undertaken research in the most well-established
 multidisciplinary area of ‘Physical activity and health’, with five students undertaking or having
 successfully completed research in ‘Sports performance’. Staff in the unit, through their,
 international reputations for research expertise and quality of research supervision, are
 attracting applications from a range of students wishing to undertake PGR degrees at Newman
 University. In addition to attracting self-funding students, the University occasionally offers
 research studentships through a competitive bidding process, funded at the level of Research
 Council stipends. Previous and current students attached to the Centre include international

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students from Saudi Arabia, The Netherlands, and Malta, full-time and part-time registrations,
 and self-funded, charity funded, university bursary and shared funding arrangements. For
 example, A.Al-Nuaim completed their PhD in 2016 on the ‘Physical activity and health related
 behaviour of young people in Al-Ahsa Governorate, Saudi Arabia: An investigation into
 environmental factors’, which was funded by the Saudi Arabian Government and supervised by
 Woodfield and Emerti Prof. Al-Nakeeb; D.Sanders (Dutch) received a full-time University
 bursary, supervised by Akubat, Myers and Visiting Prof. Hesselink, and successfully completed
 PhD research titled ‘Monitoring the training process in competitive road cyclists’ in 2018; in
 2017 Myers secured a PhD Scholarship (£10,000) from the Parliamentary Secretariat for
 Research, Innovation, Youth and Sport Ministry for Education and Employment in
 Malta/SportMalta for R.Argento, a current part time research student; and another current
 student L.Scoles is registered full-time with supervisors Benkwitz, Holland and Myers on a
 three year project titled ‘Moving lives, healthy minds’ which is funded by a grant awarded by
 Comic Relief. In addition, the university and Centre have a commitment to staff formation and
 the expertise within the Centre contribute to PGR supervision of university staff, including some
 of those included in this submission (i.e., A.Powell and E.Powell).

 Staff in the Centre also contribute to the supervision of research students across Newman
 University or those registered at other Universities. Woodfield supervises doctoral researchers
 across both PhD and EdD programmes at Newman, and Benkwitz and Lawrence supervise
 students registered in Health and Social Care and Psychology areas respectively. Involvement
 with PGR supervision beyond home registered students highlights the reach of our expertise,
 experience and reputation to the academic community beyond Newman University. Akubat,
 Holland, Myers and E. Powell have supervised or are currently supervising external research
 students at the following universities: Edge Hill University, Leeds Beckett University, University
 of Bedfordshire, University of Birmingham, University of Stirling and University of Strathclyde.

 Equality and Diversity

 The University’s values, as clearly expressed in the People Strategy 2015-20, underpin the
 work of the Research Centre. All members of staff are required to complete mandatory Equality
 and Diversity training every four years, and the University has an Equality and Diversity
 Committee, with an LGBT Group established in 2018, an Athena Swan working group in 2019,
 and a Race Equality Group in 2020. Unit members contribute to supporting the University’s
 commitment to equality and diversity. In 2015, Myers analysed University data to produce a
 report highlighting the influence of subject, entry qualifications, disability and ethnicity on
 success and achievement as part of a funded HEA strategic excellence initiative project
 ‘Enhancing retention, progression and achievement through student partnership’. This resulted
 in changes in practice in different subject areas. For example, one subject area - identified as
 having a comparatively low percentage of students graduating with first or upper second-class
 degrees – completely changed their grading criteria. Lawrence's contributions to the Race
 Equality Working Group are informed by his published peer-reviewed research into diversity,
 equality and inclusion in sport which focuses mainly on matter of ‘race’ and ethnicity and how
 they operate at various intersections with other social identities. His work and knowledge in this
 area has been acknowledged, recognised and utilised by Aston Villa FC, Kick It Out, The
 Football Association, Sporting Equals, European University Cyprus, BBC News, Sky Sports
 News, ITV News, The Athletic, The Guardian and COPA90.

 All the collaboration and support outlined here has resulted in staff in the Centre producing in
 excess of 120 published outputs, conference presentations, edited books and book chapters, a
 substantial (300% approx.) increase upon the research activity demonstrated through the
 REF2014 exercise.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Oversight of research sits in the University Research Office and Graduate School, which
 provides research administration and postgraduate coordination. The Research office organises

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and runs the central Research Committee, Research Degrees subcommittee and Research
 Ethics subcommittee. With representation from researchers across the Faculties, UoAs, and
 Research Centres, the committees provide an infrastructure for disbursement and delegation of
 funds, research strategy and policy coordination, oversight of the PGR environment, and
 policies for, among other aspects, ethics, open access, and research integrity.

 The Sport, Physical Activity and Health Research Centre meets regularly, and once a month
 during University semesters. Centre meetings provide the opportunity to disseminate University
 policy and wider research issues, guidance and practice, which is used strategically to guide
 our research and its dissemination. Meetings also offer a space for members to update and
 present on internal research projects and to discuss and explore potential future collaborations,
 including research bid development, a Centre priority since 2015. The Research Centre
 provides a supportive environment for early career researchers and PGRs to discuss and
 develop their own research and researcher skills, and to contribute to the Centre’s research
 culture.

 Research funding

 The number of successful applications detailed here points to the maturation of the Research
 Centre, from a position of very low income for REF2014, to a recent track record of successful
 bid applications. The Centre has been successful in securing external funding for a variety of
 research projects, amounting to £1.4 million, with many of these being collaborative projects
 involving various members of the Centre and external partners, and making a significant impact
 upon local communities. For example, Benkwitz, Holland and Myers have recently secured
 £424,457 from the Comic Relief ‘Ahead of the Game’ fund. The project, “Moving lives, healthy
 minds” project (May 2020 – May 2023) will run in partnership with collaborators Sport
 Birmingham and Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health Foundation Trust, and includes a
 funded PhD student who started in 1st October 2020.

 The Centre has also made successful collaborative applications with other HEIs and organisations to
 produce research in the vital area of physical activity and sport participation for physical and mental
 health. In partnership with collaborators at Nottingham Trent University, Benkwitz has been
 successful (£30,000) with a Rethink Mental Illness & Sport England: Movement For All Tender
 (September 2018-December 2021). And, working with sponsors at Birmingham and Solihull
 Mental Health Foundation Trust (BSMHFT), Benkwitz secured funding (£34,579) for Research
 Evaluation of the BSMHFT Recovery College (November 2015-January 2021), which funded a
 PhD student to undertake research. E.Powell is part of a successful research grant (£150,000)
 with the University of Exeter from the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) for a two-
 year programme, that will develop a novel family focused intervention to promote physical
 activity among children with Cystic Fibrosis. More recently, as part of a collaborative project with
 the University of Hull, Myers has recently secured £12,000 worth of Apple watches through the
 Apple grant program for a PhD into the efficacy of a novel app to measure physical activity.

 Holland has been involved with a number of research related programmes involving St.Basil’s, a
 Birmingham organisation that works with young people to enable them to find and keep a home,
 grow their confidence, develop their skills, increase opportunities and prevent homelessness.
 This longstanding relationship with St.Basil’s and colleagues at University of Birmingham, has
 secured the following funding for projects to produce positive change for young people in the
 West Midlands:

       2014-2015. Mental Skills Training for Disadvantaged Young People: A Pilot Program for
        St Basils (Newman University, University of Birmingham, St Basils, £14,000)
       2014-2017. Mental Skills Training for St Basils (Newman University - University of
        Birmingham - St Basils, £240,000)
       2016-2018. Parenting Young People: A Psychologically Informed Programme (Sandwell
        and West Birmingham Hospitals NHS Trust. Newman University - University of
        Birmingham - St Basils, £85,189)

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       2017-2020 Physical activity and health in homeless young people (ESRC DTP
        Collaborative Studentship, Midlands Graduate School. Newman University - University of
        Birmingham - St Basils, £58,000)
       2017-2020 Advancing MST for St Basils young people and staff. (Monday Trust.
        Newman University - University of Birmingham - St Basils, £310,000)

 To seed-fund research and impact, the University’s Research Committee has operated a
 number of schemes during the REF period which Centre members have taken advantage of.
 The University’s sabbatical support scheme, which requires applicants to demonstrate clear and
 measurable targets to be achieved at the end of the sabbatical period, has been accessed by
 four members of the Centre (Akubat, Benkwitz, Lawrence and A.Powell) and has contributed
 to the publication of outputs, research dissemination and impact. The University has funded PhD
 bursaries for research students in Sport and Health, and tuition and registration fees for
 members of the Centre (A.Powell and E.Powell) to undertake their research degrees. A
 proportion of QR funding has also been devolved to the UoA on an annual basis (over £41,000
 in total) to support research eligible for the REF. The Centre have used the funding allocated to
 support a variety of activities including research expenses, dissemination of research and
 supporting the delivery of impact (especially for the case study on Active learning time in
 physical education by E.Powell and Woodfield), open access publication and conference
 presentation.

 From 2014 to 2018, a research bid writer, commissioned by the University, supported funding
 applications, since 2018, research funding support has been outsourced on a consultancy basis.
 This provided information on grants and support for external funding opportunities as well as
 assistance to academic staff in preparing research applications, including advice on costing and
 pricing, meeting funding eligibility criteria, and submission of bids. Researchers in the Centre
 have accessed this support to help them with bid writing. The Graduate School and Finance
 Department also support bid writing, providing a system for full-economic costing, review and quality
 control, authorisation, and submission also supported.

 Recognition

 Since 2014, researchers in the Centre have received recognition for their research and
 contributions. Benkwitz won the national award from Advance HE 'Collaborative Award for
 Teaching Excellence (CATE)' in 2019, for the project on Using Student Engagement Data and
 Learning Analytics, which included a research evaluation component. The research also sparked
 interest across Twitter and resulted in publications from members of the team (Benkwitz et al, 2019)
 and also received positive feedback from academics who focus on student retention, such as
 Professor Liz Thomas, Professor of Higher Education at Edge Hill University, who commented: “I am
 very impressed by the work undertaken by staff and students at Newman University.” “This work has
 been facilitated by two key principles, that differentiate it from much of the other work on learning
 analytics. First, it has been underpinned by a fundamental belief in uncovering and harnessing
 the ‘human-side’ of data and analytics. Second, a collaborative grass-roots approach, involving
 students, teaching staff and technical staff as equal partners, who have developed this work to
 be truly student-centred, in development and implementation, the student experience, and in
 researching and disseminating the findings and impact.” “The collaborative work of this team is
 commendable and should be recognised to enable it to be imitated widely.” (More info at
 https://www.newman.ac.uk/news/team-at-newman-wins-collaborative-award-for-teaching-
 excellence/). Furthermore, The research partnership between Newman, BSMHFT, Sport
 Birmingham and the West Midlands Combined Authority called 'Mental Health Through Sport'
 had their symposia series officially recognised and endorsed by the Commonwealth Games
 2022 as part of their 'United by Birmingham 2022' (see
 https://www.birmingham2022.com/united/community-projects/mental-health-through-sport-
 symposium-series/ )




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Specialist facilities and research resource

 Sport Science laboratories were built during the previous REF cycle and the University has continued
 to invest in resourcing these laboratories as well as in developing a specialist postgraduate research
 room, which have been important for both postgraduate and staff research in the sport performance
 research area. The University’s investment in resources has facilitated and further enhanced
 both laboratory and field-based research in the ‘Sport performance’ area, in line with the
 Research Centre’s commitment to both laboratory and settings-based research. For example,
 the University has invested £100,000 in resources (including purchasing Catapult GPS and a
 Biosen C Line blood analyser) for current PGR student research to quantify fitness and fatigue to
 optimise training for elite soccer players. Similar investment in resources (including pedometers)
 previous for E.Powell’s PhD research, has directly resulted in outputs co-authored by E.Powell,
 Woodfield, A.Powell and Myers (e.g., Powell, et al., 2018), a publication that has since resulted in
 external collaborations, externally funded research, and dissemination of research to deliver impact
 (i.e., Active learning in physical education case study).The investment in and development of a
 postgraduate research office in the same building as the laboratories provides an important
 space in which research students work, support each other, and be central to the academic
 team and Research Centre.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Newman University is open to partnership with a wide range of organisations. These links create
 opportunities and funding for research, broaden staff development, build the local community,
 and generate societal benefit. An emphasis on social enterprise is seen as particularly important
 to enable staff and students to work with others collaboratively to tackle social problems and
 improve communities. In terms of local economic impact, the UCU commissioned report by
 Hatch Regeneris in July 2020 estimated Newman University’s Gross Value Added to
 Birmingham as £30 million (https://ucu.org.uk/article/10922/New-study-demonstrates-huge-local-
 economic-impact-of-universities#citydata). Because the Research Centre aims to contribute to
 the health and well-being of the local community and wider society, the development of
 partnerships and the application of knowledge to wider research, policy and practice is strongly
 encouraged. This has become an important and regular feature of the Centre’s work since the
 last REF census; all members of the Centre collaborate with fellow academics and organisations
 in order to contribute to scholarship and wider society. Some of the key activities we undertake
 are summarised here.

 Collaboration with and contribution to the academic community

 Money devolved down to the UoAs by the University has been used to support presentation at
 research conferences. Research conducted by all members of the Centre has been presented
 at a diverse range of national and international conferences since REF2014. Conferences
 include but are not limited to: World congress on Science and Football (2014-15), European
 College of Sport Science (2014-18), International Qualitative Research in Sport and Exercise
 Conference (QRSE) (2014 & 2016), BASES annual conferences (2015-2019), Sciences and
 Cycling Conference (Caen 2016), European Conference on Mental Health (ECMH) (Berlin,
 2017), International Society of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity (2016-17), 6th
 International Academic Identities Conference (IAIC) (Hiroshima, Japan, 2018), BHF Funded
 Motor competence in childhood conference (Coventry University (2019) and International Sport
 Forum of the Strength & Conditioning Society (SCS) and the European Sport Nutrition Society
 (ESNS) (2020). Presenting research at conferences has supported future publication of the
 research in peer-reviewed journals and the development of postgraduate research. The money
 allocated has also been used to support publication in Open Access journals. The Centre has a
 commitment to publishing in Open Access journals in order to provide those beyond the
 academic community with access to our research, especially as much of our research has an
 explicit application to practice.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Centre contributes to the publication, editing and peer review process for a number of
 international titles with all members regularly invited to review for a number of journals. This
 demonstrates the Centre’s commitment to supporting the important work of the academic
 community in the publication of high-quality research. Staff also make specific additional
 contributions to the publication and editing process, for example: Akubat and Myers have
 reviewed abstracts and awards for BASES, Lawrence is on the editorial boards of the Journal of
 the History, Culture and Sociology of Sports and the Journal of Managing Sport and Leisure
 Journal, and is on the Advisory Editorial Board for Leisure Studies and the Associate Board of
 Leisure Studies; Myers leads the Journal of Sports Sciences Advisory Group (advising the
 editorial board on statistics matters and contributing to future editorials on statistical methods);
 Woodfield was invited to guest edited a special issue of Sports titled ‘Physical activity for health
 in youth’ with E.Powell as fellow guest editor
 (https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sports/special_issues/Physical_Activity_Health_Youth).

 Members of the Centre have also been invited to and have reviewed funding bid submissions.
 In 2018, Benkwitz reviewed for the National Institute of Health Research (NIHR) Research
 Funding Board. The projects were: '17/78/11 A three-arm superiority trial comparing high
 intensity exercise (HIE) and lower intensity exercise (LIE) with an active control for help-seeking
 adolescents with depression', which sought over £1m; and '17/78/10 The clinical and cost-
 effectiveness of exercise intervention for depression in adolescents: a phased multi-site
 randomised controlled trial', which also sought over £1m. Since 2019, Lawrence has been an
 expert evaluator for the "Rights, Equality and Citizenship” funding programme, European
 Commission, and evaluated six-figure grants. In 2020 Woodfield reviewed for a BHF Project
 Grant, and in 2021, Myers reviewed an international funding bid for €538,147.00 on behalf of the
 Flemish government’s Research Council, Industrial Research Council and the University of
 Leuven (KU Leuven), Belgium, that looked at modelling personalised risk profiling and heart
 failure prevention.

 The Centre works collaboratively across the academic community, with research consortia and
 networks. Some examples of these collaborations include:

    Benkwitz - Member of the international research group called the Bergen Group, a
     consortium of people across Europe who work in, or have an interest in, projects that use
     football to deliver mental health interventions. In September 2019 Benkwitz presented in a
     panel session alongside other Bergen Group members on mental health and football projects
     (based on the outputs: Benkwitz et al., 2019; & Benkwitz and Healy, 2019) at the
     international mental health conference 'Recovery in Focus' at the University of Nottingham.
     In Autumn 2021 Benkwitz will travel (funded by Erasmus) to Drammen (University of South-
     Eastern Norway) to meet some members of the Bergen Group to discuss research
     collaboration, research exchanges and future co-supervision of PhD student(s).
    Lawrence – Founder of the Digital Football Network which was created alongside the
     publication of an Edited book (Lawrence, S. and Crawford, G. (eds.) (2018) Digital Football
     Cultures: Fandom, Identities and Resistances. London: Routledge); Research Expert and
     Report Writer, Sporting Equals, producing the ‘BASPA Call for Action Report’ which led to
     the Sporting Equals Charter in 2019; Research Advisor, The Football Association, ‘Bringing
     Opportunities to Communities – Phase 2: A step change in Asian inclusion’, 2019 resulted in
     a publication in this REF submission (Lawrence and Davis, 2019).
    Myers – Multiple regional and international collaborations including: an ongoing collaboration
     with Christopher McClaren-Towlson and Grant Abt (University of Hull), and Bruno Gonçalves
     and Jaime Sampaio, (Universidade de Trás-os-Montes e Alto Douro) which resulted in a
     successful bid to UEFA on maturity-status ‘bio-banding’ as a tool for ongoing talent
     (de)selection of academy soccer players, this collaboration has already resulted in one
     publication (in this REF submission - Towlson, et al., 2020), another is currently under review
     in Journal of Science and Medicine in Football, and a third is in preparation; another ongoing
     collaboration with Stephen Strotmeyer (University of Pittsburgh, USA) and Steven Dang
     (Carnegie-Mellow University), provides ongoing analysis of data exploring psychometric
     theories to build educational assessments for sport judges, this builds on the submitted REF

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     impact case study on judging and performance in Muay Thai, and is trying to extend this by
     identifying why judges find some fights difficult to judge, which should help improve training;
     and a research collaboration with cardiac clinicians and Visiting Professor Alan Nevill has
     produced a manuscript currently in review in the European Respiratory Journal Open.
    E.Powell - Collaboration with the University of Exeter, as a result of published work and her
     knowledge and experience of effective interventions amongst primary aged children,
     E.Powell was invited to be a member of the project management group to develop a novel
     family focused intervention to promote physical activity among children with Cystic Fibrosis
     which is NIHR funded; collaborative research with Wolverhampton University which
     produced published research outputs.

 Because of their expertise, collaborations and networking, various Centre members have been
 invited to give talks at and to support the academic processes at universities, higher education
 institutes and research groups. Myers was invited to present on Bayesian statistical analysis on
 a number of occasions most notably he presented ‘Faster, higher stronger? Determining the
 effectiveness of sports performance interventions using Bayesian method’, on behalf of Human
 Kinetics Europe/BASES (online, January 2019) and presented on Bayesian Statistics for Sport
 Science as part of the Sports Biomechanics Lecture Series (online, August 2020). Myers, also
 presented on Bayesian statistic at the University of Hull (January 2019), Holland was invited by
 the University of Birmingham to present on the development and transference of life skills
 through sport (Feb, 2020) and E.Powell was invited to present research on the wider
 implementation of the SHARP Principles to increase active learning time in physical education to
 a research group at the University of Exeter (March 2020). As winners of the prestigious
 Advance HE Collaborative Award for Teaching Excellence (CATE), Benkwitz and his
 collaborators were invited to present some of their work (including the evaluation/research
 aspects) at the annual 'Advance HE NTF/CATE National Symposium', as Aston University (6th
 March 2020). Akubat, Myers and Woodfield have all acted as external examiners for PhD
 theses and Myers has externally assessed for the academic promotions round at Leeds Trinity
 University, providing an assessment of Professorial and Reader applications.

 Relationships with audiences and contribution to society

 The University is an accredited HE member of Social Enterprise Mark, which is externally
 assessed and internationally recognized. The Mark provides an independent guarantee that an
 organization has met sector-agreed criteria and is operating as a genuine social enterprise,
 committed to creating positive social change. It provides clear standards for the social enterprise
 sector, defining what it means to be a genuine social enterprise. This chimes with the ethos of
 the institution to support social enterprise in the community that brings benefit to others and
 works towards a more just society which puts people over profits. In line with the University’s
 core values, the Centre is committed to advancing the common good and transforming people’s
 lives, and since REF2014 members of the Centre have applied their knowledge and skills to the
 needs of society internationally, nationally and regionally in several ways.

 Myers has worked on a Maltese government funded project that attempted to address Malta’s
 growing obesity crisis. In 2016, Myers was recruited by SportMalta to evaluate the success of a
 project they were conducting in collaboration with the Health Promotion Unit, St James Capua
 Hospital and the Institute of Tourism Studies (ITS). Myers analysed data from the quasi-
 experiment, and presented and explained the results to the 50 EU representatives at the
 European Union (EU) Directors General for Sport meeting (March 2017) held in Malta. Myers
 presented to Nick Pontefract, now the chief operating officer for Sport England, and the Maltese
 Minister for Education and Employment, Evarist Bartolo, who praised the project as an example
 of good practice and an exemplar of collaboration between private and public sector services.

 Holland has supported the elite youth pathways (including Academy) of Warwickshire County
 Cricket Club. This aims to support the progression of individuals towards professional player
 contracts. His research has guided the holistic approach to athlete development focusing on
 transferable life skills (e.g., resilience, emotional control, etc.) and sport specific mental skills

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (e.g., performance imagery). Also, in the world of sport performance and athlete well-being,
 Akubat worked with Professional football teams (Nottingham Forest and Coventry City FC) and
 Malta FA, Dublin GAA, Turkish Wrestling Federation and Team Sunweb Cycling Team
 contributing expertise in monitoring training load.

 Since 2016, E.Powell and Woodfield have engaged with the physical education community to
 improve the quality of primary physical education. Their research resulted in the creation of the
 SHARP Principles for teachers to apply to their existing planning and teaching to increase active
 learning time in lessons. This research-informed practice has been shared with student, trainee
 and qualified teachers through the development of teaching resources, a YouTube video and a
 series of teacher workshops. To reach schools and practitioners in Birmingham and the wider
 West Midlands region E.Powell and Woodfield worked with Sport Birmingham to publicise these
 resources (https://www.sportbirmingham.org/resources-and-useful-links). Whilst the SHARP
 Principles changed teachers’ practice, the ultimate beneficiaries of E.Powell’s and Woodfield’s
 work are the children who now spend more time practising their movement skills and engage in
 active learning in lessons taught using the SHARP Principles.

 Furthermore, members of the Centre have organised a range of conferences, seminars and
 network meetings to facilitate the sharing of ideas and effective practice in relation to physical
 and mental health. Held at Newman and in partnership with Birmingham and Solihull Mental
 Health Foundation Trust, Sport Birmingham and West Midlands Combined Authority, Benkwitz
 organised ‘Mental Health through Sport’ symposia in December 2018 and December 2019 which
 welcomed registered delegates from UK and abroad (185 and 192 delegates for 2018 and 2019
 respectively), comprising a mix of academics, practitioners and industry partners. Benkwitz
 chaired and helped to organise a one-day research conference in January 2020 titled
 ‘Supporting parents whose children have autism – what the research tells us’, with 103
 registered delegates from across the region (parents, organisations, schools, charities, local
 authorities and local government). A.Powell organised the National Cystic Fibrosis and
 Exercise Network meeting at Newman University in March 2020 attended by health practitioners
 from across the UK. Similar events have also been organised for the applied sport community.
 Akubat has organised a range of BASES Division Days (‘Training Load Monitoring Then &
 Now’; ‘The big debate: Fatigue’ and ‘HIT Science’), and multiple webinars, with participants from
 both academic and practitioner backgrounds.

 As a result of their expertise and emerging research reputation, various Centre members have
 been invited to give talks to international, national and regional organisations and applied
 practitioners. A.Powell was invited to present his research on conceptualisation and
 development of mental toughness in Paralympians at the National Competitive Coaching
 Science Conference, Wingate Institute, the National Institute for Excellence in Sport and the
 Ministry of Culture and Sport, Tel-Aviv, Israel (December, 2019). Akubat presented at the
 UKSCA Athlete Monitoring Roundtable (2020) and Playermaker Multidisciplinary Team
 Conference (2020), and was invited to present on the development of training load monitoring in
 team sports by Leicester City FC and Nottingham Forest FC (both 2019). Benkwitz was invited
 to present work to Trust employees, based on research in medium secure settings in the local
 mental health trust at the Secure Research Committee, BSMHFT, Birmingham (15th March
 2018), as well as presenting his research at BSMHFT's Allied Health Professionals conference,
 delivering to 200 Trust employees (15th March 2019).

 Members of the Centre are contacted by the media to share their expertise, highlighting that our
 research not only recognised in the academic community but also interests the media through its
 cultural relevance. For example, Lawrence’s published research into football violence and
 football-related racism have led to appearances on Sky News (12.6 million viewers) four times in
 the last three years, providing expert comment on football fan-related news. His research on
 football and Black Country identity also led to a live interview on BBC WM on ‘Black Country
 Day’ in 2016 and coverage in the Express and Star newspaper. Furthermore, he was
 approached by YouTube channel, COPA90 (1.18million followers), to appear in the video ‘Why
 do British Asians never make it Pro?’, which to date has over a quarter of a million views and

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has generated 3k comments and 7.5k likes. Lawrence has also provided expert comment to ITV
 News for the article “Why are more female professional footballers openly gay or bisexual than
 male players?”




                                                                                        Page 13
