Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: D32 History of Art

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Since 2014, the Department of History of Art (from September 2020 a UoA of nine permanent,
 full-time FTEs, and four Postdoctoral Research Fellows (PRFs)) has significantly enhanced its
 existing research strengths while developing new ones. It continues to produce benchmark
 outputs across a number of well-established fields including Italian Medieval and Renaissance
 art (Bourdua, Pericolo, Tagliaferro, and PRFs Lupi and Daniotti); British art (Hatt, Dias, and now
 PRF Young); nineteenth-century French painting (Smith); and English Modernist architecture
 (Saumarez-Smith, replacing emerita Campbell, retired 2014). At the same time, the Department
 has extended its range to reflect and shape the evolution of the discipline at large. We have
 achieved this expansion by identifying new geographical, chronological or theoretical areas of
 research among ourselves, and through targeted recruitment. The new areas concerned include
 Colonial art in India (Dias), Danish Art (Hatt and PRF Baark), art and science (Pericolo, Smith).
 And in 2019, we not only appointed a specialist in contemporary art (Vogt) to replace Lang (left
 2019), but also an expert in contemporary Latin American art (Stewart, commenced September
 2020).

 For planning, we organise our wide-ranging research under three broad and overlapping areas
 of shared interest, or themes: Art in Venice and Northern Italy; Art and Empire; and Space and
 Experience. These are not formal or exclusive groupings but are used to generate collaboration
 and discussion across historical, geographical and theoretical specialisms. These are also
 germane to shaping our programme of research events, projects with external partners, and
 postdoctoral strategy. This structure allows us to exploit the department’s small size by working
 flexibly, while creating a coherent and inclusive research culture.

 The Department’s reputation, expertise, and proactive approach to external engagement has
 enabled us to achieve leverage and impact by collaborating with galleries, museums, and
 educational institutions regionally, nationally, and internationally. We have thereby shaped
 curatorial practice, enhanced educational initiatives, informed approaches to architectural
 conservation, among partners ranging from the world’s most prestigious cultural organisations to
 local community groups. Maintaining this ambitiousness and diversity will remain a guiding
 principle for our research and impact during the next cycle.


 Sustaining research

 A unique, key resource for much of our activity has been our Venice base, until 2018 the
 Palazzo Pesaro Papafava, which we vacated because of issues with access and health and
 safety. (Negotiations, delayed by Covid, are now underway to secure improved premises from
 October 2021.) As set out below, this base not only supported research towards publications on
 art and architecture in the Veneto, but also facilitated important collaborations and impact
 activities within and beyond Venice.

 Detailed research and impact planning as a department, and with each individual member,
 ensures inclusivity, the production of high-quality outputs, extensive impact activity, sustaining
 income, and maintaining a high profile in the discipline.

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The prime mechanism for planning research is the away-day, normally held twice a year at
 Warwick, Warwick-in-London (closed post-Covid), or our Venice base. This is supplemented by
 a bi-annual meeting for all colleagues with the Director of Research and Impact (DRI), covering
 aspirations for impact, leave, publications, and grant applications.

 The results are fed back to the Research and Impact Committee, which meets at least once a
 term, and has oversight of planning, and its implementation and roll-out, thus enabling a
 responsive and continually evolving strategy. Its remit also covers inclusiveness; succession
 planning; the integration of research and postgraduate activity; and a programme of events
 which supports individual activity, and fosters collaboration, as routes to research and impact.
 This consequently involves symposia, work-in-progress seminars and a reading group (on a
 theme of common interest), as well as papers by visiting speakers. As detailed below, we run a
 programme of research events at our Venice premises.


 Research objectives 2014-2020

 Our primary objective was to maintain the production of a high volume of world-leading research
 outputs. In this cycle we have published two single-authored books; one co-authored book; four
 co-edited books; four edited or co-edited special issues of journals; nineteen journal articles; and
 thirteen chapters in books (from which we have selected the twenty-four required items).

 Our second objective was to expand and diversify our impact activity. This was not only
 achieved through the activity documented in our impact case studies, but also through a
 concerted effort to foster international collaboration, and to diversify our activity into e.g.
 conservation consultancy, which yielded the activities detailed below.

 We aimed to increase grant income through strategic planning, and here too we have
 succeeded. Total research funding awarded by external bodies (as opposed to spend) in this
 REF cycle was £564,143, which exceeded the amount recorded in REF 2014 (£400,123) by
 £164,020.

 We aimed to expand and diversify research at PhD level. In the current cycle sixteen have been
 awarded, compared with twelve in the previous.


 Review of 2014 objectives

 We succeeded in all the principal objectives for the current cycle stated in the REF 2014
 document. These were to develop Venice as a base for research; to extend our postdoctoral
 programme; and to develop partnerships with museums and galleries.

 Our Venice base was and will be an active centre for research in modern and contemporary art
 as well as medieval and Renaissance art. It has been home to our collaboration with the
 Gallerie dell’Accademia and Save Venice which is the focus of an impact case study
 (Tagliaferro); it will provide a base for a new project on Britain at the Venice Biennale; it has
 hosted events with the National Gallery London, our partner in the Venetian Art Research
 Group. It is home to departmental conferences, workshops, lectures, and an annual seminar


                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 series and convegno. PGR students working on projects from the Medieval to the
 Contemporary also use these facilities.

 We have exceeded our aim of extending our post-doctoral programme, having had at least one
 funded PRF at all times during the REF period, with three Leverhulme PRFs at census (and
 another from December 2020), one Warwick Institute of Advanced Research (IAS) co-funded
 PRF, and a further Leverhulme PRF attached to the Faculty of Arts’ Centre for Renaissance
 Studies who is mentored in the department.

 Our objective of maintaining existing and building new partnerships with museums has been
 achieved. We have co-curated exhibitions at Yale Center for British Art (YCBA), Tate Britain,
 Compton Verney, and the Lanchester Gallery (University of Coventry), as well as participating in
 exhibition planning, publications and events at many institutions in the UK, Europe and USA,
 including bodies responsible for historic buildings, detailed below.


 Future research objectives

 Four strategic aims will shape the Department’s research planning during the next REF cycle.
 Our primary objective is to continue the process of expanding and diversifying our research
 expertise, with a particular emphasis on global art history. We believe that decolonising the
 discipline is not only morally and academically imperative, but also crucial for fostering new
 research, collaboration, and impact. We have therefore recently appointed a specialist in Latin
 American art, and we aim to make appointments when possible in African, Chinese, or Islamic
 art. This initiative will also support interdisciplinary research on subjects such as transnational
 and colonial histories in partnership with e.g. colleagues affiliated to the Faculty Global History
 and Culture Centre. And it aligns our research with the University’s Global Research Priorities
 (GRPs; see REF5a 2.9.1).

 Since much global art history is concerned with the present, this objective squares with our
 second commitment: to further our research in contemporary art, building on the momentum
 produced by appointing Vogt and Saumarez-Smith in 2019 and Stewart in 2020. This goal is
 further embodied in our Biennale project.

 Related to both objectives is our ambition to continue and improve our success in establishing
 impact at the centre of departmental activity, and to diversify the range of stakeholders and
 audiences of our research. Planning and implementation will be maintained by the mechanisms
 described above, and facilitated by incentives in the form of workload allocation.

 Lastly, we aim to ensure that our research and impact activity continues to be supported by our
 Venice premises, particularly in global history (since its location made the city uniquely important
 as an interface between East and West, North and South).

 From autumn 2020, the Department has been integrated into a new School of Creative Arts,
 Performance and Visual Cultures (REF5a 1.5), to be based in a new Arts & Humanities building
 from 2021 (REF5a 4.2). This will offer opportunities for exhibitions and displays, and for closer
 collaboration with the adjacent Mead Gallery. We have begun discussions with the School’s
 interim Director of Research, and we have identified common interests (overlapping our
 research themes) in the built environment and public art, and global exchanges and empire. We


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 will also profit from sharing the research and practical expertise of colleagues in SCAPVC in the
 relationship between creativity and industry.


 Sustainability of impact activity

 The majority of colleagues in the Department have undertaken significant impact activity. This
 has been made possible by the careful cultivation of relationships with external partners and
 detailed planning designed to ensure the long-term sustainability of existing partnerships, as we
 explore new ones.

 A series of measures has been designed and implemented to underpin our success in delivering
 impact. We have integrated impact into our workload model, and make medium-term provision
 when planning other departmental activity for granting impact leave. We hold annual impact
 workshops, which showcase work already carried out and provide guidance on issues such as
 how to develop impact from research and identifying prospective partners. We work closely with
 the Faculty of Arts’ Impact Manager and her support team (REF5a 1.7, 2.6), and our non-HEI
 partners, on planning, executing, and recording our impact activity. We regularly attend Faculty
 impact lunches, and make use of Faculty resources for pump-priming and supporting
 collaborative events. In addition, Faculty resources include a large repository of information on
 impact. We have also succeeded in gaining two awards from the Warwick Impact Fund (REF5a
 2.7) of £10k each.

 Alongside from the Impact case Studies, Hatt’s series of projects with external partners best
 exemplify the scale and quality of the Department’s impact work, while also revealing the
 principles and processes that underpin it. In particular, it illustrates how the Department has
 prioritised longevity when identifying and forming partnerships, while remaining sufficiently
 flexible to capitalize on new opportunities. His research in Victorian sculpture provided the
 foundation for the major international exhibition Sculpture Victorious: Art in an Age of Invention,
 1837-1901. Shown at the YCBA (autumn 2014) and Tate Britain (spring 2015), this was the first-
 ever synoptic exhibition of Victorian sculpture. By revealing sculpture’s centrality to the culture
 and politics of nation and empire, the exhibition allowed both the YCBA and Tate to re-display
 and recontextualise works in their own collections for the public. Talks and tours took place at
 both venues, and, at YCBA, Hatt worked with the Curator of Education, which resulted in an
 education programme for young people on the autistic spectrum.

 Sculpture Victorious also served as a platform for new partnerships and different forms of
 impact. It led directly to Hatt’s subsequent collaboration with Historic Royal Palaces on the
 AHRC-funded network, Victoria’s Self-Fashioning: curating royal image for dynasty, nation and
 empire (with project partners the Bodleian Library, the Royal Collections Trust, and the Paul
 Mellon Centre). The project involved three workshops and a conference, drawing participants
 from universities, museums and public policy organisations in the UK, Europe, India, Canada,
 the USA and Australia, as well as artists and practitioners. It addressed the role of digital
 humanities in diversifying the curation of global figures such as Victoria. This research, which
 revealed the queen’s complicity in the crafting and ideological use of her image in the UK and
 across the empire, underpinned events and programmes at Kensington Palace for the
 bicentenary of her birth in 2019. It formed the basis of the exhibition Victoria: Woman and Crown
 and of Bright Nights, a series of three ‘salons’ which explored historical, political and ethical
 questions raised by the research. Importantly for HRP, the events brought in different audiences


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to Kensington Palace, particularly younger people and those from BAME communities, for whom
 the presentation of monarchy at Kensington Palace may appear irrelevant or even hostile.


 Future impact plans

 We develop and foster long-term relationships with partners based on shared intellectual and
 cultural concerns which extend beyond the aims of a single project. This allows one project to
 serve as a springboard for the next, which is an important source of sustainability for a small
 department. Thus, we have undertaken several projects with Compton Verney and YCBA, and
 we are now working with the YCBA and Paul Mellon Centre on the Biennale project. We have
 also recruited in the past two years with a view to diversifying impact through research which is
 more globally and regionally focused.


 The case studies

 Tagliaferro’s case study arose out of a longstanding involvement in Save Venice from 2016, and
 in response to an approach from the Venice Accademia in 2017, which followed on an earlier
 collaboration with the then director on a Veronese exhibition in Verona in 2014. It thus
 represents an important element of our general collaborative strategy set out above, and of our
 more specific strategy of using our Venice base for research.

 Alexander’s arises out of collaboration with the authorities responsible for several historic
 buildings in the UK, and UNESCO World Heritage site, Santiago de Compostela Cathedral in
 Spain. Since Alexander is on a teaching-only contract, it also demonstrates the inclusivity of our
 research culture, as does the fact that the department granted Alexander a term’s leave in
 summer 2019 to complete the work for the case study.


 Interdisciplinary research

 We regard all our work as interdisciplinary, lying on a spectrum where some connects with
 adjacent disciplines (e.g. history, film, philosophy), and with methodologies spanning the
 humanities and social sciences (e.g. postcolonialism, queer theory), and some with more distant
 disciplines and methodologies like psychology. Seven strongly interdisciplinary outputs were
 submitted. In addition to the initiatives mentioned above in section 1 (research objectives) and
 below in section 2 (staffing policy) and section 4 (collaborations), we cultivate relations with other
 departments including History, Theatre, Philosophy, and Film, which involve giving seminars and
 holding workshops together. The co-supervision of PhDs (with English, French, History,
 Theatre) is also key to collaboration. We have also made several successful applications to the
 University’s GRP (Connecting Cultures theme (REF5a 2.9.1) and IAS (REF5a 2.9.2).

 We further support such research by participating in interdisciplinary initiatives at both the
 University and Faculty level. Foremost among these are events, workshops and seminars,
 organised in conjunction with the Centre for Study of the Renaissance (CSR) and the Centre for
 Research in Philosophy, Literature and the Arts (including events at the Mead Gallery) and the
 departments of History, Theatre, Philosophy, and Film. We initiated and contribute to the
 Millburn House Seminar with Theatre & Performance Studies and Film & TV Studies.


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Open access and Integrity

 Colleagues deposit versions of outputs accepted for publication in the Warwick Research
 Archive Portal, the University’s open access institutional repository. This ensures that all are
 ‘green’ open access compliant. In addition, the Library provides a service which ensures
 compliance with different publishers’ stipulations.

 The Unit operates to the highest standards in conducting all research, which includes research
 undertaken by staff, students, visiting or emeritus staff, associates and honorary fellows. All
 research complies with the UUK Concordat to Support Research Integrity (2012). Any ethical
 matters requiring approval are referred to the Humanities and Social Sciences Research Ethics
 Committee (HSSREC), a structure which provides transparency and accountability in all matters
 of research integrity and governance, and which reports to University Research Committee,
 which in turn reports to the University Senate and Council via the central Research Governance
 & Ethics Committee (RGEC). Through support from Research & Impact Services, all staff
 complete the Integrity training module, Epigeum, which supports the sharing of best practice via
 a cross-sector network. Support to all staff and research students with regards to all matters of
 research integrity is provided by the Research Governance & Quality Assurance Team in
 Research & Impact Services.

 2. People

 Demographic profile and research

 Departmental structures and planning support the research of colleagues at all levels and career
 stages, and ensure that newer colleagues are mentored so as to develop their research and
 impact profiles.

 All colleagues are involved in the shaping of research and impact strategy through the
 mechanisms mentioned above and those below. The Research and Impact Committee always
 includes a PRF (when available), an Assistant or Associate Professor, the DRI, and Head of
 Department (HoD). Succession planning is carefully managed so that a mid-career colleague
 (presently Tagliaferro) shadows the DRI in training for the role, thereby ensuring continuity.


 Staff development strategy

 The Department consists of two PRFs, three Assistant Professors, two Associate Professors,
 and four Professors. Our aim is for all permanent staff to be promoted as far as possible, and
 for newer colleagues to replace those with seniority as they retire. We have therefore developed
 mechanisms for supporting newer colleagues, and those eligible for promotion. The
 effectiveness of these during the present cycle is evidenced by three promotions to Professor,
 one promotion to Reader, and one completion of probation with promotion to Associate
 Professor.

 The mechanisms and procedures include the following: bi-annual interview: the DRI helps
 colleagues formulate and share their aspirations and plans for outputs, grant applications,
 impact, so that these can be fed back into the planning process; Personal Development


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Review (PDR): a voluntary interview with the HoD or nominee, which includes a review of
 research plans, and identification of any training or support needed to achieve these;
 mentoring: a senior member of staff meets the probationer each term in order to identify and
 develop medium- and long-term goals for research and impact, and advise on professional
 development; probation: departmental policy is aligned with the University’s (REF5a 3.3), so
 that the HoD agrees the criteria to be used for assessment with the probationer at the start of the
 period (normally five years). Expectations regarding research take account of experience and
 due adjustment is made to the probationer’s workload when impact is undertaken. Probationers
 have an annual appraisal with the HoD to discuss progress and mentoring, and receive advice
 on how to fulfil the criteria for progression, which include demonstrable success in impact.


 Staffing

 Our objectives over the cycle have been to maintain strength in existing areas, while
 simultaneously expanding the range of our research and impact. Thus, the appointment of
 Saumarez-Smith has revitalised our research strength in architectural history and enhances an
 existing interdisciplinary connection with political history, just as Vogt not only adds
 contemporary art to our research remit, but also brings interests in anthropology and
 ethnography, which overlap with those of other colleagues (especially Stewart). Vogt’s work on
 screen media opens up possibilities for collaboration within Warwick (in e.g. Film).

 We recruit PRFs on the basis of the quality of their research, while taking care to ensure that the
 Department can provide the necessary intellectual context for their research to prosper, and that
 it will enhance our environment. Lupi thus benefits from and enhances Pericolo’s research on
 architecture in paintings, and Baark from Hatt’s and Dias’s research on connections between
 Europe and Asia.


 Integration of new staff and PRFs

 New colleagues and PRFs are fully involved in research and impact planning and our research
 culture from the outset. They participate in all departmental meetings and research away days,
 and contribute to the planning and execution of the research programme, including their own
 events. New colleagues are given a substantially reduced workload, in compensation for
 undertaking the University’s Academic and Professional Pathway for Teaching Excellence
 (APPTE), and to ensure their research prospers. Their workload is monitored in the
 abovementioned meetings with the mentor and HoD.

 We take a range of measures to ensure that PRFs are successfully integrated into our culture.
 They are invited to attend all departmental meetings, and they have a termly meeting with their
 mentor, where they discuss progress with their project, plans for publication and impact activity
 and career development. PRFs are also supported in creating events and networks.
 Sciampacone convened an international conference at Warwick and mounted an exhibition at
 the Lanchester Gallery, Coventry University, on Art, Air and Illness in June 2018; Lupi organised
 a conference on architecture in Italian Renaissance painting in collaboration with the National
 Gallery at our London premises in June 2019, and organised our autumn 2019 Departmental
 reading group; and Baark organised an event in London in spring 2020 on film-as-research as
 part of a project with the Paul Mellon Centre and Science Museum funded by Warwick’s Institute


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Advanced Study (IAS). All PRFs give work-in-progress papers, a format intended to
 encourage exchange and mutual support.


 Leave

 All academic staff are entitled to apply for one term of research leave in seven. (All have been
 granted during the period.) We maintain flexibility to ensure its use is maximised (e.g. Pericolo’s
 leave was brought forward to enable him to finish his Reni volume before taking up the Headship
 of Department). These policies apply to all research active staff on full-time, permanent
 contracts.

 The Department has been particularly successful in obtaining dedicated Impact Leave funded by
 the University. In this cycle, Hatt and Tagliaferro were awarded £10k each to develop impact
 activities with major institutional partners.


 Recognition

 The Department’s flexible and fine-grained workload model is designed to recognise and reward
 impact activity. It does so by allocating time proleptically to colleagues undertaking impact,
 normally by reducing the standard teaching and administration load for the period of activity. It is
 also used retrospectively, to give colleagues who undertake ad hoc or unplanned impact activity
 an increased research workload allowance in the following year. Impact activity is recognised as
 well in the Senior Staff Review process, as well as being required for fulfilment of probationary
 requirements, and for promotion.


 PGR recruitment

 The Department is committed to maintaining a thriving cohort of around fifteen PhD students
 across a representative range of research areas. Our published recruitment policy promotes
 diversity. The various measures we have taken to enhance recruitment have resulted in a
 significant increase (33%) in doctorates awarded in this cycle (16) compared with REF 2014
 (12). These have included expanding the range of funding opportunities; developing Venice as a
 base for modern and contemporary topics; seeking out opportunities for co-supervision within
 and beyond Warwick, including a co-tutelle arrangement with the Université Paris Diderot;
 improving facilities and practical support; enhancing PhDs’ involvement in departmental activities
 such as the 2019 Venice summer school.

 To enhance recruitment, we have availed ourselves of a variety of funding mechanisms. From
 January 2014 until September 2018 funding was available to PhDs at Warwick through the
 Centre for Arts Doctoral Research Excellence (CADRE) and the University’s Chancellor’s
 Scholarships. These sources funded six students. Since 2018 we have recruited two PhDs
 through our membership of the Midlands Four Cities AHRC consortium, one of whom has a
 Collaborative Doctoral Award involving Birmingham Museums and Art Galleries. In addition, we
 have PhD CDA with the National Gallery London. We also have one Warwick Collaborative
 Postgraduate Research Scholarship with Historic Royal Palaces, and one by an ERC project



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (based in Spain). And we offer one departmental PhD bursary of £15,000 p.a. for three years, at
 any time.


 PGR Monitoring

 The Department has reviewed the processes used to support and monitor the progress of
 doctoral students. Our success in this regard is demonstrated by a slight increase in the rate (as
 opposed to number) of completions over the cycle.

 PGR students are each allocated a personal tutor, in addition to their supervisor, who offers an
 alternative means of pastoral support and assistance. Students experiencing mental health
 issues are supported by the University Wellbeing Service.

 Monitoring processes include all the following, which are detailed in the Postgraduate Handbook:
 a record of every supervision written by the student to ensure she or he reflects on it; a rigorous
 Upgrade process requiring the candidate to present a draft chapter, thesis plan, and timetable
 for completion; an annual review; a final year review halfway through the year to ensure timely
 submission. These departmental processes are subject to the audit process of the University’s
 Doctoral College (REF5a 3.10).

 PGRs present papers at the annual PGR symposium in their first and third years, and can give a
 formal research seminar paper in their final year. These activities develop presentation skills,
 help generate a sense of community, and integrate PhDs with the Department.

 Research expenses up to £150 per annum are provided by the Department, and larger sums are
 available on a competitive basis through the Faculty’s Humanities Research Fund (HRF). The
 GRP and Humanities Research Centre (HRC) provide funds for conference organisation, cross-
 departmental projects, and research travel. PGRs enjoy the use of our Venice premises, five
 PhD students having obtained funding for visits there (or elsewhere in Europe) through the
 Erasmus programme. There is a dedicated shared office for PGRs in the department.


 PGR development

 The success that several PGRs have enjoyed following completion attests to the efficacy of our
 training and skills provision. Three History of Art PhDs won PRFs from the Warwick IAS: Avilio,
 Eden, and Moldovan. Of these Avilio became an Academic Librarian at the University of
 Northampton, and Eden is currently Research Curator at Leamington Spa Museum and Art
 Gallery. Fitzgerald became a Curator at Government Art Collections, Collier Curator of Prints at
 Royal Collections Trust, and Zefferino Curator-in-Chief of the Florence Biennale. Busiakiewicz
 was co-curator for the Georgian Group centenary exhibition, Splendour!; and Viviani curated an
 exhibition of sculpture by architect Libero Cecchini in Verona. Towler participated in the Tate
 online project about modern American art; Stokes wrote a catalogue essay for the Leon
 Underwood exhibition at Pallant House, and has worked with the Barber Institute and the
 Herbert Art Gallery on educational programmes.

 PGR training needs are identified through an annual Personal Development Plan meeting with
 the supervisor. We provide tailored training for students working on Renaissance and early
 modern topics through a programme co-organised by the CSR and The Warburg Institute, and a

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 summer school in Venice with Johns Hopkins University. Training for collaborative doctoral
 students is provided through the AHRC/IRO consortium in London and bespoke training
 provision devised by the supervisor with the non-HEI partner. The Doctoral College and CADRE
 provide training in academic writing and using archival and digital resources, while R&IS provide
 impact training and research development training.

 A number of departmental and faculty structures and processes have been established to
 ensure skills and career development. All PGR students can apply to teach in the Department.
 Those who do so receive training both in the Learning and Development Centre, and in the
 Department. They have a teaching mentor (in line with published departmental guidelines) who
 observes the teaching and provides written and oral feedback. PGRs also receive guidance and
 help from supervisors about impact; and they attend departmental and faculty impact events.


 Wellbeing, equality and diversity, and REF

 The Department actively embraces and fosters equality and diversity in all areas including
 research and impact. Our published policy is that we ‘strongly encourage applications from all
 underrepresented groups, particularly from those with disabilities, people from ethnic minorities
 or disadvantaged backgrounds, women, and members of LBGTQA+ communities’. Equality and
 Diversity is a standing item on the Staff Council agenda.

 This policy has resulted in an inclusive community of colleagues which is diverse in terms of
 ethnicity, age, and sexual orientation, and a gender balance in favour of women. Women make
 up 54.55%, compared with 47.42% in the Faculty as whole. BAME staff comprise 9.09%,
 compared with 5.63%. And those with disabilities 18.18%, as against 4.23%.

 We ensure that we observe the University’s Code of Practice. All funding applications,
 recruitment, leave, and training opportunities are thus consistent with best practice.
 Considerable care has also been taken to ensure that no discrimination has taken place either
 against colleagues with protected characteristics, or ECRs. (No colleagues have part-time or
 fixed term contracts.) Those directly responsible for the selection of outputs have all taken the
 University’s standard equality and diversity Moodle training module; and the DRI has undertaken
 dedicated training on unconscious bias in output selection. Our processes take full account of
 the Equality Act 2010, and the University’s Code of Practice. This has been guaranteed by
 consultation with R&IS, and guidance from REF-SSG.

 The selection of outputs has been made with a view to achieving the greatest possible
 objectivity. All items are scored by an expert external reader (one female, one male), and by two
 colleagues internally. All colleagues read items to ensure maximal inclusiveness. All colleagues
 with significant responsibility for research submit at least one output. The selection of the
 remaining outputs is made by the Director of Research, the Head of Department, and a female,
 non-professorial colleague to ensure gender balance. This is done initially on the basis of the
 scores (with priority accorded to the external assessors), and then, as these and the availability
 of outputs permit, with a view to maximum inclusivity.




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Strategies for generating income

 The success of our strategy in the period is borne out by the total research funding awarded by
 external bodies in this REF cycle which exceeded the amount recorded in REF 2014 by
 £164,020.

 This strategy is to use Departmental, Faculty, and University funding as pump-priming for larger
 projects, which, together with networking grants, allow them to be developed to the point where
 they can attract external funding. We also use funds to develop the impact activity which such
 projects involve. We make it a priority to develop projects with the potential for impact,
 regardless of whether the relevant funding bodies require it. We plan each REF cycle (and
 beyond) to strike a balance between applications for different kinds of awards by maintaining a
 rolling rota of grant applications, modified according to successes and failures with applications,
 evolving strategic priorities, and staff circumstances.

 This strategy is supported by dedicated workload allocations for impact activity, writing grant
 applications, and undertaking externally funded research. Colleagues are alerted to funding
 opportunities by DRI at Departmental meetings as each round is announced. Support is given to
 colleagues writing new grant applications, or reworking unsuccessful applications, by the
 Faculty’s Research Development Manager within R&IS (REF5a 1.7), whose remit includes the
 identification of sources of funding, developing plans for applications with colleagues, and
 assisting with the writing and costing of applications. For AHRC applications, and projects with
 significant impact potential, assistance is given by the Faculty’s Research Impact Manager with
 devising impact plans, as well as writing and costing them. All applications are reviewed within
 the Department by the Research & Impact Committee, and by colleagues who have made
 successful applications. Applications are reviewed by colleagues in other departments who are
 identified by Research & Impact Services.

 The Faculty’s and Department’s Research and Impact Committee also ensure that we adhere to
 our own (Departmental) Equality and Diversity policy, as well as University and government
 policies in formulating and implementing this strategy.


 Infrastructure

 Of particular importance to our research activity are the three physical bases we use in Warwick,
 London, and Venice. These offer flexibility with the mounting of planning meetings and research
 events, making relationships with academic and non-HEI partners easier, as well as offering
 access to buildings and objects in situ.

 Our previous Venice base had a lecture hall for hosting talks, seminar, equipment, office space
 for staff, IT facilities, a small library, and a dedicated administrator. Having a Venice base has
 made Warwick attractive in terms of recruitment of international scholars (Pericolo, Tagliaferro,
 Vogt, and Stewart). It facilitated seven outputs specifically concerned with Venetian art and
 enables collaborative research and impact activity, as detailed above. It was host to a number of
 high-profile visiting speakers (including Tracey Cooper and Frederick Ilchman) as well as an
 annual convegno, and will host a workshop on artistic and literary salons in 2021 in collaboration
 with the European consortium Writing 1900.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our London facility provides bookable spaces suitable for lectures and seminars, equipment,
 and support staff. Tagliaferro used London (as well as Venice) in 2019 for a workshop with the
 National Gallery, allowing scholars access to major collections in the UK (and Italy). To facilitate
 the research activity of newer colleagues, and raise their profile in the discipline, PRFs Baark
 and Lupi, and ECRs Saumarez-Smith and Vogt each organised a day-long symposium at
 Warwick-in-London in 2019 and 2020 (the last postponed because of Covid).

 At Warwick we have dedicated office space for PRFs. Support staff include a secretary and
 administrator for assistance with events; library and e-resources including inter-library loans,
 JSTOR and Artstor. Support with planning and writing grant applications and other research and
 impact matters from the Faculty’s Research Development Manager and Impact Manager. We
 use the University’s system, IDEATE, for monitoring grant applications, and WICS for collating
 and recording impact activity. Library spend in the period has been £208,959.


 Major grant awarded

 We obtained awards in the period totalling £564,143. These include several major awards:
 Lang’s three-year Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship (£160,000) for a project on
 Philip Guston which ran from 2014-17; Pericolo’s Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship
 (£20,998) for a project on painted architecture, which ran for six months in 2014-15; Tagliaferro’s
 one-year Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship (£38,111) for an ongoing project on the
 decoration of the Doge’s Palace in Venice; and four Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships for
 Sciampacone, Lupi, Baark, and Young (£316,258).


 Funding, outputs, and impact

 Our planned income strategy ensures that major outputs and impact activities are realised, using
 funding from a variety of national and international sources and internally from departmental,
 faculty and university sources as is appropriate for each project, and for extending research
 partnerships.

 Our funding leads directly to research outputs and impact. An AHRC Standard Research Grant
 from 2011-13 resulted in Hatt’s Sculpture Victorious exhibition and an accompanying co-
 authored publication, as well as special issues of The Sculpture Journal (Displaying Victorian
 Sculpture) and Nineteenth-Century Art Worldwide (Hiram Powers’s The Greek Slave: A
 Transatlantic Object), funded by the Terra Foundation for American Art. Pericolo’s edition of the
 Guido Reni volume of Malvasia’s Felsina pittrice (Lives of the Bolognese Painters) was
 supported by a Robert H. Smith award (of £12,353) from the National Gallery of Art,
 Washington.

 Among national sources, in addition to those from the Leverhulme Trust, Tagliaferro was
 awarded a British Academy Small Research Grant enabling his publication on Leo Steinberg,
 and the Paul Mellon Centre awarded a Curatorial Research Grant for Walford (teaching only) to
 work on the exhibition Harts Silversmiths at Compton Verney. Hatt’s project with Historic Royal
 Palaces, Victoria’s self-fashioning: curating the royal image for dynasty, nation and empire, was
 funded by an AHRC networking grant.


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We make extensive use of university funding sources to enhance, develop and complete
 research. As of 31 July 2020, the Department made a total contribution of £4,656 towards
 activities, in addition to an annual allowance of £2000 (before Covid) to each research-active
 member of staff. The Humanities Research Fund made a total of thirty awards amounting to
 £20,745 to academic staff, PRFs, and PhDs. These mostly facilitated travel to speak at
 conferences or research events, but also included awards to Dias, Hatt, Alexander, and
 Tagliaferro to support exhibitions and their impact activities; pump-priming awards for grant
 applications and research projects; publication subventions for images; and the hire of a
 research assistant. The Humanities Research Centre made two awards totalling £2000 to
 support Tagliaferro, and Sciampacone’s exhibition at the Lanchester Gallery.

 Other university awards include impact funding for Tagliaferro’s work with Save Venice and the
 Accademia. The Institute of Advanced Study made seven awards totalling £16,580, which
 funded a visiting Professor from the USA (Angus Fraser); a community impact project; an
 administrator for a research impact project; start-up costs for collaborative workshops with the
 National Gallery; and a project on disseminating research in film. The Global Research Priorities
 scheme made six awards totalling £3,420. These allowed Hatt to organise a series of events
 with Scandinavian colleagues, detailed below, and Saumarez-Smith to hold an event at
 Warwick-in-London.

 Awards from all internal sources (including impact leave) totalled £65,195. In addition, the
 University allocated the Department an additional £10k for the REF period for the purposes of
 obtaining images and rights for publications.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Effectiveness of collaborations

 Collaboration with major international and national institutions places us at the heart of the
 discipline and allows us to conduct research at the highest level with other world-leading
 scholars. It also creates critical mass and enhances our profile, is crucial to our impact strategy,
 and offers opportunities for PRFs and PGRs, many of whom have gone on to work in museums.

 We aim to sustain partnerships on a long-term basis, and to mature new collaborations into long-
 term partnerships.

 These include collaborations based around a major scholarly project, as is the case with the
 Malvasia Project based at CASVA, of which Pericolo has been Project Coordinator and Critical
 Editor since 2006. This has resulted in the publication of six volumes of Malvasia’s Lives of the
 Bolognese Painters (1678) by CASVA, each containing the collated original text, an annotated
 English translation, extensive scholarly apparatus, and art historical essays.

 We sustain partnerships by developing collaborative research through a sequence of related
 projects. Hatt has worked with the YCBA since 2011, first on his exhibition, Sculpture Victorious,
 and subsequently on the Greek Slave and Britain in the World projects, a CAA panel, and now a
 project on Britain at the Venice Biennale, which involves other members of the department
 (Dias, Vogt). This will investigate Britain’s participation at the Biennale from its beginnings in
 1895 to the present, and the role of Venice in defining British art in relation to an interlocking
 series of geo-political frames: nation, union, Europe, empire and commonwealth.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In the same way, research can be developed sequentially with new partners, as demonstrated
 by the way in which Hatt’s Sculpture Victorious led directly to his collaboration with Historic
 Royal Palaces.

 Similarly, our relationship with the National Gallery on Venetian art began in 2015 with the
 formation of an informal scholarly network; this led to a collaborative doctoral partnership
 beginning in 2015 (involving Bourdua), which investigated the movement of large paintings in the
 city. Since 2017 Tagliaferro has been collaborating with the National Gallery on a project on
 Venetian Renaissance painting, which has involved workshops in Venice, Warwick-in-London,
 and the National Gallery, and will lead to an AHRC networking grant application (delayed by
 Covid) in 2021. Tagliaferro is also a founder member of the nationwide Venetian Art History
 Group, which held its first seminar in 2019.

 In Venice, Tagliaferro has been collaborating with the Save Venice since 2016, and with the
 Accademia since 2017 on a major overhaul of its display, labelling, and website, as detailed in
 his impact case study.

 We develop collaborations with networks or groups of institutions. Thus, Hatt has developed
 partnerships with Danish and Swedish institutions including the University of Copenhagen,
 Stockholm University and a number of Danish museums, who are users of our research. These
 have resulted in a conference with Thorvaldsens Museum at the Danish Academy/British School
 in Rome; participation in the exhibition Kristian Zahrtmann: Queer, Kunst og Lidenskab with Ribe
 Kunstmuseum, Fuglsang Kunstmuseum and the Hirschsprung Collection; visits to Warwick by
 Prof. Mårten Snickare (Stockholm) in 2015 and 2017 for a seminar (co-organised with Theatre &
 Performance Studies) and two workshops on the colonial object; a symposium at the University
 of Oxford, Art and Literature in Nineteenth-Century Denmark, co-organised with Oxford’s Nordic
 Network and University of Copenhagen; and the Art Through Denmark project culminating in a
 special issue of Art History in 2020. All these projects not only developed research on Nordic art
 history, but also created interdisciplinary networks of scholars working in the UK, the USA, and
 across the Nordic region.

 At a local level, we collaborate with partners on a continuing basis in order to support art history
 in the region. Beneficiaries of our research include Compton Verney, where it has generated
 three exhibitions: Harts Silversmiths: A Living Tradition (Hatt 2015), Boydell’s Vision (Dias 2016),
 and On Colour (Smith 2021, online following Covid). Coventry University’s Lanchester Gallery
 hosted Sciampacone’s exhibition in 2018. Collaboration with Coventry University also includes
 an annual PGR symposium and Sciampacone’s 2018 exhibition.


 Engagement for impact

 Our approach to impact in this cycle has been to bring our research to users in the museum and
 gallery sector, and those responsible for historic buildings, to help them understand the objects
 and architecture in their care; assist them in disseminating information about them to the public
 through exhibitions websites, and displays; and to conserve them as appropriate. We have
 engaged with institutions at international, national, and local levels (the latter to enhance the
 cultural life of the region as set out in goal 4 of the University Strategy).



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We enhance our partners’ communication with their publics by aiding the interpretation of their
 collections. In addition to Tagliaferro’s work for the Accademia, Hatt co-edited the YCBA guide,
 Britain in the World (Yale University Press); in addition to working with the NPG and National
 Gallery, Smith has worked with the NPG and National Gallery, and appeared in a discussion on
 their exhibition of Cézanne’s Mont Sainte-Victoire at the Herbert Art Gallery livestreamed on
 Facebook in 2019. Dias provided content for web resources at the British Library website and
 the Royal Academy.

 This extends to the understanding of individual objects. Pericolo has worked with public and
 private collections on the reattribution of works by Reni. His research has also provided essential
 contextual information for the cleaning and technical analysis of paintings by in the National
 Gallery, London, the Toledo Museum of Art, and the Bowes Museum (which was followed by an
 exhibition in November 2019 of works by Reni). Hatt’s research has led to the re-attribution of
 three paintings in the Royal Collection.

 We provide scholarly expertise for exhibitions, through conceiving and planning them, writing
 catalogue essays (e.g. Tate Britain, Barnes Collection Philadelphia, Phillips Collection
 Washington), organising related activity in the form of workshops.

 We offer expert advice on matters of conservation and heritage, which has immediate
 consequences for impact, as demonstrated by Alexander’s and Tagliaferro’s case studies. As a
 Trustee of the Twentieth Century Society, Saumarez-Smith is actively involved in campaigning
 for conserving buildings on social media, currently the cooling towers at Drax.

 Importantly, we help partners to understand what generating impact means for us as their
 academic partners; and this, in turn, allows them to reconsider how to reach particular
 audiences. Hatt undertook a series of seminars and meetings with HRP, in order to help them
 develop impact, plan for future collaborations with HEIs, and to maximise their new IRO status.
 Smith worked closely with Compton Verney on devising a series of local impact projects for On
 Colour (now cancelled owing to Covid), including exhibition tours, public lectures,
 demonstrations on colour science, workshops for schools and teachers, and a symposium for
 practitioners. Tagliaferro’s collaboration with the Accademia has included assisting them with
 Digital Humanities.


 Contributions to society and engagement

 The activities detailed above contribute to the conservation of a world heritage site in Venice;
 and they help maintain the integrity and value of art collections in the UK and abroad.

 The range and geographical spread of users has enabled us to reach diverse communities
 locally, nationally and overseas. Working with museums or institutions such as HRP and
 Compton Verney makes it possible for us, and for them to reach diverse audiences, including
 particular communities, families, and ethnic groups. In 2017, PRF Alice Eden conducted a
 community outreach project in Coventry under the direction of PI Hatt, Enchanted Communities,
 which involved participants from local schools, a women’s centre, and a library. This used
 locally-held paintings as the starting point for generating interest in community and ideas of
 enchantment, and inviting participants to make their own art, drawing on support from Warwick
 academics, local historians, and library staff. Bourdua has been active since 2015 in the Institute
 for Augustinian Spirituality in Rome, which helps participants (some of whom are illiterate) from

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 around the world to discover bridges from art and culture to their lives and ministries as
 Augustinian religious men and women.


 Sustainability of the discipline

 We undertake a range of activities which support the discipline including the refereeing of
 publications; serving as UG and PGT external examiners (Dias, Hatt); externally examining
 PhDs (Bourdua, Hatt, Smith, Dias, Pericolo); advising on tenure, promotions, and appointments
 (Hatt: Courtauld institute, Princeton, Ionnanina University Cyprus, Cyprus University of
 Technology, NTU Singapore, McGill, Tate Britain, London, Birmingham, UCD, Nottingham,
 Leeds, York); advising on new courses and course reviews (Hatt: MMU, OU; Bourdua:
 Edinburgh) and serving on advisory groups for exhibitions (Hatt: Barber Institute, Tate Britain,
 Watts Gallery, HRP, Hirschsprung Collection).


 Indicators of influence and recognition

 The reach and significance of our research, and our contribution to the discipline, is reflected by
 several indicators.

 We seek actively to shape the research agenda in the discipline by participating in editorial
 boards of series and journal. Pericolo directs two series for Harvey Miller/Brepols (Studies in
 Baroque Art, and Renovatio Artium: Studies in the Arts of the Renaissance). Hatt served or
 serves on the boards of several journals: Art History, American Art, British Art Studies, Visual
 Culture in Britain, Journal of Victorian Culture, and Konsthistorisk Tidskrift. Dias served on the
 board of Art History from 2017; Bourdua served on Il Santo. Rivista francescana di storia dottrina
 arte. Saumarez-Smith is an editor of Architectural History and a member of its Education
 committee.

 We intervene in the discipline by editing special issues of journals on new areas of scholarship.
 Bourdua was guest editor of two special issues of Predella. Journal of Visual Arts (2014 and
 2017) on Trecento art and its historiography, arising from a collaborative project involving the
 National Gallery and other partners. Tagliaferro was guest editor of Artibus et Historiae, special
 issue in honour of Paul Joannides (2016). Hatt co-edited three special issues of journals: The
 Sculpture Journal on Displaying Victorian Sculpture; Art History on Art through Denmark, which
 examined the long history of Denmark through global history and vice-versa; and Hiram
 Powers’s Greek Slave: A Transatlantic Object, a special issue of Nineteenth-Century Art
 Worldwide in 2016, which challenged orthodox views of one of the nineteenth century’s most
 famous artworks by reference to ideas of mobility and reproduction.

 We have been active on advisory boards. Hatt was on the advisory council of the Paul Mellon
 Centre (2013-2018); the Terra Foundation/Smithsonian American Art Museum translation project
 (2018- ); and the jury of the Terra Foundation/SAAM international essay prize (2019). Lang was
 a member of Scientific Advisory Board of the International Research Group, Bilderfahrzeuge:
 Warburg’s Legacy and the Future of Iconology (2013-18). Lang advised the American Academy
 in Berlin (2017); and Hatt the American Academy in Berlin (2016) and the Irish Royal Academy
 (2016).



                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to fellowships, measures of esteem include visiting professorships: Lang was Rudolf
 Arnheim Professor, Humboldt University, Berlin, summer term 2015, and Pericolo visiting
 professor at the Institute of Advanced Study Bild Evidenz at the Freie Universität Berlin in May
 2017.

 Colleagues have given keynotes: Bourdua gave the 2014 Philipp Fehl & Rosemary Coffey
 Memorial Lecture at the University of Illinois; Hatt was a member of the keynote panel at the
 2015 British Association of Victorian Studies annual conference, and a member of the plenary
 panel at the 2015 Art and Feeling conference at Birkbeck College; he gave a keynote lecture at
 the 2018 conference, Male Bonds, held at Museum voor Schone Kunsten, Ghent, in conjunction
 with University of Ghent and van Gogh Museum. Pericolo gave keynotes at the National Gallery
 of Ireland at the exhibition Beyond Caravaggio (2017); the University of Granada Cátedra de
 Patrimonio conferences (2019); and the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna at the Caravaggio &
 Bernini exhibition (2020).




                                                                                           Page 17
