Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 30: Philosophy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction

 “LSE Philosophy Unit” (LPU) comprises the Department of Philosophy, Logic and Scientific
 Method (“Department”), the Centre for Philosophy of Natural and the Social Science (“Centre”)
 and the Forum for Philosophy (“Forum”). LPU focusses on producing world-leading research and
 impact in the areas of philosophy of science, rationality and choice, and moral and political
 philosophy. It operates within a specialist social science HEI and aims to influence the practice
 of science based on philosophical insights. The three constituents of LPU are located in the
 same building and work in close collaboration. The Department provides for teaching and
 employs a group of leading academics. The Centre houses 25 research projects, runs a visitor
 programme, and organises research related events. The Forum runs an active public
 engagement programme. Together, the Department, the Centre and the Forum form a symbiotic
 entity working towards the goal of delivering top-quality independent research that provides
 critical analyses of current problems and that leads to interventions in policy and the economy.

 On 31 July 2020, LPU employed 20 REF-eligible staff (17.50 FTE), one Visiting Professor in
 Practice, and nine professional service staff of which five were in the Department, two in the
 Centre, and two in the Forum. LPU also employed 12 REF-ineligible full-time staff and 24
 registered PhD Students. Additionally, the Centre hosts a number of postdoctoral researchers on
 personal grants (see Section 3.1).

 All members of the Department are actively encouraged to lead, or be involved in, research
 projects in the Centre and thereby benefit from the Centre’s research infrastructure.
 Approximately half the members of department are currently involved in Centre projects: nine of
 the 25 Centre projects have an involvement of members of the Department. The Centre Director
 and the Forum Deputy Director are also members of the department. Centre projects also
 involve members of staff from other academic units at LSE as well as from outside LSE, and the
 projects play a significant role in fostering interdisciplinary collaborations. Centre projects involve
 colleagues from the departments of Accounting, Economics, Grantham Institute on Climate
 Change and the Environment, Government, International Development, Management, Social
 Policy, and Statistics within LSE. From outside LSE, Centre projects involve active researchers
 from a wide range of disciplines including biological Sciences (Royal Holloway, The Open
 University of Israel); Computer Science (University of Hertfordshire); Economics and
 Management (École Normale Supérieure de Cachan, Open University, Université de Caen-
 Basse-Normandie); Education (University of Bath), Mathematics (University of Augsburg),
 Science & Technology (University of Middlesex), Philosophy (Open University, Ca' Foscari
 University of Venice, King’s College London), Political Science (University of Maryland Baltimore
 County) and Psychology (University of Cambridge). We also collaborate with the Cohn Institute
 for the History and Philosophy of Science and Ideas in Tel-Aviv, CNRS Paris, Comparative
 Cognition Lab (University of Cambridge), Duke Law School, Herman Deleeck Centre for Social
 Policy (University of Antwerp), Munich Centre for Mathematical Philosophy (LMU), Museum
 Ethnography (University of Oxford), NICE, Paris School of Economics, Psychological Horizons,
 and School of Political Sciences (University of Haifa).

 1.2 Research Objectives August 2013 - July 2020

 The objectives LPU formulated in REF2014 fell into two broad categories: intellectual and
 performance.




                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The intellectual objectives were to (a) strengthen the philosophy of public policy; (b) build
 philosophy of biology and cognitive science; and (c) develop existing strengths. LPU has made
 significant progress against these objectives:

    (a) We hired five permanent full-time faculty in philosophy of public policy (Bright, Brown,
        Burri, Parry, and Thoma) and increased List’s FTE from 0.5 to 1, while only losing three
        (Bovens, Steele, and Wollner). This constitutes a net increase of 2.5 FTE in the field. The
        Centre started five new research projects in the area.
    (b) The Department hired Birch, an expert in the philosophy of biology and cognitive science,
        as a permanent full-time member of staff, and it created two LSE Fellow positions in the
        subject area. The Centre initiated six new projects in the field.
    (c) The Department hired Hudetz (philosophy of science) and Mahtani (formal epistemology)
        as permanent members of staff. The Department also created two LSE Fellow positions
        in the areas of general philosophy of science and philosophy of physics respectively. The
        Centre added seven new projects in existing subject areas to its portfolio.

 The performance objectives were to (i) complement existing expertise within philosophy with
 collaborations outside philosophy; (ii) influencing the practice of science based on philosophical
 insights; (iii) increase impact of LPU’s philosophical work on the social reality outside academia
 through influencing decision-makers both in government and in the private sector; and (iv)
 increase engagement with interested members of the public. LPU successfully met all
 objectives:

    (i) & (ii) Since August 2013, LPU has established a wide network of new collaborators for
          interdisciplinary research. This network consists of 49 institutions and includes bodies as
          diverse as the Harvard Law School, the Wellcome Trust Center for Neuroimaging, the
          Department of Economics at the University of Zambia, the Alan Turing Institute,
          Department of Physics Pennsylvania State University, the Cancer and Surgery Unit at
          Imperial College London, the Institut Jean Nicod, the Fujita Health University, and the
          Woodrow Wilson School of Public Policy at Princeton.
    (iii) LPU has exerted influence on social reality outside academia through the work
          documented in our two ICSs and through numerous projects addressing issues ranging
          from fair pay to welfare policy, from cultural inclusion of disabled people to robust
          methods for the life sciences, and from animal rights to the treatment of dementia (for
          details see Section 4.2).
    (iv) The Forum runs what is widely considered the largest and most successful outreach and
          public engagement programme for philosophy in the UK (for details see Section 4.3).
          Members of LPU also engage with the general public through the LSE Philosophy Blog,
          where they discuss their research in ways that make it accessible to the general public.
          Colleagues contribute to other blogs (e.g. Bright maintains his own blog; Ferretti writes
          for Justice Everywhere; Parry founded the Ethical War Blog, recently renamed as Public
          Ethics), media appearances (e.g. Bright and Worrall were on In Our Time), public
          lectures outside the academic context (e.g. Ferretti spoke at the Human Rights League;
          Mahtani and Thoma gave lectures for A-Level and GCSE students), involvement in
          charitable activities (e.g. Birch works with the New Note Orchestra, a programme for
          recovering addicts; Gobet is on the advisory board of the Education Commission of the
          European Chess Union), and through publications in non-academic venues such as The
          Atlantic, Aeon, The Critique and The Conversation.

 1.3 Impact Facilitation August 2013 - July 2020

 LPU’s impact strategy was to influence policy-making and the economy. It has facilitated major
 research impacts in the areas of health policy and natural catastrophe insurance, which are
 documented in the two ICSs that form part of LPU’s REF2021 submission. The strategy also
 produced significant impact beyond its ICSs; this is documented in Section 4.2.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Knowledge exchange activities are promoted as good practice and impacts from research are
 rewarded through the Department’s work allocation point system (more about rewards in Section
 2.1). The School also provides central support through the LSE Impact Fund, which awarded a
 £9k grant to Voorhoeve for work with the World Health Organization, which is the subject of the
 first the two submitted ICSs of the UoA. Voorhoeve’s arguments for a pluralist egalitarian view of
 distributive justice have shaped a landmark report by the WHO Consultative Group on Equity
 and Universal Health Coverage, which has been used to guide health resource allocation in
 many countries.

 A crucial instrument for generating impact are the research projects located in the Centre. LPU
 strongly encourages projects to have a “two-legged structure”. The first leg consists of top-level
 academic research; the second leg consists of applications and impact. Projects are advised to
 have partners outside academia and to engage in knowledge exchange and impact activities.
 The Centre’s infrastructure supports this actively through offering office space to projects. This
 space can also be used to accommodate impact partners from the private and public sectors.
 Several of our impact partners were Centre visitors, a status which gives them desk space in the
 Centre and access to all LSE facilities. Hausman, who helped shape Voorhoeve’s work with
 WHO, was long-term visitor at CPNSS, and so were Philp of AXA XL, Hoffmann of Syntherion
 KIG, and Bank of England adviser Wong, who all collaborated with Bradley and Frigg on
 developing the UoA’s second ICS. In this ICS they developed techniques to make confidence-
 sensitive decisions under uncertainty that are now used by insurance companies and risk-
 management providers. Having impact partners “in house” has proven crucial to the success of
 projects because it facilitates collaboration.

 1.4 Research and Impact Strategy August 2020 - July 2025

 In line with the LSE 2030 strategy, the core of LPU’s research and impact strategy is to
 undertake original philosophical research that attains the highest international standards, to
 provide an excellent research-based education for students, to critically engage with social,
 political, and economical issues in which philosophical questions arise, and to be a driver of
 change in the socio-economic reality outside academia.

 As regards research, we aim to achieve this goal by strengthening existing areas of research, by
 extending into new areas, and by strengthening and increasing our interdisciplinary connections
 and collaborations, particularly in relation to impact. This process will be supported by modest
 but strategic internal growth and through extending our externally funded research portfolio.
 While LPU will keep supporting all current areas of research, two of them are singled out for
 strategic development. The first is ethics and data science. The Department has just hired
 Vredenburgh, whose research focuses on ethical issues in data science with special focus on
 big data. She will build up a research group on data ethics that will be located within LSE’s new
 Data Science Institute, which brings together research from all parts of the School. The second
 area of strategic development is the philosophy of biology and cognitive science, which will be
 expanded to also include philosophy of behavioural science. This will strengthen the current
 research and create synergies with decision science and public policy.

 LPU’s interdisciplinary and collaborative approach to research is key to its impact strategy.
 Building on existing networks, we will deepen and broaden our direct engagement with impact
 partners, and intensify our links with charities, corporate bodies, policy-makers, and
 stakeholders to inform their policies and practices. Current plans include achieving impacts in
 the following four areas:

 (1) The policy and practice of animal sentience and animal welfare
 Birch is leading a project for Defra, which involves advising on the scope and content of new
 laws relating to animal sentience in invertebrate animals. Separately, Birch’s Foundations of
 Animal Sentience project, funded by a €1.5m ERC Starting Grant, involves working with animal
 welfare organisations, such as the RSPCA, to improve animal welfare legislation, policies and
 best-practice guidelines on a host of issues, including animals in science and farm animals.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Birch has also contributed to other consultations run by Defra, the Nuffield Council on Bioethics,
 and the Home Office’s Animals in Science committee, and we expect this to develop into
 significant pathways to impact over the coming years.

 (2) Commerce and the economy, with businesses being the beneficiaries
 Bradley and Frigg, whose research underpins one of our ICSs, will continue to work with AXA
 XLC on managing uncertainty in the insurance sector. They have also just embarked on
 collaboration with Maximum Information, a start-up that aims to provide insurers with reliable
 information for policy pricing.

 (3) Professional services and ethical practice, with both organisations and individuals being
 beneficiaries
 Parry plans to write policy reports with the UK Faculty of Public Health and with Forceswatch.
 Voorhoeve will continue collaborating with policy-makers in the health sector. Vredenburgh is a
 Visiting Scientist on Facebook’s Responsible AI team and has built up a considerable network of
 contacts in Silicon Valley which she will use in her work on data ethics.

 (4) Social welfare, with groups of people and communities being the beneficiaries
 A range of work continues in this area: Bright on demographics in philosophy, inter alia with the
 British Philosophical Association, to survey the present state of the field in the UK; Dahlsten’s
 influence on trade policies and financial regulation; Hudetz’ research on the methods and ethical
 implications of high-stakes decisions made with AI and machine learning models and Otsuka’s
 work on USS pensions.

 1.5 Research Ethics and Open Access
 Members of LPU must comply with LSE’s Code of Research Conduct and its Ethics Code (for
 details see REF5a). Members of staff and PhD students are offered training sessions in
 research ethics and integrity. All grant applications are first vetted by the LSE Philosophy
 Research Committee and then have to pass the School’s ethics clearance (detailed in REF5a).
 LPU has contributed actively to research ethics in LSE by providing the chair of the LSE
 Research Ethics Committee (Worrall) from 2015 to 2018.

 LPU actively promotes open access and encourages publication in open access outlets
 wherever possible, supported by funding from the Library. Members also deposit work in LSE
 Research Online, which has led to a 33% increase in the online availability of full-text versions of
 LPU’s research outputs (48% in December 2014 to 81% in May 2020), making a total of 2,135
 philosophy publications available.

 Members of LPU are active in the open access movement. Bright’s research advocates for open
 science practices. Roberts led the negotiation of a contract between the British Society for the
 Philosophy of Science (BSPS) and the University of Calgary Press which resulted in the launch
 of the first completely open access monograph series in philosophy of science in the summer of
 2020. List is on the editorial board of the open access Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy, and
 several colleagues from LPU have contributed pieces to this and other open access reference
 works like the Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy and the Open Handbook of Formal
 Epistemology.

 LPU also maintains several blogs, makes available content through podcasts and videos, and
 has an active presence on social media platforms (Section 4.3).

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 We conduct well-advertised international searches for all job openings, and hiring decisions are
 made by the entire department in dedicated recruitment meetings. By competing globally for the

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 best talent, the Department seeks to strengthen current areas, expand into new areas, and
 support its impact strategy.

 During the current REF period, the Department hired Birch (PhD Cambridge), Bright (PhD
 Carnegie Mellon), Brown (PhD ANU), Burri (PhD University of London), Hudetz (PhD Salzburg),
 Mahtani (PhD Sheffield), Parry (PhD Sheffield), Thoma (PhD Toronto), and Vredenburgh (PhD
 Harvard) as permanent members of the department, and Backmann, Buskell, Chellappoo, Dyke,
 Easton, Gallotti, Gyenis, Hunter-Diamond, Ross, and Whiteley as LSE Fellows. To complement
 permanent staff, Ferretti and Griffiths were hired as Postdoctoral Fellows on Departmental core
 funding. The Centre hired Adler, Hausman, and Decancq as Lachmann Research Fellows,
 Gobet as Professorial Research Fellow, and Bartlett, Browning, Crump, Hosni, Javed, Krauss,
 Pirrone, and Salis as postdoctoral researchers on LSE-administered external funding. The
 Centre continues to host a considerable number of researchers on externally administered
 grants (Section 3.1). LPU takes a stand against “casualisation” and hires all non-permanent
 members of staff for at least two years, but most have contracts for three and some for four
 years.

 The current constitution of LPU is: five Assistant Professors, five Associate Professors, seven
 Professors, two Professorial Research Fellows, one Visiting Professor in Practice, five LSE
 Fellows, seven postdoctoral researchers, seven researchers on external externally administered
 grant-funding, and nine professional service staff.

 The success of our staffing strategy can be seen, for instance, from the fact that four Philip
 Leverhulme Prizes in philosophy were awarded to Assistant Professors in the Department (three
 of whom are now Associate Professors), more than were received by any other UK institution.
 Further indicators of success are discussed in Section 4.5.

 LPU staff undergo regular career development reviews (CDRs), an official process overseen by
 LSE’s HR division. Every member of staff has a mentor who conducts their CDR. Assistant
 Professors have a CDR annually; Associate Professors biennially; and Professors every three
 years. The CDR process first gathers information about the member’s activities since their last
 CDR (publications, conferences, knowledge exchange, impact, teaching, and services to the
 School). Mentor and mentee discuss this information and the mentor provides honest and
 constructive feedback. Goals for the next period are formulated. The discussion and goals are
 recorded on a CDR form, which is reviewed by LSE’s Pro-director for Faculty Development to
 ensure reviews are conducted properly and equitably.

 The Department seeks to ensure fairness in review and promotion decisions. Every year all non-
 professorial members of staff are asked to submit their CV to the head of department. The entire
 professoriate then meets to discuss who is eligible for promotion the following year. Decisions
 are made on the basis of a clear and explicit set of criteria that have been agreed by the entire
 department and which is available to every member of staff. If a person is deemed ineligible for
 promotion, a clear reason is articulated and then communicated to them, with further support
 and advice provided to become eligible. Each colleague who was non-professor at the last REF
 had at least one promotion over the current REF period.

 2.2 Early Career Researchers

 With five Assistant Professors, five LSE Fellows and 14 postdoctoral researchers, early career
 researchers (ECRs) are an essential part of LPU. ECRs are closely integrated within LPU in line
 with The Concordat, and our ambition is to support the career development of researchers
 through the mechanism described in Section 2.1. ECRs hired through the department are invited
 to attend departmental meetings; and those hired through the Centre are full members of the
 Centre’s management committee.

 Assistant Professors are given a 25% reduction of workload in their first year. LSE Fellows are
 given reduced teaching loads (limited to a maximum of 120 contact hours per year) to ensure


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that they have time to consolidate their research portfolios and to perfect their teaching. All
 members of staff receive research money they can spend on anything that supports their
 research. This contribution is higher for ECRs than for other members of staff (in 2020/21 each
 ERC received £1,470pa compared to £970pa for senior members).

 2.3 Sabbatical Leave

 LSE provides staff with one term of sabbatical leave for every eight terms of full-time teaching
 and service. Provisions are also made for teaching and associated duty buyouts up to a
 maximum of 40% of the normal load in any five-year period. Colleagues returning from a
 parental leave or long-term sick leave are entitled to a term of research leave upon returning.

 Colleagues are actively encouraged to secure external funding for buyouts from teaching, to
 take research leave, visit other institutions, and undertake knowledge exchange activities. This
 also applies to part-time staff, whose entitlement is calculated pro rata. The Department
 endeavours to accommodate all requests for sabbatical or research buy-out and to be flexible
 with the term(s) taken off.

 2.4 PhD Students

 The MPhil/PhD programme provides broad, rigorous training in philosophy, and includes training
 in research methods and the teaching of philosophy. The programme benefits from LSE’s
 dynamic research environment, enriched with research projects in the Centre and the Centre
 visitors programme (described in Sections 4.1-4.2). PhD students are fully integrated into the
 fabric of research networks and projects. Over the current REF period, PhD students co-
 authored 22 publications with a permanent member of the faculty (usually, but not always, one of
 their supervisors). PhD students are encouraged to publish in appropriate journals and
 frequently succeed, resulting in a further 45 publications in journals including Philosophy of
 Science, Ethics, and Analysis, either as single author or with co-authors who are not permanent
 members of the department.

 PhD students actively shape research activities. There are two PhD-student-led seminar series,
 which are an integral part of LPU’s busy events schedule. Conjectures and Refutations, a public
 research seminar, is organised autonomously by the Department’s PhD students. It receives the
 same budget as all other seminar series in LPU. PhD students also organise their own work-in-
 progress seminar. Every year, the PhD students receive financial support from the Centre and
 the Department to organise an international student conference on a topic of their own choice.
 LPU co-organises the annual LSE-Bayreuth Student Philosophy Conference. PhD students write
 for the LSE’s Philosophy blog, where their posts appear alongside the contributions of faculty.
 PhD students have developed a mentoring scheme in which more advanced students mentor
 incoming students; and they organise a yearly away day (financially supported by LSE) in which
 they discuss challenges facing aspiring professional philosophers.

 The majority of PhD students are funded directly through LSE Studentships, which cover the
 cost of the PhD for four years including a maintenance grant of £18,000pa (irrespective of
 whether the students are home or overseas students). Since 2018, we have been part of the
 London Arts and Humanities Partnership, which awards AHRC funding to PhD projects across
 London. Starting in 2020-21, we will have a four-year scholarship for a female PhD student,
 funded by a philanthropic donation.

 In the current REF period, we had a completion rate of 97%, with 31 PhD students successfully
 completing their PhDs. The Department has an excellent placement record: of the 25 students
 who graduated in the current REF period, 21 went on to academic positions (for instance in
 Stanford University, University of Oxford, University of Cambridge and the Santa Fe Institute),
 and four got jobs in the private sector.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department receives around 70 applications every year for 3-5 places. The Doctoral
 Programme Director makes a first selection, identifying candidates who meet our requirements,
 and then forwards these applications (around 30) to potential supervisors for review. This results
 in a shortlist of around 15 candidates, who will be interviewed by a committee of two members of
 department. The top 7-8 candidates receive an offer of admission, with a number of top
 applicants (usually 3-5) receiving LSE Studentships. Every incoming student is assigned two
 supervisors with whom they are expected to have at least two meetings per term; all meetings
 are recorded in a central system, where both the student and the supervisor record comments
 and agree on a work plan.

 In the first year of the MPhil/PhD programme, students attend taught seminars and write essays,
 in addition to conducting research as part of developing their thesis proposal. At the end of the
 first year, there is a rigorous upgrade process. In the remaining three years, students research
 and write their thesis. During this period, they are required to begin each academic year by
 formulating or revising a Completion Plan for the remainder of their degree. At the end of each
 year, their progress is formally reviewed, and the student progresses to the next year only if their
 progress is satisfactory.

 The ability to teach is crucial to succeed on the job market. For this reason, students typically
 also work as graduate teaching assistants (GTAs). A typical teaching load would involve
 teaching two or three undergraduate classes a week for two years during the second part of their
 PhD. They receive the support of the EDEN Centre for Educational Enhancement, and many
 GTAs take the opportunity to simultaneously obtain the Postgraduate Certificate in Higher
 Education.

 Students are encouraged to submit papers to conferences, and many have presented their work
 internationally at major conferences in the field (PSA, EPSA, BSPS, SAP, etc.). If they have a
 paper accepted, the School and/or the Department supports their conference participation
 financially with up to £1,000 a year.

 The Department actively prepares students for “life after LSE”. The Department produced a
 detailed document entitled “Getting a Job as a Philosopher” and created the position of
 Placement Officer, who organises meetings to prepare students for the job market. For students
 in the fourth year, the faculty offer individual advice on job application materials and practice job
 talks and interviews. If a student decides on a non-academic career path, the LSE’s Careers
 Service offers coaching and support for applications. The service remains available to students
 for up to five years after graduation.

 2.5 Facilitation of Exchanges between Academia and Business

 As noted in Section 1.3, staff are actively encouraged to undertake knowledge exchange
 activities and are supported in doing so through the Centre infrastructure, which hosts two-
 legged projects and accommodates impact partners from government, business, and industry.
 The Department operates a point system whereby members of the department get credit for the
 work they do for the department. Members of staff who actively engage in knowledge exchange
 activities are rewarded with departmental credit points. Six members of staff were awarded with
 such credits, among them those who produced the submitted case studies. In 2016, LPU also
 appointed Dahlsten, a former CEO of the Swedish Post and Advisor to the European
 Commission, as Visiting Professor in Practice to facilitate the exchange of knowledge between
 LPU and business.

 2.6 Commitment to EDI

 LPU’s strength lies in the diversity of its staff and students, and it is investing in measures to
 advance diversity in recruitment and promote an inclusive staff experience. In 2015 an LSE-wide
 EDI Taskforce conducted a review of EDI issues, including gender pay and promotion gap. A
 number of measures have been implemented, among them adjustments to pay and the


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 introduction of mandatory unconscious bias training for all members of staff (see REF5a). LPU
 appointed an EDI Officer who oversees internal procedures, serves as a point of contact if
 someone has in issue, and chairs LPU’s EDI committee. The committee’s membership is
 constituted by the head of department and representatives of all levels and types of staff. LPU is
 in the process of applying for Athena SWAN to further its commitment to EDI.

 In 2017 LPU produced a new Faculty Handbook to promote awareness of EDI issues and to
 record decisions taken on EDI issues, such as the processes put in place when we joined the
 UK Society for Women in Philosophy’s “Good Practice Scheme”. In 2018, we were the first
 department in the LSE to run a workplace climate survey with the aim of identifying EDI issues.

 The Department’s work allocation model ensures that all members of staff have the same
 workload. This calculation is available to all members of staff to ensure transparency and
 fairness. We seek to offer flexible working conditions to staff, particularly those with caring roles.
 In cases of illness or parenthood, members of staff are entitled to take leave, and our students
 are granted interruptions.

 LPU is committed to EDI in recruitment. We ensure that all posts are advertised openly, and
 recruitment communications underline our commitment to EDI. We prefer to hire at the Assistant
 Professor level because the resulting pool of candidates exhibits greater diversity than at more
 senior levels. References are sought only after shortlisting to minimise bias.

 Currently, 27% of LPU’s REF-eligible staff and 25% of its non-REF-eligible staff are women.
 These percentages are still relatively low, but measures to improve them have had positive
 impact: 44% the permanent faculty and 30% of temporary research staff hired over the current
 REF period are women. We note that the under-representation of women is a sector-wide
 problem (the British Philosophical Association reports that 24% of permanent staff and 28% of
 temporary staff are women). 14% of LPU’s REF-eligible staff self-identify as BAME. The
 American Philosophical Association finds that only 7.9% of philosophy PhDs were received by
 traditionally under-represented minorities, and so the figures in LPU are above sector norms.

 Bright is actively researching the demographics in philosophy, with particular focus on BAME
 philosophers, in a project supported by the British Philosophical Association that hopes to find
 recipes to improve the EDI situation in philosophy.

 The REF 2021 process has been undertaken with a view to ensuring fairness and equity in all
 facets. In the selection of its outputs portfolio, LPU followed LSE guidelines (see REF5a) and
 pursued the aim of producing a portfolio that is balanced in terms of outputs per author and
 takes into account the protected characteristics of submitted staff. The final submission was
 subject to two independent equality impact assessments (by the Department’s EDI officer and by
 the School) to check for any equality bias with regard to protected characteristics and career
 stage as set out in the School’s REF Code of Practice.

 LPU champions inclusivity in the wider community by hosting scholars who work under
 challenging circumstances and find it difficult to get access to resources in their home countries
 (in the current REF period we hosted visitors from Algeria, Jordan, Turkey, India, and China).
 The Centre also participates the fellowship scheme of the European Philosophy of Science
 Association (EPSA), which provides junior philosophers working in Central and Eastern Europe
 with the opportunity to visit a leading research institution.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Grants and Funding

 LPU held prestigious (HESA returnable) grants during the current review period that are worth a
 total of £7.97m. In chronological order these are: Gods Order, Man's Order and the Order of
 Nature (Templeton Foundation, £1.64m), Managing Severe Uncertainty (AHRC, £725k),


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scientific Models, Fiction and Imagination (ERC, £152k), The Limits of the Sciences in
 Identifying Causes (ERC, £160k), Tsunami Risk for The Western Indian Ocean (NERC, £20k),
 Geometric Approaches to Representing the Observable (NSF, £18k), Rethinking Uncertainty: a
 Problem-Based Approach (ERC, £165k), Reasons, decisions and intentional agency
 (Leverhulme Trust, £175k), Knowledge for Use (ERC 66k), Foundations of Animal Sentience
 (ERC, £1.5m), Genetically Evolving Models in Science (ERC £2.2m), and Ethical and
 Responsible Autonomy (EPSRC, 1.15m). Of these grants, a total of £1.596m (up to the end of
 2020) constituted HESA-eligible research income, noting that the Templeton grant ended in
 2014 and that the two ERC grants and the EPSRC grant have just started.

 Forty percent of grant overheads are allocated by the School to LPU, which generated an
 additional income of £87,608 in the current REF period. These overheads are allocated to the
 principal investigator(s), who have a choice of how to use these funds, which increases the
 flexibility, autonomy, and creativity of individual research decisions, creates an incentive for
 submitting bids, and potentially enhances impact in academic and practice communities.

 Additionally, LPU held grants worth a total of £2.37m that are not returned to HESA, either
 because they are grants which are paid directly from the funding agencies to the researcher or
 because they are regarded as donations. Researchers on these grants were full members of
 LPU who had access to all LSE facilities including the Library and the LSE’s IT network. The
 grants classified as donations are: three Phillip Leverhulme Prizes (£400k), British Psychological
 Society (£30k), and Alexander von Humboldt Foundation (£40k), Coombes Charitable Trust
 (£55k). The bursary grants are: Swedish Research Council (£170k), Norwegian Development
 Agency (£112k), Fonds de recherche du Québec – Société et culture (£97k), Swiss National
 Science Foundation (£57k), Swiss National Science Foundation (£25k), National Council for the
 Blind of Ireland (£10k), National Science Foundation (£35k), Chilean National Office for Science
 and Technology (£8k), Shanxi University Research Fund (£16k), The Scientific and
 Technological Research Council of Turkey (£8k), University of Ostrava Research Fund (£4k),
 Anglo-Czech Educational Fund (£7k), Frank Knox Memorial Foundation (£18k), German
 Research Foundation (£32k), Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of
 Canada (£43k), Swiss National Science Foundation (£60k), Shanxi University Research Fund
 (£21k), Fonds de Recherche Societé et Culture Québec (£36k), Charlottenburg Trust (£238k),
 Swedish Research Council (£247k), Swedish Research Council (£305k), Government of Ireland
 (£128k), Swiss National Science Foundation (£114k), Swiss National Science Foundation
 (£39k), Institute for New Economic Thinking (£33k), China Scholarship Council (£3k), Kone
 Foundation (£37k), Japanese Ministry of Energy (£35k), Campus Hungary Programme (£5k),
 Anglo-Czech Educational Fund (£9k). Calculating these grants pro rata for the current REF
 period yields a total of £2.13m of research income not returned to HESA. Furthermore, we
 received £9k from the LSE Impact Fund for work with the World Health Organization.

 In the current REF period LPU also received charitable donations totalling £1.86m from the
 Charlottenburg Trust (£1.27m), the Mizuho Bank Limited (£33k), and private donors to support
 the Forum (£560k).

 There is a clear link between research funding, high-quality research, and impact. Both impact
 case studies submitted by LPU for this REF are based on work originating in the AHRC-funded
 Managing Severe Uncertainty project. About a third of our publications have been produced
 within funded research projects. Probably more important than this direct influence is the indirect
 influence via the research environment. LPU’s grants allow it to host a large number of
 researchers, which creates a vibrant research environment that is conducive to writing top-level
 papers.

 3.2 Infrastructure

 LPU staff benefit from being part of a leading research institution, which provides top-level
 facilities including the British Library of Political and Economic Science, excellent IT support and
 web services, a central Research and Innovation Division with dedicate pre-award and post-

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 award teams, first-grade infrastructure with lecture theatres of all sizes, and central service
 divisions like HR and Finance that support the running of research projects (for details see
 REF5a). LPU also benefits from having the British Library, the KCL Library, and Senate House
 Library within walking distance.

 All academic staff have a personal office. In addition to these offices, the Centre has around 200
 square metres of office space, which is solely dedicated to research projects and academic
 visitors, as well as a dedicated seminar room. Our research students are closely integrated
 within the Department, occupying a well-kept working space with PC and printer facilities, and
 there is a common room with kitchen where all members of LPU socialise.

 LPU has a rich operational infrastructure. One-to-one support is provided by an allocated Grant
 Applications Manager in LSE’s Research and Innovation Division for expert guidance and advice
 on income generation, as well as provision of training related to grant-writing and management.
 Applicants who are invited for interviews receive interview training and are given mock
 interviews. All members of the Department are encouraged to run a research project through the
 Centre, which provides office space for the projects, project management for ongoing projects,
 and logistical support for the project’s events. The Centre also makes available small grants for
 events (workshops, seminars, public lectures): all members of LPU are encouraged to apply and
 they can use the Centre’s infrastructure, in particular its seminar room, for events.

 There are four permanent seminar series, covering different interests: Popper seminar, Choice
 Group, Sigma Club, and Conjectures & Refutations. We have extensive Mailchimp lists and
 social media presence to advertise seminars, which are open to everybody. The Assistant
 Professors in the department run a work-in-progress seminar, where they discuss their own
 work. As documented in Section 4.3, LPU maintains an array of blogs and social media
 channels managed by a full-time media and communications manager. The LSE Library hosts
 the Lakatos Collection (a large collection of philosophy of science books) and the Lakatos
 Archive.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research Collaborations and Networks

 The Centre is LPU’s instrument to initiate and maintain research networks and nurture
 collaborations. The Centre is currently home to 25 active research projects that involve over 100
 researchers from all over the world (see Section 1.1). Between August 2013 and July 2020, the
 activities of these projects generated 91 international workshops and conferences and around
 50 seminar talks every year. The Centre also hosts the editorial office of BJPS.

 A crucial instrument in the building and maintenance of networks is the Centre’s visitors
 programme. A substantive portion of its office space is reserved for this programme, allowing it
 to host up to 18 visitors at any given time. Between 40 and 50 scholars from all over the world
 visit the Centre every year, with visits lasting from a few weeks to an entire year.

 4.2 Interdisciplinary Research and Impact Beyond Submitted ICSs

 Members of the LPU engaged in numerous research projects with collaborators outside
 philosophy and with the aim of having a positive influence beyond academia. Some of this work
 is documented in our two ICSs; this section describes impact work beyond our ICSs.

 LPU colleagues have contributed actively to the debate about adequate policy responses to the
 COVID-19 crisis. Adler, Bradley, and Voorhoeve were co-authors of a major report on lives
 versus livelihoods for T20 (the think tank accompanying the recent G20 summit in Saudi Arabia).
 The World Health Organisation commissioned a paper concerning transparent and inclusive
 decision-making from Bright, Voorhoeve, et al., which was first published on the WHO website
 and then appeared in Nature Medicine (December 2020): “Sustaining Lives and Livelihoods: A


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Decision Framework for Calibrating Social and Movement Measures During the COVID-19
 Pandemic”. Adler, Bright, Birch, Bradley, and Voorhoeve contributed blog posts on COVID-19.

 Otsuka’s research on pensions gave rise to a critique of Test 1 modelling of an acceptable level
 of risk, which elicited two extended responses from USS and prompted Oxford and Cambridge
 to accept the level of risk proposed by USS. Otsuka’s blog posts made him one of the most
 influential contributors to debates about USS and led to his nomination as one of three finalists
 in Wonkhe’s “Wonk of the Year” award which noted that “it is no exaggeration to say his blog
 posts changed the course of the dispute”. He was ranked 23rd on the Higher Education Power
 List 2018.

 Birch has conducted research into the ethical implications of animal sentience and pushed for
 humane slaughter regulations to be amended to include crabs and lobsters. Birch collaborates
 with several animal welfare organisations about the topic, and the UK Government announced
 that it was consulting on a change to the regulation.

 Bradley collaborated with Guillas and Cassidy at UCL on damage done by tsunamis, and their
 work had influence on tsunami planning in Navi Mumbai and Kochi, through their cooperation
 with the Indian Institute for Human Settlement which provides consultancy services for town
 planners.

 Burri collaborated with the UK Reward Practice team of PwC on a study into high-level
 executives’ attitude to pay. Together with Pepper from LSE’s Department of Management, Burri
 investigated distributive justice in this context, and PwC now use their research to advise
 companies on how to structure their executive pay in a fair and transparent way.

 The Project Sensory Impairment and Cultural Inclusion, led by Hayhoe, studies how
 epistemologies affect disabled identities with the aim of countering the exclusion of people with
 sensory impairments and learning difficulties from culture and education. It supports projects in
 the US, the UK, the Republic of Ireland, Turkey, Russia, Mexico, Spain, Austria and Serbia, and
 it informs policies of the European Union and the WHO.

 In a project supported by the Wellcome Trust, Parry brought together ethicists and public health
 professionals to explore anti-paternalism for diverse groups with conflicting preferences and for
 populations whose autonomous capacities might be called into question, such as children and
 individuals with cognitive impairments. Participants included the UK Faculty of Public Health,
 The Royal College of Paediatrics and Children’s Health, the Ethox Centre at Oxford University,
 and the Leeds Centre for Disability Studies.

 Drawing on his work on ethics and armed conflict, Parry works with ForcesWatch, a London-
 based NGO that monitors UK military recruitment practices, on a policy briefing that sets out
 criteria for ethically evaluating military involvement in education and schooling.

 Dahlsten works on regulation of the global market economy and financial markets. He set up
 and managed a network which includes several universities and the Bank of England. The
 network studies the policy implications of integrating financial systems into current
 macroeconomic models and organises high-profile workshops to communicate findings to policy-
 makers, bankers, and the interested public.

 Stuart designs, runs, and co-delivers two philosophy courses for prisoners in collaboration with
 the charity Philosophy in Prison. The courses are able to accommodate any level of education or
 literacy and will be interesting for people from all backgrounds. Courses are also available
 through portable tablets (in association with Coracle Inside), which can be distributed to
 hundreds of prisons.

 The Invisible Hand of Mental Illness project explores how mental illness replicates itself, and
 aims to develop integrated employment and mental health programmes. The Project Canine
 Intelligence develops the theoretical and methodological foundations to use the dog as an

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 animal model for dementia research, building on the fact that dogs acquire a form of dementia
 similar to humans in biologically relevant ways. The project Replication in the Experimental Life
 Sciences critically analyses recent calls for fundamental changes to the way research is being
 funded and develops a new conceptual framework for debates about the replication crisis.

 Many of these projects responded to national and international priorities and initiatives: Otsuka
 responded to a crisis in the USS; Burri responded to a public outcry about the explosion of
 executive pay; Hayhoe responded to the EU’s A New European Agenda for Culture; Parry
 responded to call of the UK Faculty of Public Health; Dahlsten responded to the problems
 following the financial crisis; Voorhoeve responded to demands of the WHO.

 4.3 Contributions to Society

 LPU, via the Forum, runs an extensive outreach and public engagement programme for
 philosophy, consisting of around 25 public events per year. Events have the format of panels in
 which philosophers discuss their research with other experts (mostly researchers outside of
 philosophy, or entirely outside of academia) in a manner accessible to a general audience. The
 programme reflects the broad range of the discipline; topics of recent talks span media
 impartiality, philosophy of medicine, Africana philosophy, climate change, immigration, health
 care, philosophy of biology, fiction, and liberal education. Events are recorded and released as
 podcasts via YouTube, iTunes, and similar platforms. During 2018/19, over 5.5k people attended
 Forum events on the LSE campus and the podcasts of these events were downloaded more
 than 300k times. In the wake of the lockdown, the Forum’s Facebook page saw a 100% increase
 in engagement and its Twitter account increased by over 40%, showing that the Forum made a
 meaningful contribution to many people’s lives during this difficult period.

 Our public engagement strategy also involves an active blog, featuring articles written by
 members of the LPU, with the most successful posts reaching over 50k reads. Last year LPU
 received £10k from LSE for knowledge exchange activities, which was used to produce videos in
 which members of LPU explain their research in plain language; the videos are available on our
 websites and our YouTube channel.

 The Centre and the Department share a dedicated Marketing and Communications Manager
 (0.8FTE) who is responsible for all LSE Philosophy social media accounts (Twitter, Facebook
 and YouTube). The LSE Philosophy Twitter account, with over 12.5k followers, shares content
 on a variety of topics, and the LSE Philosophy Facebook, with over 4.3k followers, complements
 the Twitter account by covering these topics in greater depth. The Forum has its own presence
 on social media with over 5.4k followers on Facebook, over 8.7k followers on Twitter.

 In 2019 the Centre became a partner of The Philosophy Foundation, which offers philosophy
 classes for home-schooled children (aged 8 to 16). Four classes with groups of 15 each are
 offered in the Centre’s seminar room bi-weekly. A large portion of home-schooled children have
 special educational needs and disabilities, with autism and ADHD especially prevalent. By giving
 these students exposure to philosophy at the LSE we are helping both their educational needs
 as well as enabling them to become comfortable within a university setting.

 4.4 LPU’s Contribution to the Sustainability of the Discipline

 The Centre hosts the editorial office of the British Journal for the Philosophy of Science and
 provides all its infrastructure (office, access to IT, etc.) free of cost. Members of LPU contributed
 to the discipline through their research. They conduct research and disseminate it through
 publications, talks and lectures; they engage in knowledge exchange through encyclopaedias
 and outreach activities; and they share their expertise through refereeing papers and grant
 proposals (see Section 4.5).

 LPU also contributes to the discipline institutionally. As noted in Section 4.1, LPU has organised
 a total of 91 workshops and conferences over the current REF period and put on around 50


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 seminars every year. Members of LPU did editorial work; they served on numerous advisory,
 governing, and editorial boards; they served on committees of professional associations; they
 were external examiners for degrees in other universities it the UK; they served on promotions
 and tenure committees; they examined PhD theses worldwide; and they were on numerous
 programme and organising committees for national and international conferences. To mention
 but a few examples, during the current REF period Bradley was editor in chief of Philosophy and
 Economics; Frigg and Birch were Associate Editors of BJPS; List was Subject Editor for
 Philosophy of Social Science for the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy; Thoma was Book
 Reviews Editor at Economics and Philosophy; Bradley was on member of the scientific
 committee of the Institut d'Etude de la Cognition at the Ecole Normale Superieur (Paris); Brown
 served on the Management Committee of the Philosophical Quarterly; Frigg was a member of
 the Jacobsen Committee; List was on the editorial boards of Mind and Episteme; Parry is on the
 editorial board of Oxford Studies in Political Philosophy; Bradley is an Assessor of the
 Philosophy sub-panel for the current REF, and he was a member of the AHRC Peer Review
 College and the Expert Panel of EPSRC’s M2D; Gobet is a member of the ESRC Peer Review
 College; Mahtani is a committee member of the Analysis Trust and the Royal Institute of
 Philosophy; Voorhoeve is on the boards of the Bergen Center for Ethics and Priority Setting and
 the Rutgers Center for Population-Level Bioethic; Thoma is Senior Co-Chair of the EPSA
 Women's Caucus; Redei is on the Council of the International Quantum Structures Association;
 Birch was treasurer of the BSPS; and Otsuka was external examiner for Oxford's PPE
 undergraduate degree, 2016-19.

 4.5 Wider influence and Recognition by the Research Base

 Members of LPU are influential and occupy important positions in the scientific community (see
 Section 4.4). In addition, members of LPU won major prizes: List was elected Fellow of the
 British Academy; he won the 2020 Joseph B. Gittler Award of the American Philosophical
 Association; and he was awarded a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship. Birch, Bright,
 Mahtani, and Roberts each won a Philip Leverhulme Prize. Frigg won the Friedrich Wilhelm
 Bessel Research Award of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. Redei received the Carl
 Friedrich Siemens Research Award of the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation. Parry won the
 APA Frank Chapman Sharp Prize. Thoma received the Governor General of Canada’s Gold
 Medal. Worrall, who only recently retired, was given an honorary doctorate from university of La
 Coruña, Spain. Publications of LPU colleagues featured in Philosophers’ Annual “ten best
 papers published in philosophy in English” three times: Voorhoeve (2017), Bovens (2017), Bright
 (2018).

 Members of LPU held 15 visiting fellowships, among them prestigious awards like the Laurence
 S. Rockefeller Visiting Fellowship at Princeton University, the Harsanyi Fellowship at ANU, and a
 Visiting Professorship in the Harvard Law School.

 Members of LPU were invited to deliver a total of 138 keynotes or invited public lectures, among
 them large scale events like the plenary lecture at the World Bank’s 2014 Understanding Risk
 Forum and prestigious named lectures like the Bar-Hillel Lectures (Tel Aviv) and the Uehiro
 Lectures in Practical Ethics (Oxford).

 Members of LPU have served as referees for well over 100 different journals across philosophy,
 political science, and neighbouring fields, including Mind, Ethics, Nous, Journal of Philosophy,
 Philosophical Studies, Philosophical Review, BJPS, and Philosophy of Science. We also referee
 for adjacent disciplines like biology, computer science, economics, formal logic, health policy,
 neuroscience, physics, and psychology. At the same time, we have refereed book manuscripts
 for publishers in philosophy including OUP, CUP, Routledge and Springer, and many national as
 well as private funding agencies including AHRC, ESRC, ERC, SNSF, NF, Leverhulme Trust.




                                                                                          Page 13
