Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 University of Bolton

 Unit of Assessment:
 12-Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview
 Since its creation in 1996 in order to integrate the University of Bolton’s materials (textiles and
 polymers) and engineering research strengths, the Institute for Materials Research and Innovation
 (IMRI), a research centre within School of Engineering, has forged a reputation of ‘internationally
 leading’ amongst academic and industrial sectors. The Institute has two main themes (a)
 advanced materials and (b) communications engineering, and within each of those is a particular
 line of enquiry, in which the lead researchers specialise. The major strength of the Institute is the
 multi- and interdisciplinary activities, as
 demonstrated in Figure 1 showing                    Advanced Materials
 schematically how different areas
 interface with each other. Also depicted
 in Figure 1 is that advanced materials                                       Biomedical
                                                 Fire Safe      Composites    Engineering
 area has remained the main scope of the        Materials
 Institute’s research as it has looked to
 maintain the status of its being
 considered world leading in specific
 areas, which was acknowledged within                      Smart      Construction        Communica
 the previous REF2014. Although during                    materials     materials         tions Engg.
 restructuring in 2017 some previously
 successful areas (Renewable Energy)
 ceased       to     exist,   new      ones                                          Communications
 (Communications Engineering) emerged.                                               Engineering

                                              Figure 1. Research themes and areas
 Despite restructuring, the research aims have largely remained the same as in REF 2014 as the
 Institute is committed in their pursuit of producing excellent research where the impact is felt far
 beyond the realm of academia. Adopting an interdisciplinary approach therefore assisted in
 maximising the potential pathways to impact, which will be reflected in the details below where
 several staff members may operate between research themes. Engaging with key stakeholders
 and utilising public engagement to maximise the potential benefit have formed the bases on which
 the IMRI has looked to uphold its prestigious reputation for responsive yet excellent research since
 the previous submission
 The academic success of IMRI is demonstrated by:
  >400 publications in refereed journals, >300 conference contributions;
  £2.52m research income;
  56 postgraduate students achieving the award of PhD
 1.2. Research and Impact Strategy
 1.2.1. Vision
 Our aims are to deliver scientifically informed solutions to emerging technological engineering
 problems, maintain/develop a world lead in the respective fields and align all the research with
 teaching courses in a way that enables most recent non-confidential research to be disseminated
 through teaching programmes.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.2. Achievements of aims during the assessment period
 Strategic plans
 The University, after committing to changing its strategy to become a ‘Teaching Intensive
 Research Informed University’ in 2015, made a commitment to align all the research activities with
 teaching courses, which led to major restructuring in IMRI and Engineering.
 To replace researchers who moved to other institutions during restructuring, the University has
 appointed one new professor (Sheriff) with expertise in telecommunications engineering and
 seven new lecturers during the period May 2017 – December 2019 with research interests
 complementary to the sustainable and emerging research areas: one with biomedical and smart
 devices (Sanami), four with construction materials (Paschalis, Wang, Ilori, Oti), two with
 communications and electronics engineering (Anoh, Gu) backgrounds. While not all of these of
 these new appointees have been included in this REF submission, they will contribute to
 development of these areas and will be trained as future leaders in their respective fields. In the
 Fire Safe Materials area, Ebdon a visiting Professor at Bolton since 2010, with expertise in polymer
 chemistry, was appointed as a Professor at 0.2 FTE contract since 2014 to replace the position
 formerly held by the late Prof Dennis Price.
 In order to engage with industry and key stakeholders to maximise the research impact, the
 University of Bolton has been part of the Knowledge Centre for Materials Chemistry (KCMC) since
 2008, currently hosted by the Centre for Process Innovation (CPI). Weclawski, with a materials
 engineering background, was appointed as a research fellow in 2018 for two years with joint
 funding from CPI and the University with a primary aim to liaise with industry to initiate and deliver
 industrial projects. Weclawski is currently being mentored to take up a permanent position within
 IMRI.
 To embed research into teaching, the MRes course in Environmental Management started in 2018
 with circa 90 graduates in 2019. Six more MSc programmes also commenced in 2020 covering
 the key research areas above.
 Research Themes (see Figure 1) – focus and achievements
 Our research themes foster a significant level of interaction between academic staff in terms of
 initiating joint projects, co-supervision of PhD students, writing co-authored papers, arranging joint
 group meetings and attending PhD progress assessing panels across the institute. The main
 activities, lead researchers (names provided in parenthesis), highlights and future directions of
 different research areas are outlined below.
 (i) Advanced Materials
 Composites: Composites being light weight materials while are gaining popularity in high
 performance applications, are susceptible to combustion leading to reduction/failure in mechanical
 properties. The research in fire safety of composites (Kandola) has established Bolton as the only
 UK (and EU) expertise in this area [REF 3b: Fire Safe Materials: Industrial impact]. Notable
 research in the area of assessing fire hazards are: the toxicological study of the carbon
 fibres/nanoparticles released during simultaneous fire and impact exposure of composites;
 structural damage to carbon fibres during heat/fire exposure; sensing in carbon fibre composites
 for early detection of fire. For developing fire-safe composites, the projects include designing
 sandwich structures from co-blended unsaturated polyester/vinyl ester resins with phenolics as
 layered structures for marine applications; surface treatments by chemical and/or nano-particulate
 ceramic coatings.
 The research into structural mechanics (Myler) has led to the development of finite element-based
 predictive wear models for James Walker Seals based in Cumbria. The research was
 complemented by a KTP with Hylomar Ltd., which resulted in the successful development of
 predictive models for non-setting sealants with various additives. Additionally, engagement with
 key stakeholders within the automotive industry has given rise to work on the simulation and
 testing of the mechanical behaviour of composite reinforced aluminium foam crash systems with
 the Keating Berus supercar team.



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fire Safe Materials (textiles and polymers): The FSM area of research (Kandola, Horrocks, Ebdon,
 4 post-docs and 10 PhD students), which has been a major activity since 1980, has continued to
 maintain its position of excellence within the field since the last REF submission 2014 through
 multidisciplinary projects which include the development of carbon fibres from lignin/ polymer
 blends, the development of novel environmentally sustainable fire retardants (FRs) with a focus
 on surface modification and appropriate application techniques including atmospheric plasma, the
 use of conventional FRs with novel synergists in fibre-forming polymers and biopolymers, the
 evaluation of FR properties of chemically/physically modified polymers and their mechanisms of
 action, and mechanical property changes of fire retarded polymers during and after exposure to
 heat / fire and associated modelling. The group has published 48 papers in peer reviewed journals,
 one edited book on “Handbook of Technical Textiles and 2 chapters in advanced texts. The group
 co-hosted the 16th European conference FRPM’17 in Manchester in July 2017, attracting 280
 delegates.
 Smart Materials: A series of new smart materials developed (Geng) include heating/ethanol-
 response of poly (methyl methacrylate) with gradient pre-deform property for temperature sensors,
 nitrogen-doped carbon nanotubes for electrical capacitors, photocatalytic nanomaterials N-La co-
 doped TiO2 and 3D TiO2 nanotube arrays for environmental technologies, the composites of
 graphene oxide, carbon nanotubes and ZnxCdyS for high-purity water preparations, g-C3N4/Gd-
 N-TiO2 Composite for solar cells, etc. 23 papers have been published in this area.
 Theoretical research in smart materials has also been undertaken through an exploration of a
 number of issues associated with the problem of calculating and detecting electromagnetic
 quantum induced stresses in ENZ-type (epsilon-near-zero) dielectrics, a class of meta-materials
 with unique optical and optoelectronic properties for a wide range of applications (Walton, Reviews
 in Mathematical Physics, 2018).
 The research in organic piezoelectric, photovoltaics and triboelectric materials until 2018 kept a
 focus on renewable and energy harvesting applications (Siores, Emeritus Professor now, Soin
 until 2018). The world’s first 3-D spacer fabric based piezoelectric fibre-containing textiles was
 developed, which resulted in the successful filing of a UK patent (GB2516987(A)). The technology
 was nominated for Royal Society of Chemistry Emerging Technologies Award (2015) and ITMA
 Future Textiles Award (2014, 2015). The work has since progressed onto the development of
 triboelectric nanogenerators in the UK, which display significantly higher power densities.
 The use of advanced SPM techniques of Kelvin probe force (KPFM), electrostatic force (EFM)
 and piezo force microscopy (PFM) has enabled a fundamental understanding of the charge
 development and transfer in triboelectric nanogenerators. The surface charge control strategies
 of perovskite additives, ion-injection and interfacial-charge injection have led to 29 articles in high-
 impact journals such as RSC Energy & Environmental Science, Nano Energy, Chemical
 Communications and ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces.
 Construction Materials and information modelling: The recent restructuring has engaged civil
 engineering disciplines with the other engineering areas and the strategy was to attract new staff
 in this area. One such new recruit (Paschalis) is currently active in reinforced concrete and ultra
 high performance fibre - reinforced concrete structures allied to sustainable building materials.
 This compliments constitutive modelling of building structures, the use of finite elements for both
 structural and geotechnical design (Boulbibane, 2 papers). Another newly recruited lecturer, Oti
 with experience in building information modelling (BIM) in applications such as sustainable
 appraisal of structural buildings/component materials, harnessing performance data from building
 management systems for energy use optimisation etc, is now exploring the area of
 decommissioning of nuclear power stations (2 papers published) to contribute to demands by UK
 government to significantly reduce costs in the coming decades. With over 25 publications on
 subjects around BIM, his collaboration on the International Council for Building (French name:
 Conseil International du Bâtiment) Task Group 90 (TG90), led to the publication, ‘Research
 roadmap for information integration in construction’. The TG90 collaboration while commenced in
 his previous employment, has continued at the University of Bolton to yield the Roadmap.
 Biomedical Engineering: The work in medical textiles has been Bolton’s strength since the 1990s.
 The research in the REF period concentrated on development of a new biomaterial fibre, Alchite

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (3 publications) and another highly absorbent and MRSA resistant biomaterial (3 publications) for
 wound dressing (Miraftab, retired 2016). This work has been taken up by Sanami, working on
 design and construction of a pioneering collagen extrusion machine for production of continuous
 collagen fibres intended for tendon regeneration. The novel production technique allows
 commercialisation of this fibre into three-dimensional biomimetic constructs used in humans and
 animals. Another area has been compression bandages where a single-layer compression
 bandage has been developed which replaces the conventional four layer bandaging regimen for
 treating venous leg ulcers (Anand, Rajendran, Emeritus professors since October 2017 and June
 2018, respectively).
 Another line of research is design and development of a new Hip stem with negative Poisson’s
 ratio properties for improving total hip replacement devices through, improved match in terms of
 both; structure and mechanical properties of bone tissues, leading to a reduction in detrimental
 stress shielding effects, promotion of new bone in-growth and extension of device life by remedial
 expansion of the stem in response to device loosening (Sanami).
 Since REF2014 the BioMEMS and micro-sensors area has been commended for the major
 developments of surface acoustic wave single mechanism based ‘lab-on-chip’ devices as well as
 flexible and transparent electronics which then facilitated the development of biomedical devices
 which were capable of diagnosing and detecting viruses from home using the ZnO thin film-based
 technology (Luo). >90 journal papers, 5 special journal issues and two patents on utilisation of
 ZnO thin films for home diagnosis and virus detections have been published.
 Another notable achievement is development of a new and innovative dieletrophoresis-assisted
 adsorption technology (Geng), which effectively removes biological pollutants (such as waste
 antibiotics, E. coli, etc.) and organic pollutants (such as ammonia nitrogen, compounds containing
 heavy metal ions, etc.,) from water. The technological advances has since opened new pathways
 to impact through its potential to create ultra-pure water which can then be used across numerous
 different settings such the medical sector and environmental industries.
 Recent recruit in 2018, Furat Al-Faraj has further developed work (published 2 papers) on water
 contamination and filtration. This relates to the sustainable land area and the effects of potential
 climate change (Osman) in parts of the Middle East and northern Africa. The work complements
 that of Oti who joined the School in September 2018 developing sustainable construction theme.
 Based on this expertise, in 2018 a Master’s degree by Research in Environmental Management
 (90 graduates) was developed for the General Authority of Meteorology and Environmental
 Protection, Saudi Arabia.
 (ii) Communications Engineering (CE)
 This developing area, initiated by pioneering work in RF and antennas technologies (Chan until
 2019), Bati), was strengthened with the appointment of a Professor (Sheriff) and two lecturers
 (Anoh, Gu) in 2019, following a strategic decision by the University to invest in advanced
 information and communication technologies. Sheriff’s research on advanced mobile and wireless
 communications is complemented by Anoh’s investigation into smart cities and smart grid
 technologies, Gu’s research on wireless sensors and modulation techniques, and Bati’s study into
 low power wireless charging. Walton also studies classical descriptions of single-cycle laser
 pulses and their interaction with charged point particles, motivating a phenomenological quantum
 description of compact laser pulses that offer new opportunities for transferring quantum
 information securely by entanglement for technological applications such as quantum computing
 and encryption.
 1.2.3. Future strategic aims
 Our future research strategy is to maintain the international/national status of our well established
 research areas and further develop the emerging ones by simulating multi- and interdisciplinary
 collaboration within the unit as well as external organisations. In particular, we will achieve this by:
  expanding our composites research to include additive manufacturing. This will be achieved
   by investing in new types of composite fabrication processing to include both polymer and
   metal systems working in collaboration with Advanced Manufacturing Research Centre
   (AMRC) now with a base in the NW of England;

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Utilise the ‘National Centre for Motorsport Engineering’, which has the capability to fabricate
   and test specialist vehicles from concept to a roadworthy prototype;
  align our research in fire safe materials (textiles and composites) with performance automotive
   structures and motorsports composites and develop next generation of fire safe vehicles;
  maintain the international lead of the ‘Fire Safe Materials’ research by increasing the critical
   mass of full time researchers and expanding collaboration with the civil engineering area;
  further develop mechanisms/practices to disseminate our research outcomes of commercial
   interest. One of the identified routes is to work more closely with Centre of Process Innovation
   with which Bolton is already in partnership through KCMC;
  establish the recently started Communications Engineering research area. This will be
   achieved by exploiting the opportunities made available through Greater Manchester’s
   significant digital economy to develop strategic links with key technology providers based in
   the region. The regional strategy will be complemented by an international strategy, which
   intends to further develop collaborative ties with China, in particular, where established links
   are already in place;
  align our research in biomedical devices with the dental and health science areas; and
  build on research capacity recently established in the field of environmental science and
   engineering, to support international goals around carbon, climate change, pollution and
   flooding
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy & Staff Development
 2.1.1. Staffing strategy in relation to research strategy
 Academic: The staffing strategy of the School of Engineering is focused on recruiting the highest
 calibre academics who share our vision of inter/multidisciplinary working, liaising with industry and
 ensuring a best fit of their research interests with the areas of our strategic focus. Our recent
 strategy to invest in communications engineering led to the recruitment of one professor (Sheriff)
 and two lecturers (Annoh, Gu). To replace the staff retired or relocated to other institutions, 6 new
 lectures were appointed as detailed in Section B2a and summarised here: Biomedical: (Sanami,
 Furat Al-Faraj) Construction Materials: four (Paschalis, Wang, Ilori, Oti); Fire Safe Materials: 1
 professor (Ebdon, 0.2 FTE) and 1 research fellow (Weclawski). Since 2017 Bolton significantly
 invested in motorsport engineering by developing new BSc and MSc courses and appointing 7
 permanent academic staff with many years of industrial experience. The latter so far have been
 concentrating on establishing the courses in line with our TIRI agenda, hence have not contributed
 to research and included in this REF submission. They will though contribute to the next REF.
 Research Assistants: The University’s recruitment and selection policies comply with the
 European Charter and Code, and are in line with the requirements of the Concordat. All research
 positions are job-evaluated, and each role aligned to the university’s current pay and grading
 arrangements, which ensure that all researchers are rewarded irrespective of the type and
 duration of contract. Our recruitment and selection processes are designed to attract a wide range
 of candidates from within the UK and internationally and vacancies are advertised on a number of
 websites. All person specifications for research posts have the requirement that the researcher
 has the capability and capacity to develop into an independent researcher.
 2.1.2. Career Development Support
 Academic: Career development is formally supported through the Annual Performance Review
 process in which the Head of School meets each staff member to review performance and assist
 with research and career development. The University has a ‘Staff Enhancement and
 Achievement Map’ (STEAM) programme, where staff members have access to professional
 mentoring from TIRI Professors and other experienced academic colleagues through the
 University's Mentoring Academy.
 Some staff members are also members of University’s committees including Senate, Board of
 Studies Research Degrees and Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee to ensure that
 School’s interests are taken into account. The University, through its Research and Graduate

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 School run staff development workshops covering, for example, research degree supervision,
 grant-writing, leading research teams and public engagement.
 All new academic staff have a mentor who gives advice for writing research proposals. Successes
 include an EPSRC First Grant award (Halacheva, 2015) and a Newton fellowship (Soin, 2018).
 The University runs competitions for awards up to £5k for staff to conduct preliminary work, which
 will lead to a full grant proposal, these include Jenkinson’s (internal funding for small project to
 pump-prime research activity) and Ryley awards (small grants to employ graduate interns for
 experiencing research). The University organises annual TIRI (Teaching Intensive Research
 Informed) conference, which features keynote and innovative research lectures, and personal and
 professional development workshops.
 Research Assistants: The University has a PDP process for post-doctoral researchers, which in
 2nd year of the employment encourages them to start to make their own applications for funding
 to develop their future as independent researchers. The post-doctoral and research fellows are
 encouraged to teach on MSc courses, are involved in supervisory teams for PhD students (with
 support from a series of supervisor development workshops) and are encouraged to be on
 standing panels set for monitoring students’ progress. All post-doctoral and research fellows are
 supported with and expected to write research proposals as a part of their career development
 scheme. At the end of their fixed term contract, they are supported to be retained within the group
 or are helped to find positions elsewhere.
 2.1.3. International staff appointments and visiting scholars
 During the REF period Kandola was invited as a guest Professor in Université de Lorraine, Saint-
 Avold Cedex, France (2017) and Zhejiang University, Ningbo (2018 -2020). Luo is Visiting
 Professor to the Zhejiang University (China), Southeast University and Hangzhou Dianzi
 University (China). Sheriff has been a Visiting Professor since 2017 in College of Electronics and
 Information Engineering, Sichuan University, and since 2019 at Beijing University of Chemical
 Technology (BUCT), China. Geng has been a Guest Professor at Minzu University, China. Sanami
 is an honorary lecturer and researcher at the University of Manchester.
 During the REF period, the School hosted a number of visiting researchers, including Li from
 Marine Chemical Res Institute, Qingdo (2018), Ban from Guizhou Normal University, Guizhou,
 China (2018-19), Atakan from Istanbul Technical University, Istanbul, Turkey, (2017), Kayanak
 from Anadolu University, Eskişehir, Turkey, Vendrame, Università degli Studi di Padova, Italy,
 (2018), Jovic, EMPA, Switzerland (2015), Abbache, University of Abderrahmane Mira – Bejia,
 Algeria (2014), Matzen from BAM, Berlin, Germany (2014), Majka from Cracow University of
 Technology, Krakow, Poland (2014).
 2.2. Research students
 The PGR programme is overseen by the Dean of Research & Graduate School; he/she is
 responsible for admissions, registration, progression and implementing QAA/HE compliant
 Research Degrees regulations. We have different PhD routes, including the PhD-by-Published-
 Works award, which was pioneered by IMRI specifically for senior managers in industry and
 commerce, enabling them to position work-based projects within an academic framework. There
 are two potential routes depending on how many publications the candidate has made; a
 retrospective route for those with publications and a prospective route for those who have started
 to publish research.
 2.2.1 PGR Recruitment
 The PGR recruitment and selection policies comply with the European Charter and Code. All
 funded PhD vacancies are advertised on websites including findaphd.com, which attract
 applicants across EU and beyond. We adhere to the same rigorous, fair and transparent selection
 and recruitment policies, including the University’s Equality and Diversity policies, for appointing
 PGRs as for other staff grades. Applicants must submit a research proposal so that we can assess
 research interest and capability; all short-listed candidates are interviewed by staff members.
 Research & Graduate School staff provide fees advice, funding advice, visa advice and process


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 registration etc. Research student numbers remain at healthy levels, sustained by internal and
 external studentships and partnerships with external funders.
 2.2.2. PGR training and support
 The University supports its research students and requires participation in personal and
 professional development addressing Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework. In the first
 year Research & Graduate School runs the Postgraduate Skills Record sessions, the attendance
 to which is mandatory. Participation in external, discipline-focussed postgraduate courses,
 attendance (and participation) at internal and external research conferences and seminars and
 training in specific approaches, techniques, etc., is encouraged and supported. An annual
 University research forum enables all research students, PDRAs, research staff and
 administrators to contribute, encouraging presentations and discussions on the national context,
 university policy and strategy, individual research projects, etc. Research student representatives
 are members of school and the University’s research committees, to ensure that their views are
 heard; PRES (Post Graduate Research Experience Survey) is used to capture and respond to the
 student voice. The Students’ Union also has established a Postgraduate Research Students
 Society which runs a short conference annually, usually in January of each year.
 2.2.3. Progress monitoring
 At 4 months from enrolment students (6 months for part time students) submit a detailed research
 proposal and work plan (R1), which is assessed by an independent panel comprising two staff
 members from school and one external to the School, chaired by member of Board of Studies
 Research degree committee. Written feedback is provided. Initial PGR registration (unless the
 student has an MSc or an Honours degree with 2(i) or first class), is usually for “MPhil with
 possibility of transfer to PhD”. At 18 months mid-term progress or MPhil to PhD transfer documents
 (R2) submission require a substantial scientific report and presentation to a monitoring panel
 which is similar to that of R1. Written feedback is provided. Annual progress reviews are conducted
 to check that each stage is completed in time and the student presents his/her research in
 internal/external seminars/conferences.
 The University’s Board of Studies for Research Degrees (BoSRD) oversees all PGR approval,
 monitoring, and transfer recommendations.
 2.3 Equality & Diversity
 The university is passionate about ensuring diversity & equality within the workplace. As such the
 UoA is committed to key Equality & Diversity and the University position is set out on the
 University’s website (https://www.bolton.ac.uk/equality-and-diversity/ ). In doing so, the School
 looks to actively promote a culture of respect for people ensuring that the work, teaching and
 learning environment is free from any form of discrimination. All staff within the School have
 undertaken the mandatory training on equality & diversity, which informs staff on all equality and
 diversity matters so that they are able to act accordingly should they encounter any instance of
 bullying, harassment, victimisation or discrimination.
 The University’s strategy on equality and diversity is reflected by the backgrounds of the submitted
 staff and those recently appointed. Of the 18 staff, 3 are female, 12 from ethnic minorities. The
 University’s Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy is available to all staff via its website and all
 new staff are taken through the policy at induction. All staff, including research staff, have access
 to Vivup, the University’s Employee Assistance programme (EAP) provider which offers 24 hours
 support and counselling on personal and work related matters; this has been in place since 2011
 The University has a policy on bullying and harassment and how incidents must be handled
 through its staff grievance and disciplinary procedures. Research staff have the same intellectual
 property rights as other staff, unless the particular funding body has imposed special
 requirements. The University’s REF Code of Practice is published on the web pages
 (https://www.bolton.ac.uk/assets/hosted/CoP-REF-2021-Aug-2020-revised-clean.pdf)                  and
 specifically identifies how equality and diversity is catered for within the REF processes.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.1 Research funding portfolio
 Research income in key research areas during this REF period remained consistent to previous
 REF period years. However, anticipated increase in overall income was affected by the
 restructuring of the IMRI and the fact that almost all new appointments made were at junior level,
 where the ability to attract large grant is limited. Across the REF period total income was 2.52M,
 the breakdown of funders being: 9% from Research Councils, 20% from EU, 60% from UK
 government (including Dstl) and 3% from charities, 8% from international collaboration and smaller
 funds made up the balance.
 The flagship grants within different areas include:
 Composites: Lignin-based carbon fibres for composites (BioBased Industries Joint Undertaking
 under the EU’s Horizon 2020 programme, 2016–20: €556,250); flame retardant natural fibre-
 reinforced biocomposites (Innovate UK, (2013-15: £202K); In structural composites by Dstl, MoD
 to study effects of impact and fire on composite materials containing nano additives (2016-20:
 £177,457), designing carbon fibre composites with improved structural retention on exposure to
 fire and impact (2018-20: £121211); sensing in carbon fibre composites for early detection of fire
 (2018 – 21: £126211) and to develop vinyl ester resins for fire safe marine composite (2014-15:
 £30K).
 Fire Safe Materials: In the textiles area the research in developing environmentally sustainable
 surface treatments and techniques for chemical functionalization of textile surfaces and industry
 (2014 – 20; £135K). Research in novel fire retardants has being funded by industry: William Blythe
 UK (2014 -17; £67.5K), LANXESS (previously Chemtura), US (2013-15: $97K) and SCG, Thailand
 (2016 -2017; £34K).
 We had 4 Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) awards for developing novel FR intumescent
 coatings (2018 –20; £147717, with Sherwin Williams), FR polyurethane foams (2020 – 22: £
 176,142, with Vita Cellular Foams Ltd.,), non-setting sealants (2017 – 19: £ 142,398, with Hylomar
 Ltd.,) and SAW and FBAR microsensors (2019-20, £147k, with with Passion for Life
 Healthcare(UK) Limited) and wireless sensor for fire prevention (2017-2018, £113k, with TBA
 Textiles Ltd).
 Halacheva (left Sept 2017) was awarded EPSRC’s First Grant (EP/M02881X/1) in 2015. Soin
 received a Newton Fund - DST NRF (South Africa) Early Career Researcher fellowship (2019,
 ECR180426324617, £10K) award, which though was moved to another institution when Soin took
 up a lecturing post there.
 3.2 Consultancies and professional services
 Engineering staff are extensively involved in consultancy for industry demonstrating our
 engagement with industry. Fire Safe Materials has done work for £200K over this period with
 William Blythe, ICL, MEL Chemicals and SAB Miller. Kandola has been invited by a resin
 manufacturer (Scott-Bader) as an expert advisor for their FST technology roadmap workshop for
 future strategy development (2019). Horrocks was invited as an expert witness in a US company
 law suit (2015-18). His arguments based on evidence generated in the university’s fire lab helped
 the company win its law suit. Luo provided consultancies for Rolls Royce on indicative sensing
 (£8k) for high temperatures and wireless sensors for harsh environmental monitoring (£20k).
 3.3. Investment in infrastructure and facilities
 The Engineering facility was greatly enhanced by a £15M investment in a new, purpose built, three
 storey, 6000m2 floor space building, opened in 2018 to support the university’s engineering
 provision. The building has 2000 m2 of ground floor containing 1500m2 of dedicated physical
 laboratory space, available for both teaching and research activities. The facilities include: new
 composites manufacturing and testing facilities, additive manufacturing laboratories, CNC metallic
 manufacturing, high 800W rolling road and admissions testing, fabrication centre for
 manufacturing vehicle bodies, chassis and surface scanning.
 We have a suite of advanced laboratories and workshops for conventional and novel material
 preparation/processing, including nano-, micro- and macro-composites and for testing small and

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 medium-sized structures (impact and other physical/mechanical properties), plus a well-equipped
 fire research laboratory, which is unique within the UK. We have a Class 1000 clean room to
 accommodate advanced coating facilities for thin film materials and devices (magnetron co-
 sputtering, atomic layer deposition and evaporator). For fibre, thin film solar cell and smart device
 research, we have a bicomponent filament melt extruder as well wet extruder, an electrospinning
 unit built with full environmental control.
 Further to these facilities specific to School of Engineering, relevant large university infrastructure
 investments which includes the dentistry and biomedical sciences Queens building sharing
 facilities at postgraduate level. The building houses facilities for testing and fabricating dental
 composites. Also this includes autoclaves, tissue engineering and regenerative medical
 processes.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Research collaboration and examples of interdisciplinary research
 The research carried out within IMRI is often interdisciplinary and collaborative Examples of major
 international research projects (with names of principal investigators in the parentheses) include:
  The EU project (Kandola) on lignin based carbon fibres for composites comprises academic and
   research organisations (University of Limerick (Ireland), Chalmers University (Sweden), DITF
   Denkendorf (Germany), Fraunhofer IFAM (Germany), IVW (Germany), Centeblex (Belgium)),
   has collaborators from all sectors of carbon fibre from polymer processor (Tecnaro GmbH), fibre
   producer (Dralon GmbH), composite producer (Eirecomposites ,Ireland), technologist (C-Tech
   Ltd, UK) and end user (Centro Ricerche FIAT SCPA, Italy).
  Dstl project under UK-France PhD scheme (Kandola) is in partnership with Ecole des Mines
   d’Alès and Laboratoire National de métrologie et d’Essais’ (France).
  The project under ‘Personnel Survivability’ theme to flame retard Nylon-Cotton fabrics (Kandola)
   is funded by Natick (US Army) and is in collaboration with MTIX Ltd., UK
  LANXESS (previously Chemtura), USA funded a project to develop novel surface coatings for
   composites (Kandola).
  SCG, Thailand based company funded a project in the area of flame retardant polymer
   nanocomposites (Kandola)
  Luo’s collaborative work in the area of SAW, FBAR and micro sensors in China has been funded
   by NSF, China (RMB 800K, 2019-2022) and a Key project of Sci.&Technol., China (RMB15M,
   2019-2022) .
  Kandola, as vice chair of the COST (European Cooperation in Science and Technology) action
   MP 1105 (FLARETEX, 2012-2016), with membership of 21 European countries, has networked
   with other researchers for developing consortia for recently submitted and future EPSRC, TSB
   and EU project proposals.
   Osman has undertaken joint research with colleagues at Liverpool John Moores University, UK;
    Lulea University of Technology, Sweden; National University of Ireland; University of Khartoum,
    Sudan; and the Prime Minister’s Office, Baghdad, Iraq.
   Myler (since 2016) works with SimPeds-SimEngineering based at Boston Children’s hospital in
    collaboration with Harvard University on medical simulators and their interface with medical
    training procedures. He also works with Ras al Khaimah, UAE (2018) on optimization for depth
    of cut and surface roughness for control depth milling in Titanium Ti6AL4V with Abrasive water
    jet cutting.
  Oti collaborates with Universities of West of England, Coventry and Oxford Brookes. He has
   research links and industry support from establishments such as Wood Nuclear (part of Jacobs)
   and SUEZ Recycling and Recovery UK Ltd.
 Much international collaboration takes place between individuals. Over the REF period, staff have
 hosted numerous visiting international researchers as detailed in Section C.1c. In addition to this,
 on average four undergraduate/post graduate students per year for 4 – 6 months from European
 counties (ENSICAEN Caen, Polytech’ Montpellier, Polytech’ Nantes, France) as internees,
 working on on-going research projects and adding value to the projects, while getting trained on

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research skills. Sheriff has established a Joint Innovation Laboratory in Information and
 Communication Technology and Applications (JILICTA) with the College of Electronics and
 Information Engineering, Sichuan University, in order to foster research collaboration in terms of
 joint projects and publications, and student exchanges. Geng has been collaborating with the
 University of Alicate (Spain) to develop functional nanomaterials for electrochemical applications
 and has been the external examiner of PhD Defence of the Materials Institute of the university
 since 2012.
 4.2 Collaboration with research users
 Collaborating with key stakeholders across industry has been at the heart of Bolton’s research
 strategy as to maximise the pathways to impact for the economy and society.
 The Fire Safe Materials group has worked with many industrial partners on joint projects where
 experimental strategies were developed to observe effect of fire retardant materials on
 flammability of their polymers/ products in order to assess their commercial potential. Examples
 include William Blythe, LANXESS, SCG, Innovia films, Devan Chemicals, Avocet, Uniroyal, Tata
 steel etc. The research findings apart from regular consortium meetings and scientific conferences
 have also been presented in various workshops including Knowledge Transfer Networks.
 The success of the Fire Safe Materials research has resulted in the research expertise being
 highly sought out to consult on issues where their world leading knowledge will add value to the
 understanding of critical issues. Kandola has been invited by a major UK resin manufacturer
 (Scott-Bader) as an expert advisor for their FST (fire, smoke and toxicity) technology roadmap
 workshop for future strategy development. Horrocks was invited as an expert witness in a US
 company law suit. His arguments based on evidence generated in the fire lab coupled with his
 previous research helped the company win law suit. The group also helped European Flame
 Retardants Association (EFRA) to produce a video on fire safety standards, which was filmed
 partly in the Fire lab at Bolton and Horrocks gave expert advice. The BBC formally approached
 Horrocks to present an opinion on the fire safety of children’s Hallowe’en clothing and his
 comments on flaws in fire testing regulations for those materials, led to direct changes of the fire
 and safety standards for children’s fancy dress costumes in the UK. Until April 2019 Horrocks
 chaired a small private company NWtexnet that assists UK textile companies with technology
 transfer, applied research and dissemination. Horrocks, Kandola also deliver custom designed
 short courses to industry, e.g., at Yalova, Turkey (2019), IPECO, Holdings Ltd, UK (2015).
 Al-Faraj collaborates with Universities of Salford and Lund, Sweden. Paschalis works closely with
 other Institutions such as the University of Brighton.
 4.3 Contribution to Society
 A number of staff members and PhD students developed and coordinated the ‘Messy Science’
 event, as part of Manchester Science Festival from 2010 to 2016 and participated in the Food and
 Drink Festival from 2014 to 2016. Many staff members have contributed to schools, youth clubs
 and groups in a range of activities such as the two week summer schools as part of the STEM
 Advantage Scheme in partnership with British Army and Royal Air Force, local schools, Bolton
 Interfaith Group along with engineering employers in order to promote science and engineering
 among young generation.
 Horrocks secured funding from the Cotton Industry War Memorial Trust (£24K)) for the creation of
 an archive on the history of the Lancashire Cotton Industry at the University. This will comprise a
 recently purchased private document collection together with the University’s own text collection
 based on its many years in textile education commencing during the 19th century. The aim is to
 catalogue and integrate both historical collections and archive them electronically using
 professional software. A major outcome is the creation of an e-portal, which will enable access to
 the collection as well as link with others located within the North West region.
 4.4 Academic leaderships
 The School of Engineering includes among its staff: two Fellows of Royal Society of Chemistry
 (Kandola, Ebdon), Fellow of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers (Myler), Fellow of the Institute
 of Water (Al-Faraj ), Fellow of Institute of Materials Minerals and Mining (Sanami). Horrocks was

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 awarded Honorary Life Membership of the Royal Society of Chemistry based on his continuing
 contribution to chemistry over a 50+ year period. He is also Fellow and Honorary Life Member of
 the Textile Institute. All staff are members of different professional bodies.
 Kandola is Member of EPSRC College (2003- present) and has served on EPSRC prioritisation
 panels. Rajendran was the Chair for Professional Qualification Award Committee of the Textile
 Institute for four years until 2016. He also represented the Textile Institute Council for a decade
 until 2018 in recognition of his devotion to the furtherance of scientific knowledge concerning
 fibrous and biomedical materials, for which he has been honoured with a prestigious medal and
 award by the Textile Institute.
 4.4.1 Editorship and scholarly activities
 Horrocks is a member of the Editorial Board of Journal of Fire Science and Kandola of Molecules.
 Kandola has been guest editor of 2 special issues of Polymer Degradation and Stability (2015,
 2018) and Polymer (2016) Journals. Horrocks has been guest editor of Fibres (2018). Kandola,
 Horrocks and Ebdon have been referees for major international fire science, polymer and
 composites journals.
 Luo is editor and editorial board member for Scientific Reports, Sensors, Electronics (ISSN 2413-
 4155), International Journal of Computational Materials Science & Surface Engineering, Active &
 Passive Electronic Components, International Journal of Nanomanufacturing and Chinese Journal
 of Sensors & Actuators.
 Geng is Associate Editor for Carbon Materials Group, Frontiers; and Advances in Renewable Energy.
 Geng has been a guest editor for International Journal of Hydrogen Energy. He has also been referee
 for top journals in Chemistry or Materials Science such as the Journal of American Chemical Society,
 Journal of Physical Chemistry, Carbon, Chemical Communications, Advanced Materials, Advanced
 Functional Materials, Journal of Materials Chemistry, Chemistry - European Journal, etc.
 Myler acts as a reviewer for the Royal academy of Engineers grants panel. He has been a referee
 for journals such as Polymers, Journal of Materials Engineering and Performance, Journal of
 Machine Intelligence and Data Science and Composites Part B.
 .Al-Faraj is a reviewer and editorial board member of the Journal of Bioscience and Applied
 Research. Paschalis is a reviewer for the Engineering Structures Journal and the Construction
 and Building Materials Journal.
 4.4.2. Conference Chairs and Invited Speakers
 Kandola co-hosted the 16th European conference FRPM’17 in Manchester in July 2017, attracting
 280 delegates. Kandola has delivered 24 invited lectures, some examples include RSC
 conference - Fire Retardant Technologies, UCLAN Preston (2014); International Symposium on
 Flame Retardant materials & Technologies (ISFRMT), China (2014, 2018); E-MRS 2014 Fall
 Meeting, Warsaw, Poland (2014); 7th Asia-Europe Symposium on Processing and Properties of
 Reinforced Polymers (AESP7), Madrid, Spain (2015), International Conference on Value Addition
 and Innovation in Textiles COVITEX, Faisalabad, Pakistan (2015, 2017); Eurofillers, Montpellier
 France (2015); EuroNanoForum Riga, Latvia (2015), European Meeting on Fire Retardancy and
 Protection of Materials, FRPM 15 and 19, Berlin, Germany (2015); Turku, Finland (2019); Asia-
 Oceania Symposium on Fire Safety Materials Science and Engineering (AOAFSM), Suzhou,
 China (2015, 2017); International Conference on Lightweight Deign of Marine Structures, LIMAS,
 Glasgow and London (2015, 2017), Functional Textiles and Clothing Conference, FTC Delhi, India
 (2018), 30th Annual Conference on recent Advances in Flame Retardancy of polymeric materials,
 BCC, San Antonio, US (2019). Ebdon’s invited lectures include RSC Preston, UK (2014), FRPM
 2015, RSC Surrey 2016, Thermoplastic Compounding conference Dusseldorf (2019). Horrock's
 plenary lectures include International Antimony Association, Brussels (2018); International
 Workshop on Nanostructured Materials, Stockholm (2016; SCI, UK (2018). He was also invited to
 give the SCI Levinstein lecture in October 2016.
 Luo has organized many international meetings as conference (co)chairman (Chair of 8th Int.
 Conf. on Manipulation, Manufacturing & Measurement on nanoscale, 13 August 2018, Hangzhou,
 China. Co-chairman of 2nd Int. Conf. on Electronic Info. Technol. & Comput. Eng. EITCE 2018,

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 12 Oct. 2018, Shanghai, China. Chairman on Int. Conf. on Manipalation, Manufact. & meas. on
 nanoscale, 2018, Aug. Hangzhou， China; co-chairman of 1st to 3rd Int. Conf. on
 Nanomanufacturing, committee member of Int. Conf. on Micro & Nano-Eng., MME, session chairs
 of many Int. conferences.), He has delivered over 20 Keynote/plenary speak and invited talks in
 the international conferences.




                                                                                        Page 12
