Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Bath

 Unit of Assessment: UoA10: Mathematical Sciences


 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Department of Mathematical Sciences, which coincides with this Unit of Assessment
 (UoA), is strongly research-driven, evidenced by the volume, quality, and impact of its
 outputs. Research is internationally competitive both in mathematics (pure and applied,
 including probability and statistics), and in inter-disciplinary and industrial collaborations with
 real-world impact. The UoA has gone through a period of substantial growth over this REF
 period to meet its ambition of being one of the leading Mathematics Departments in the UK.
 Highlights during this REF period include:
    -   An increase in research active staff: 64.9 FTE are being returned for this exercise,
        with an additional eight positions filled or advertised after the census date. This is
        compared to 45 FTE returned / 57 eligible in 2014 (section 2);
    -   A substantial increase in research grant income: during this REF period the Unit
        secured £13.5M, compared to £5M in the REF 2014 period (section 3);
    -   The establishment of the EPSRC-funded single-site CDT “Statistical Applied
        Mathematics at Bath”: SAMBa was first funded in 2014 and renewed in 2019. It has
        driven a growth in PhD student numbers to around 120. Additional investment from
        the University and industry takes the total commitment to SAMBa to £17M to date
        (section 2);
    -   Creation of the Institute for Mathematical Innovation (IMI): in 2015 the University
        made a £3M investment in the future of the Unit by creating IMI to catalyse inter-
        disciplinary and industrial research collaborations with Mathematical Sciences and to
        enhance Knowledge Exchange (section 3);
    -   Awarding of the LMS Symposia to Bath: the first events of the newly designed
        format were successfully delivered in 2020, since its move from Durham (section 4).


 In 2014, the University made a strategic decision to expand the Unit by 10 FTE. Filling these
 positions led to new research directions (for example number theory and compressed
 sensing) as well as growth of existing strengths (analysis, probability). An additional four FTE
 were hired by the Unit through the University’s Prize Fellowship Scheme, which attracts
 exceptional early-career researchers from all disciplines (section 2).
 A particular highlight was the Royal Society Research Professorship for del Pino, awarded
 upon arrival in Bath. These professorships are the Society's “premier research awards, which
 provide long term support to world-class researchers of outstanding achievement and
 promise’’. Other drivers for growth in grant income were Haskins’ and Nordström’s
 involvement in the Simons Collaboration “Special Holonomy in Geometry, Analysis and
 Physics” and a substantial success in securing fellowships: members of the Unit secured 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 competitive fellowships from the Royal Society, EPSRC, NERC, and the Leverhulme Trust
 during the REF period.
 This has been achieved whilst delivering excellence in equality, diversity and inclusion
 (ED&I). In 2019 the UoA received an Athena Swan Silver award, recognising success in
 moving towards gender equality. In 2018, the Unit was awarded £533K through the EPSRC
 Inclusion Matters Scheme (for the “Reimagining Recruitment” programme), which builds on
 best practice developed in the UoA with the aim of embedding more inclusive research in UK
 STEM (section 2).
 The Unit’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic has been effective, both in terms of staff and
 student support, research activity, and public engagement (section 4).

 REVIEW OF THE 2014 PLANS AND OBJECTIVES FOR THE NEXT FIVE YEARS
 Our 2014 submission states:
 [W]e will firstly vigorously pursue our core activity, of advancing knowledge at the highest
 international level, within a unified vision of mathematics. […] Key strategic objectives for
 appointments in the immediate future are: (1) strengthening the analysis group, building on
 the appointment of Dooley, and (2) enhancing our activities at the interface of Statistics and
 Applied Mathematics. Key industrial collaborations such as with the Met Office and with
 Pharma companies will be continued and strengthened. We will propose and pursue the
 formation of a University Research Institute centred in Mathematical Sciences, which will
 promote inter-disciplinary collaboration, and enhance our external profile and industrial
 linkage. As a part of this project, we will further develop our industrial internship scheme,
 providing more industrial training for PhD students.


    (1) has been achieved with three new Chair appointments in the Analysis group (Dávila,
        del Pino, Musso), creating a world-class group working on non-linear PDEs, and two
        appointments at lecturer level (Scardia, Wheeler). Links between Analysis and
        Probability have been strengthened by the appointment of Weber.
    (2) has been more than fulfilled with the creation of the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral
        Training in Statistical Applied Mathematics (SAMBa) and a string of appointments in
        this area (e.g., Bartlett, Dolgov, Gazzola, Heine, Nunes, Peixoto, Poon, Pryer,
        Rohrbeck, Roy, Smith, Trinh, Yates).
 Industrially driven research has been strengthened with the creation of IMI and SAMBa.
 Specific collaborations with the Met Office and with Pharma companies (Novartis, Roche)
 have continued successfully, as illustrated in Müller’s and Jennison’s Impact Case Studies.
 Future Strategy: The research strategy for the next five years is focussed on leveraging the
 strong gains made recently. The Unit has undergone a demographic shift towards early- and
 mid-career academics and the primary aim is to support their career development in research
 while also aiming for a gradual increase in permanent staff in a few broad strategic priority
 areas.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The objectives for this future growth are to expand Mathematical Data Science and Statistics,
 Number Theory, and Analysis, particularly with links to Geometry and Probability.
 Research quality will drive the appointment of new or replacement staff. The University is
 already committing to sustaining Unit excellence. Two new staff have been appointed since
 the census date and six positions are expected to be recruited in 2020-21 to replace retiring
 and departing staff. Further expansion posts will be sought through successful bids for
 University funded Prize Fellows, and mentoring applications to funding agencies for external
 fellows to join Bath.
 The Unit’s growing status as a leading centre of excellence in the UK will also encompass:
    -   Successful hosting of the LMS Symposia, in collaboration with INI and ICMS,
        enhancing the UK research landscape;
    -   Leading and partnering in a greater number of programme and other large grants,
        e.g., in Analysis, Probability or Data Science;
    -   Increasing funding for applied research, both directly from industry and through
        organisations such as InnovateUK;
    -   Supporting a growing community of PDRAs by launching a Post-Doctoral Researcher
        Centre;
    -   Strengthening and expanding international links, particularly with Latin America;
    -   Ensuring high PhD student numbers through continued evolution of core UKRI
        doctoral funding, and support from other sources.

 Engagement with inter-disciplinary research will be strengthened, led by IMI and SAMBa,
 while the UoA continues to serve as a beacon for ED&I in Mathematics, including an ambition
 for Athena SWAN Gold and increasing diversity in all its forms.

 UNIT STRUCTURE
 The UoA has a comprehensive committee structure within the Department of Mathematical
 Sciences, both to support operational decisions and to shape its strategy in an informed and
 inclusive way. The main committees relevant to the UOA are:
    -   Research Committee (chaired by the Director of Research, currently Weber);
    -   Promotions Committee (Deputy Head of Department, currently Traustason);
    -   Equality and Diversity Committee (Roberts).


 All committee members and chairs have an initial appointment of three years, and the
 composition of committees includes early career staff and those from underrepresented
 groups.
 The Research Committee is formed by representatives from each research group, University
 Research and Innovation Services, IMI, and SAMBa. This committee is responsible for
 overarching research strategy with input into longer term hiring strategy.
 The Department Executive (chaired by the Head of Department, currently Milewski) consists
 of the chairs of the committees listed above, the Director of Teaching and two Heads of
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Group for Pure and Applied Mathematics, and Statistics and Probability, who oversee
 operational aspects of the Department.
 Research in the UoA ranges from pure to applied mathematics and includes statistics. The
 UoA is organised in six interlinked research groups of comparable size: Algebra, Geometry
 and Number Theory (AGeNT), Analysis, Applied and Inter-disciplinary Mathematics (AIMS),
 Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing, Probability, and Statistics. Every group runs a
 weekly research seminar series, oversees allocation of mentors for early-career staff (see
 below), and coordinates grant applications.
 Interaction between groups is frequent and many members of the UoA are affiliated to one
 outside of their “home” group. Interaction with other UoAs is facilitated by five University
 Research Centres led by the UoA: the Centre for Mathematical Biology, the Centre for
 Networks and Collective Behaviour, the Centre for Nonlinear Mechanics, the Probability
 Laboratory (Prob-L@B) and, since 2019, the Centre for Mathematics and Algorithms of Data.
 These centres organise their own seminars and visitor programmes and foster collaboration,
 for example through joint PhD supervision.
 Algebra, Geometry and Number Theory (AGeNT): Research covers a wide range of topics
 with well-defined specialisms, especially in algebra where the focus is on cluster algebras and
 on Engel groups. Geometry includes discrete differential geometry, differential geometry of
 special types such as Einstein manifolds, G2 manifolds and Fano manifolds, moduli spaces of
 algebraic varieties, and quiver varieties and McKay correspondence. Number theory is
 centred on questions about rational points on varieties, on the borders of algebraic and
 analytic number theory, and on modular forms and their geometric interpretation. Many of
 these areas are interlinked.
 During the review period the group was joined by Professor Haskins (who has since moved to
 a position at Duke University, retaining a 0.2 FTE appointment at Bath), and more recently by
 Loughran, whose appointment represents a move to establish research activity in number
 theory, and will enhance links to the Heilbronn Institute.
 The group has strong international collaborations including Haskins’ and Nordström’s
 involvement in the Simons Collaboration "Special Holonomy in Geometry, Analysis and
 Physics".
 The group is contributing 28 papers to the REF submission.
 Professor (P): Burstall, Calderbank, Haskins, King, Sankaran, Traustason; Reader (R): Craw,
 Nordström; Senior Lecturer (SL): Su; Lecturer (L): Loughran
 Analysis: Research specialisms include nonlinear elliptic and parabolic partial differential
 equations, harmonic analysis, multi-scale analysis, variational problems, infinite-dimensional
 dynamical systems, operator theory, control theory and mathematical fluid mechanics.
 During the REF period, the group has strengthened its traditional areas and built up
 internationally leading research activity in nonlinear PDEs and calculus of variations by
 appointing Professors Musso, del Pino and Dávila as well as Scardia (since moved to Heriot-
 Watt) and Wheeler. Links with AIMS were strengthened with Cherednichenko’s appointment.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Following his directorship at the Newton Institute, Toland FRS FRSE returned to Bath as
 visiting professor.
 A Royal Society Professorship was awarded to del Pino for his work on singularities;
 Cherednichenko held an EPSRC Early-career Fellowship; Dávila and Zimmer won Wolfson
 Merit Awards.
 The group contributes 34 papers to the REF submission.
 P: Dávila, Del Pino, Moser, Musso, Sivaloganathan, Zimmer; R: Cherednichenko; SL:
 Fischer, Matthies, Opmeer; L: Wheeler; Visiting P: Burton, Logemann, Ryan, Toland.
 Applied and Inter-disciplinary Mathematics (AIMS): Research is of considerable breadth
 both in methods and applications. Activities fall into three main areas: Mathematical Biology,
 Networks and Dynamical Systems, and Nonlinear Mechanics. There is significant
 collaboration between these areas and between AIMS and other UoA groups, particularly
 Analysis, Probability, and Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing, and outside the Unit
 with academia, government and industry. The hiring strategy in the period sustained the
 strength in mechanics (Trinh) and mathematical biology (Ashby, Buck), and established a
 strong focus on networks (Rogers, Peixoto, Pizzoferrato).
 Research in Mathematical Biology has focus on evolutionary ecology, evolutionary genetics,
 developmental biology and epidemiology, molecular and DNA biology, signalling and
 biochemistry. Networks and Dynamical Systems research encompasses stochastic modelling,
 non-smooth dynamics and bifurcation theory, networks and aspects of data science.
 Nonlinear Mechanics research spans across fluid mechanics, solid mechanics and soft matter
 with particular strengths in wave theory. The group leads the University Centres for
 Mathematical Biology, Networks & Collective Behaviour and Nonlinear Mechanics.
 AIMS has hosted fellowships from Rogers, Dawes (both Royal Society), Ashby (NERC),
 Majumdar (EPSRC), and a Leverhulme programme grant (Buck). It has achieved external
 recognition including prestigious awards: Lee Segal Prizes (2016, Rogers, and 2020, Yates),
 Erdös-Rényi Prize for Network Science (2019, Peixoto), LMS Anne Bennett Prize (Majumdar,
 2015), JPBM Communications Award (2020, Budd).
 The AIMS group contributes 26 papers and one Impact Case Study to the REF submission.
 P: Buck, Budd, Dawes, Milewski, Rogers; R: Evans; SL: Adams, Ashby, Schwetlick, White,
 Yates; L: Peixoto, Pizzoferrato, Trinh; Visiting P: Majumdar.
 Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing: In this REF period the group's strategy has
 focussed on renewal and expansion, both to secure its traditional reputation in rigorous
 numerical analysis, with focus on differential equations and numerical linear algebra, as well
 as to substantially diversify into modern emerging areas. To implement this strategy, new
 appointments have been made to expand research in: (i) inverse problems and compressed
 sensing (Gazzola, Ehrhardt and Poon), (ii) high dimensional problems, uncertainty
 quantification and machine learning (Dolgov and Hook) and (iii) scientific and high-
 performance computing (Müller and Pryer). Long-standing strength in PDEs has also been
 enhanced by the recent appointments of Pryer (nonlinear PDEs and applications in
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 geophysics) and Singh (Schrödinger equations and applications in quantum mechanics).
 Strategic funding initiatives by the University through its Prize Fellowship Scheme (three-year
 positions leading to a lectureship) brought Hook, and Ehrhardt into the group. The group co-
 leads (with Computer Science) the University research centre for Mathematics and Algorithms
 for Data.
 A special accolade is Oberwolfach’s John Todd Award to E. Spence in 2019. Members of the
 group have been very successful in competitive EPSRC funding rounds, with fellowship
 awards to E. Spence and Dolgov (both EPSRC), and Ehrhardt (Leverhulme Trust). The group
 has been heavily involved in industrial liaisons leading to direct research funding from the Met
 Office, Schlumberger, and Wood plc.
 The Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing group contributes 21 papers and one
 Impact Case Studies to the REF submission.
 P: Graham, Scheichl, E. Spence; R: Hill, Pryer, Shardlow, SL: Müller, L: Dolgov, Gazzola,
 Poon, Singh; Fellow: Ehrhardt, Visiting P: Freitag, A. Spence.
 Probability: The Probability group coincides with a University Research Centre, Prob-L@B.
 Over the last REF period the strategy has been to maintain traditional strengths in pure and
 applied probability theory - e.g., branching structures, random graphs and networks, statistical
 mechanics, and percolation, while establishing new directions and links to neighbouring
 groups, e.g., stochastic analysis and stochastic modelling, simulation and numerical analysis.
 This strategy is reflected in recent hiring: Professor Weber was recruited to establish
 stochastic partial differential equations as a new major research direction and to strengthen
 links to the Analysis group. Ortgiese (random networks, stochastic analysis) and Kious
 (statistical mechanics) were also hired in this REF period. Mailler (branching processes,
 combinatorics), successfully obtained a Prize Fellowship and then moved on to a permanent
 post. Penington (population genetics) was newly appointed on a Prize Fellowship.
 Prob-L@B has established a track record in attracting outstanding young researchers on
 Prize Fellowships who subsequently obtained externally funded fellowships: in this REF
 period Stauffer secured an EPSRC Early-career Fellowship; Roberts already held an EPSRC
 Postdoctoral Fellowship and was subsequently awarded a Royal Society URF, and Mailler
 secured an EPSRC Postdoctoral Fellowship. At the established career level, Kyprianou
 secured a Wolfson Merit Award.
 The probability group contributes 36 papers to the REF submission.
 P: Kyprianou, Penrose, Weber; R: Cox, Roberts, Stauffer; SL: Jarai, Ortgiese; L: Kious,
 Mailler; Fellow: Penington; Visiting P: Mörters
 Statistics: A distinctive feature of this Unit is the integration of activity in Statistics with
 Probability and Applied Mathematics. Main research areas are statistical modelling and data
 analysis; medical statistics; Bayesian methods; and statistical computing. The Statistics group
 has increased in size from 11 to 14 since REF2014. The strategy has been to appoint
 candidates who combine an ability to develop new theory and methods with a genuine
 interest in applications. Specifically, new appointments were made to bridge with numerical
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 analysis/MCMC (Heine) and with networks and graphical methods (Roy). In addition, medical
 statistics has been expanded (Bartlett, Anaya-Izquierdo, T. Smith).
 The breadth of the research interests is reflected in the diverse sources of funding, including
 MRC (Bartlett), NERC (Prosdocimi fellowship), EPSRC (Lindgren), InnovateUK/Mayden
 House (T. Smith Knowledge Transfer Partnership). Consultancy leads to innovative research
 that addresses problems of interest to practitioners (Pharmaceutical companies AstraZeneca,
 Roche, Novartis, Sanofi, NovoNordisk, Takeda, Grifols, Beigene (Jennison, Bartlett), Tokio
 Millennium Re (Evangelou)).
 The Statistics group contributes 17 papers and three Impact Case Studies to the REF
 submission.
 P: Faraway, Jennison; R: Bartlett, Nunes; SL: Hurn; L: Anaya-Izquierdo, Evangelou, Heine,
 Rohrbeck, Roy, Shaw, T. Smith; Visiting L: Moraga; Visiting P: Shaddick.
 Achieving Impact: The UoA has a tradition of including impact in its research agenda and
 has developed long-standing relationships with a wide range of industrial partners. Ongoing
 relationships of more than 10 years (including jointly delivered and funded research projects
 and PhD studentships) exist with Wood (Graham, Scheichl, Kyprianou, Cox), Schlumberger
 (Graham, E. Spence, Gazzola, Budd), BT (Budd, Jarai, Dawes), Met Office (Müller, Scheichl,
 Budd), Roche, Astra Zeneca (Jennison, Bartlett). This is reflected in the submitted Case
 Studies.
 In this REF period, the Unit has developed infrastructure to ensure that, as the volume and
 reach of the research has grown, the impact has accelerated accordingly. The Unit has two
 dedicated Impact Champions (Budd and Jennison), who identify research with impact
 potential and work with individuals to develop and maximise it. SAMBa and IMI, major
 developments during the current REF period, facilitate development of the Unit’s outward-
 facing research profile.
 SAMBa (section 2) has given the Unit the opportunity to nurture a new generation of
 mathematicians, fluent in the inter-disciplinary fusion of stochastic, computational, applied,
 industrial, statistical and data rich mathematical modelling. In particular SAMBa’s twice-yearly
 problem formulation workshops in collaboration with external partners, known as Integrative
 Think Tanks (ITTs), have proved to be a successful mechanism for academic staff and
 doctoral students to experience working on outward facing and inter-disciplinary mathematical
 projects.
 IMI (section 3) has built relationships with a wide base of companies that have fed into other
 activities in the UoA, including partnering in ITTs, Knowledge Transfer Partnerships, and
 support for the MSc in Modern Applications of Mathematics. IMI also has strong links into
 other research areas in the University.
 Open Access and Open Data: The University Library hosts an open access team which
 supports researchers in making their research available via open access. In 2011 this team
 published the Open Access Publications Deposit Mandate, emphasising a commitment to this
 publishing form and stating that a full text version should always be made available via
 PURE. The University expects researchers to comply with the principles laid out in the
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Concordat on Open Research Data and the FAIR principles, and the library’s data
 management service supports researchers in doing so. The use of github is promoted
 through training given to PhD students, and as a tool for sharing research and impact across
 the department.
 Ethics: Members of staff are required to submit an ethics form for all research activity. This
 ensures that they reflect on ethical issues of research and that it is conducted to the highest
 standards of research integrity and ethics. Staff are encouraged to discuss with the
 Department's research ethics officer if they have research in which there may be particular
 ethical concerns (e.g., studies involving personal data) and the ethics officer is deliberately
 chosen to have experience with ethical implications of working with data. The need to
 consider the ethical implications of their work is highlighted to students, both undergraduate
 and postgraduate, before they conduct research projects.



 Section 2: People

 Attracting, motivating and retaining academics of the highest quality is the central aim of
 recruitment policy. As mentioned above, the Unit has grown substantially over the REF
 period. It has succeeded in attracting both high-calibre academics for senior roles and highly
 talented early-career researchers. Supporting the development of all staff is a priority.
 Leadership at all career stages is encouraged and rapid career progression is enabled when
 appropriate. The Researcher Development Concordat principle, which recognises that
 excellent research requires a supportive and inclusive research culture, is part of the Unit’s
 outlook and underpins its approach to research and research management (further
 references to Concordat principles in italics below).

 STAFF RECRUITMENT
 The Departmental Executive Committee monitors the level of staffing and considerable
 thought goes into maintaining a healthy balance within and between disciplines, as well as
 appropriate levels of leadership in each research group.
 The University approved support for expansion of academic staff numbers in this Unit by 10
 between 2015 and 2018 in order to boost research activity, increase grant capture, and
 reduce the student-staff ratio.
 The University’s Prize Fellowship scheme recruits talented early-career researchers to two-
 year research-focused positions, with the expectation that recruits will assume permanent
 positions. Recruitment to a limited number of positions is run across the Faculty; the process
 runs across strategically important areas and the most exceptional applicants are appointed
 across the whole process regardless of their research discipline. Mathematical Sciences has
 recruited four fellows over the REF period and has retained three (as well as retaining the two
 appointed prior to this REF period).
 Over the REF period there were 37 hires at L/SL/R level and six at Professor level.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Hires at L/SL/R during this REF period are Anaya-Izquierdo, Ashby, Bartlett,
 Cherednichenko+, Dolgov, Ehrhardt~, Fischer, Gazzola, Guiver*, Heine, Hook*~, Kious,
 Loughran, Nordstrom+, Nunes, Mailler~, Moraga, Müller+, Ortgiese+, Peixoto, Penington~,
 Prosdocimi*, Roberts~+, Rogers~+, Pizzoferrato, Poon, Pryer, Rohrbeck, Roy, Scardia+*,
 Simpson+*, Singh, T. Smith, Trinh, Wang*, Wheeler and Yates+.
 [*have now moved on, ~recruited as Prize Fellows, +since promoted].
 The Unit has made exceptional appointments at Professorial level: Buck, Dávila, Haskins,
 Musso, del Pino, and Weber. Individuals were supported in making successful applications
 for a Royal Society Professorship (del Pino) and a Wolfson Merit award (Dávila). When
 exciting hiring opportunities arise, the University provides additional support, for example with
 the simultaneous appointment of Buck, del Pino, Haskins, and Musso when only two
 professorial positions had been advertised and the appointment of Weber (Rollo Davidson
 Prize 2016, Philip Leverhulme Prize 2017, Royal Society URF 2016-2020).
 After Bath: During the REF period the following 18 staff left Bath to pursue their career
 elsewhere: Augustin (to University of Edinburgh), Di Francesco (Università degli Studi
 dell'Aquila), Dooley (University of Technology Sydney), Melina Freitag (Universität Potsdam),
 Guiver (Napier University), Harris (University of Auckland), Hilker (Universität Osnabrück),
 Hook (Jump Trading), Lindgren (University of Edinburgh), Majumdar (University of
 Strathclyde), Moraga (KAUST), Mörters (Universität zu Köln), Prosdocimi (Università Ca'
 Foscari di Venezia), Scardia (Heriot-Watt University), Shaddick (University of Exeter),
 Simpson (University of Toronto), Wang (Chinese Academy of Sciences), and Wood
 (University of Bristol). Staff often retain a visiting position in the Department once they leave,
 enabling them to complete PhD supervision and remain active in departmental activities.
 Buck, Haskins, Peixoto, and Scheichl retained 0.2 FTE appointments concurrent to their
 appointments at Duke University (Buck and Haskins), the Central European University
 (Peixoto) and Ruprecht-Karls-Universität Heidelberg (Scheichl). These part-time
 appointments are based on substantial continuing PhD supervision or participation in ongoing
 research grants.
 Britton, Burton, Galaktionov, Logemann, Ryan, A. Spence, and G. Smith retired.
 Recruitment process: During the REF period the Unit has reviewed its recruitment and
 appointment procedures to ensure they are transparent and merit-based, fair and inclusive.
 Job adverts are carefully worded to be maximally inclusive, and widely disseminated. All
 adverts have both a male and female point of enquiry listed. Hiring committees are expected
 to reach out to minority candidates via all available channels, and this is monitored by the
 Department’s Equality and Diversity Committee. Large numbers of excellent applications are
 typical (e.g., advertisements for lecturer/senior lecturer routinely receive over 100 applicants).
 Members of the Unit are actively engaged in the inclusive hiring procedure: the shortlisting
 panels are large, with early-career staff actively involved. The whole Department is invited to
 provide comments at the shortlisting stage and to attend interview talks and provide feedback
 to the interview panel afterwards. Interviewees are invited to visit for at least a full day; they
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 are assigned a local host who, in consultation with the candidate, arranges meetings with a
 range of staff members.
 Succession planning: Leaving senior staff are replaced by growing existing staff into
 leadership roles and by directly hiring outstanding academics as professors, as evidenced
 above. The Unit places a particular emphasis on enabling career progression to build
 leadership profiles. For example, over the REF period both E. Spence and Rogers have been
 promoted from lecturer to professor.
 PDRAs: Suitable PDRA candidates are competitively recruited with a process that includes
 an interview with a panel that reflects the diversity of the department.

 STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 Focus is on enhancing and strengthening the research profile of existing staff. Excellent
 people management is championed and embedded in the department culture, through annual
 appraisals, transparent promotion criteria, and effective workload allocation.
 Welcome and Mentoring: All new staff are assigned a mentor who helps them integrate into
 the Department and the University. For probationary lecturers, mentors additionally provide
 support in University reviews and career development. PDRAs are allocated to research
 groups, and encouraged to participate in all departmental activities, such as seminar series
 and ITTs.
 New academics are encouraged to develop their research by a variety of mechanisms. This
 includes zero teaching load for at least two years for Prize Fellows, two years of 50%
 teaching load for lecturers, plus light or no administrative duties. Tailored start-up packages
 for all appointments include travel and equipment costs and University-funded PhD
 studentships to commence within their first two years.
 All staff are supported when preparing research grants or fellowship proposals. As well as
 general mentoring by the Director of Research, experienced members of research groups act
 as expert mentors helping early-career researchers with drafts and the understanding of the
 review process.
 Research support: The Unit aims to allow staff as much uninterrupted research time as
 possible, and workload is monitored annually to ensure that this is achieved within the
 balance of teaching and administration commitments. A typical teaching load is two courses
 per year for staff without other significant duties (research or management). The Department
 has a mechanism to provide travel support for permanent members of staff.
 Training: Probationary lecturers receive guidance during their three-year probation, which
 includes annual strategic discussions on research directions, research support and funding,
 informal peer feedback from teaching observations, participation in the Bath Course in
 Enhancing Academic Practice (a work-based course for lecturers and teaching fellows that
 enables participants to gain a teaching qualification and become fellows of the Higher
 Education Academy).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 All staff including PDRAs are encouraged to participate in SAMBa’s ITTs, many do: more
 than half of the members of the UoA have participated in at least one ITT. ITTs provide the
 opportunity to form collaborative research relationships with colleagues in the Unit and
 external partners. This is a valuable experience for all career stages, but particularly helps
 those early in their academic career grow their experience and reach.
 Promotion: The Departmental promotion procedure has been redesigned completely in the
 last three years with the introduction of a Departmental Promotion Committee (DPC),
 involving representatives from all career stages. The DPC proactively identifies candidates
 through annual review of CVs rather than relying on self-nomination. The promotion pathways
 recognise the full range of researchers’ contributions to the department (research, teaching,
 leadership). Candidates identified by DPC are supported through the promotion process, with
 mentoring from senior staff.
 Sabbatical scheme: Members of the Unit have the opportunity to apply for a six-month
 sabbatical every three years. Individuals (including part-time) are encouraged by mentors and
 the Head of Department to consider applying when appropriate. Twelve members applied to
 the University’s sabbatical scheme in the REF period and all applications were successful. In
 addition, the Department can arrange teaching flexibly to allow for semesters in which staff
 can focus on research without teaching obligations.

 POSTGRADUATE ACTIVITY AND SUPPORT
 The PhD student body is growing substantially with 92 awarded degrees in this REF period,
 compared to 63 in the previous period. 21 of the 92 were awarded within the last year and
 this upward trajectory is expected to continue. Currently there are around 120 PhD students
 as part of the department.
 SAMBa: The EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Statistical Applied Mathematics
 (SAMBa) fuses research in statistics, stochastics and computation in industrial and applied
 mathematics. The goal of the centre is to prepare PhD graduates to work in either industry or
 academia, in an environment which brings together big models and big data. So far,
 graduates from SAMBa are following careers in industry and academia in roughly equal
 numbers.
 An important feature of SAMBa is providing PhD students with the ability to distil industrial
 and interdisciplinary problems into mathematical ones and solve them. This is delivered
 through Integrative Think Tanks (ITTs), pioneered by SAMBa. These week-long workshops
 focus on the formulation of mathematical questions arising from high-level challenges set by
 external partners and the development of the approach to be worked on by small teams of
 academics, partners and PhD students.
 ITTs draw in partners and cement deep, long-term relationships through the co-creation and
 co-supervision of PhD projects. 27 PhD projects have been generated in this way
 (Airbus/N12, AVL, BT (3 projects), Department of Chemical Engineering, Diamond Light
 Source, DNV GL, Environment Agency (2), GKN (3), Met Office, NHS, NPL, Novartis, Roche
 (2), Schlumberger (3), Syngenta (2), Wood (3)) with others still in preparation. 18 are co-
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 funded by these companies (£720K). In reaction to the COVID-19 pandemic, ITT12 in
 collaboration with Novartis and Rolls-Royce was successfully delivered online.
 SAMBa students work with academics during their first year to scope their own PhD research,
 which they then pursue in years two to four. This is often designed in collaboration with
 supervisors from other departments or industry partners, with approximately 40% of SAMBa
 students having a co-supervisor outside of the Unit.
 Recruitment of doctoral research students: The Unit receives of the order of 130 PhD
 applications (~40% from outside of the UK) for roughly 25 PhD places each year. It attracts
 students from top UK and international institutions, and most are supported on fully funded
 studentships from the University (~34%) or UKRI (~55%). PhD students are supported by:
 SAMBa (~50%), the University as part of start-up packages for new members of staff or as
 support for large grants, EPSRC DTP, Royal Society, Leverhulme, EPSRC Case Awards, and
 foreign government scholarships. A number of PhDs (currently 8) receive matched funding
 from industry partners to deliver collaborative research. Some students (1-2 per year) self-
 fund.
 Potential doctoral research students submit applications through a University application
 system. The recruitment process is managed by the Unit but overseen by the Doctoral
 College which has a Code of Practice for the recruitment, selection and admission of
 students. All applicants are assessed on their academic achievement, their understanding of
 the research, and their self-motivation. Excellence is the primary criterion. Diversity (across all
 protected characteristics) in the PhD cohort is valued as a more diverse cohort leads to more
 creativity and a better environment.
 Monitoring and support: To nurture a supportive and non-hierarchical environment, a
 dedicated Director of Studies oversees the PhD student body and supports administrative
 processes, as well as delivering pastoral care. There is a tailored induction programme
 (including specialist software training delivered by existing PhD students), and there is
 information on progression, skills training, suspension (for health, parental leave, internships),
 mental health resources, careers advice etc. on a dedicated Moodle page.
 A review and monitoring system is in place to identify potential problems early on and provide
 support to students and supervisors. Students submit six-monthly progress reports and must
 perform satisfactorily in a confirmation examination part way through their programme.
 PhD researchers who need to suspend for ill-health or personal reasons maintain contact with
 supervisors, the DoS, and/or the SAMBa team and, upon return, have the support they need,
 including the option to work part-time.
 The University runs a range of specialist support departments, including a public engagement
 unit, library services, high performance computing, and careers support which includes 1:1
 support sessions.
 PhD training and skills development: There are many advanced level courses available,
 including those offered by the EPSRC-funded Taught Course Centre, shared between Bath,
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Bristol, Imperial, Oxford and Warwick, and through enrolment on the Academy for PhD
 Training in Statistics. The department offers around 20-25 “reading courses” each year.
 Students are strongly encouraged to participate in research seminars and the numerous
 scientific events organised by the Unit (see section 4). Several of the events held during the
 REF period were aimed specifically at early-career researchers, for example the conference
 GAeL (Géométrie Algébrique en Liberté) 2017, the Summer School on Probabilistic and
 Statistical Methods for Networks 2017 (joint between SAMBa, the Berlin Mathematical School
 and WIAS, and held in Berlin), or the LMS Probability Research School in 2019.
 During training which leads to an MRes in their first year, SAMBa students choose their
 supervisors, and write a thesis formulation report to set the context and scope of their
 intended PhD research. Part of the training is participation in ITTs, to which all departmental
 PhD students are invited.
 The Doctoral College offers training courses in fundamental skills (presentation,
 entrepreneurship, writing papers, managing data, etc.) which are available to all PhD
 students, including visitors. The Unit offers training, delivered by the academic faculty and
 other PhD researchers, for example in parallel computing (SAMBa researchers have
 dedicated access to the University’s HPC) and modern software development practices,
 writing maths, using github, and introducing programming languages (R, Matlab, Python).
 Student-led activities: The PhD cohort has a strong sense of collective identity. They
 support each other in research, in developing skills in organising conferences, seminars,
 workshops, away days, and social activities, as well as on a personal level. There is an active
 SIAM-IMA Chapter and student organisers (Green, Robinson, Pembery, Sabaté
 Landman) have won Certificates of Recognition from SIAM over the last three years for their
 contribution to the chapter activities. All these activities have continued during the COVID-19
 pandemic, successfully moving to online delivery.
 Secondments: Many PhD researchers take up placements or internships with industry,
 funded by the host. Companies who have hosted students in the last two years include BT,
 HSBC, Mango Solutions, G-Research, Cytel, Roche, Mediatek, and Cummins Turbo. There is
 also the opportunity to spend time in academic institutions (including MIT (US), National
 Informatics Institute (Tokyo), the Alan Turing Institute (UK), Emory (US), Bonn (Germany)),
 usually with additional costs shared between the Unit and the host. Communication with
 supervisory teams is maintained throughout the time the student is away.

 COMMITMENT TO EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 The Unit is a vibrant and diverse community of academics, PDRAs and PhD students, with
 more than twenty-five nationalities. Since the previous REF exercise, it has invested
 considerable effort in the promotion of equality, diversity and inclusion (ED&I), with very
 positive results. The Unit has shown substantial increases in the number of female staff and
 PhD students, and progress towards gender equality was recognised by the award of Athena
 SWAN bronze in 2016 and silver in 2019. The department is regularly highlighted by staff and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PhD students as being a supportive place to work. In the 2018 staff survey, 94% of staff
 agreed with the statement “my department has a positive working culture”.
 Based on the success of the ITT model, and the observation that they promote an open and
 inclusive environment for diverse participants, the Unit successfully led an application in
 collaboration with the Department of Psychology to EPSRC’s Inclusion Matters scheme
 resulting in the award of the “Reimagining Recruitment” grant (£533K) in 2018. The funding
 enables the department to run a highly ambitious research programme, which explores staff-
 student interactions in collaborative environments, and identifies lessons for recruitment and
 retention.
 Departmental ED&I efforts are led by the Department Equality and Diversity Committee
 (DEDC), the membership of which includes staff at all levels, including PDRA and support
 staff, as well as PhD and undergraduate students. The Department is supported by the
 University-wide Equality and Diversity Network, which also serves as a route to dissemination
 of good practice (for example, the Code of Conduct for events developed by Maths in 2018
 has been widely shared with other departments).
 New hiring procedures and search committee guidance include a targeted search for
 excellent female candidates. Since 2014, 35% of new appointments have been female, and
 the number of female staff in the department has doubled from nine (13%) to 18 (21%). The
 first two female mathematicians were appointed as professor in the Unit in 2018. Grouping
 available positions and advertising them simultaneously has greatly increased the possibility
 of applicants with partner considerations.
 Similar success has been achieved in diversifying PhD student intake. Promotional materials
 and interview processes have equality and inclusion in mind; applicants visit the department
 in groups and are invited to meet with a broad cross-section of staff and students. Evidence
 of the increasing diversity of the PhD student cohort is to be seen in the proportion of female
 students which, since 2014, has risen from 22%, to a steady state of around 30% above the
 national average of 28%. Meaningful data on other diverse characteristics is not available.
 Both staff and PGR students returning after extended periods of leave receive individual
 support from line managers or supervisors. This may include reduced workloads for staff and,
 where appropriate, a phased return with hours increasing to an agreed level over a period of
 weeks or months. PDRAs and PhDs receive the same option of returning to their standard
 working pattern by building up workload over time.
 The UoA had a transparent process in place to select outputs for the REF submission. Staff
 involved in the output selection undertook appropriate ED&I training to ensure they were
 mindful of unconscious bias. At the start of the exercise each member of the UoA was invited
 to propose up to seven pieces of published research and each was assessed independently
 by at least two referees within the UoA. Where it was deemed that there was not sufficient
 expertise within the UoA, external referees were consulted. As the exercise progressed, staff
 were periodically invited, to propose new submissions. The final selection reflects the
 diversity of the department; for example, 15% of the research outputs (24 of 162
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 submissions) and one of five (20%) Impact Case Studies were proposed by female members
 of staff (13.7% of staff submitted).



 Section 3. Income infrastructure and facilities

 GRANT INCOME
 The Unit has significantly increased research funding during the REF 2021 assessment
 period to £13.5M compared to £5M in the REF 2014 period. The largest funders are EPSRC
 (£8.3M, 32 grants), and the Royal Society (£3M, 21 grants).
 The Unit has secured a Royal Society Research Professorship (del Pino, £1.2M) and holds
 £1M of a Simons Collaboration “Special Holonomy in Geometry, Analysis and Physics”
 (Haskins and Nordström). The Unit has been particularly successful at winning fellowships;
 having secured eighteen fellowships during the period, which range from large awards for
 established staff, to support for postdoctoral visitors from overseas or industry. Six from the
 Royal Society (including University Research Fellowships for Roberts and Rogers), seven
 from EPSRC (Cherednichenko, Cooper, Stauffer, Dolgov, Karmazyn, Mailler and E. Spence),
 two from both NERC (Ashby and Prosdocimi) and the Leverhulme Trust (Ehrhardt and
 Constable), and one from the Heilbronn Institute (Aldrich). There has also been direct industry
 funding (£500K) for research including from Mayden House Ltd (InnovateUK Knowledge
 Transfer Partnership of £164K to T. Smith) and EDF (Wood, £100K).

 RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE
 Institute for Mathematical Innovation (IMI): IMI was established by the University in 2015 to
 deliver mathematically grounded research with links to real-world, societal and industrial
 challenges; it has been led by academics from the UoA since its establishment. The
 University makes a substantial annual investment (~£400K) in academic and administrative
 posts. The IMI was highlighted in the Bond Review as an example for good practice in
 knowledge exchange (see section 4).
 The backbone of IMI activity is delivered by postdoctoral level researchers known as
 Mathematical Innovation Research Associates (MIRAs) (previously Commercial Research
 Associates). MIRAs are a key innovation for delivery of mathematical impact: a team
 dedicated to working on mathematics that enables impact in academic disciplines or the
 commercial sector (three full-time contracts). MIRAs provide an agile and flexible resource
 that meets a variety of application needs.
 IMI provides a mechanism for Bath to provide consultancy in the mathematical sciences to
 companies (e.g., Airbus, PepsiCo), and support large grant applications from other
 departments (in e.g., dynamic engine modelling (Burke, funded by InnovateUK) and building
 energy design (Natarajan, funded by EPSRC)). It provides an entry point for further and
 longer-term strategic engagement with UK and overseas government policy (funding from
 Unicef, Carnegie Corporation).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In collaboration with the Department and SAMBa, IMI has managed a summer internships
 scheme for around 15 undergraduates per year. These stimulate research within the Unit and
 generate collaborations with other research groups. IMI Public Lectures (each over 100
 attendees) have been given by Andrew Blake, Ottoline Leyser, and Tadashi Tokieda.
 Looking towards the next REF period, IMI will also embed success of the SAMBa model,
 which has demonstrated the benefit of a broad training with access to industrial and applied
 research, and the Unit’s established relationship with external partners to develop a Centre
 for Post-Doctoral Training in Applied Mathematics.
 University Research Centre engagement: Members of the Unit actively collaborate with
 research institutes across the University, including:
    -   The Institute for Advanced Automotive Propulsion (IAAPS), a £70M institute funded by
        the West of England Combined Authority, the West of England Local Enterprise
        Partnership, Research England, and the University of Bath. It delivers research,
        innovation, enterprise and education for the future automotive industry. Nunes,
        Milewski, and T. Smith have research collaborations with IAAPS through PhD
        research projects, and Budd is co-I on the CDT within the Institute.
    -   The Institute for Policy Research (IPR), which conducts research which leads to
        influence on government policy and decision-making. Faraway, T. Smith, and Kyprianou
        have worked with IPR in exploring public health strategy in relation to air pollution in the
        UK and worldwide. To support this, IPR funded a three-month internship for a Maths
        PhD student, committed time (0.1 FTE over 12 months) of two research associates, the
        expertise of one professor (Barnett), and paid travel costs, to deliver capacity building
        activities in Mongolia. A relationship between Kyprianou and the UK Government’s
        Cabinet Office was facilitated by IPR and supported by secondment funding.
    -   The Milner Centre for Evolution, a cross-faculty research centre bridging biology, health,
        and education with a mission to perform fundamental evolutionary research. It provides
        a focal point for the interaction between mathematical biologists from the Unit and
        experimental biologists. Over the REF period Buck and Ashby have been strongly
        involved in joint research with the centre, including supervision of PhD students and
        PDRAs.

 Infrastructure provision and facilities: The Unit occupies two adjacent buildings in the centre
 of the University campus. There is a social space, some small kitchen areas, a meeting room,
 and an 80-seat lecture theatre. There is bookable University space based within the Maths
 buildings, including two more lecture rooms, and a large atrium for public events.
 During the Covid-19 disruption, whilst delivering teaching and research activities in a socially
 distanced and safe environment, the Unit has been given sole use of the lecture rooms, along
 with priority access to the University’s largest lecture theatre. Through SAMBa, a large space
 in the city centre has been booked two days a week, allowing staff and PhD students to meet
 safely in small research groups.
 High performance computing (HPC): Throughout the REF period Bath ran its own High-
 Performance Cluster, “Balena". Balena has over 3500 CPU cores and several high-end GPU
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 nodes, from investments totalling over £1.8M. Balena was essential in delivering the research
 underlying Müller’s impact case study. Researchers in the Unit have also made use of the
 Tier-2 regional supercomputer ISAMBARD, and the UK supercomputing service ARCHER.
 Library: Academics and students in the Unit have full access to the library which has a
 collection of over 270,000 printed books, over 350,000 e-books (among them more than
 46,000 printed and 11,000 e-books subject specific to Mathematics), more than 110,000
 academic journals (1,300 subject specific), and more than 100 subscription electronic
 databases across all disciplines.



 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As a large department with an outward looking and successful research strategy, the Unit
 makes important contributions to the infrastructure, globalisation, impact, dissemination, and
 sustainability of the discipline. In additional to the natural collaborations that develop between
 individual researchers and groups, the Unit actively plans, supports and delivers sustained
 engagement with academic, industrial and government entities across all fields in the UK and
 overseas.

 RESEARCH COLLABORATIONS AND NETWORKS
 The Unit actively engages with academic and non-academic institutions in the UK and
 overseas. Highlights during this REF period include:
    -   Events at Bath: The LMS Symposia, previously held in Durham, were awarded to Bath
        and first events were held in 2020. The Unit has hosted several large international
        conferences including BAMC 2019.
    -   International collaborations: more than 60% of research papers published by members
        of the Unit (Scopus 2016-2020) had international co-authors. The Unit has hosted
        long term visitors of high calibre through the University’s David Parkin and Global
        Chair programmes.
    -   Interdisciplinary and industry collaboration: Members of the UoA have co-authored
        171 papers and co-supervised 19 PhD projects with researchers from other
        disciplines, and secured 26 inter-disciplinary grants. 18 SAMBa PhD projects were
        developed in collaboration with industry partners and government agencies and
        funded jointly.
    -   Global challenges: The UoA has built a large number of partnerships with the
        developing world with specific training components for local stakeholders to ensure
        sustainability of impact.

 Bath-based research activities: Following an open call in 2018, the LMS awarded their
 series (formerly the Durham Symposia) to Bath as host. The Bath Symposia are structured in
 a newly designed format, with events over two or three weeks combining a traditional
 workshop or school format, with collaborative research events (“incubators”), or courses
 (summer schools) to integrate early-career researchers. The first Bath LMS Symposia ran in
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2020. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the two symposia “Mathematics of Machine Learning”
 and “PDEs and Randomness” were delivered partially and online with high attendances (over
 450 and 150 sustained participants, respectively). The 2021 Symposia, awarded after a
 competitive call, are in Algebraic Geometry and K-Theory.
 In recent years, the Unit has hosted many large, international events, notably the International
 Conference on Scientific Computation and Differential Equations (SciCADE) in 2017 with
 approximately 350 participants, the 138th European Study Group with Industry in 2018 with
 approximately 100 participants, and BAMC 2019 with approximately 400 participants.
 The Unit is instrumental in delivering broader research networks, including the COW
 algebraic geometry seminar series and the biennial Bath-Paris-Beijing meetings in branching
 structures.
 International collaboration: As with any leading department, members of this Unit
 collaborate and publish with scientists from distinguished institutions worldwide, including
 MIT, Courant, Princeton, Berkley, ETH, National University of Singapore, Paris, Columbia,
 Toronto, Michigan, Peking, UBC, EPFL, Washington, and Cornell.
 The University’s David Parkin Professorship scheme (typically two awards per year) enables
 leading international researchers to spend several months collaborating with colleagues in
 Bath. In addition to travel and subsistence, the scheme provides campus accommodation,
 including for families if required. Mathematics received six awards during the REF period. The
 visitors were Prof. Andre Nachbin (IMPA Brazil), Prof. Kaushik Dayal (Carnegie Mellon), Prof.
 Esteban Tabak (Courant Institute), Prof. Vladas Sidoravicius (Courant and NYU Shanghai),
 Prof. Juan Carlos Pardo Millán (CIMAT Mexico) and Prof. Milton Jara (IMPA Brazil).
 In this REF period, the University initiated a new Global Chairs Programme, designed to
 attract distinguished international visiting professors to engage in high-profile research and
 networking activities at Bath. Again, Mathematics has been particularly successful in securing
 three appointments to date, hosting Prof. Jim Zidek (University of British Columbia), Prof.
 Colin Fox (University of Otago) and Prof. Ramsés Mena Chávez (Universidad Nacional
 Autónoma de México).
 Mexican network: Bath is actively developing mathematical research links with partners in
 Mexico through the Bath-UNAM-CIMAT (BUC) research platform, which was initiated in 2015
 to foster research collaboration. To date it has attracted £420K of funding from the Newton
 Fellowship scheme, the Royal Society, EPSRC, UUKi, and University internationalisation
 competitions, enabling the delivery of 18 collaborative workshops which have led to more
 than 15 articles, and four joint PhD supervisions. Bath has hosted three postdoctoral visitors
 and two high-profile professors (listed above). The profile of the platform has also brought six
 Mexican PhD students to the Department, funded through CONACyT, with additional support
 from the University of Bath.
 High level agreements: Several Mathematical collaborations have been formalised as
 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs), signed at University level. These enable the delivery
 of collaborative research, training and strategic initiatives, e.g., through the provision of data
 or the exchange of people. MoUs are in place with: UNAM (Mexico), CONACyT (Mexico),
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 IMPA (Brazil), UNICEF Mongolia, National University of Mongolia, National Development
 Agency (Mongolia).
 Global challenges: The Unit has embraced the importance of using its research in the context
 of tackling societal challenges in the developing world. To achieve this, members of the Unit
 have been working through the Government’s Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF)
 and related activities, establishing collaborations with Mongolia (GCRF funding from
 University, Research England, EPSRC), Paraguay (seed funding from University, World
 Bank), Ghana (GCRF funding from University, Research England), Nigeria and South Africa
 (GCRF funding from UKRI) and supporting the creation of an Africa-UK network for
 collaborative research in applied algebraic and arithmetic geometry (GCRF funding from
 EPSRC).
 Following successful recruitment and support of a Schlumberger Foundation Faculty for the
 Future PhD student, the Foundation is piloting an innovative postdoctoral programme which
 will fund women in STEM from developing countries to collaborate with the Unit, including
 reciprocal visits. The first positions start in 2021 and the Unit expects that this will lead to
 three postdoctoral researchers joining the department from Rwanda, Botswana, and Ghana,
 with research collaborations developing between Bath and the home institutions.
 International ITT programme: SAMBa has recently begun a programme of delivering ITTs in
 collaboration with overseas partners. The first of these took place in Mexico in 2019, with over
 60 participants (staff and PhD students) from Bath, UNAM and CIMAT and partners Samsung
 Mexico and two Mexican Government agencies. A follow-up ITT, likely to be on-line, is
 scheduled in Mexico with the Disaster Management agency in May 2021, bringing in
 expertise in Artificial Intelligence and Social Policy.
 An ITT-style event was delivered in Ulaanbaatar, in collaboration with the University of Bath’s
 Institute for Policy Research and the National University of Mongolia (NUM) in 2019. This
 brought academics and policy makers together to explore how data-driven modelling could
 influence the strategy for dealing with the city’s crippling effects of air pollution on health. A
 further programme of ITTs is planned with NUM, funded through capacity building grants from
 EPSRC and Research England, and bringing in broader applied science and engineering
 academic expertise.
 Joint ITTs are planned over the next three years with partners at the Centre for Mathematical
 Modelling in Chile, the University of São Paolo, and Universität Heidelberg.
 Inter-disciplinary collaborations: In total, Unit academics have co-authored 171 papers
 with researchers from other disciplines during the REF period. There are 26 inter-disciplinary
 grants (including a £6.5M programme grant led by Bristol Engineering with Scheichl). 19/102
 completed PhD students were co-supervised with colleagues from another department
 (Biology & Biochemistry, Computer Science, Electronic & Electrical Engineering, Mechanical
 Engineering, Physics, Pharmacy & Pharmacology) during the REF period.
 Industrial collaboration: Staff and PhD researchers are offered many opportunities for
 industrial engagement. Over the REF period, the establishment of SAMBa and IMI have
 helped channel and formalise many industrial collaborations, generating new relationships
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 and associated funding. SAMBa has leveraged £785K of funding from industry partners
 (Wood, BT, Schlumberger, Syngenta, Novartis, DNV GL, GKN,) through ITTs, which has
 been matched from the University and EPSRC to create 16 studentships. These projects
 involve committed research co-supervision from the partner organisations. Two EPSRC
 research projects, developed in collaboration with industry partners following ITTs, have been
 supported (£543K awarded with Wood as partner, £707K awarded with Schlumberger as
 partner).
 Short-term research projects in collaboration with industry (e.g. BT, PepsiCo, Airbus) have
 been generated through participation in, and hosting of, European Study Groups with
 Industry, through research projects of the MSc in Modern Applications of Mathematics (at
 least 50 including with the Met Office, BT, Barclays, Nationwide, Tesco, DSTL, Schlumberger,
 Emmerson Oil, Qinetiq, Quintessa, Airbus, Mondelez, BAe systems, Raytheon, DNV GL,
 CraftyTech, CCFRA, National Grid, EDF, PHE, PepsiCo, Scott-Bader), and through
 consultancy activity with IMI (Atlas Genetics, Tokio Millennium Re, PepsiCo, Airbus, Western
 Power Distribution, AS Watson, Zenith Global) . A large KTP project (T. Smith) has been
 funded by Mayden House and InnovateUK. IMI engagement and consultancy has led to
 partners participating in SAMBa ITTs (Syngenta, PepsiCo and Willis Towers Watson).
 Collaboration with governments and agencies: Diamond Light Source and NPL have co-
 funded PhDs following participation in ITTs. The Met Office contributes to a NERC DTP
 studentship developed from an ITT idea. As a result of the ITT in which they participated, the
 Environment Agency supports two PhD projects in the Unit through data and co-supervision
 and contributed data and funding to help leverage a NERC fellowship (Prosdocimi). The
 Paraguayan Ministry of Development participated in one of SAMBa’s ITTs resulting in a
 training camp run by SAMBa students in the Ministry two months later. This led to the
 successful application for further funding from the World Bank (US$150,000)) to run a series
 of training activities involving department staff and students.
 Collaboration with other bodies: Bath hosted a Heilbronn fellow (Aldridge) whose work on
 group testing, was listed as a Heilbronn Highlight Paper. Interaction with the Alan Turing
 Institute includes PhD placements (Gianluca Detommaso and Lizhi Zhang each spent a year
 at the Institute via the Turing Enrichment Scheme).
 Contributions to economy and society: Study groups and similar: Through Budd, and IMI,
 Bath is heavily involved in delivering and participating in study groups with industry. Staff and
 PhD students participate in the events and have continued to do so online in the last few
 months. In its first five years, IMI was partnered to the European MI-NET grant, which hosted
 a number of study groups around Europe, including at Bath. A team of four PhD students won
 the first in a series of NERC hackathons addressing the impact of COVID-19 on the
 environment.
 Members of the Unit were heavily involved (four academic staff out of 30 participants) in a
 collaborative workshop delivered with Bath and North East Somerset Council (Public Health
 and Transport teams), and the Bath community, exploring how to mitigate the health effects
 of air pollution in Bath. Research collaborations from this workshop have continued, funded
 by the UKRI strategic priorities fund.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT AND OUTREACH
 The Unit delivers exceptional public engagement linked to mathematical research, as
 demonstrated by Budd’s Impact Case Study; Budd received an OBE for his contributions in
 this area, to add to that already awarded to G. Smith (MBE).
 The Unit delivers outreach and public engagement activities such as Bath Taps into Science
 (a four-day annual science festival), Royal Institution Masterclasses (six per year), and
 Bathematicians (a local schools’ programme), which involve staff and PhD students. These
 activities are supported by the University’s Public Engagement Unit and Widening
 Participation Office, which provide specialised training and vital structure and connections.
 Engagement with a wide variety of audiences and engagement activity is coordinated by an
 Outreach Committee which seeks opportunities and supports staff keen to present their work
 to a public audience (e.g., presenting at New Scientist Live, contributing to the Radio 4 Today
 quiz, writing for The Conversation, working with artists (Jean Baynham, Leonie Bradley and
 Silvia Rimat) to conceptualise mathematical ideas into works of art, including displays at
 Bath’s Holbourne museum).
 Budd was the Gresham Professor of Geometry from 2016 to 2020, giving six research level
 talks in applied mathematics per year, and is now a Gresham Fellow. Budd was also Chair of
 the UK Mathematics Trust and is Professor of Mathematics at the Royal Institution. He has
 won prizes from the Joint Policy Board for Mathematics from all USA societies in recognition
 of his impact in communicating mathematics.
 G. Smith was the leader of the UK International Mathematics Olympiad team from 2002 to
 2010 and took on the role again from 2013 to 2019. In 2019, the University of Bath hosted the
 hugely successful International Mathematics Olympiad, organised by Smith, and welcoming
 621 competitors from 112 countries.
 In 2019 Yates launched a popular book based on his work in mathematical biology: ‘The
 Maths of Life and Death’. During the first year of the Covid-19 pandemic, Yates has been a
 vocal proponent for of the use of mathematical modelling to inform policy in the media and
 has appeared on mainstream outlets (Sky News, BBC R4, BBC World, BBC News, Huffington
 Post, Daily Mail, Telegraph, Guardian, Wired, Daily Express, Radio 5 Live, Talk Radio, LBC,
 Panorama) describing the need for appropriate modelling of the virus, and the importance of
 critically analysing and interpreting advice. As a consequence, Yates was invited to join
 independent SAGE, which is made up of members of the scientific community offering
 independent analysis to SAGE (Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies) and the
 government.

 CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABILITY OF THE DISCIPLINE
 Knowledge Exchange: The department is recognised as playing a leading role in knowledge
 exchange (KE). EPSRC’s Bond Review “The Era of Mathematics” stated: “The University of
 Bath provides a good example of the embedding of a specialised KE function that works
 alongside a Mathematics CDT and engages across a wide range of academic disciplines
 within the university as well as SMEs in the Bath region”. The Bond review also noted “Funds
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 should be made available for regional KE centres and/or thematic KE networks following
 successful models such as the Turing Gateway to Mathematics, the UK fluids network
 (ERCOFTAC), the University of Bath’s IMI and the University of Oxford’s OCIAM”.
 Response to COVID-19 pandemic: The Unit reacted quickly and positively to the challenges
 posed by the pandemic in the following ways.
 One World seminars: Within weeks of the UK moving into lockdown, Kyprianou with a
 colleague at Mannheim, established the One World Probability Series, an online platform for
 research seminars, workshops, and schools in probability theory. At its peak, the seminars
 were attracting an audience of over 400 participants worldwide and the initiative is now
 supported by the Bernoulli Society and the Institute of Mathematical Statistics. The success of
 the series and the broad promotion quickly led to over 20 new One World series in
 mathematics being established worldwide, several of which are organised from the Unit.
 Knowledge Exchange: Budd was a founder member of V-KEMS, the Virtual Forum for
 Knowledge Exchange in the Mathematical Sciences, formed with the intention of tackling
 COVID-19 and COVID-19-related problems through the organisation of virtual workshops
 (VSGs) consisting of mathematicians and others, including users. Studies have included
 exploration of how to facilitate return to work and higher education, and food security. The
 outcomes of these VSGs are published on a website and promoted to UK Government and
 the media.
 Ingram Olkin Forum Series: Jennison and Bartlett are two of the five main members of the
 organising committee of the (US) National Institute of Statistical Sciences’ Unplanned Clinical
 Trial Disruptions forum, which brings together leaders from government agencies, clinical trial
 practitioners, and expert methodological statisticians. The purpose of these meetings is to
 identify open research questions and establish working groups to tackle the challenges in
 continuing clinical trials, given the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
 University Calls to Arms: In June 2020, the University instigated two sandpit type events,
 focused on developing inter-disciplinary submissions to the UKRI COVID-19 fund. They were
 run over a series of weeks and were designed to develop new collaborations between
 academics across the University. Kyprianou was part of the leadership team driving the
 initiatives and departmental academics were actively involved. The activities resulted in
 submission of eight grants totalling £7.4M, five with investigators from the Unit.
 RAMP: members of the Unit (Trinh, Milewski, Budd, plus five PhD students) were selected to
 take part in the Royal Society’s Rapid Assistance in Modelling the Pandemic (RAMP) initiative
 in 2020, working on environmental and aerosol transmission. This delivered a report which
 will be published in Proceedings of the Royal Society, and at least two further publications.
 One PhD student (Llambias Johnson) has been awarded a UKRI internship with the UK
 Government’s Office for Science, building on his experience with RAMP.

 CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE
 The Unit's contributions to the research base are extensive including editorial duties in over
 25 top journals, organisation of over 10 large conferences and a large number of workshops
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 at recognised international centres, leadership and active participation in learned societies,
 advisory bodies to funding agencies, and steering committees discipline wide. High profile
 plenary lectures and long-term visiting positions are further indication of the Unit’s research
 reach.
 Journal editorship: The following journals have or had main editors/editor in chiefs at Bath:
 Acta Applicandae Mathematicae (Kyprianou), Discrete and Continuous Dynamical Systems A
 (del Pino), Electronic Journal of Probability (Kyprianou), Journal of the London Mathematical
 Society (Haskins).
 There are or were numerous associate editorships and board memberships including for the
 following 25 journals which are listed as A* or A on the Journal ranking for the ARC: Annals of
 Applied Probability (Penrose), Annals of Probability (Jarai), Annales d’IHP (Weber),
 Biometrics (Bartlett), Biostatistics (Bartlett), Calculus of Variations and Partial Differential
 Equations (del Pino), Discrete and Continuous Dynamical Systems A (Dávila, Musso, Weber),
 IMA Journal of Applied Mathematics (Milewski), Journal of Elasticity (Sivaloganathan),
 Journal of Engineering Mathematics (Milewski), Journal of Mathematical Analysis and
 Applications (Musso), Journal of Theoretical Biology (Ashby, White), LMS journals (Craw, del
 Pino), Mathematics of Computation (Graham), Nonlinear Analysis (Dávila), Philosophical
 Transactions of the Royal Society A (Milewski), Physica D (Dawes), Proceedings of the Royal
 Society of London A (Zimmer), Scandinavian Journal of Statistics (Jennison), SIAM Journal
 on Matrix Analysis and Applications (Freitag), SIAM Journal on Numerical Analysis (Scheichl),
 SIAM Journal on Scientific Computing (Scheichl, Shardlow), SIAM Review (Budd, Graham),
 Stochastic Processes and their Applications (Weber), Studies in Applied Mathematics
 (Milewski). Staff are also on editorial boards of top journals in other disciplines such as IEEE
 Transactions on Automatic Control (Opmeer).
 Prizes: Prizes and honours awarded to members of the Unit in this REF period include:
 Erdös-Rényi Prize 2019 (Peixoto), Oberwolfach John Todd Award 2019 (E. Spence),
 Philip Leverhulme Prize 2017 (Weber), Rollo Davidson Prize 2016 (Weber), Thomas
 Henry Huxley Award and Marsh Prize 2014 (Ashby), Lee Segel Prize for Best Paper 2014-
 2016, Society for Mathematical Biology (Rogers), three Wolfson Research Merit Awards
 (Dávila, Kyprianou, Zimmer). Budd was awarded the LMS Prize for Communicating
 Mathematics (2015), the IMA Dedicated Service Award 2015 and the 2020 JPBM (Joint
 Policy Board for Mathematics, between AMS, MAA, SIAM, ASA) Communications Award.
 Majumdar received the 2015 LMS Anne Bennett Prize and in 2019 the FDM Everywoman in
 Technology Academic Award. An OBE was awarded in 2017 to Budd for services to
 mathematics and science education.
 Membership of Research Council or similar committees: Members of the Unit are heavily
 involved with the mathematical sciences research infrastructures in the UK:
 EPSRC: Dawes chairs the Mathematical Sciences Strategic Advisory Team (SAT). Member
 of SAT have also included Milewski (2013-2016) and Sankaran (since 2020). Dawes is a
 member of the Advisory Board for the Additional Funding Programme in Mathematical
 Sciences.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 LMS: Early Career Research Committee (Roy, since 2020), Education Committee (White,
 2014-2020), Research Grants Committee (Zimmer, since 2020), Women in Mathematics
 Committee (Buck).
 IMA: Vice-President (Budd, until 2015).
 SIAM: Graham, Elected President of UK and Republic of Ireland Section of SIAM (2017-19),
 Freitag, Elected Vice Chair of SIAM Activity Group on Linear Algebra (2019-2021), Freitag,
 Elected Program Director of SIAM Activity Group on Linear Algebra (2016-2018), Scheichl
 Member of Membership committee (2014-2019).
 Royal Statistical Society: Chair of the Research Section (Jennison, 2013-2015).
 ICMS: Majumdar, Milewski and Sankaran serve on the Programme Committee.
 Other roles include Secretary of the RSS Applied Probability section (Cox, 2019), Elected
 membership of the Executive Committee of the International Society for Clinical Biostatistics
 (Bartlett, 2020), UKMT Chair (Budd, 2016-2019), Royal Society Research Grants Board
 Physical Sciences (Dawes, 2013-2018), Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition
 Committee (Dawes, 2012-2015), membership of the Global Challenges Research Funding
 Strategic Advisory Group (Majumdar, since 2018), and Elected President of the International
 Mathematical Olympiad (G. Smith, since 2014).
 Calderbank serves on the REF 2021 panel and Budd and Toland served on the REF 2014
 panel.
 Addresses to international congresses: Every member of the Unit has presented at
 international conferences. Some highlights of keynote addresses at major conferences
 include: Americas Conference on Differential Equations and Nonlinear Analysis, 2015 Buenos
 Aires (Musso), 26th Biennial Conference on Numerical Analysis 2015, Glasgow (Scheichl),
 British Mathematical Colloquium 2018, Morning lecture (Weber), EQUADIFF 2019, Leiden
 (del Pino), 12th European Conference on Numerical Mathematics 2017, Bergen (Scheichl),
 90th GAMM annual meeting 2019, Vienna (Scheichl), Heidelberg Laureate Forum 2019
 (Budd), 20th International Conference on Computational Methods for Water Resources 14
 (Scheichl), 7th International Conference on Differential and Functional Differential Equations
 2014, Moscow (del Pino), IMA Conference on Nonlinearity and Coherent Structures 2019
 (Milewski), 24th International Conference on Domain Decomposition, Svalbard 2017
 (Graham), 10th International Conference on Multiple Comparison Procedures, Riverside 2017
 (Jennison), 14th International Conference on Mathematical and Numerical Aspects of Wave
 Propagation, Vienna 2019 (E. Spence), Mathematical Congress of the Americas 2017,
 Montreal (del Pino), Opening talk at the London Mathematical Society’s Annual General
 Meeting 2018, (del Pino), 3rd Pacific Rim Mathematical Association Congress 2017, Oaxaca
 (del Pino), SANUM Meetings (Milewski, Stellenbosch 2018; Freitag, Pretoria 2019), SIAM
 Conference on Applied Linear Algebra 2015 (Freitag), SIAM Conference on Analysis of
 Partial Differential Equations 2019, La Quinta, USA (del Pino).
 Members of the Unit have delivered more than 60 lectures at international research centres
 including BIRS, CIRM, ICMS, INI, KIAS, MSRI, Oberwolfach, and RIMS.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Visiting professorships: Unit staff have held international visiting positions of at least one
 month in the REF period at Centro de Investigación en Matemáticas (CIMAT) (Kyprianou),
 Instituto de Matematica Pura e Aplicada (IMPA) (Milewski), Universität Heidelberg (Scheichl),
 Université d’Orsay (Weber), Université de Poitiers (Sankaran), Université Paul Sabatier,
 Toulouse (Moser), University of Pennsylvania (Zimmer), WIAS (Penrose).
 Conferences at Bath: As mentioned above, the Unit hosted large conferences including the
 International Conference on Scientific Computation and Differential Equations (SciCADE)
 2017 (Budd, Freitag, Müller, Hill, Shardlow), the 138th European Study Group with Industry
 2018 (Budd), and the British Applied Mathematics Colloquium (BAMC) 2019 (Budd, Dawes,
 Milewski). Additionally, Weber was co-organiser of a four-month programme at the Isaac
 Newton Institute; Freitag and Opmeer were organisers of an LMS Durham Symposium
 (2017); Milewski co-chaired the SIAM Meeting on Nonlinear Waves and Coherent Structures
 2014; Peixoto was co-Chair of the SIAM Workshop on Network Science (NS18). Freitag
 served on the Scientific Committee for the SIAM Applied Linear Algebra Conference (2016-
 18) and was on the organising team of the SIAM UK & Ireland Annual meeting 2015.
 Augustin served as scientific committee member and local organiser for the International
 Workshop on Statistical Modelling (2018). Members of this Unit co-organised a large number
 of additional workshops and conferences, including events at international research centres
 BIRS, ICMS, IPAM, and Oberwolfach.
