Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northumbria at Newcastle

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1. Our Identity and Distinctiveness
 Over the course of the last REF cycle, Newcastle Business School’s (hereafter, the School)
 research has transformed in terms of the volume, quality, range and impact. While this reflects the
 transformation in Northumbria University’s priorities, it also shows the way in which the School
 has restructured both its activities and staff recruitment policies to ensure that research becomes
 a much more prominent dimension of its profile. The transformation has been the result of careful
 planning, infrastructure investment, career development initiatives for colleagues at all levels and
 extensive faculty recruitment. Another key dimension of this work has been a greater emphasis
 on national and international interests, to a large extent reflected in the School’s commitment to
 the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and deep concern with business ethics and corporate
 behaviour. The core themes of our research revolve around the questions: How can we embed
 responsibility in business practice; how can innovation and entrepreneurship reshape regional
 economies; and how can the public sector embrace new ways of working? The School also plays
 a significant role in a city-region challenged by the legacy of de-industrialisation but that is also
 characterised by export-led business, ethical companies, innovative entrepreneurs and a
 commitment to responsive public services. Above all, it wants to be regarded as ‘a force for good’,
 disseminating its research internationally, nationally and regionally.


 1.2. Research Strategy 2014 – 2021
 Supported by University investment, the School aimed to grow both research volume and quality
 and in 2014, set the objective to return two thirds of academic staff to REF2021. A substantial
 increase in research power was stretching but achievable. This objective was informed by our
 performance during REF2014. Our 2014 submission achieved a rise in our GPA from 1.80
 (RAE2008) to 2.54 (REF2014) with the Panel stating that ‘a significant proportion [was]
 internationally excellent or world leading’. However, the feedback from REF2014 also recognised
 that ours was a ‘comparatively small unit’. Emphasising three interdisciplinary Signature Interest
 Groups (SIGs) informed our people strategy (section 2.1), providing critical mass for addressing
 our research questions. Conducting research that achieves sustainable and meaningful change
 for our research partners and stakeholders requires investment in research support (section
 2.1.5), underpinned by appropriate governance structures (section 1.5). It also requires a clear
 strategy for impact through building collaborations with our external partners (section 1.4) that
 would also secure additional external research income (section 3.1). Therefore, in addition to
 raising research quality, our strategy supported the impact of our work (section 1.4).


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Interdisciplinary research generates new ideas for stakeholders as exemplified in the Living
 Laboratory (section 1.3.2) and in the impact case studies selected from across the School.


 1.2.1. Our Transformation
 The focus of the strategy from 2008 to 2014 had been to increase the number of doctorally
 qualified staff and increase the quality and quantity of outputs. By REF2014 we were by GPA, the
 8th most improved Business School. To maintain this trajectory required a step change in scale
 and ambition, building a research environment that will sustain this momentum. The University’s
 transformational growth strategy of volume with quality prioritised substantial investment in new
 posts that would ‘support investigator-led disciplinary research’ (REF5a), providing funds for
 significant and sustained investment in the Business School. Delivering a fundamental shift in the
 research power of the School, our UoA 17 submission represents the work of 166 Category A
 staff (159.1 FTE), representing 74% of Business School colleagues and exceeding our target
 of two thirds.   The remaining 26% without significant responsibility for research and on a
 development trajectory, include colleagues undertaking in-service doctoral study (section 2.1.3).
 Over a six-year period, this represents an almost seven-fold increase from the 23.2 FTE Category
 A staff submitted to REF2014 and substantial investment in the academic staff base that has
 grown from 130 FTE to 215.1 FTE over the same period. In support of our academic community,
 the University has also invested in a doctoral Research Development Fund Studentship Scheme
 (RDFSS) committing £1.65 million to the Business School for fully funded doctoral studentships
 (section 2.2); supported our recruitment of University Research Fellows and further enhanced our
 physical infrastructure.


 1.2.2. Evidence of Progress Since REF2014
 Since 2014, we have further built research capacity to support our research priorities by
 developing early career colleagues into independent researchers, investing in additional staff, and
 improving the quality of our research contribution. We have delivered against our objectives in a
 way that maintains the centrality of our values and sustains an environment that supports our
 entire academic community. As set out in Table 1 (Research Intensity and Scale), our submission
 includes 31 Early Career Researchers (ECRs) compared with 8 ECRs submitted in 2014. Further,
 we have seen a near doubling of RCGI (from £1.0 million over REF2014 to £1.8 million over
 REF2021) and our first ‘million’ plus funded project (Euro 1 million GETM3, funded under
 Horizon2020 Research and Innovation Programme).




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                             Table 1: Research Intensity and Scale
                    REF Period                                  2014      2021
                    Academic Staff Base (FTE)                  130.0     215.1
                    Size of Submission (FTE)                     23.2    159.1
                    % of staff submitted                         18%      74%
                    Impact Case Studies Submitted                   3         9
                    PGR Completions                                64      106
                    RGCI Income Secured (£m)                     £1.0     £1.8
                    ECRs Submitted                                  8       31
                    Size of Professoriate                          12       34


 1.3. Research Organisation
 Chart 1 (Research Questions, SIGs, RIGs and Departments) illustrates our research organisation.
 To address our broad research questions, we revisited the research clusters from REF2014 and
 reorganised around three main interdisciplinary SIGs. This reorganisation allowed us to build on
 existing strengths, contribute research relevant to the UN Sustainable Development Goals and
 sustain a vibrant research culture during a period of rapid growth. Therefore, whilst two of our
 research SIGs continue our long-standing work in Responsible Business (section 1.3.1) and in
 entrepreneurship (Innovation, Regional Transformation and Entrepreneurship - iNCITE
 section 1.3.2), we have added a third in Public Policy and Management (section 1.3.3). The
 School’s formal support for interdisciplinary research is channelled through these overlapping
 areas and through the University Multidisciplinary Research Themes (MDRTs), particularly those
 of Human and Digital Design (Önkal is Steering Group Chair for Human and Digital Design multi-
 disciplinary theme and R. Wilson is Co-Convenor) and Global Development Futures (Mordue is
 a member of the steering group) (REF 5a). Recognising that collaborative activity also occurs at
 the intersection of subjects that fall within the business and management discipline, the SIGs are
 complemented by our smaller and more organic Research Interest Groups (RIGs) (section
 1.3.4). The RIGs provide a platform for exploring emerging areas and a recognisable group identity
 that brings scholars together to support outputs, funding applications and doctoral students. The
 research groups involve colleagues across departments. Academic colleagues can have
 overlapping membership of groups reflecting interdisciplinary collaboration. This structure
 facilitates relationships with our stakeholders in business and the wider community through, for
 example, seminar series, sponsored doctoral students and funded research. Each signature area
 is led by a team of experienced researchers who lead collaborations with external partners (e.g
 North East Initiative on Business Ethics -NIBE) and companies (e.g Sage UK) to enhance our
 learning and extend our reach.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                    Chart 1: Research Questions, SIGs, RIGs and Departments




 The research plans of the SIGs and RIGs are taken into account by Heads of Department, feeding
 into recruitment decisions. The School comprises four subject departments: Accounting and
 Financial Management (AFM); Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Strategy (EIS); Marketing,
 Operations and Systems (MOS); and Leadership and Human Resource Management (LHRM).
 Research within each department is led by a professorial Research and Knowledge Exchange
 (RaKE) Director who is supported by the wider professoriate and senior academic staff in
 mentoring and supporting all academic colleagues within their department. The Directors consider
 allocations of research hours, sabbaticals (prior to consideration by the sabbatical committee) and
 conference funding. The hours allocated to research (now, on average, 40% of workload) have
 more than doubled from 2014 to 2020 and a total of 122 sabbaticals have been supported over
 the REF2021 period (section 2.1.5).


 1.3.1. Responsible Business Signature Area
 Research within this well-established area addresses the ways in which responsible business
 practices are embedded in organisations, especially with respect to business ethics and corporate



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 behaviour. Responsible business was included in the Risk, Ethics and Governance research
 cluster (REF2014) and in RAE2008 within International Business and Governance. We have been
 ranked in the world’s top 50 by citation in two published studies of research in business ethics.
 More than 90 academic colleagues and research students combine long-standing areas of
 expertise such as Corporate Governance and the Virtues with more recently developed areas
 including Spirituality in Management and Sustainable Working Futures. The group embraces new
 ECRs (e.g. Shin, Prado and Vu in Corporate Social Responsibility) and additional professorial
 appointments over the cycle (Blenkinsopp, Collins, Haynes, Varley) adding to existing professorial
 leadership (Beadle, Brzeszczynski, Fitzgerald, Harvey, Shrives).


   Responsible Business areas of specialism and interdisciplinary themes:
   Character and Virtues (Beadle, Angus Robson, Nicholson) Beadle’s long-standing
   contributions on virtue ethics are supplemented by the work of Angus Robson (on banking
   and on care work) and Nicholson (on moral agency in corporate philanthropy).

   Corporate Governance (Shrives, Sorour, Collins, Price, Salama) Contributions in risk
   reporting, corporate governance (Impact Case Study, Sorour: Reforming corporate
   governance policies, practices, and institutional culture in Egyptian maritime companies),
   comparative disclosure and accounting regulation.

   Financial Crime (Harvey, Sproat) Their research on money laundering includes FCDO
   grant funded anti-corruption work. These researchers, together with colleagues from the
   Law School, are also part of the Financial Crime and Compliance RIG.

   Employment Relations and Migration (Fitzgerald, Silles, Bader) Embraces Fitzgerald’s
   trade union and migration work (Impact Case Study, Fitzgerald: Supporting UK trades
   unions to advance social justice and inclusion for migrant and blacklisted workers), Bader’s
   work focuses on expatriate experience and Silles’ work on women and labour markets.

   Responsible Tourism (Mordue, Carnegie, Varley) Includes Mordue’s research on wind
   farms (Impact case Study, Mordue, Improving understanding of tourism and landscape to
   shape policy and planning for windfarm developments), Varley’s work on food tourism and
   sustainability and Carnegie’s work on museums.

   Socially Responsible Investment (Brzeszczynski, Ghimire) Focuses on the comparative
   performance of SRI stock relative to the overall market.

   Spirituality in Management and Law (Burton, Vu) Includes Burton’s applications of Quaker
   decision-making practices to Boards (Impact Case Study, Burton: Embedding responsible
   practices into business by taking inspiration from the Quakers) and Vu’s work on applications
   of mindfulness in business.

   Sustainability and CSR (Hope, Shin, Vu, Li, Haynes, Salama) includes comparative studies
   of CSR reporting (Shin), CSR in developing countries (Vu), Business Planning for
   Sustainability (Hope), sustainability through closed loop supply chains (Li) and financial and

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   market responses to Carbon Disclosure (Salama). Haynes’ 2017 interdisciplinary paper on
   the Circular Economy (with Murray & Skene) in the Journal of Business Ethics has been
   downloaded over 31,000 times since publication and is being heavily cited.

   Sustainable Working Futures RIG (Blenkinsopp, Edgell, Yeoman, Bader, Hesselgreaves,
   Collins) includes Blenkinsopp’s research on graduate careers, Edgell’s work on the ageing
   workforce, Yeoman’s research on meaningful work, Bader’s research on changes in
   recruitment practices and Hesselgreaves research in work extensification.



 1.3.2. The Northumbria Centre for Innovation, Regional Transformation and
        Entrepreneurship – iNCITE Signature Area
 40 academic colleagues and research students in iNCITE consider how governments at all scales
 but especially at a city and regional level promote innovation and entrepreneurship in support of
 economic and social transformation. We seek to build an understanding of core underlying
 innovation and regional development processes, evaluate existing policy and work with partners
 to develop new policies and strategies to address key regional challenges. Examples of current
 research engagement in the region (also drawing from colleagues in Public Policy and
 Management) include collaboration with the North East Local Economic Partnership (LEP) on a
 regional entrepreneurship strategy with participation in a programme led by Massachusetts
 Institute of Technology (MIT), work with the regional tourism sector, and engagement with the
 Newcastle-wide North East Policy and Evidence Hub, a civic and university partnership with
 University of Newcastle, North East LEP, North of Tyne Combined Authority and Newcastle City
 Council. Of course, the North East of England is not alone in facing the challenges of a legacy of
 de-industrialisation. We have sought to share our research with other regions across the UK and
 further afield, such as through our involvement in EU Marie Curie collaborations on talent
 management and the role of universities in regional innovation. Several new professors have been
 recruited over the cycle (Charles, Liddle, Shutt, Bosworth, Newbery, R Wilson, Martin) alongside
 three research fellows (Wong, Kummitha, Bottomley), bringing additional experience, networks
 and relationships with funders and international partners.


   iNCITE areas of specialism and interdisciplinary themes:
   The governance of science and innovation policy and regional development: (Charles,
   Cunningham). Work includes leadership of an edited book on historical clusters (J Wilson,
   Charles), and research on smart specialisation and innovation ecosystems (Charles, R
   Wilson, Cunningham).

   Universities, commercialisation and regional engagement: (Cunningham, Charles,
   Guerrero, Johnston, Pearce) This theme includes the roles played by universities and
   individual academics within regional and national innovation systems and the effects of
   changes in the governance of higher education systems and institutions. Current projects
   include participation in a seven country Marie Curie ITN on universities and regional

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   innovation (Charles), a study for the EU Joint Research Centre on the role and
   responsibilities of PIs (Impact Case Study, Cunningham: Changing managerial practice to
   enhance professional development for Principal Investigators of major projects),
   collaboration between Cunningham, Guerrero and David Urbano (UA Barcelona) on the
   entrepreneurial university and research on university community engagement as part of the
   civic university agreement between both universities in Newcastle and local partners and
   the large GETM3 project (Horizon 2020 MSCA RISE) on global entrepreneurial talent
   management.

   Entrepreneurship and SME development, rural enterprise (Cabras, Bosworth, Newbery,
   Nyuur) Work by Cabras on the role of pubs and microbreweries in rural areas has been
   supported by the Society for Independent Brewers (SIBA) (Impact Case Study, Cabras: ‘It’s
   our shout!’: Enabling rural communities to save their local pubs and foster community
   cohesion, wellbeing, employment, and business opportunities). Bosworth and Newbery are
   leading a research project on rural entrepreneurship for the Department for Environment,
   Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA).

   Creativity and place (Mordue, S Wilson, Prescott) Includes the development of creative
   and cultural industries and their role in placemaking.

   Digital infrastructures and innovation (Whalley, Gerli, Dawson, Bosworth) includes
   telecommunications policy and application of digital technology innovation, innovative tech-
   start-ups and digitally enabled co-working.

   The Living Lab (Wilson, Martin, Jamieson, Lowe) provides an approach to innovating
   relationships between stakeholders in multi-agency contexts. The Lab team have
   successfully enabled organisations working with challenges as diverse as flooding and
   innovation services in the health service. Current work includes Service Innovation in the
   EU (Horizon 2020 CoSIE project) and digital records and learning health systems for care
   in the NHS (Great North Care Record project).



 1.3.3. Public Policy and Management Signature Area
 The School has one of the largest groups of public policy and management scholars (34 with 27
 doctoral students) in the UK. The research group considers future ways of working within the
 public sector. This embraces public sector leadership and reform, partnerships and networks,
 comparison of different governance arrangements, public and social value, relational contracting,
 a systems approach to complex questions, the effectiveness of regional networks and digital
 connectivity between public bodies and clients. Led by professorial staff recruited immediately
 post REF2014 (Liddle, Shutt, Blenkinsopp), the SIG has built on earlier work by Fenwick (local
 government and public sector leadership), Waring/Wainwright (NHS and information systems) and
 Whalley (telecommunication policy and regulation).      Their work is complemented by three
 Research Fellows (Dilaver, Gerli and Goumagias) all of whom work on Digital ‘activity’ in the
 context of broader Public Policy research area in furtherance of the Human and Digital Design


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MDRT. PPM researchers collaborate with Amsterdam City Council and Amsterdam Economic
 Board together with CIPFA International through the Centre for Partnering in looking at developing
 measures of social and public value. Attracted by our strength in this area, more recent
 appointments include: Mackenzie, public sector work and organisations, Wagner, climate policy
 and networks, Corduneanu, public sector motivation, and Yeoman, meaningful cities. Academics
 within PPM collaborate closely with those in the Living Lab, particularly in complex commissioning
 research.


   PPM areas of specialism and interdisciplinary themes:
   Public Sector Leadership, Partnerships and Entrepreneurship (Liddle, Shutt, Elliott,
   Johnston) Comparative research on city leadership and Universities in Newcastle,
   Amsterdam, and London. Work with the Cabinet Office National Leadership Centre (Liddle,
   Lowe, Blenkinsopp and Hesselgreaves) on engaging and developing senior public sector
   leaders. Social, public and relational partnering with the Centre for Partnering, in
   collaboration with Blavatnik, Oxford, Cardiff, Stirling and MMU.

   Regional Development and Public Policy (Liddle, Shutt, Johnston) The team has
   successfully secured UKRI Research England funds (2020) and provided research for the
   North East LEP (2020) on regional public finance. Other research includes developing an
   evidence base on regional social and economic indicators and public policy; assessing the
   NE and Amsterdam City Region post-Brexit; the Borderlands and Brexit (With Prof Keith
   Shaw, Social Sciences); conceptualising and operationalising vulnerability (with Dr Addidle,
   Teesside), the NHS Regional Plan (with the School of Nursing, Northumbria), Reform of
   Public Services and research on LEPs and Local Industrial Strategies.

   Complex Commissioning (R Wilson, Martin, Hesselgreaves, Lowe, French, Harrison,
   Hawkins) This group have created a new complexity-informed paradigm for the funding,
   commissioning and performance management of social interventions called Human
   Learning Systems (Impact Case Study, Lowe: Transforming public services through new
   commissioning and management priorities). In support of a Community of Practice, the team
   is undertaking action research programmes with public and voluntary sector funders and
   delivery organisations to explore how this paradigm is being implemented.



 1.3.4. Research Interest Groups
 Outside of the Signature Areas, all colleagues have the opportunity to create their own Research
 Interest Groups. The groups receive financial support for seminars, visiting speakers and
 workshops. In 2019/20 £27,500 was available for these groups and, despite the impact of Covid-
 19, the School provided the same level of funding in 2020/21, enabling these groups to maintain
 momentum in the virtual sphere. Examples of independent RIGs include: Behaviour, Branding
 and Digital Insights; Business History; Critical Perspectives in Management Studies;
 Decisions and Analytics; and, Global Operations and Supply Chain Competitiveness. Some



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RIGs, such as Sustainable Working Futures, Financial Crime and Compliance and
 Complexity and Learning Systems are aligned within a signature area.


 Business History provides an example of the range of research activity taking place within the
 RIGs. The group (J Wilson; Batiz-Lazo; Perchard; Wong; Buchnea; Jones; and Salama) has well-
 established links to leading global centres in the field at Copenhagen Business School, the Centre
 for Business History in Scotland (University of Glasgow), and the Centre for the History of
 Business, Technology and Society (Hagley Museum and Library, USA). Its members include
 associates in other parts of the School (Burton, Charles), as well as in Law and History. It
 established the highly successful and impactful transnational business history collective seminar
 series (Batiz-Lazo; Wong; Buchnea; and Jones), as well as running its own seminar series
 attracting global names in the field. It is leading on a number of vertically integrated project
 initiatives with the University of Southern-Eastern Norway (J Wilson; Wong; Perchard; Buchnea;
 and Jones), with University College Cork and University of Glasgow (Perchard; Buchnea; J
 Wilson; and Wong). Perchard is also co-leading a large AHRC grant and one with the Social
 Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (together totalling around £1.8 million).
 J Wilson is leading on a book project on industrial clusters (involving Perchard; Charles; Wong;
 and Buchnea). Business History staff are also involved with important public and policy
 engagement work with strong industry links (Batiz-Lazo – the ATM Industry Association; Perchard
 – the Aluminium Federation). There are two business history PhD projects associated with the
 group both bridging understanding between business history and organisational change and
 identity (one on Deutsche Postbank supervised by J Wilson and Batiz-Lazo; and another on the
 role of history in organisational identity post mergers and acquisitions supervised by Buchnea and
 Wong), and Batiz-Lazo has recently secured €44,000 with a doctoral student on the history of
 fintech (supported by the Spanish Ministry of Science).


 1.4. Supporting Impact
 Strategic investment in impact that achieves meaningful change for our external partners and
 stakeholders is primarily embedded within our SIGs and tailored to their specific plans. However,
 we also encourage RIGs and individual researchers to volunteer innovative ideas and approaches.
 We have committed time and financial resource to impact pathway development, running impact
 awareness workshops and supporting colleagues to attend external impact events. Particularly
 with respect to influencing policy, we seek to build lasting collaborations both with international
 organisations (e.g. Global Integrity Washington, Enterprise Educators Foundation East Africa,
 General Federation of Trade Unions) and local policy makers (e.g. North East LEP) as a basis for
 further research impact. Our research is informing large international organisations (such as the
 EU through developing Principal Investigator skills - Cunningham) as well as regional development
 (Tees Valley Combined Authority through marketing and branding -Apostolidis; Northumberland


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 County Council through impact of wind farms - Mordue; and the Institute for Local Government
 and Gateshead MBC through citizen engagement - Myers and Hesselgreaves).Our regional
 transformation initiatives provide a rich seam of impact evidence arising from the increased scale
 and range of our work. The nine submitted Impact case Studies reflect that diversity and the
 applied focus of our work.


 At an operational level, support for the development of impact (including ambitions beyond REF)
 has been systematic and on-going and the University has invested in Impact Managers and
 Faculty-facing impact coordinators who have, over a number of years, been working with individual
 researchers to support evidence collection. This has meant that from an early stage, impact has
 been built into project design. The School has supported a professorial academic impact lead
 (Fitzgerald) who advises research active staff on embedding and achieving impact, from
 identifying pathways, to engaging stakeholders and to collation of evidence. In addition, there has
 been budgetary support to fund both impact activity and evidence gathering (for example Burton
 visiting companies across the UK to advise on deployment of Quaker principles in management,
 Sorour to work with ports authorities in Egypt) and Liddle, Shutt and Cabras who engage with
 Parliamentarians over different regions’ policy. Pathways to impact have also been supported, for
 example Harvey attending academic advisory meetings with the Law Commission.


 1.5. Research Integrity, Open Research and Open Data
 Research impact within the School has been supported through the University’s Open Access
 (OA) policy. All outputs are available as green open access to reach the widest possible audience.
 Academics enter new scholarly outputs through their personal portal on Elsevier’s Publications
 and Research (Pure) system that has improved management and accessibility of our open-access
 institutional repository (Northumbria Research Link). Beyond the collective OA agreements in
 place with some publishers, gold open access processing charges for outputs, where high-quality
 research will reach a larger target audience, have been resourced by central University funding.
 During the REF period, 66 Gold Access articles (£47,358) were funded on behalf of the School,
 outside research grant support. Open access archiving of data in the University’s Research Data
 Repository is supported by the central Scholarly Communications Team.


 Research is underpinned by appropriate structures of governance. The University maintains high
 standards in research quality and integrity across all research activity undertaken by academic
 staff and students. All staff and students are required to obtain research ethics clearance through
 an online tool. Every project is ranked for its ethical sensitivity with additional procedures enabling
 greater scrutiny for more sensitive projects. The School has a Director of Research Ethics and
 each Department has a Departmental Ethics Lead who reviews ethics applications and provides
 advice and guidance. The University continually updates guidance such as the annual Research


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ethics and Governance Handbook. There is an annual Research Ethics Audit carried out across
 the University that tests the robustness of our processes. Data integrity includes principles of data
 management and compliance with General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and how this
 legislation applies to research. Courses for both research ethics compliance and data protection
 are provided for research students and as part of mandatory staff training.


 1.6. Future Strategic Aims and Sustainability (2021-2028)
 The School is refreshing its mission based on the evidence we have accumulated over the past
 several years of working as ‘a force for good’ emphasising the value of applied research,
 interdisciplinary interactions and positive impact on society. Our findings feed into research
 informed teaching, ensuring that our research also inspires our graduates, influencing the next
 generation of business leaders. Through the mechanisms set out in section 2, we will continue
 to recruit, develop and retain high-quality academics. Setting out a nurturing culture means
 maintaining a positive environment for ECRs to achieve their personal research goals and
 advance their careers, achieving associate and professorial titles. Applying the most progressive
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) principles to the way we operate, developing a broadly
 representative and cosmopolitan workforce at all levels, we will continue to actively promote the
 diversity of our School; and we will provide support and mentoring for junior and mid-career staff.


 We will deepen and intensify our external engagement networks (section 4) so that our research
 contributes to the public good whilst ensuring that our voices influence policy making at local,
 national and international levels. The School has close relationships across business and
 government enabling us to respond quickly to new challenges and opportunities. Building on the
 success of the Living Lab, we plan further investment in facilities through introduction of an
 innovative new Behavioural Sciences Lab to further the work of the Decisions and Analytics
 Research Interest Group. These facilities will support an expanded range and number of clients
 as they tackle increasingly complex decision making.

  We aim to achieve:
  •   100% submission of all Business School academic colleagues to REF2028 by enabling
      staff currently on a development trajectory to have a significant responsibility for research.
  •   Continued growth in secured research income with more awards of £500k plus.
  •   Support for ECR colleagues through further enhancement to our existing sector-leading
      Research and Enterprise Development Programme (section 2.1).
  •   Further expansion in the number of doctoral students to ensure a 1:1 ratio with staff
      submitted to the next REF.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Meeting these challenges will require resources. To help achieve our aims we will seek to
 increase our involvement with key funders with a target of doubling research awards to a total of
 £8 million for the next cycle. As evidence of ability to meet this ambitious target, Liddle and Shutt
 (Public Policy and Management) recently secured £470,000 UKRI funding for research on Local
 Government Commissioning and Procurement under Covid-19.


 2. People

 2.1. Academic Staff Strategy and Staff Development
 The University has made a very major investment in the Business School since 2014. Our strategy
 has been to focus this investment on development and retention of existing staff and on strategic
 recruitment of experienced and early career researchers aligned with our three signature areas of
 Responsible Business, iNCITE and Public Policy and Management. As seen in Chart 2
 (Colleagues by Role, over REF Period), the result of this investment over the REF period has
 firstly, seen the proportion of colleagues in research leadership roles expand from 12% to 26% of
 all staff (17 colleagues to 57); and secondly, seen staff numbers increase by a third, from 141 (130
 FTE) to 222 (215.1 FTE). We have 23 women in senior research leadership positions, including
 nine professors (four in REF2014). At the same time, the proportion of ECRs has expanded at the
 Lecturer grade from 6% to 17% of all staff, a fourfold increase from 8 to 37, with 31 submitted to
 REF2021. Our research skills development of existing staff has included the successful
 completion of 35 staff doctorates (section 2.1.3).


                           Chart 2: Colleagues by Role, over REF Period

                                                  Professor
                                                  Associate Professor/Reader
                                                  Principal Lecturer/Teaching Fellow
                                                  Senior Lecturer
                                                  Lecturer
                            8     12                                           8
                       8                          Other                                34
                                        5
                                                                   37
                                  12%
                                                                                       26%
                                             24                                              23

                           2013/14                                        2019/20             4




                      84
                                                                           116
                                                   Research
                                                   Leadership




                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.1. Recruitment, Probation and Mentoring
 All new appointees to the School follow a standardised University selection and interview process
 that includes a research panel discussion. For research sustainability, new colleagues are
 appointed according to their fit with the established academic areas of strength as well as research
 attainment or promise. An early School recruitment priority, in line with the University’s research
 strategy, was to expand the professoriate. Such an expansion was vital to recalibrate our research
 quality, enhance our RGCI and grow the community of doctoral students. Five 0.2 FTE senior
 staff (professors and associate professors) also contribute to our strategy. Professors Reimann,
 Galvin, Bozionelos and Associate Professors Dr Guerrero and Dr Yeoman play an active role
 through subject development, mentoring staff, running workshops, co-publishing and contributing
 to income generation. The School benefits from the continuing involvement of our emeritus
 professors, visiting professors and fellows (e.g. aligned with PPM are Professor Alex Murdock who
 was Director of Third Sector Research Centre and Professor Hiroko Kudo of Chuo University
 Tokyo; aligned with iNCITE are Professor Al Link, University of North Carolina, Greensboro and
 Professor Erik Lehmann, University of Augsburg).


                                Chart 3: Nationality of Academic Staff

                                              UK

                                              Europe

                                              Outside Europe
                       23
                                                                    56



                17
                            2013/14                                      2019/20
                                                                                    132
                                                               27
                                         96




 As indicated in Chart 3 (Nationality of Academic Staff), we have further diversified the
 international nature of the School increasing the proportion of staff from outside of Europe from
 16.9% to 26.1%, drawing academic colleagues from some 41 different countries. Staff from
 Europe and outside of Europe make up 46% of our REF submission and of the senior research
 leadership, 16 are from countries outside of the UK (ten associate professors and six full
 professors).




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New colleagues are supported through probation both by their line manager and by an
 experienced departmental research mentor. Beyond probation, mentors provide on-going support
 through, for example, reviewing colleagues’ annual Personal Research and Innovation Plans
 (PRIP) and peer reviewing draft outputs and grant applications. They will also advise on annual
 promotion rounds (section 2.1.5). New recruits’ probation normally lasts for 22 months and 12
 months for those with prior academic experience. The probation period enables colleagues to
 agree research targets appropriate to their career stage; these include journal submission and,
 where appropriate, grant application that will support their subsequent career development.


 Workload is targeted as 40:40:20 (research, teaching, management) with lighter initial teaching
 loads. Line managers and research mentors work closely together in supporting staff through
 probation and maintain informal as well as formal contact. They also help guide new colleagues’
 integration within Research Signature /Research Interest Groups.


 2.1.2. Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 Our retention of an HR Excellence in Research Award is a tribute to the quality of the ECR
 support and development that we provide (REF5a). We have invested in the development of new
 ECRs increasing from 8 in REF2014 to 31 in REF2021. All are recruited on permanent contracts
 and are supported to establish their research direction and collaborations through additional
 research time allocation for their first two years post-doctoral award. To foster ECR progression
 and development into future research leaders, we ensure that opportunities are provided for
 ECRs to gain experience with research management. This includes inclusion in supervisory
 teams, PGR progression panels and mock vivas. Financial support is provided to attend and
 present at conferences in support of their network building and skill support is embedded in our
 Research and Enterprise Development Programme (section 2.1.5). We particularly encourage
 collaboration between mentors and ECRs. Examples include Angus Robson being supported by
 Beadle to secure an output in ‘Journal of Institutional Economics’, Worst, supported by Callahan
 to achieve her first post-doctoral output in ‘Human Resource Development’ and Callahan again
 supporting Keshtiban in securing a grant for conducting research with the ‘Society of Gender
 Professionals in Cambodia’. We also encourage ECRs to establish themselves in national and
 international networks, for example, Watson, who is now on the Board of Trustees for the Institute
 for Small Business and Entrepreneurship (ISBE) and who is pioneering a programme of activities
 for ECRs in entrepreneurship.


 The ECR voice is represented through University, Faculty and Departmental Research and
 Knowledge Exchange committees and via implementation of feedback from the Careers in
 Research Online Survey (CROS).        We are realistic in anticipating that ECRs may look for
 opportunities elsewhere and in implementing the Concordat to Support the Career Development


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Researchers (REF5a) and the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (REF5a), we
 encourage ECRs to work with partners at other institutions as they develop their research identities
 and employability skills. Several former ECRs now occupy senior roles in other business schools.
 Examples include Ferry who is Professor of Accounting and Head of Department at Durham and
 Adegbite who is Professor of Accounting and Corporate Governance at Nottingham.


 2.1.3. In-Service Doctorates
 The provision of structured in-service doctoral training with full fee remission and sabbatical
 support (section 2.1.5) provides colleagues on a development trajectory, with the skills required
 for research. This was a strategic objective that commenced with RAE2008 to increase the
 proportion of staff with doctoral qualifications and provide a support mechanism for mid-career
 colleagues. Additionally, we offer a bespoke Graduate Tutor (current cohort of six) doctoral
 recruitment scheme that enables practitioners to develop academic careers whilst teaching their
 discipline. This has been especially important in some discipline areas such as accounting where
 few practitioners have a doctoral qualification on application. Since 2013/14 the proportion of staff
 with doctoral qualification has risen from 67% to 82% (Chart 4: Staff with Doctorates).



                                                       Chart 4: Staff with Doctorates
                             200                                                                                                 90%
                                                                                                                           82%
                             180                                                                                                 80%

                             160    67%                                                                                          70%
                             140
                                                                                                                                 60%


                                                                                                                                       % of Staff Headcount
           Staff Headcount




                             120
                                                                                                                                 50%
                             100
                                                                                                                  183            40%
                              80
                                                                                                         149
                                                                                          127                                    30%
                              60                                              113
                                     94        97             101
                                                                                                                                 20%
                              40

                              20                                                                                                 10%

                               0                                                                                                 0%
                                   2013/14   2014/15        2015/16       2016/17       2017/18        2018/19   2019/20
                                                       Staff with Doctorate         % of Staff with Doctorate


 2.1.4. Career Development - Appraisals and Promotion
 The School provides an inclusive and comprehensive approach to research support and academic
 development of all colleagues. All academic staff work with their mentors on an annual personal
 PRIP that supports their Performance and Development Appraisal (PDA). Such planning
 supports their growth and consequent long-term retention. Having successfully completed
 probation, academic colleagues transition to an annual (with opportunity for mid-point evaluation)
 PDA process with their line manager. This developmental and confidential process provides



                                                                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 space and time to discuss research plans and goals in the context of academic duties and
 responsibilities, achievements and support needs and including sabbatical application (section
 2.1.5).


 For those with more experience, the PDA also provides a structured plan for internal promotion to
 Associate Professor and Professor. The University Appointments Board issues an annual call for
 applications for promotion (REF5a) with decisions informed by external reviews from academics
 at leading institutions of colleagues’ accomplishments. It honoured this commitment during 2020.
 Applications are scrutinised at both Faculty and University level against EDI objectives in order to
 ensure equity and parity throughout the process particularly for those with protected
 characteristics or who are working part-time (section 2.3). Support and information sessions on
 the progression process are open to all and allow for clarity and transparency. Within the School,
 senior colleagues undertake CV gap analysis against promotion criteria and review and feedback
 on progression plans and applications. Over the last three years eleven colleagues have achieved
 promotion from senior lecturer to associate professor (including Shokri, Hope, Johnston, Bader,
 Sorour) and three associate professors returned in REF2014 have subsequently attained full
 chairs (Beadle, Fitzgerald, Thompson).


 2.1.5. Research Support and Sabbaticals
 The University encourages all colleagues (full and part-time) to spend one semester in seven on
 sabbatical (REF5a). To facilitate this, research mentors and line managers include sabbatical
 planning in colleagues’ PDA and PRIP discussions. Target-led applications are made following
 the annual call and reviewed by committees at Faculty and University levels with feedback
 provided. Applications made by colleagues returning to work after a period of absence or in
 support of doctoral completion are prioritised. The Business School has supported a total of 122
 semester long academic sabbaticals in this REF period. Heads of Department receive reports
 against targets at the completion of the sabbatical period.


 The School provides a variety of research development activities. Most notably, the School runs
 an innovative Research and Enterprise Development Programme (REDP) structured around
 two spines. The first spine is a training pathway to accompany doctoral study (for all PGR
 researchers), and the second a development pathway for ECR colleagues. In 2019, Jones,
 inaugurated the offsite ‘Baltic’ sessions (once a month for a half day) as a complement to the
 second spine. Located in the Baltic Centre for Contemporary Arts to provide a creative thinking
 space, the sessions transitioned to a virtual basis in response to Covid-19. These events bring
 researchers from outside the University to discuss their passion for aspects of research practice
 such as the importance of impact, engagement, and partnership building. ECRs report having
 found these sessions inspiring.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Growing and nurturing academic colleagues requires financial support in addition to skill
 development and mentoring. The School has invested a total of £1.1 million over the five years
 from 2015 to 2020 in a dedicated research budget that is managed through Departments. These
 funds are to promote and support conference attendance, extend invitations to external speakers,
 support interdisciplinary workshop organisation and other engagement events. In addition to these
 funds, the School has invested £240,000 over the REF cycle in Research Assistant support;
 maintained a £120,000 p.a. fund for conferences with a further £27,500 p.a. for the Signature
 Areas and Research Interest Groups to support specific external profile building activity such as
 the Responsible Business Seminar series.


 From 2018/19 the Faculty has also set aside an annual £44,000 to support the creation of a virtual
 Knowledge Exchange and Innovation (KEI) Platform. This initiative was designed to respond
 to staff requests for seed-funding of events and activity that would lead to collaborations resulting
 in RGCI, Knowledge Exchange and impact activity. For example, in 2018/19 the KEI platform
 supported research leadership and positioning through events such as ‘Day 1. After BREXIT? The
 Future of Urban and Regional Development in the North and the UK to 2030’ (Liddle and Shutt),
 and a ‘Closed Loop Supply Chain Management Workshop’ (Reimann). The former work led to the
 book ‘The North East After Brexit’, published in 2019. The Platform has also supported research
 grant development by supporting colleagues to build contacts with funders e.g. Sage and The
 Department for Business Energy and Industrial Strategy - BEIS (Sutherland, Hesselgreaves and
 Wales).


 2.2. Postgraduate Researcher Students (PGR)
 PGR students are financially supported through University funded studentships, industry
 collaborative studentships, overseas governmental organisations and self-funding. Additionally,
 we provide doctoral studentships as part of match funding for large bids, integrating PGR students
 with strong, agenda-setting research and networks. For example, Önkal’s Marie-Curie ITN grant
 employs an international PhD student on their project evaluating the effects of behavioural nudges
 on enhancing mental well-being in older people. Recent university funded PGRs (30 RDF funded
 students have been awarded over the REF period) have been aligned with our signature areas,
 for example in the areas of whistleblowing, family businesses, board gender diversity, city
 leadership and local industrial strategies. Collaborative studentships share support between the
 University and an external partner, examples included projects jointly supported by Northumbrian
 Water (Responsible Business) and Your Homes Newcastle and Newcastle Council (Public Policy
 and Management).




                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                      Table 2: Doctoral Awards
                                                                   REF2021
                                                                    Total
                         PhD                  Staff                  25
                                              Not Staff                45
                                              PhD Total                70
                         Professional         Staff                    10
                         Doctorate            Not Staff                26
                         (PD)                 PD Total                 36
                         All Awards           Staff                    35
                                              Not Staff                71
                                              Total Awards            106

 As set out in our strategy, a vibrant doctoral community is an integral part of our research structure.
 The number of PGR students registered in the Business School has increased from 109 in 2014/15
 to 164 in 2020/21 and, as in Table 2 (Doctoral Awards), since 2014, 106 doctorates have been
 awarded compared with 64 during the REF2014 cycle and 39 during RAE2008. As noted in section
 2.1.3, a key part of our strategy has been to support staff doctoral enrolment and over the REF
 cycle, 25 staff have completed PhDs and 10 have completed professional doctorates (PD).


 2.2.1. Student Recruitment and Progression
 All doctoral advertisements include the following text: Northumbria University takes pride in, and
 values, the quality and diversity of our staff and students. We welcome applications from all
 members of the community. Applications are reviewed by Doctoral Programme Leaders and are
 then allocated to the relevant research area by Department Directors of RaKE. Candidates are
 invited to interview (face to face, online or by telephone) by a panel of at least two members of
 academic staff who (as is the case in all recruitment) must have completed EDI and unconscious
 bias training. A decision is reached on the basis of the proposal and the interview performance.


 Each doctoral student is guided by a supervisory team (normally two or sometimes three
 members). The principal supervisor is the director of the student’s programme of study, the second
 (and any additional) supervisor may provide specific methods or analytical support. All supervisors
 have the relevant subject expertise, research experience, and supervisory skill and are required
 to attend supervisory training/updates every three years. Students are also supported by a
 dedicated doctoral programme management team.


 Monthly meetings are documented to record progress and objectives using our online e:Vision
 tool. Student progress is monitored through key milestones. Initial Project Approval (PA) for PhD
 students is undertaken within four months, as is the equivalent research proposal assignment


                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 submission on the professional doctorate. Formal Annual Progression (AP) is assessed by a panel
 comprising a chair and subject expert internal examiner who remain with the PGR student
 throughout. Progression requires submission of a written report and viva. Although it is also a
 formal exit point, the meetings are highly supportive and developmental, reviewing progress,
 setting objectives and identifying training and resource needs. The process is overseen by the
 Graduate School, established in 2008 to provide a dedicated central support and administration
 function for PGR students (REF5a).


 2.2.2. The Professional Doctorate (PD)
 Chart 5 (Research Degree Awards) illustrates the relative numbers of PhD and PD awards. The
 School offers two professional doctorates: Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) and Doctor of
 Business Leadership (DBL). The Professional Doctorate comprises two block-mode taught
 elements (one on philosophy and methodology, the other primarily focused on analysis) delivered
 by external academics as well as by the School’s professoriate and other senior researchers. The
 DBA is particularly attractive to part time students who are working in senior management roles in
 both the public and private sector and who see the doctoral qualification as a way of enhancing
 their leadership ambitions. For example, a current part-time DBA student is the Commandant of
 the Special Security Unit (SSU), a specialised counterterrorism and security unit of the Sindh
 Police in Pakistan. Whilst closer to home, another leads the Probation Service in Northumberland.
 Professional Doctorate alumni currently hold senior positions in industry (e.g. Gale, CEO NEL
 Fund Managers; Ives, Chief Executive Hambleton District Council) and in academia (e.g. Klasen,
 full professor at Offenburg University).




                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                Chart 5: Research Degree Awards

                   20
                   18
                   16              7                               5
                   14                                                      5
                            8                              6
                   12
                   10
                                           2
                    8                               3
                    6              12                              13     12
                            9                              10
                    4                      8
                                                    6
                    2
                    0




                                        PhD Total       PD Total



 2.2.3. Student Training and Support
 The School offers a Research and Enterprise Development Programme (REDP) that provides all
 doctoral students with a structured training pathway (section 2.1.5). In addition, students enrol on
 the University’s Professional Development and Researcher Training Programme that aligns
 with Vitae Researcher Development Network and is mapped against four learning domains:
 intellectual abilities, personal effectiveness, research governance, and engagement. Training is
 mixed between attending sessions and interactive courses accessed through our e-learning portal.
 While most courses are optional (covering areas such as presentations, academic writing, career
 planning and networking), those relating to induction, progression and research ethics, including
 data protection, are mandatory. The University’s Research Innovation Services (RIS) also provide
 dedicated resources and support for doctoral students including two bursary funding schemes
 open to all postgraduate research students: Conference Bursary Scheme and Postgraduate
 Research Events Support Scheme. As part of our commitment to the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers and to Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework,
 Doctoral students’ employability is supported through the opportunity to work as associate
 lecturers (having completed the required University PGR teaching scheme) generally providing
 seminar support up to a maximum of six hours per week.




                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Towards the beginning of their second year of study (full time) and third year (part-time), PGR
 students in the School engage in a Research Summer School, held annually in Dublin; moving
 on-line in response to Covid-19 for summer 2020. To help mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on
 PGR students during 2020, those on University bursaries were given funded 6-month extensions
 and others offered no-fee extensions. Research students are integrated into departments and our
 signature research areas and are welcomed to participate in research seminars and the Baltic
 sessions (section 2.1.5). Through the Northern Advanced Research Training Initiative
 (NARTI), PGR students have attended doctoral colloquia (e.g. at York, Lancaster and Newcastle
 Universities) and discipline and / or method workshops hosted by the collaborating Northern
 universities. Colleagues from our Business School have been involved in developing and leading
 some of these sessions (e.g. Cunningham). Students also participate in other doctoral
 development opportunities such as ISBE doctoral days. PGR students organise a two-day Faculty
 annual Doctoral Conference (held on-line in 2020 in response to Covid-19) with prizes for the best
 poster and full paper submissions. Doctoral students are encouraged and supported by their
 supervisors to present their work at external conferences and to secure their first publications. For
 example, Haque, PhD student, and their supervisor Bian received the best paper award on track
 at the American Marketing Association Annual Summer Conference 2019.


 2.2.4. PGR Environment and Engagement
 The University’s performance in the Higher Education Academy’s Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (PRES) is positive in all areas, and particularly relating to progress and
 assessment, research skills, and professional development. Within the School our doctoral
 students have also been highly complimentary about how we have supported and facilitated the
 development of a visible doctoral community who are fully part of our research activity. Senior
 academics in the School worked with PGR representatives to design our dedicated doctoral
 suite. In addition, the University library offers a research commons area for interdisciplinary
 networking and collaboration (section 3.2).


 2.3. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 The Faculty of Business and Law was awarded an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in November
 2019. Our job-share faculty director(s) of EDI are ex-officio members of the faculty executive
 team, reflecting our EDI commitment. As part of our reflective self-assessment, we initiated an
 Equity Challenge Project (led by Callahan), a research-based culture change initiative that has
 embedded gender-mainstreaming principles into research practices, from student projects
 through to staff publications and bidding. The Equity Challenge Project members have also led
 on a wide range of research relevant initiatives to improve the position of staff with protected
 characteristics within our School. The project has, amongst other initiatives, reviewed progress
 against our EDI objectives: workload planning and allocations; and the support and mentoring of


                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 junior staff to gain recognition and achieve career progression. Changes that have been
 implemented include:


 •   Modification of sabbatical application forms to create fair research expectations for staff (most
     frequently women) on fractional contracts;
 •   Establishing a network and role model system to provide support for LGBTQ* colleagues;
 •   Updated knowledge exchange proposal forms to embed research into CPD bids, such as for
     the Northern Women Leadership Programme that explored how women in leadership roles
     can, and will, help shape the future of the region.


 Their research has also resulted in a number of journal articles, most recently on intersectionality
 and the experience of vulnerability during lockdown (Abdellatif and Gatto) and a successful grant
 application. The group is now recognised as a RIG.


 We have a REF2021 Code of Practice approved by Research England that has been enshrined
 and explicitly followed. For this REF we are submitting 65 women, 41% of our submission (94
 men, 59%), a significant improvement on REF2014 when we submitted eight women representing
 33% of our submission (16 men, 67%). 52 colleagues (32%) in our submission identify as BAME.
 The REF submission was managed by the UoA lead (Harvey, female), with support from the co-
 lead (Beadle, male) and the four departmental RaKE Directors (Haynes and Liddle (females) and
 Cunningham and Nath (males). Outputs were selected on the basis of quality, balancing across
 the research areas, regardless of gender or other protected characteristics, following a
 combination of personal, internal and external peer assessment.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research Income and Growth Strategy
 The School’s strategy of creating a critical mass of high-quality researchers, consolidating our
 funding experience, has resulted in very significant increases in award income and grant
 expenditure. Over the REF2021 period, increasing grant applications across the School has
 resulted in many more research awards, particularly over the past couple of years. As illustrated
 in Chart 6 (Growth in RGCI), RGCI income over the period totalled £1.817 million nearly double
 the amount for REF2014. The value of applications submitted has increased from just over £1.0
 million in 2013/14 to £12.6 million in 2019/20 and the value of research awards has risen from
 £313,000 in 2013/14 to £1.179 million in 2019/20. The total over the REF period is £3.994
 million. We have created communities of researchers through the support of the SIGs and RIGs
 to facilitate collaboration and engagement with external stakeholders and research users. At the
 start of the REF period, meetings were held with each of the research areas to establish a
 framework of support that would enable these groups to determine plans for engagement, impact

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and grant application that could then be aligned with allocation of pump-priming budgetary support
 (section 2.1.5).


                                        Chart 6: Growth in RGCI
       700,000


       600,000


       500,000


       400,000

                                                                                     646,736
       300,000

                                                                           441,703
       200,000


       100,000                183,579
                                         143,620    159,067      142,496
                    99,619
            0
                    2013/14   2014/15    2015/16    2016/17      2017/18   2018/19   2019/20




 3.1.1. Funding Success – European, Government and Charities
 The first significant EU funding success was our £846,000 Global Entrepreneurial Talent
 Management 3 (GETM3) project in 2016 (PI Pearce) (iNCITE), funded through Horizon 2020
 Research & Innovation Staff Exchange. The research aims to support economic development
 by investigating current issues in the employability and management of graduates at a regional,
 national and global level to enhance business performance and economic development in
 transitional regions / countries. PI Cunningham (iNCITE) secured € 65,000 from the EU
 Commission for a project on the role and contributions that scientists play as principal
 investigators in realising the scientific potential of the EU funded framework. PI R Wilson secured
 £131,000 Horizon 2020 funding to investigate Co-creation of Service Innovation in Europe
 (COSIE). Önkal and Egdell are Co-I contributors to a Horizon 2020 research and innovation
 programme under the Marie Sklodowska-Curie ITN grant scheme (£303,000). This project
 evaluates the effectiveness of behavioural nudges on mental well-being for the 60+ age group and
 is supporting doctoral student exchange and cross-country collaboration. Damij is leading the
 School’s contribution (€ 140,000) to a European Union EACEA-Knowledge Alliances funded
 project ‘Enabling SMEs to gain Competitive Advantage from the Use of High-Performance
 Computing’. Perchard is Co-investigator on an AHRC main grant (£655,000), exploring the history
 and legacy of the nationalised British coal industry, and a Social Sciences and Humanities
 Research Council of Canada network grant (CAD 2.490 million), a large transnational project
 exploring the impact of deindustrialisation on civil society.




                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Government and local government organisations have also supported research. In 2018, PI
 Harvey (Responsible Business), secured £266,000 from Department for International
 Development (DFID now FDCO) to investigate how knowledge of beneficial ownership can
 strengthen anti-corruption practices and procedures in Nigeria. Apostolidis (iNCITE) received
 £40,000 from Teesside Combined Authority to improve citizen satisfaction, marketing and
 branding across the Tees Valley. R. Wilson (Public Policy and Management) secured £37,000
 from the Institute of Local Government and from Gateshead Metropolitan Borough Council to
 fund an evaluation of Making Every Contact Count (MECC). The School has initiated major
 research into improving support for SMEs. Colleagues from different discipline areas combined in
 an important collaboration with Sage in partnership with and funded by the Business Basics Fund
 in the Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy. £281,000 was provided to
 conduct research into factors encouraging and frustrating digital adoption amongst SME clients
 and their accountants across the UK (Sutherland, Hesselgreaves, Wales, and Lillystone). While
 the Department for Transport and Industry provided £44,000 for research that would expand a
 digitally-enabled service for student-led consultancy to SMEs (Impact Case Study, Coates:
 Improving the performance of Small/Medium Enterprises in North East England through
 Northumbria University’s Business Clinic).


 Charities and foundations have provided important sources of research support, particularly to
 researchers in the Living Lab. Hesselgreaves, Lowe and French (Public Policy and Management)
 received £266,000 from Lankelly Chase for their research on place-based systems change that
 will help the charity to reduce disadvantages in the communities with which they work. Similarly,
 Lowe has a £131,000, 3-year grant from the Tudor Trust for research into the new approach to
 public management developed by the Living Lab – called the Human Learning Systems (HLS)
 approach (Impact Case Study led by Lowe: Transforming public services through new
 commissioning and management priorities). This work explores alternative approaches to the
 funding, commissioning and performance management of social interventions / public service.


 Smaller grant applications can also stimulate innovative contributions. For example, Beadle
 (Responsible Business) secured £9,000 (BA/Leverhulme) for a project on Meaningful Work and
 Career Choice. Cabras (iNCITE) has, over a period of years, received small sums from the Society
 for Independent Brewers (SIBA) (£50,000 in total) to fund his research on pubs as the heart of
 rural communities. Dawson (in collaboration with Universities of Aberdeen and Stirling) secured a
 BA/Leverhulme Grant of £9,000 for research exploring the role of people as internal agents of
 change within organisations. Think Forward Initiative (jointly funded by ING, together with
 partners Deloitte, Dimension Data, Centre for Economic Policy Research, Dell/EMC and Amazon
 Web Services) provided £8,200 for a project on nudging (Önkal). Her research uses risk scenarios



                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to nudge people’s financial awareness and examines how simple interventions could lead to
 improved financial planning.


 The Business School has a record of successful Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs).
 Examples include Thomas Swann (Sutherland, Bradshaw), Parker Hannifin ((Impact Case
 Study, McLeay: Utilising customer-centric strategic marketing to improve product innovation and
 increase revenue at a multinational manufacturing corporation), Lear (Bennett), Reproflex
 (McLeay) and Sports Aid Trust (Sutherland, Skoumpopoulou).


 3.1.2. Support for Grant Application
 To firmly embed grant application as part of routine activity takes time and requires continued
 investment in the support of RGCI activity. The School is supported by a dedicated Research
 Development Manager who provides guidance on funding opportunities and helps co-ordinate
 multi-partner funding initiatives. Processes of grant application development, as well as grant
 management, are coordinated by the University Research and Innovation Services (RIS) office
 (REF5a). Funding calls, tailored newsletters summarising current opportunities and UKRI and
 UKRO funding related news are disseminated via email, call briefing events and workshops, social
 media and dedicated intranet pages accessible to all staff. Additional resources are available on
 the University intranet including funder information packs, templates for letters of support, bitesize
 guides and examples of previous successful grants on a range of funding topics. The RIS pre-
 award team assist PIs with preparation of budget data and additional external (to the School) peer
 review to maximise success rates. The post award team assist with contracts and coordination of
 legal and procurement advice. This team also support research investigators by monitoring
 spend, submission of claims and provision of financial reports to funders. Departments hold
 research away days allowing staff to work on publications and grant writing.               Additional
 programmes are designed to develop colleagues at different stages of research. The University
 provides an ECR Programme, Fellowship Ready and Next Generation of Large Award
 Holders programmes. Since 2017/18, 19 researchers have benefitted from this programme. In
 addition to these grant application workshops, RIS colleagues offer faculty specific drop-in
 sessions with one-to-one support for less experienced colleagues, this is particularly helpful at
 early stage application development.


 3.2. Infrastructure and Facilities
 The Business School occupies a striking building, completed in 2007. Known as 'City Campus
 East', our home comprises 24,000 square metres of purpose-designed academic accommodation
 providing future-proof social spaces, classrooms, lecture theatres, hub areas and exhibition space.
 It provides outstanding facilities for both staff and students, considerably enhancing the research
 environment. Research outputs are displayed on walls and screens throughout the building. Prior


                                                                                               Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to Covid-19 the building was used extensively to host research seminars and community events,
 research conferences (section 4.6) and business networking and innovation events. This will
 resume when it is safe to do so, in the interim activity continues on-line for public facing events, to
 maintain research, the University campus has been adapted to Covid-secure working. As an
 example of on-line engagement, our events team recently supported Harvey to run the closing
 stakeholder consultation for the Law Commission in connection with their proposed revisions to
 the Proceeds of Crime Act (2002).


 Over the REF2021 period, the School has equipped the Living Lab to enhance our research on
 complex decision making. The Living Lab consists of AV equipment and collaborative workspace
 and enables organisations to innovate their relationships with employees, partners and customers.
 This Lab supports some of the funded research described in section 3.1.1. More recently, the
 School has invested £21,000 in a Behavioural Science Lab to further support the work of the
 Decisions and Analytics RIG and other colleagues engaged in behavioural research. When safe
 to have research participants on campus, the Lab will, via behavioural experiments, enable
 empirically rigorous work on misinformation-trust synergies, risk perceptions, judgmental
 forecasting, information (mis)use and decision biases.


 The School has provided £880,000 for the development of a bespoke business clinic. The
 Business Clinic, informed by staff research, provides free consultancy advice to small and
 medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), multinationals and not-for-profit organisations. Over the first
 five years of operation, the Clinic has supported over 220 external organisations. The School’s
 Clinic is participating in the Chartered Associate of Business Schools’ funded trial on how
 technology can improve micro business productivity.


 Our excellently resourced central University Library supports School research. The University has
 made considerable investment in the library during the REF2021 period, particularly in creating a
 well-equipped Research Commons. This provides dedicated library space at the heart of campus
 for interdisciplinary networking, collaboration, and digital scholarship. The Research Reading
 Room provides individual study places including some larger desks equipped with Macs, standard
 PCs and some PCs with dual screen monitors. There are three collaborative spaces
 accommodating 12-14 people with presentation facilities, plus two research consultation rooms
 for one-to-one support or interviews.


 The Library works in partnership with academic staff to develop and maintain a multidisciplinary
 collection with specific investment in Business and Management resources of just over £1.5
 million over the REF cycle. Investment in ejournals for Business and Management includes
 subscriptions to a range of resources such as FT.com and The Economist, whilst investment in


                                                                                                Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 databases includes subscriptions to Bureau Van Dijk (Fame & Osiris), Business Source Premier,
 Mintel, Brad Insight, Estates Gazette Interactive, National Bureau of Economic Research Working
 Papers, Passport (Euromonitor) and World Advertising Research Centre (WARC). In addition,
 researchers in the School benefit from access to multidisciplinary databases, ebook and ejournal
 packages. These include Science Direct, Sage, Emerald, Taylor & Francis, Wiley, OUP, Springer,
 Nature and Science journals, JSTOR Arts & Sciences and Nexis.


 The Scholarly Publications (SP) team manage the institutional OA fund (section 1.5) and provide
 guidance for OA compliance, particularly for funded research. Additionally, the team offer support
 in preparing a manuscript and the effective sharing of research, how to register for and make use
 of an Open Researcher and Contributor ID (ORCID), and how to use our institutional Pure
 repository.   The University Library has also invested in a new Institutional Research Data
 Management Repository (powered by Figshare) and offers drop in advice on meeting funders'
 expectations, uploading and sharing research data, writing a data management plan and other
 queries relating to data management.


 3.2.1. Capital Investment
 In addition to the specific investments discussed above and the investment in the dedicated PGR
 suite (section 2.2.4) there has been general capital investment of £260,600 expanding IT labs and
 other internal building improvements that enhance our environment. IT Services provide technical
 infrastructure and equipment (£47,200 investment), user support and training, remote desktop
 access is available for all staff and students. The School continues to maintain its investment in
 the ‘Trading Room’ that incorporates Bloomberg terminals (and DataStream) providing financial
 market data (£30,000 p.a. investment). Accessible to students, this facility also supports the
 Socially Responsible Investment research of, for example, Brzeszczynski, Ghimire, and
 Chandorkar and provides a valuable real time resource for our economists, supporting, for
 example, the work of Szczgielski. Researchers have access to all usual data analysis packages
 such as NVivo, Stata, eviews, and SPSS. Further investment is available for access to specialised
 databases that specifically enhance certain research outputs (Hong Kong Stock Exchange Data
 Set; Institute of Grocery Distribution Analysis Tools; and Kompass On-line Business Database)
 and for the purchase of relevant software equipment such as digital recorders and voice
 recognition software.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1. Impactful Research
 Our Business School values applied research and multidisciplinary interactions that positively
 impact on society and on the next generation of business and community leaders. We seek to
 contribute to international agendas, public policy, local economies and to business improvement.

                                                                                           Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We support this through a variety of mechanisms to encourage colleagues’ and groups’ research
 to be outward looking in their research activity and through our accountability for our work. These
 have already been discussed but include workload support for research and knowledge exchange,
 University support through RIS to develop partnerships and collaborative research proposals
 critically supportive conversations around colleagues’ Personal Development Appraisals and
 Personal Research and Innovation Plans, the criteria for research sabbaticals, funding support
 and career progression, the focussed support for the work of Signature Areas and Research
 Interest Groups and ongoing accountabilities through departmental, faculty and University
 committee structures for Research and Knowledge Exchange.


 These mechanisms have supported our ability to respond to the needs of our research users.
 Examples of the range of ongoing partnerships include the Cabinet Office National Leadership
 Centre (Liddle, Shutt, Blenkinsopp and Hesselgreaves), Innovate UK (Önkal), Department for
 Environment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) (Bosworth and Newbery) the Joseph Rowntree
 Foundation (Burton), the Trade Union Congress (Fitzgerald and Beadle) and the Institute of
 Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) (Haynes). Evidence of our work being
 used by partners is detailed within our impact case studies included with this REF submission.
 The impact case studies of Coates, Mordue and Cabras make contributions to the local economy,
 those of Burton, McLeay and Sorour focus on business improvement, while those of Lowe,
 Fitzgerald and Cunningham contribute to the development of public policy. In the following
 sections we detail examples of collaborative research and contributions at international, national
 and regional levels and to the academy through service and support.


 4.2. Contribution to the International Community
 We contribute to a range of international networks and partnerships, many of which have been
 built and sustained over an enduring period of time. For example, the one million Euro EU RISE
 project involved a network of university contacts in Poland, Slovenia, South Korea and Ireland
 built up over many years by Pearce. Her GETM3 project also includes eight international industry
 partners, micro start-ups and industry bodies.


 Public Policy and Management (PPM) colleagues work with our partners at the Amsterdam
 University of Applied Sciences (AUAS). A joint 5-year NU-AUAS Research Strategy (led by
 Cabras), has been supported by pump-prime funding and produced a number of joint grant
 applications. Blagburn’s funded research on business failure and recovery has led to the
 submission of a joint bid (with Cunningham) to host a stand-alone workshop for the European
 Council of Small Business.       Collaborations are enhanced through international research
 secondments, for example, Shutt through a semester long secondment with AUAS furthering
 comparative work on public value (section 1.1.3). The Living Lab is part of a wider European


                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 network of living labs (ENOLL) and works with partners worldwide including Monash University.
 Fitzgerald’s work on migration and moral panic is the result of a long-standing collaborative
 relationship with the Polish Academy of Science.


 Within iNCITE, Charles is part of a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Innovative Training Network (ITN)
 with the Universities of Stavanger, Linkoping, Aalborg, Twente, Aveiro, Lincoln and the
 Autonomous University of Barcelona, this ITN further demonstrates service through training the
 next generation of creative, entrepreneurial and innovative early-stage researchers. Newbery is
 a founding member of the Enterprise Educators Foundation East Africa (EEFEA), with 30
 institutional members from Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Sudan and Ethiopia.


 As part of our contribution to international society Bian, as an expert in counterfeit consumption
 studies, provided expert comments on a WTO trade dispute between two nations. In Australia,
 Dawson’s research on organisational change fed into the development of new products in
 healthcare and Whalley’s work with a Canadian telecommunication think tank sought to bring
 about regulatory improvement. Fitzgerald was a national UK expert for the European Commission
 with regard to the Posting of Workers Directive, Varley represented the Adventure Tourism Sector
 in Europe in discussions with the European Commission about the sector’s significance, not least
 for sustainability.


 4.3. Contribution to the National Community – Shaping the Economy and Society
 At national level, our research has contributed to public policy through expert advisory roles.
 Public Policy contributions include Wanjiru’s membership of the Export Guarantees Advisory
 Council, one of eight experts advising the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry on relevant
 aspects of policy on UK exports, she has recently been called as expert witness to the House of
 Commons International Trade Committee.        Both Newbery and Bosworth are members of the
 DEFRA rural academic panel, providing expert oversight on the rigour of evidence being provided
 to civil servants and Ministers. Bosworth is also a member of the North East Rural Innovation
 Steering Group, chaired by Lord Curry of Kirkharle. Harvey was one of a small number of
 academics advising the Law Commission on the review of the confiscation regime in Part 2 of the
 Proceeds of Crime Act 2002. The empirical anti-money laundering research by Harvey is the only
 academic research included in the House of Common’s Library briefing paper on money
 laundering law. Beadle provided evidence on the ethics of the ‘Wild Animals in Circus (Wales) Bill’
 presented to the expert ethics panel hearing of the Welsh Sennedd’s Climate Change,
 Environment and Rural Affairs Committee. Whalley has contributed to a number of UK digital
 related consultations, including the Ofcom annual plan. Contributions to national level
 organisations also include Perchard’s role as Advisor to the UK Aluminium Industry and Batiz-
 Lazo as adviser to the ATM Industry Association.


                                                                                            Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Other policy work includes Fitzgerald and Beadle’s research into the Trade Unions and the 2016
 EU Referendum. This was facilitated by the TUC whose General Council have received a
 summary of its results with recommendations for union campaign structure.                As a result,
 Northumbria is now one of a small number of universities contributing to the British TUC’s ‘Leading
 Change’ Programme for senior union leaders. Perchard’s research has contributed to the Scottish
 Government’s Independent Review on the Policing of the Miners’ Strike in Scotland, which has
 led to the preparation of legislation by the Scottish Government to overturn unfair criminal
 convictions against striking miners in 1984-85.


 Expert consultancy at national level includes Cabras’s work for the Society of Independent
 Brewers (SIBA) building on his research identifying trends and future trajectories for the UK craft
 beer industry.    Newbery’s consultancy work evaluates the Innovate ICURe programmes
 supporting researchers as they commercialise research. Fitzgerald provided the blacklisting
 Claimant Solicitors’ Steering Group with expert research analysis on the working patterns and
 wages of blacklisted construction workers (in the High Court Construction Industry Vetting
 Information Group Litigation). Fitzgerald also presented evidence to the Labour Party’s Policy
 Commission on Industrial Policy (2019).


 The MADE project is an example of the School’s engagement with British business (Sage UK Ltd).
 Based upon Hesselgreaves’ research in coaching, this project offers accountants across England
 free digital coaching skills training with the overarching aim of boosting small business productivity
 and economic growth. Subject to trial results, roll out of the digital coaching skills training will be
 supported by BEIS.


 Several charitable foundations in the UK, including the Lankelly Chase Foundation and Tudor
 Trust; local authorities, including Plymouth and Gateshead; NHS organisations, such as
 Newcastle Hospitals Trust; and national organisations such as NHS England have adopted Lowe
 and colleagues’ “Human Learning Systems” to the funding, commissioning, and performance
 management of social interventions.        This encourages movement away from target-setting
 towards high-quality learning and peer-based reflection. This approach has enabled organisations
 to save money and create more effective services for the public. Lowe’s leadership has led to his
 secondment into the independent, not-for-profit Centre for Public Impact (CPI).


 4.4. Contribution to the Regional Community
 Charles is Deputy Chair of the working group on ‘Entrepreneurship’ and J Wilson is Deputy Chair
 on the ‘Internationalisation’ Working Group of the North East Local Enterprise Partnership
 (NELEP). Both provide academic advice for the respective policies in these areas, as well as


                                                                                                Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sense-testing NELEP’s aspirations. Alongside other regional universities, we are members of the
 North East Covid-19 Economic Response Group, which was established by the NELEP at the
 beginning of the coronavirus pandemic to support business resilience and ensure a collective
 response to the economic impact of Covid-19 on the North East economy. Charles has been
 working with the LEP and other regional stakeholders on an entrepreneurship strategy for the
 region as part of a project led by Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Charles is extending this
 work into more detailed research with NELEP on local variations in the entrepreneurial
 ecosystems.


 In response to Covid-19, Liddle and Shutt’s project on improving local government procurement
 involved working closely with Northern Members of Parliament on recovery planning. Procurement
 accounts for £100 billion (47%) of local authority spending. Leveraging these resources to the
 greatest social and economic effect is now crucial in promoting an agile crisis response,
 maintaining community resilience and helping local businesses stay afloat. Other contributions
 and partnerships in the region include Fitzgerald’s work with migrant communities, collaborating
 with the Police and Crime Commissioner, Police Forces and NGOs. Mordue’s research on wind
 farms has been influential in reassuring the local government planning authorities that windfarms
 do not negatively impact on tourist numbers, thus enabling them to pursue their sustainable energy
 objectives. Cabras’ research has been used in support of community efforts to retain and indeed
 reopen local public houses.


 In Responsible Business Beadle is a trustee of the North East Initiative for Business Ethics (NIBE).
 Our work with NIBE includes Responsible Business Seminars enabling researchers, professional
 and business leaders (most notably Paul Polman, former CEO of Unilever) to share their work
 with public audiences.    Harvey brings her money laundering research into service on the
 Management Committee of the North East Fraud Forum that aims to bring the public and private
 sectors together to reduce financial crime and for the Regulatory Oversight Committee of the
 Association of International Accountants. Sproat uses his research on fraud to advise the Counter-
 Fraud Professional Accreditation Board (CFPAB) and, Callahan is on the North East Women
 Partnership Advisory Board that seeks to research and change future work practices in the North
 East that will lead to the development, recruitment, retention and promotion of women leaders.


 4.5. Contributions to the Academy
 Our researchers make a range of contributions to national and international scholarly societies.
 Callahan has been recognised by the Academy of Human Resource Development as Outstanding
 HRD Scholar for 2020. International roles include: UN Principles for Responsible Management
 Education (PRME) Climate and Environment Working Group – co-chair and UK and Ireland PRME
 Chapter chair (Hope); Whalley holds the vice-chair of the International Telecommunications


                                                                                             Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Society. At a European level, Cunningham is Scientific Board member for the University Industry
 Innovation Network. National appointments include the Regional Studies research network on
 Place Leadership (Liddle); Liddle and Charles are Fellows of the UK Academy of Social Sciences
 and Liddle is Fellow and former Honorary Chair of the UK Joint University Council while Elliott
 Chairs its Public Administration Committee.


 Several colleagues undertake significant roles with journals with a number fulfilling appointments
 as journal editors and advisory board members. Notable amongst them are Bian: Editorial Review
 Board for the Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science, Cui: Editorial Board of International
 Marketing Review; Cabras: Editorial Advisory Board International Journal of Public Sector
 Management, Callahan: Editorial Board of Human Relations and incoming Co-Editor in Chief of
 the International Journal of Management Reviews and Editorial Board of Human Relations.
 Whalley: Editor of Digital Policy Regulation & Governance, Haynes: Editorial Board of Accounting,
 Auditing and Accountability Journal and four other journals, Liddle: Chair of the Editorial Advisory
 Board for the International Journal of Public Management, and International Editor for the Local
 Economy Journal, Cunningham: editorial boards for Long Range Planning, Irish Journal of
 Management, International Journal of International Property Management; editorial advisory
 board, Journal of Knowledge Management, editor Journal of Technology Transfer; Beadle,
 Editorial Board of Philosophy of Management; Önkal; Member of Editorial Board of Futures &
 Foresight Science; Newbery is co-editor of the International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behaviour
 & Research and Bosworth and Newbery are joint Chairs of the Rural Entrepreneurship Network
 special interest group at the Institute of Small Business and Enterprise (ISBE). Perchard is an
 editor of History Workshop Journal.


 Our researchers also support the vital work of funding bodies in reviewing and selecting projects
 for funding. For example, colleagues are members of the ESRC Peer Review College including
 Bian, Charles, Cabras, Haynes and Liddle. Colleagues also act as reviewers for the Agence
 Nationale de la Recherche, AHRC, ESRC (Perchard), Estonia Research Council (Cunningham)
 and EU (Horizon 2020 and Marie Curie Programmes) (Charles and Cabras), the European
 Science Foundation (Charles and Önkal) and Leverhulme and the British Academy (Cabras,
 Liddle and Önkal). Pearce does service for EU Commission’s Research Executive Agency (REA).
 Both Liddle and Charles are panel members of UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship programme.
 Charles is a member of the nominations committee of the Academy of Social Sciences.


 Colleagues have collaborative relationships that have been established over many years. For
 example, Shutt has built up collaborations with a Chinese University Business School- Zhejiang
 University of Technology in Hangzhou (where he holds a visiting chair) and at the University of
 Economics in Prague. Bian is a visiting Professor at Tianjin University and at Wuhan University of


                                                                                             Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Technology, collaborating on a funding proposal to the National Natural Science Foundation of
 China; R Wilson served as Visiting Research Fellow at Monash University until 2019, Martin is a
 Visiting Professor at Universities of Denver and Michigan engaging around Learning Health
 Systems. J Wilson is a visiting professor at Copenhagen Business School engaging on business
 history. Beadle is Visiting Professor at the National Centre for Circus Arts. Önkal is Honorary
 Senior Research Associate at UCL and was an Academic Visitor at Nuffield College, Oxford
 University in 2018.


 In addition to the forgoing, colleagues regularly contribute to conferences as keynote speakers,
 editors and as members of conference Scientific Committees. Table 3 (Summary Contributions
 to the Academy) provides a summary of our contributions to scholarly leadership over the period.
 A significant number of colleagues have led conferences, been an invited Plenary or keynote
 speaker and a third are members of Journal Editorial boards, providing further evidence of the
 research trajectory that we have described in this statement.



                       Table 3: Summary Contributions to the Academy
            Activity                                                     Occurrence
            Conference organisation or chairing                                   62
            Plenary or keynote speakers                                           98
            Journal editorship (chief or main)                                    17
            Member of journal editorial board                                     65
            Visiting Titles                                                       48
            National and international advisory boards/committees                 36

            Service to National / International Grant Reviewing/ Other            32
            Expert Panels
            Research prizes and honours (including PGRs)                          51



 4.6. Conferences and Events
 The School has hosted or co-hosted significant national and international conferences together
 with some important community engagement events. For example, in 2015, we co-hosted the
 Technology Transfer Society Conference with TU Dublin which was held in Dublin and co-
 organised the Doctoral Colloquium for the Irish Academy of Management annual conference. In
 Summer of 2016 we hosted the large and prestigious (450 delegate) Academy of Marketing
 Conference. Equally important in terms of our contribution to academic community development,
 we also hosted the Regional Studies Association Early Career Conference in October of the same
 year.



                                                                                         Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Demonstrating engagement with local as well as academic community, in early 2017 we hosted
 the ESRC Brexit and The North event; and, co-hosted a conference on the Economic
 Technological and Societal Impacts of Entrepreneurial Ecosystems with the University of
 Augsburg that took place in Augsburg. Also in 2017, the School hosted the UK and Ireland PRME
 Chapter conference, welcoming over 70 delegates from 40 institutions and seven different
 countries. In 2018 we co-hosted the Leeds Beckett / Northumbria conference on Combined
 Authorities and Mayoral Government, held in Leeds. In the same year we hosted the 13 th Global
 Brand Conference in May and this was swiftly followed in June by the University Forum for Human
 Resource Development (UFHRD) conference. In both September 2018 and September 2019, we
 hosted the National Public Administration Committee (PAC) Conference for the Joint University
 Council, Learned Society for Public Administration, Social Policy and Social Work Education. In
 addition, in November 2018, the School hosted the Law Commission’s symposium that opened
 its consultation on changing the 2002 Proceeds of Crime Act and hosted the closing ‘virtual’ event
 in November 2020.


 Led by Liddle and Shutt, in March 2019 the School hosted a ‘Brexit-One day after’ event that
 attracted 70 academics and policymakers / practitioners to discuss the future of regional economic
 development. In May 2020, they ran a virtual policy learning event between policy makers and
 practitioners ‘After Brexit? The Future of Cities in England and in the Netherlands. Taking Stock
 and assessing New Opportunities: Amsterdam and Newcastle to 2030’.


 Fitzgerald has hosted events on hate crime and awareness raising events for businesses with
 regard to Modern Slavery in the UK in conjunction with Stronger Together Tackling Modern
 Slavery in Supply Chains. Cunningham and Charles hosted the 2019 BAM Entrepreneurship SIG
 on Academic Entrepreneurship: Core Challenges and Future Research Agendas, 2019 also saw
 the Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship (ISBE) Annual conference in November.
 This event, in collaboration with Newcastle University was co-Chaired by Newbery and Rusk and
 welcomed 500 participants from academia and local business. They also hosted a symposium on
 Entrepreneurial Place leadership in partnership with ISBE. In March, 2020 with the University of
 Augsburg, we co-hosted an international research workshop on Trends and Developments in
 University   Management.       Whalley    had    organised     the   23rd   biennial   International
 Telecommunications Conference ‘Digital societies and industrial transformations: Policies,
 markets and technologies’, for 2020, it will run online in 2021.


 4.7. Future Contributions
 Sustainable partnerships are key to improving the wellbeing of societies and their environments.
 Our future strategy is to enhance international activities and partnerships alongside deepening
 those with our regional stakeholders. Refreshing our strategic ambitions to be ‘a force for good’


                                                                                             Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 requires that we maintain continued relevance of our research to those who will use that work.
 Our School has a strong sense of place within the North-East region, this shapes our identity
 where we provide a rich resource for regional wealth creation and improving opportunities for more
 disadvantaged communities. Positioned in this region the Business School looks outwards to
 serve the research community and society as a whole including business, the public sector and
 civil society internationally, nationally and regionally. We endeavour to respond to the challenges
 of continuing to sustain relevant research in a rapidly changing world, enabling us to initiate and
 support path-breaking applied research projects that provide radical and realistic solutions to
 future challenges. Post Covid-19, flexibility and adaptive learning are now vital for protecting
 communities and managing their response. This includes thinking through recovery and mitigation
 strategies and building a preparedness platform for ‘what comes next’. The School is well-placed
 to contribute to this debate, as a result of its substantial investment in a research base that is
 already thinking about the extensive application of its research to the challenges we face in a post-
 Covid world. The commitment to applied research is especially noteworthy, alongside our
 commitment to sustainability and ethical business behaviour, highlighting the drive for a ‘recover
 better’ strategy.




                                                                                              Page 35
