Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London School of Economics and Political Science

 Unit of Assessment: 21: Sociology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 LSE Sociology is a large and vibrant research community which has grown considerably. We are
 submitting 39.1 FTE category A staff, a 58% increase on the 24.75 FTE staff submitted in
 REF2014. Twenty-four of our Category A staff have been appointed since 2010, demonstrating
 a major investment by the LSE. We prize ‘big picture’ sociology addressing the defining global
 challenges of our time. This builds on our long-standing reputation in theory and macro-historical
 analysis which, following our REF 2014 strategy, we have built through enhancing our
 methodological and empirical research strengths. Members of our UoA have published 18
 books, 139 refereed articles, and 61 book chapters in the current period, and 84 doctoral
 degrees have been awarded.

 Uniting all our work is a commitment to what C Wright Mills identified as the ‘sociological
 imagination’ addressing the relationship between ‘personal problems’ and ‘public issues’, and
 thereby linking social relations at all scales to address urgent challenges. We thus address
 issues which have recently become prominent, notably financialisation, intensified inequality,
 expanded migration, climate change as well as great historical turning points and macro-
 historical change, notably the rise of democracy, the remaking of political divides, key
 transformations in capitalism, racial and gender divides, humanitarianism and world wars. We
 address these issues with a shared commitment to sociological excellence encompassing:

 (i) theory development which we see as vital for generating broader insights into the nature of
 contemporary social change, and which allows the generalisation of specific research findings
 beyond specific contexts. We champion perspectives which extend sociological theory, by
 extending the canon (e.g. Hemmings on Goldmann, Krause on Bourdieu, Ҫubukҫu on Arendt,
 Salem on Fanon) or by showing how older and more contemporary theoretical approaches
 address specific contemporary issues, such as around financialisation and the money-economy
 (Dodd, Pinzur); time and acceleration (Wajcman); empire and decolonisation (Ahmad, Salem);
 culture and class distinction (Accominotti, Friedman, Savage); sexual and gender justice
 (Sabsay, Wearing); unsustainable behaviours (Lahlou); resistance and networks (Bauer); racism
 and migration (Hall, McGovern, Savage, Teeger, Wessendorf); militarism (Archer); terrorism and
 human rights (Bhatt, Ҫubukҫu, Krause, Moon); urban justice (Jones; Jovchelovitch; Madden;
 Slater) and designing the ‘good city’ (Burdett, Charlton, de Cruz, Rode).

 (ii) methodological innovation. We see the development of new methodological repertoires as
 crucial to ensure empirical rigour across all our work. Building on our long-term profile, we have
 an unusually large concentration of ethnographers (Ҫubukҫu, Hall, Hutter, Jones, Shahrokni,
 Slater, Teeger, Wessendorf). We are growing our methodological repertoires through expanding
 quantitative expertise, often from colleagues committed to quantitative research as part of mixed
 method designs (Elliott, Friedman, Friese, Savage). We also have considerable expertise in
 quantitative comparative analysis (Bauer, McGovern, Henz). We are pioneering the use of new
 and unusual data sources, including web surveys (Savage), big data (Accominotti, Tsvetkova,
 Friedman), experimental methods (Accominotti); corpus construction and textual analysis
 (Bauer, Lahlou), digital ethnography (Lahlou) and archival methods as a means of conserving
 marginal social theorizing (Ahmad).

 (iii) international range. Our clusters straddle national boundaries and many international sites.
 We routinely undertake cross-national comparisons, employ reflexively global research designs
 and engage in critical research on transnational ties. We prize a strong orientation towards the
 global south which is crucial to correct longstanding biases towards intellectual paradigms driven
 from the global north. Published research includes studies based in South Africa (Charlton,
 Moon, Savage, Teeger), Brazil (Jovchelovitch), China and India (Bauer), Pakistan and
 Afghanistan (Ahmad); Iran (Shahrokni), India (Bhatt), Argentina, Mexico (Moon), and Egypt

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Salem). This is linked to comparative research across major cities (Burdett, da Cruz, Charlton,
 Rode); on international NGOs (Krause), transnational social movements (Ҫubukҫu); international
 inequality dynamics (Savage) and global comparisons of authority of science (Bauer, Krause).
 The major global north nations on which we have expertise are the United States (Accominotti;
 Breslow, Elliott, Pinzur, Thompson, Wearing), and to a lesser extent Australia (Archer, Jones).
 We transcend simple nation based comparison by working across spatial scales, with many
 examining how global processes play out at the neighbourhood level (Hall, Madden), through
 large cities (Burdett, Rode), and major crisis sites such as militarized zones, nuclear plants or
 Intensive Care Units (Ahmad, Lahlou) and global activist networks (Ҫubukҫu).

 We therefore position sociology to have a vital role to play in addressing the multiple challenges
 which 21st century global society faces. Our research clusters focus this vision by addressing
 four of the most urgent challenges of our times: (i) social inequalities; (ii); economy, science and
 technology; (iii) politics and human rights; and (iv) contemporary urban challenges. The last
 three of these were part of our REF2014 submission.

 Our four clusters are:

 1: Social Inequalities – This is a new cluster formed in 2015 to harness sociological expertise to
 the crucial intellectual agenda of inequality, which Obama famously claimed to be ‘a defining
 challenge of our time’. It mobilises our long-standing interests in race, ethnicity and gender, and
 combines these with newer research expertise in social class. The Race, Ethnicity and Post-
 Colonial Research Group, led by Ali and Salem was relaunched in 2018 and brings together a
 large number of doctoral students and staff. As part of its commitment to supporting racial
 justice, LSE Sociology Department hosted the Runnymede Trust free of charge between 2014
 and 2018 when its finances were severely stretched. Wessendorf has conducted ethnographic
 studies of racial inequality and immigration into Hackney. McGovern’s IMPALA studies provide
 the most rigorous comparative accounts of contemporary migration policy across the globe.
 Thompson’s work on gender inequalities in reproductive technologies and infrastructures is
 internationally recognised, and Wajcman has explored the gendered inequalities around time
 use. Ali is an authority on the intersectionality of gender and race.

 Our interests in gender are embedded in the long-standing collaboration with the Department of
 Gender Studies, four of whose staff (Breslow, Hemmings, Sabsay, Shahrokni) are returned to
 UoA 21. These colleagues demonstrate a strong commitment to theory, through Hemmings’
 award-winning monograph on Emma Goldman, Breslow and Sabsay’s theorising on sexual
 freedom and psycho-social analysis. Our ethnographic strengths are underlined by Shahrokni’s
 study of gender relations in contemporary Iran.

 Since 2013 these strengths have been complemented by newer expertise on social class.
 Boosted by intense public interest in the Great British Class Survey (led by Savage), this has
 been taken forward by Friedman, notably in his work with former LSE colleague Laurison, on the
 ‘class ceiling’, which underpins one of our impact case studies. We specialise in drawing out the
 significance of Pierre Bourdieu’s sociology for class analysis; reinvigorating debates about social
 mobility; linking sociological concepts of class with concepts from economics. These strengths
 inform Henz’s studies of assortative mating, and Accominotti’s studies of changing elite
 consumption in New York.

 The Social Inequalities cluster works closely with the International Inequalities Institute (III),
 which has involved numerous sociologists (e.g. Accominotti, Friedman, McGovern, and Teeger
 in its research programme. The fact that the III established itself so rapidly with Savage as its
 founding Co-Director (2015-18) and then sole Director (2018-2020), has demonstrated the
 capacity of LSE sociologists to successfully lead inter-disciplinary programmes of the highest
 international repute. The III also has a strong focus on linking research with impact, and has
 pivoted inequality research towards the global south, notably through collaboration with Oxfam,
 leading to the formation of the Global Inequality Observatory. The III research theme led by


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Savage on ‘Wealth, Elites and Tax Justice’ demonstrates how high-quality academic research
 goes hand in hand with a strong impact agenda.

 This cluster constitutes a strategically important axis since as the point of intersection for
 sociological colleagues from outside the Departments of Sociology, including the Department of
 Gender, and in Psychological and Behavioural Science (PBS) who have interests in ethnicity
 and race, especially in the global south (Jovchelovitch), as well as other sources of stigma, such
 as obesity (Lahlou). Teeger in Methodology has examined how racial divisions were embedded
 in educational curriculums and teaching styles in South Africa, and Tsvetkova whose work
 examines how social networks generate inequality.

 2: Economy, Science and Technology. This cluster grew from a long-standing engagement
 between economic sociology and research interests in risk regulation (Accominotti, Dodd,
 Hutter, Elliott). The cross-fertilisation with science and technology studies (Bauer, Friese, Moon,
 Thompson, Wajcman) permits rich theoretical questions around the role of technology in driving
 social change to be harnessed to the risks associated with the hegemony of financialised
 economic models. Our work breaks new ground in the sociological analysis of alternative monies
 and cryptocurrencies (Dodd), the biosciences, gender, and digital technology (Thompson and
 Wajcman). We have made major theoretical interventions, with Dodd and Wajcman both
 publishing major monographs on money and time respectively. Lahlou’s ‘installation theory’
 addresses how to change behaviour and make business models more sustainable, and
 Muthukrishna has explored innovation dynamics.

 Our innovative theoretical work has involved innovative methodological tools. This includes the
 use of quantitative methods, such as by Bauer and Friese (who has used social network
 analysis and multiple correspondence analysis in her studies of animal care). Wajcman has also
 analysed time-use data to consider changing working hours. Lahlou has championed the use of
 wearable video recording and evidence-based interviewing. Bauer has led research examining
 the changing authority of science in global perspective. Bauer’s World Archive for the Perception
 of Science Data engages comparative research with colleagues in US, Netherlands, Germany,
 Italy, Brazil, Turkey, Japan and China. These sit alongside ethnographic and case study
 methods used by Elliott and Hutter. An important new development within this cluster since REF
 2014 has been to highlight the economic and social dimensions of climate change. Elliot’s work
 on insurance, consumption, knowledge production and expertise spotlights how climate change
 is economised and governed and how the costs of climate change are distributed across
 individuals, communities, and governments. This research illuminates both the unfolding effects
 of climate change and the ways in which social actors design and price various interventions to
 help societies adapt.

 3: Politics and Human Rights – Colleagues in this cluster engage with both classic and emerging
 issues in the sociology of politics, contestation, human rights and disenfranchisement. This
 cluster is distinctive because human rights expertise does not sit within Law, as virtually all other
 human rights work tends to in the UK, the US and elsewhere. Here, the Department of Sociology
 hosts the LSE Human Rights Unit, which brings a critical and sociological perspective to
 interdisciplinary debates and comprises an unusually large group of human rights-focused
 sociologists. This is webbed into numerous cross-LSE initiatives. Ҫubukҫu leads the
 ‘Internationalism, Cosmopolitanism and the Politics of Solidarity’ Research Group, which leads
 regular seminars and public lectures exploring the dynamics of international solidarity.

 Our historical range is evident in Archer’s work on militarism in the First World War and Salem’s
 studies of imperial rule and decolonisation in 20th century Egypt. These are complemented by a
 contemporary exploration of the limits of human rights agendas (Ҫubukҫu, Krause and Moon)
 and the nature of terrorist ideology (Bhatt). The links between post-colonial theory and political
 sociology inform Salem’s reflections on the power of Frantz Fanon in the context of the Egyptian
 experience, as well as Ҫubukҫu’s application of post-colonial perspectives to a critique of human
 rights practice. The department has provided a home for debates addressing the rise of
 populism and colleagues have contributed to ensuring that sociology is a leading voice in the

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 public debate about terrorism, and the sociological implications of Brexit and Trump (e.g. Bhatt,
 Savage). We are developing strengths in the sociology of migration, which we are building
 through links with human rights organisations and the III (Wessendorf), as well as colleagues in
 the urban challenges cluster (notably Hall).

 The impact of our research in politics and human rights has been primarily driven by a focus
 outside the West; an orientation to populations and issues that are neglected in mainstream
 human rights work (Dalit communities in India, the conflict in Balochistan; the emergence of
 Pashtun anti-war movements); an attention to impact work relating to non-state, as well as state,
 actors (such as the religious right in Bangladesh); and an orientation to new and emergent
 issues in rights abuses and violations. On an international level, the unit has spearheaded
 collaborative projects with Columbia and Stanford that work with human rights and humanitarian
 organisations in Pakistan to document enforced disappearances and conserve documents of
 democratic movements under threat (Ahmad). In addition, the Dalit Human Rights Defenders, an
 EC-funded impact project, collaborates with five major and numerous smaller partners in India to
 challenge anti-Dalit anti-caste discrimination and violence. Impact activities include monitoring
 violence, training and building capacity, outreach initiatives, running events and conferences,
 developing legal cases and working with federal level state bodies. An app has also been
 developed to monitor COVID-19 relief for thousands of families (Bhatt).

 4: Contemporary Urban Challenges – This cluster is distinctive in combining canonical research
 agendas in urban sociology regarding the nature of the ‘just city’ with expertise in planning,
 architecture and design. Given the tendency in the UK for urban studies expertise to be housed
 within Geography Departments, our urban sociology is distinctive. Scholars throughout the
 contemporary urban challenges cluster have strong international connections and are committed
 to exploring how wide and multiple geographies shape our knowledge of urban processes. This
 is evidenced by three of our impact case studies, by Madden, Hall and Jovchelovitch, sitting
 within this cluster.

 Madden’s study of public housing, financialisation and dispossession has attracted major
 acclaim. Hall’s study of how urban high streets in the UK are driven by processes of migration
 and racialisation, demonstrates how the urban infrastructure even at the very local scale needs
 to be contextualised by macro-global processes. Jovchelovitch’s research on Brazilian favelas
 demonstrates the pertinence of grass roots capacities for social organisation and urban
 governance. Beyond the research represented in our impact case studies, Jones’s ethnography
 of skateboarding on the South Bank Centre has explicated the unintended effects of urban
 design on youth cultures, and Slater’s studies on the infrastructure of how light affects the
 environment, is an innovative application of material culture studies to the urban.

 This cross-fertilisation of urban sociology with urban design is facilitated by the LSE Cities
 research centre. LSE Cities investigates how complex urban systems are responding to the
 pressures of growth, climate change and globalisation. It has pioneered innovative spatial and
 visual approaches that map social and economic variables, building a substantial comparative
 database of cities globally. Since 2017, the centre has focussed on the impact of rapid
 urbanisation in sub-Saharan Africa. LSE Cities hosts a wide range of international conferences,
 public lectures and seminars, with an international network of urban experts. LSE Cities
 research breaks from conventional planning perspectives by highlighting the social and aesthetic
 dimensions. Charlton has thus explored the aesthetic dimensions of trash, and da Cruz and
 Rode are experts on the environmental and sustainability implications of urban governance.

 Research and impact strategy
 Our four research clusters have proven themselves to be robust platforms, and our strategy is to
 consolidate and build upon them going forward. This will be underscored by our wider research
 strategy, which is to promote the highest quality published work, both through individual and co-
 authored publications, whilst also emphasising the public-facing nature of our research and its
 capacity to make a difference in the world. We therefore do not distinguish core sociological
 research from impact, and encourage research published in the strongest academic outlets to

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also have strong public outreach. It is for these reasons that all our four impact case studies (by
 Friedman, Jovchelovitch, Hall, Madden) are derived from research conducted by core academic
 staff and published in major academic outlets. It follows that our four case studies are only the
 ‘tip of the iceberg’ and many academic staff have had suitable research for potential inclusion as
 case studies, notably Slater’s research on urban lighting, Moon on the politics of human remains
 in Mexico, Hutter’s work on food regulation, and the impact of Great British Class Survey
 directed by Savage on class politics. Therefore, our impact is not achieved through the role of
 affiliated research centres, notably the III and LSE Cities, but rather is housed within the heart of
 our Departmental academic research culture.

 This strategy has been enhanced by the appointment of a dedicated, full-time Research
 Manager, Kemp, in 2019. As well as managing research finances and assisting academic
 colleagues in attracting new funding, Kemp oversees the PhD programme and facilitates the
 Department’s Knowledge Exchange and Impact (KEI) strategy, providing advice and practical
 support on KEI projects. The Research Manager also assists with REF preparations and will
 continue to maintain comprehensive records and drive forward the strategic plans set out in this
 submission as well as local policies to support open access and data.

 The Research Manager works with the Head of Department and Chair of Research Committee
 at departmental level, and with the Research and Innovation Division at School-level, to ensure
 that research-active staff have all the advice and support they need to maximise the scope and
 impact of their research projects. As a Unit we are committed to engaging with the practices of
 major public bodies and community organizations, as well as wider non-academic audiences.
 Some of the main beneficiaries have included public policy makers, local governments, public
 and private companies, the UN, legal service providers, environmental campaigners,
 international city planners and urban design practitioners. Research carried out within the UoA
 has also informed changes in the strategic approach of public and private companies and the
 introduction of new industry regulations (as our impact case studies demonstrate).

 Throughout the assessment period, the UoA has been working towards compliance with the
 REF Open Access requirements and beyond, with 58% of all research outputs being available
 Open Access as of May 2020. The UoA has also engaged with the principles of the Concordat
 on Open Research and pioneered the deposit of non-standard data in trusted data
 repositories. Examples include Savage’s deposition of the Great British Class Survey at the UK
 Data Archive (where it formed one of the first major digital resources) and Hall’s dataset for the
 ESRC funded Super Diverse Streets project (which underpins her submitted impact case study).
 Accominotti contributed towards the public databases Market for Modern Art Exhibitions
 Database (1870-1930) and the New York Philharmonic Subscribers Database (1842-present).
 The department also has active users of Centre for Open Science’s OSF open-source
 collaborative project management tool.

 The UoA is committed to ethical conduct in line with field-relevant ethical research codes and
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) principles and practices set out in REF5a. Academic staff
 need to complete an ethics form which is then submitted to ethics committee when staff cannot
 self-certify that their research is in keeping with standard guidelines, such as around informed
 consent and anonymisation. The Department’s Research Committee, research student
 supervisors and Research Manager work to ensure that research and impact-related practices
 achieve the highest ethical standards.

 c. People, including:

    i.   Staffing strategy and staff development

 Successive Heads of Department (Savage 2013-2016, Dodd 2016-2020; Tonkiss 2020>) have
 overseen a deliberate strategy to only appoint permanent positions at Assistant Professor level.
 We deliberately eschew a policy of senior appointments (including fractional part time positions
 which had been common in previous periods) to avoid a top-heavy professorial group, and to

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facilitate a dynamic research culture with a high proportion of early career researchers. The
 Department of Sociology has made seven Assistant Professor appointments since 2013,
 (Accominotti (PhD Columbia), Ahmad (PhD Cambridge), Elliott (PhD Berkeley), Friedman (PhD
 Edinburgh), Krause (PhD New York University), Pinzur (PhD California San Diego) and Salem
 (PhD Institute of Social Studies, The Netherlands).

 Sociologists have also been recruited in related Departments. The Department of Methodology
 has developed a new qualitative methods cluster, recruiting Teeger to work alongside Jones
 (both have PhDs in Sociology - from Harvard and LSE respectively). Tsvetkova (PhD Sociology,
 Cornell) has also been appointed to teach social network analysis. The Department of Gender
 has a long-standing relationship with the Sociology Department (which was its institutional home
 until 2009) and has recently recruited Breslow and Shahrokni to strengthen the sociological
 presence alongside Hemmings, Sabsay and Wearing. The Department of Psychological and
 Behavioural Science, which also used to be joint with the Sociology Department, has recently
 been restructured to enhance its behavioural science elements (who are returned to other
 UoAs), but retains its strengths in more qualitative and sociological work, recruiting
 Muthukrishna to work alongside Bauer, Jovchelevitch and Lahlou. The establishment of the
 LSE’s International Inequalities Institute in 2015, directed by Savage from 2015 to 2020, has
 recruited several sociologists who specialise in inequalities (Mijs, Glucksberg, Waitkus,
 Wessendorf). Altogether, our return of 39 Category A staff represents a significant increase
 major investment in sociology at LSE.

 The Department has seven full Professors, alongside 13 Associate Professors and five Assistant
 Professors. In 2014, Accominotti and Friedman (and Wansleben, who left LSE in 2018) were
 appointed as part of a general call for appointments in Sociology. In 2016, Elliott and Krause
 were appointed to positions in economic and political sociology respectively. In 2018, Salem was
 appointed to a post specialising in race and ethnicity; and in 2019 Ahmad and Pinzur were
 appointed to posts in politics/human rights, and economic sociology respectively. This is part of
 a clear strategy to recruit to specific research clusters in order to ensure balance within the
 Department. Two new Assistant Professors began in 2020-21 to work in economic and political
 sociology, and a further appointment is being made to start in 2021-22 to strengthen human
 rights.

 The Department adopts a ‘grass-roots’ procedure for appointments, in which candidates give job
 talks to the entire Department, and ranking decisions are made by all Assistant, Associate, and
 full Professors in a collective meeting. Departmental decisions have been invariably ratified by a
 smaller ‘paper committee’ chaired by LSE’s Director of Faculty Development. This recruitment
 system allows strong Departmental investment in new appointments, as appointed colleagues
 are seen to have been chosen through a rigorous process in which colleagues’ views are
 paramount.

 All non-professorial staff have a designated mentor and annual Career Development Meetings
 normally held with the Head of Department; an important part of these meetings is discussion
 about research career development and research profile. The Department’s workload allocation
 model gives a one third reduction in teaching for early career staff. The LSE has a rigorous
 ‘Major Review’ process (somewhat akin to the American tenure system), which all lecturing staff
 undergo at some point in their first eight years at the School and which mandates high quality
 research, as well as broader research impact and knowledge exchange as preconditions of
 promotion. All Sociology staff who have undergone Major Review since 2013 have succeeded,
 with Ҫubukҫu, Friedman, Jones, Krause and Madden all being promoted to Associate Professor
 in this REF period.

 The UoA pursues a policy of equal opportunities for progressing the research careers of its staff.
 An annual calculation of workloads ensures that the teaching and administrative load across
 staff members is roughly equally distributed. Clear and explicit promotion criteria and guidelines
 are made available annually to all staff. Non-professorial staff submit CVs once a year to a
 meeting of the Professoriate which considers all staff for potential Departmental sponsoring of

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 promotion requests. Early career staff - Assistant Professors, Teaching Fellows and Course
 Tutors – are given annual research budgets of £1,420, with senior professorial staff receiving
 £970, augmented by the Department budget which has about £50,000 per year to support
 research and which funds a lively programme of conferences and workshops. LSE Cities, the III,
 and Human Rights also have substantial budgets to support the research of colleagues.
 The UoA operates a generous sabbatical scheme with one term in eight being awarded as
 research leave. During this assessment period every colleague in the UoA has benefitted from at
 least one term of sabbatical, resulting in the publication of significant outputs by Archer, Moon,
 Ҫubukҫu, Hall, Friese, Savage and Tonkiss. LSE also has a supportive scheme for personal
 leave (such as parental leave or sick leave) in which one term on full pay is matched by an
 additional term as a sabbatical to facilitate that staff member’s return to full research productivity.
 Four members of the UoA have benefitted from this scheme since 2014.

 The Department has embraced a strong commitment to Equality and Diversity in its recruitment
 and promotion. Unconscious bias training has been required for chairs of recruitment panels,
 and all academic colleagues have had to complete an online module on equality and diversity.
 Since 2014 the unit has appointed a majority of female staff and has strengthened the
 recruitment of BAME colleagues. A staff committee has developed an ‘LSE Sociology Statement
 of Principle on Equity, Diversity and Inclusion’ in 2018/19 in direct response to demands to
 collectively build a ‘Decolonise’ forum enriched by open discussion between students, faculty
 and invited speakers. Our focus is on the real challenges and significant possibilities of
 expanding teaching and learning environments to allow a critical agenda to inform pedagogy.
 This includes questions of curricula, attainment gaps, appointments processes and experiences
 of discrimination and racism. Regular ‘Decolonising’ forums are held three times a term and are
 open to students and staff across LSE, regularly attracting more than 50 attendees.
 The review of outputs and ICSs for REF submission was seen as an opportunity to provide
 confidential and constructive feedback and support to colleagues; all REF processes operated
 entirely separately from career review and promotion. Final output selection was overseen by a
 Department REF sub-committee chaired by Savage (so as to be independent from the Head of
 Department), with a view to achieving a fair and equitable representation, informed by LSE’s
 REF 2021 Code of Practice on equality monitoring with respect to seniority, ethnicity and gender
 (see REF5a).

 The Department regularly employs non-REF-eligible LSE Fellows on year-long contracts, which
 are frequently extended. These are configured to avoid exploiting those on precarious contracts
 through specifying a reduced teaching load of 60% of academic hours to enable dedicated time
 for research. LSE Fellows and tutors have frequently progressed to academic positions,
 including McKenzie at Durham, Olcese at Exeter & Manchester, Meersohn at Durham & York,
 Dawes at KCL, Nwonka at York, Hussein at Bristol and Kim at Leeds. All research officers
 employed at LSE Sociology since 2013 have remained in employment in academic or related
 research fields, and we do not employ a cadre of long-term research staff working on short-term
 and precarious contracts. Research staff are co-located with other academic colleagues in
 Sociology, are invited to Departmental meetings and play a lead role in the organisation of
 interdisciplinary reading groups, of which there are currently four in the Department (on
 inequality, human rights, urban studies, and the sociology of risk). The UoA supports LSE’s
 development of the revised Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers
 2008.

 The Unit has also been successful in securing post-docs in the department of Sociology funded
 by the ESRC (Pertwee and Kramer), British Academy (Tiratelli), and from the British Journal of
 Sociology (Patel). In addition, Bauer maintains a research link MACAS [mapping the cultural
 authority of science] in China (at National Academy of Innovation Strategy) which includes an
 annual fee-based visit of post-doctoral researchers at LSE. He has hosted post-docs from
 Taiwan and Portugal, including a Marie-Curie Fellowship to Marta Entradas, who was awarded
 Young European Researcher 2018. Lahlou has also supervised three Marie-Curie Fellows from
 2014 to 2017 (Marina Everri, Jana Uher, Sophie Le Bellu) who were trained in the new digital
 ethnography techniques he developed.

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 LSE Cities has created opportunities for young and established researchers within its own
 funded programmes, or through tailor-made initiatives like the Mellon Fellowship Programme at
 LSE in Cities and the Humanities (2013-2016). It also hosts post-doc British Academy fellows
 and has an active programme of Visiting Senior Fellows, Visiting Fellows, Centennial Professors
 and Professors in Practice as well as a short-term Visiting Associates (in total, over 20 since
 2014). Colleagues employed at the III have moved to appointments at Oxford (Reeves), Harvard
 (Mijs) and Wessendorf has moved to a full professorship at Coventry.

     ii. Research students
 The Sociology Department works to a target intake of at least 8 doctoral students per year, and
 currently has 56 students enrolled on its PhD programme, of which 14 are part time. The
 Department fully funds four years of doctoral study, with a completion rate of around 65% which
 has increased since the last REF. During the review period, 84 PhD degrees were awarded by
 the UoA, which conveys our commitment to the longevity and vitality of the discipline. Student
 progress is monitored by an annual review overseen by the DPD and discussed in a Department
 meeting, with a rigorous upgrade process from MPhil to PhD which takes place at the start of the
 student’s second year and involves a viva with two independent assessors.

 All students are encouraged to apply to be Graduate Teaching Assistants in the Department.
 Students’ overall progress is monitored by the Department annually through its MPhil/PhD Board
 and reported to the School. Course assessment and frequent meetings with supervisors are
 monitored by a Doctoral Programme Director (Hutter 2015-2017; Friese 2017-2020; Savage
 2020>) who also convenes a dedicated seminar for PhD students.

 LSE offers considerable financial and infrastructural support for research students, normally
 being able to award at least four full-time studentships in Sociology each year (two funded by the
 ESRC via the DTC, and two from LSE funds). The Department currently has 35 fully-funded
 students on its doctoral programme: ten of these are ESRC funded, with 18 on LSE
 studentships. In addition, three Sociology PhD students have been funded by the III as part of its
 successful Leverhulme funding for PhD students working on ‘escalating inequalities’. Since
 2013, the Department has leveraged between £390,000 and £510,000 per academic year in
 PhD funding, not including additional research support funds directed at conference fees and
 travel, BSA membership and impact project support.

 Recruitment is highly competitive and is managed by the Doctoral Programme Director (DPD),
 who holds a Departmental panel including representatives from every research cluster to agree
 who should be awarded funding. From 2017, ultimate approval of studentship funding, which
 used to be made by an LSE-wide committee, has been delegated to the Department, allowing it
 to respond more quickly and effectively. A representative from the Department’s Equality
 Diversity and Inclusion Committee sits on the recruitment committee for doctoral students This
 has also assisted in ensuring greater diversity on gender, racial and ethnic lines in PhD student
 recruitment.

 The DPD ensures consistency and dissemination of best practice across programmes. The
 Department of Sociology teaches compulsory seminar courses for PhD students at all years of
 their study. The UoA is part of the LSE-wide mobility scheme which funds students to study at
 overseas universities. In addition, all PhD programmes offer training in transferable skills
 development, which are backed up by our weekly seminar for first year MPhil students. The
 dedicated School infrastructure for transferable skills training is provided by the Academic and
 Professional Development Division (APDD) and for research methods and skills training by the
 Methodology Department.

 As DPD, Friese convened a ‘fieldwork reading group’, where doctoral students presented
 extracts from their qualitative data to discuss strategies for analysis. Elliot and Accominotti run a
 ‘writing workshop’ from 2015 in which doctoral students work collaboratively with faculty to
 develop work in progress. The Department has hosted regular “away days” for post-graduate

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students which are organised by PhD students themselves (e.g. “Power and Everyday Life” in
 May 2018, “Tumultuous Times and Changing Spaces” in January 2019) featuring a mix of
 doctoral students, faculty and outside speakers. In the context of COVID challenges, Savage as
 DPD has held regular town hall meetings and has supported the organisation of virtual doctoral
 conferences on the critical use of social science methods.

 The III won a Leverhulme grant to host an interdisciplinary doctoral programme on ‘escalating
 inequalities’ in 2015, and nine sociology students have been enlisted on the programme.
 Sociology PhD students have also been involved in advanced doctoral seminars convened by
 the III and led by Thomas Piketty and Sudhir Anand. The trans-Atlantic NYLON (New York:
 London) network, now facilitated at the LSE by Tonkiss, provides a forum of exchange for
 researchers who share a broad interest in culture and qualitative research methods and with the
 ways social processes turn into concrete cultural forms through practical activity. LSE PhD
 students run a regular seminar in parallel with those of graduate colleagues in New York and
 Berlin and meet at annual conferences with their peers from the US and Germany. In the Human
 Rights cluster, the PhD Triangle (run with Essex and Cambridge) was designed to help LSE
 Human Rights PhD students develop their work and careers with regular student conferences
 and seminars, such as ‘LSE Philosophy Forwards’. There is a specific doctoral programme
 focusing on urban studies, and LSE Cities staff teach workshops in the PhD Academy available
 to all doctoral students across LSE.

 Many PhD students who have graduated since 2013 have gone onto academic careers including
 lectureships at Bath, Cardiff, CIDE (Mexico), Coventry, Lausanne, LSE, NYU, Sussex, Sheffield
 and UEL, and postdoc research positions at the Universities of Amsterdam, Copenhagen,
 Glasgow, Oxford, Princeton, Stanford and UCL. Others have gone on to senior policy positions,
 including at NHS England, the Government of Malta, Ministry for Housing and the Runnymede
 Trust. This reflects both this Unit’s academic legacy and its ambition to engage graduates in
 working for positive social change.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The Department’s Research Committee meets three times per year and is supported by the
 Research Manager. It oversees the Department’s research strategy, including grant applications
 and funding of events. A dedicated member of the LSE’s Research and Innovation Division
 assists colleagues with budgeting and planning for all applications, working in collaboration with
 the Research Manager and Committee members to provide feedback on applications. All grant
 applications are ultimately signed off by the Head of Department who ensures that resourcing is
 in place to allow colleagues to dedicate themselves to the specified research.

 This infrastructure has allowed LSE Sociology to demonstrate consistent success with funded
 research, with total research funding of £13.1 million between 2013-14 and 2019-20. Overseen
 by the Department’s Research Committee, there have been a total of 88 grants awarded, with
 23 of our Category A staff winning external competitive funding grants during this period,
 demonstrating a widely shared commitment to grant acquisition across most colleagues. The
 UoA has enjoyed a bid success rate of 23% in external research funding applications since
 2013.

 Sources of funding include ESRC, Leverhulme, British Academy, European Commission,
 Wellcome and a host of private foundations. This funding is concentrated in small and medium-
 sized projects which allow individual researchers – mostly early and mid-career – to develop
 innovative research interventions and establish themselves as research leaders. Full professors
 are actively encouraged to pursue research grants but they are not allowed to buy themselves
 out to any significant extent of regular departmental activities, as it is expected that they need to
 continue mentoring and supporting more junior colleagues. There is a focus on supporting early
 career staff to make research applications (clearly evidenced in Friedman and Hall’s ESRC
 Future Leaders awards), contributing to an energising culture of grant award success which runs
 through the department and dedicated research centres which comprise the UOA. Going

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 forwards, the UoA intends to diversify research income streams, with plans to target large grants
 from the AHRC, British Academy and ESRC, with applications for Centre funding currently
 pending.

 Within the inequalities cluster, of particular note is Savage’s ESRC Professorial Fellowship,
 Friedman’s ESRC Future Leaders award; Henz’s award from the EU; Hemmings’ grants from
 the Royal Society and the Leverhulme, and Wearing’s grant from the AHRC. Under Savage’s
 leadership the III has obtained the largest funding in the history of the LSE – a £64 million gift
 from Atlantic Philanthropies (which also led to HEFCE matched funding of £32 million for state-
 of-the-art infrastructure). Savage was able to lobby to repurpose significant parts of this funding
 to support academic research, including £4 million for a new endowed Directorship (the Amartya
 Sen Chair in Inequality Studies) and a £9.2 million ringfenced sum for the III’s research mission.
 The appointments of sociologists Glucksberg, Mijs, Waitkus, and Wessendorf have been funded
 through these sources. This is an important precedent for showing how philanthropic gifts can
 underpin critical academic research, underscored by the Baer Foundation awarding their first
 ever research funding to the III for a project on strategies to combat inequality in 2018. In
 addition, the III has considerable grant success with major awards from the British Academy and
 the UKRI (though Savage’s role in a major grant made to the University of Cape Town on
 inequality and climate action). In addition, Tsvetkova won a major grant from GESIS (Germany).
 Several of our colleagues have built powerful externally funded international research networks,
 including Lahlou who is the founder and coordinator of the World Pandemic Research Network,
 an interdisciplinary international platform endorsed by the major networks of academies of Social
 Science (ISC, UAI) among other prestigious institutions. We have numerous comparative
 research programmes across Europe, notably in France, Denmark, Norway (Bauer, Friedman,
 Lahlou, Savage).

 Within the urban challenges cluster, LSE Cities continues to enjoy major grant success: Burdett
 and Rode have raised over £14m since 2014 from a range of private foundations and public
 bodies including the British Academy, the European Commission, UN bodies, OECD and the
 Coalition for Urban Transitions. Other colleagues in this cluster who have obtained funding
 include Hall’s ESRC Future Leaders’ grant, her Leverhulme award, and her Phillip Leverhulme
 prize, Slater’s ESRC award, and Tonkiss’s grant from the Emirates Foundation. Charlton won a
 highly competitive British Academy Post-Doctoral Fellowship. Jovchelovitch won a major ESRC
 grant to study well-being.

 Within the politics and human rights cluster, funds have been obtained from the Emirates
 Foundation (Bhatt), Wellcome Trust (Moon), the European Commission (Bhatt), and the
 Leverhulme Trust (Krause). The Economy, Society and Technology cluster has obtained major
 grants from Wellcome (Friese), and the ESRC, the European Commission, the British Council
 (Bauer), and the European Commission (Lahlou).

 Colleagues who gain external grants can deploy dedicated School Research Innovation and
 Infrastructure Funds (RIIF) to support the indirect costs of research associated with the
 administration of grants (including the employment of support staff where appropriate) and
 develop new research projects and proposals including buy-out for those developing large and
 complex grant applications. RIIF may also support unbudgeted research-related expenditure
 including the development of research staff careers, career-break costs, and bridging funds.
 During this assessment period a total of £182,650 in School RIIF support has been allocated to
 research staff across the Sociology Department, LSE Cities and LSE Human Rights.

 The UoA also benefits from a yearly RIIF allocation drawn from external research grants, which
 are allocated one year in arrears. The Sociology Department uses this fund to furnish the
 Research Committee budget, to provide £500 in conference and travel support for each PhD
 student, and to contribute towards staff research funds (SRFs) for non-permanent, junior
 colleagues (fellows and course tutors) who do not benefit from School research support.
 Departmental resources are used to top up these SRFs for junior colleagues.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department has received an annual £10,000 from central resources to fund Knowledge
 Exchange and impact activities since 2018. This has been used to support a diverse range of
 projects, from research videos to virtual exhibitions for PhD students. Savage presented the
 single most watched video on the LSE Youtube channel in 2019-20, on xenophobia and racism
 in the UK, with over 27000 views. Members of the UoA have also been awarded funding from
 the School’s competitive Knowledge Exchange and Impact Fund, with successful applications
 amounting to nearly £450,000 in this REF period. Funded projects have included: an Open KE
 platform for Cities in Crisis (Burdett); a workshop on urban lighting (Slater); an exhibition for work
 on disconnected urban infrastructures and violence against women (Slater); a feedback project
 for residents of high-density housing developments (Rode); a public blog on religion and global
 society (Walters); and a longitudinal analysis of BFI diversity standards data and racial inequality
 in the UK film industry (Nwonka). The Department’s Research Committee manages a portion of
 the Research Infrastructure and Investment Funds (RIIF) to strengthen the research base of the
 department. It reports to the LSE Research Committee following the financial year-end on the
 uses to which the funds have been put. In addition, the Committee allocates KEI funding to
 support innovative projects which exploit departmental research activity for the benefit of non-
 academic stakeholders and audiences. Members of the Committee offer informal peer-review
 and feedback on new research proposals, which is well utilised by junior colleagues.

 LSE supports the UoA with a comprehensive research and innovation support services through
 the Research and Innovation Division. This team works collaboratively with the local knowledge
 of the Department Research Manager to maximise research and impact opportunities.
 Strategies for generating research income developed by this team include distributing targeted
 funding opportunities and holding joint meetings with researchers to develop and advise on initial
 proposal ideas. The Department provides central office space to support big projects and any
 researcher staff associated with them, in addition to IT support.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 To increase the reach of engagement with our work, the UoA has a dedicated Communications
 and Events Officer who works with LSE’s Communications Division to reach a wider audience
 both inside and outside the School. A variety of tools are used including blogs, reports, articles,
 newsletters, podcasts, social media and videos. Twitter followers for the @LSESociology handle
 now exceed 19,000, with over 17,500 for @LSEHumanRights. The Department’s public
 newsletter features news, articles, blog posts, videos, podcasts (September 2019), a recently
 redesigned LSE Human Rights newsletter and Cities Programme Newsletter. The UoA also
 utilises growing profiles on Facebook, LinkedIn and Instagram, which have become increasingly
 important during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Sociology Department hosts events covering a
 diverse range of topics which engage large audiences. Event formats include lectures, seminars,
 conferences, and workshops aimed at specific participants. All public events now have a
 Facebook event created to maximise reach and all new research articles are widely publicised.
 Open access research outputs are given extra publicity. For example, in 2019 Friedman’s
 research informed a BBC One documentary which was promoted across all channels and
 received widespread attention.

 Many of our public events have exceptionally high profile. Of particular note was the special day-
 long conference organised by LSE Sociology in 2015 to mark a special issue of the British
 Journal of Sociology devoted to Thomas Piketty’s Capital in the 21st Century. This attracted a
 capacity audience of 300 and kick-started academic interest in the International Inequalities
 Institute. An independent source corroborates that the Chief Executive of Atlantic Philanthropies
 was so impressed by the ‘energy in the room’, and the message that ‘inequality is too important
 to be left to economists’, that it encouraged Atlantic’s decision to invest £64 million in the III a
 few months later.

 This is only one instance of the Sociology Department’s significant contribution to LSE’s
 programme of public lectures. We have hosted (and chaired) 91 such lectures during the review
 period. Of these 32 had attendances of over 100 and 9 of over 250. Topics are often linked to

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our research clusters and highlights include global migration and urban renewal (Kanisitz and
 Keith), extradition and human rights (Peirce, Sassen and Theoharis), solidarity (Spivak), high-
 frequency trading (MacKenzie), global civil war (Buck-Morss), New Directions in Sexuality
 Studies (Breslow, Hemmings). These events frequently involve leading non-academic figures
 including Caroline Lucas MP, Emily Thornbury MP, Lord Giddens, Dame Tessa Jowell, Shami
 Chakrabati, Vivienne Westwood, Sadiq Khan and Polly Toynbee. Public events are recorded as
 a podcast and made available on the departmental website. A public event co-hosted by the
 Department of Sociology and the III in July 2020 was broadcast live over Facebook to around
 850 participants and received over 5,000 views within a week.

 The Sociology Department also hosts a vibrant fortnightly research seminar series which was re-
 launched in 2014 and which in the past three years alone has featured talks from researchers
 both internal and external to the LSE. A highlight was the two-day seminar, featuring Michele
 Lamont, Peter Hall and Patrick Le Gales devoted to discussing the implications of Brexit
 referendum result and Trump’s election as US president, which led to a special issue of the
 British Journal of Sociology. We have held regular seminars on related issues featuring new
 forms of nationalism (Valluvan); civic nationalism (Bonikowski); the 2008 financial crisis (Gross);
 racial capitalism (Bhattacharyya); international student mobility (Soysal); reinventing leftism
 (Mudge); Wall Street morals (Beunza); the ethnography of global security (Andersson);
 “citizenship 2.0” (Harpaz); and ‘everyday ignorance’ (Jones). Other collaborative activities
 include research-oriented international workshops such as “National Cultures of Animals, Care
 and Science” organized by Friese with postdoctoral researcher Holmes and former PhD student
 Message in 2019, and “The Knowledge of Human Rights”, organized by Krause in 2018. The
 latter brought together a range of speakers to discuss knowledge practices in a variety of
 settings, including NGOs, states, courts, social movements, the sciences and social sciences,
 the media and the arts. The monthly London Public Understanding of Science Seminar Series is
 hosted by Bauer in the Department of Psychology and Behavioural Science with colleagues from
 UCL and Imperial College. Sociologists have been strongly involved in the LSE’s emergence as
 a leader in social media and are committed to pursuing interests in digital sociology. Our
 colleagues contribute to the politics and policy blog. Hall is on the Editorial Board of the new
 Social Research Association’s discover society website.

 All our clusters link core sociological concerns to engage in wider ranging interdisciplinary
 collaborations. Economies, Risk and Technology involves a close collaboration with the
 Department of Management through the Centre for Analysis of Risk and Regulation (CARR);
 Urban Change, Culture and Connection brings sociologists to work alongside urban
 policymakers, economists and planners and has strong links with the Grantham Research
 Institute on Climate Change and the Environment, LSE London, International Growth Centre, the
 School of Public Policy, the Department of Methodology, the Centre for the Analysis of Social
 Exclusion (CASE) and LSE Health. Politics and Human Rights involves close collaboration with
 the Department of Law through LSE Human Rights.

 Three of our four clusters work closely with affiliated Research Centres and Institutes which
 assists with engagement and facilitates interdisciplinary collaboration and impact. In the Urban
 Challenges cluster, LSE Cities links urban sociology with aspects of urban research focused
 around architecture and planning. It has 15,000 website page views per month, 40,000 Twitter
 followers, 16,000 Facebook friends and over 13,000 newsletter subscribers. To facilitate open
 access to its analytical database on over 60 global cities, the centre launched the Urban Age
 digital platform which provides a legacy archive of all Urban Age-related research, data and
 conferences. LSE Cities has further contributed to the intellectual life of the School with 10-15
 major public events annually and consolidated its strong global presence with four major Urban
 Age conferences (in Delhi, London, Venice and Addis Ababa) attended by over 3,000 people
 and strong online engagement through live streaming. It is directly engaged with urban policy
 makers through the Urban Age Task Force initiative and contributed to the United Nations New
 Urban Agenda adopted in 2016. Uniquely for a centre at LSE, it has also curated public
 exhibitions of its research in different international venues (including the Venice Biennale visited
 by 260,000 people in 2016) which have reached a wide and diverse audience. LSE Cities’

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 commitment to outreach and impact on wider society was recognised through the Queen’s
 Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education 2016-2018.

 In the Inequalities cluster, the III, with its avowed mission of linking the best inequality research
 in economics with sociology and the other social sciences, has a high-profile public events
 programme, along with a regular fortnightly seminar series, and also convenes an additional
 fortnightly seminar organised by Wessendorf (and Platt in Social Policy) devoted to race,
 ethnicity and migration. Speakers have included sociologists Friedman, Reeves, Savage, Luthra,
 Guvelli (both Essex), Holmwood (Nottingham), Bhambra (Sussex). A special international
 seminar series co-ordinated by Accominotti and Reeves in 2018-19 showcased international
 sociological expertise in inequality studies. The III has organised events with the BSA, including
 a seminar on the Bourdieu in 2017, featuring Robbins (UEL), Reay (Cambridge), Puwar
 (Goldsmiths) and Santoro (Bologna).

 The Politics and Human Rights research cluster has developed a strategic approach to impact
 since 2014 through its public engagement programme of lectures, talks and events, work with
 human rights movements (Mexico), advice to international organisations including the UN
 (Ahmad, Bhatt) and a TED talk with over 1.4m downloads (Bhatt).

 Members of the UoA are also frequently engaged in consultation projects, with 28 on record for
 this assessment period. Projects range from an assessment of public wellbeing in Elephant Park
 (see Hall case study), to collaborating in India’s Smart Cities Mission. The Economies and STS
 group has also pursued activities designed to improve the reach and significance of research
 impact, by continuing to provide advice to regulators and developing future research projects on
 risk regulation and its enforcement and impact in the UK and abroad.

 In addition, since 2013 the Sociology Department has hosted 54 visiting scholars from 17
 different countries who spend up to one year based in the department researching projects
 related to the research interests of permanent faculty. These visitors collaborate closely with
 staff and postgraduate students alike, often delivering guest lectures and research seminars and
 sometimes hosting public research events.

 We also host the prestigious Miliband Lecture Programme, normally chaired by Archer, where
 highlights include lectures on the Establishment (Jones, Guardian), nation-state formation and
 ethnic exclusion (Wimmer, Columbia), and class war conservatism (Blackburn, Essex).
 Beyond LSE, our staff have given 236 plenary or keynote lectures since 2013, with a further 122
 papers given overseas, and 82 in the UK. We are enthusiastic supporters of the British
 Sociological Association, of which Savage was trustee from 2018-2020. LSE hosted a BSA early
 career theory symposium in 2014 (with Hall and Savage speaking). Friedman is on the Editorial
 Board of Cultural Sociology; Hall has chaired early career symposiums. Krause was co-chair of
 the BSA’s Theory Study Group 2013-2016 and delivered its Keynote Lecture in 2019. She was
 also Elected Member Executive Council, SASE (Society for the Advancement of Socio-
 Economics). PhD student Harris is one of the convenors of the BSA Post-Graduate Forum
 where she has led BSA doctoral conferences. Along with colleagues at Essex and Cambridge,
 staff within LSE Human Rights participate in the annual series of “PhD Triangle Conferences” in
 which doctoral researchers present diverse and intriguing work on human rights from the fields
 of law, the social and political sciences, and English literature.

 Our staff are actively involved with sociology (and interdisciplinary) journals. We host the British
 Journal of Sociology, edited by Dodd, which seeks both to publish across the full range of
 sociology and to stimulate wider debate and engagement, as evidenced by the special issue
 devoted to interdisciplinary reflections on Piketty’s Capital in the 21st century (2014), and the
 special issue devoted to considering the implications of the Brexit referendum and the election of
 Donald Trump (2018). The BJS annual lecture has effectively showcased leading edge research
 from across the world, with recent speakers including: Marion Fourcade (Berkeley 2019),
 Michele Lamont (Harvard, 2018); Alondra Nelson (Social Science Research Council, 2017),
 Aldon Morris (North Western, 2016), Richard Swedburg (Stockholm, 2015) and Troy Duster

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Berkeley, 2014). LSE also houses the leading interdisciplinary journal Economy and Society, of
 which Tonkiss is Managing Editor and Dodd a member of the editorial board.

 LSE staff have played an important role on many sociology generalist journals, above and
 beyond The British Journal of Sociology which is owned by LSE and edited by Dodd. The BJS
 ensures it operates independently of LSE by having a majority of non-LSE staff on its Advisory
 Board and by its active International Advisory Board. The relatively high profile of BJS in United
 States sociology is underpinned by an Assistant editor (currently Laurison) who works at
 Swarthmore College. Beyond the BJS, Savage was Chair of the Sociological Review Editorial
 Board and spearheaded its restructuring from having no formal constitution to becoming a
 charitable Foundation and served as the initial chair of trustees from 2013-2015. Friedman and
 Salem have also been on the Editorial Board of Sociological Review and Friedman for Cultural
 Sociology. Membership of editorial boards of other general sociology journals include
 Sociological Theory and Qualitative Sociology (Krause); European Journal of Cultural and
 Political Sociology (Savage), Historical Materialism (Salem); Simmel Studies (Dodd); Social
 Science Research (Henz); Sociological Methods and Research (Tsvetkova); Visual Studies,
 Gender and Education, Reproductive Biomedicine and Society (all Friese).

 Other journals linked to our clusters where our staff serve on Advisory or Editorial Boards
 include:
 In the Inequalities cluster;
 Reproductive Biomedicine and Society Online; Feminist Studies (Thompson); Identities, Global
 Studies in Culture and Power (Hall); Journal of Marriage and Family (Henz), Feminist Review
 and Subjectivity (Hemmings, who also edits the ‘Thinking Gender in Transnational Times’ book
 series for Palgrave). Feminist Studies, International Affairs, Journal of Family Theory & Review,
 Millennium: Journal of International Studies. Theory Culture & Society (all Breslow). Shahrokni is
 a member of the Executive Board of the International Sociological Association and editorial
 boards of Journal of Middle Eastern Women's Studies, Middle East Law and Governance,
 Journal of Middle East Women’s Studies, Women’s Sociological and Psychological Studies
 Journal (Iran)

 In Economy, Science and Technology;
 Social Studies of Science; Catalyst: A Feminist Technoscience Studies Journal (Thompson),
 Regulation and Governance (Hutter); the Blockchain Research Network (Dodd, who is also on
 the editorial board of the Culture and Economic Life monograph series at Stanford University
 Press). Public Understanding of science (2009-2016); Cultures of Science in China, (both Bauer
 founding member); Valuation Studies (Krause).

 In Human Rights and Politics;
 Humanity: An International Journal of Human Rights, Humanitarianism and Development
 (Ҫubukҫu, who also co-edits the LSE International Studies Series at Cambridge University
 Press); Critical Mixed Race Studies, Whiteness and Education, Global Studies in Culture and
 Power (Ali).

 In Urban Studies;
 Architecture and Culture (Hall); CITY: Analysis of urban trends, culture, theory, policy, action;
 Cities in the 21st Century (Madden); International Journal of Sustainable Transportation (Jones).

 Colleagues are extensively involved with advisory boards of major research centres and
 commissioning panels, including ESRC Large Grants Competition Commissioning Panel
 (Savage), the Danish Agency for Institutions and Educational Grants, the Evaluation panel of the
 University of Helsinki, the scientific advisory boards of the French Ecole Normale Supérieure
 (Ulm), the Université de Technologie de Compiègne, the European Institute for Chinese Studies,
 the Complexity Science Hub (Vienna), the Institut Mines-Telecom (Paris) and some Industry
 scientific advisory boards for Food and Defense (all Lahlou).



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within the wider discipline, our staff are key members of major international research networks
 including formally named visiting positions in Australia (Hutter), Hong Kong (Hutter), China-
 Beijing (Bauer), Austria (Friese), France (Bauer, Lahlou), Germany (Henz, Friese), Switzerland
 (Bauer), Portugal (Bauer), Norway (Savage, Thompson), Finland (Krause, Savage), Paris
 (Savage, Thompson, Bauer), Netherlands (Hall), Germany (Hall, Bauer), Canada (Savage),
 South Africa (Bauer, Hall), United States (Friedman, Thompson, Ҫubukҫu, Wajcman). Lahlou is
 also the director of the Paris Institute for Advanced Study.

 Prizes and awards include Dodd, Honorable Mention for the 2016 ASA Economic Sociology
 Section’s Best Book Competition; Elliott, winner of 2019 Allan Schnaiberg Outstanding
 Publication Award, American Sociological Association Section on Environmental Sociology. “The
 Sociology of Climate Change as a Sociology of Loss.” European Journal of Sociology 59(3):
 301-337.Friedman 2018. European Academy of Sociology Best Article Award; 2017. ASA
 Inequality, Poverty and Mobility Section Outstanding Article Award; 2015. Shortlisted for BSA
 Philip Abrams Memorial Prize for Comedy and Distinction: The Cultural Currency of a ‘Good’
 Sense of Humour, 2017: Friese 2015 Star-Nelkin Paper Award, Section on Science, Knowledge
 and Technology, American Sociological Association Hall, Philip Leverhulme Prize. Krause BSA
 Philip Abrams Memorial Prize for best first book in Sociology for "The Good Project"; 2019 Lewis A
 Coser Award for Theoretical Agenda Setting, American Sociological Association, 2015 Association
 for Research on Non-profits and the Voluntary Sector's Hodgkinson Book Award; 2016 Best Book
 Award by an International Scholar, Global and Transnational Section of the American Sociological
 Association; Teeger, Clifford Geertz Award for Best Article, American Sociological Association,
 Best Scholarly Article Award, Human Rights Section, ASA. Thompson, Norwegian Science and
 Technology University, honorary doctorate for Services to Science and Society; Wajcman, winner
 of the 2017 Ludwig Fleck prize, elected in 2018 as Fellow of British Academy, and winner of
 Lifetime Achievement Award from the Oxford Internet Institute in 2018. Bauer is an elected
 member of acatech (German academy of Technical Sciences). Burdett was awarded a CBE for
 services to urban planning and design.

 In conclusion, we have shown that LSE Sociology has undergone a major renewal in the past
 decade, with a substantial increase of staff, exclusively early career researchers who will be
 future leaders in our discipline. This has allowed us to develop a vibrant and inclusive research
 environment driven by the energy of newer colleagues, which has effectively cross-fertilised into
 the formation of major initiatives such as the III. We are mindful that the 2020s will be a crucial
 decade to address the multiple crises that the world faces and we are confident that our vision of
 sociology will play a major part in these urgent years.




                                                                                            Page 15
