Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Birmingham (UoB)

 Unit of Assessment: 3

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 (Submitted names italicised)

 1.1 Overview
 The environment for UoA3 within Birmingham (comprising Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy) has
 undergone transformational change since 2015, driven by academic reorganisation, sustained
 investment in people and infrastructure and an embedded open culture of ambition and diversity.

 1.2 UoA3 Context and Structure
 UoA3 comprises three of the five Schools within the Institute of Clinical Sciences (ICS) in the
 College of Medical and Dental Sciences (CMDS). ICS is linked strategically to the University as
 depicted in Figure 1.1. UoA3 comprises 45.3 FTE academic staff returned in REF2021 and
 contributes to the majority (>90%) of the teaching delivery/support to 2,000 dental, nursing and
 pharmacy students. After a peak in 2014/15 our research income has remained steady at around
 £2.5m pa, growing in 2019/20 to £2.7m. As a measure of research volume, our publications
 doubled from 83 in 2014 to 166 in 2019.




 Following REF2014 the University instigated a strategic Life Sciences Review to increase the
 breadth and power of research outputs and impact to that commensurate with a leading global
 University (Figure 1.2).




                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                               Figure 1.2: 2015 Life Sciences Review

 As a result the original five CMDS Schools returned in REF2014 were reorganised in 2015 into
 eight Institutes (Figure 1.3). The formation of ICS resulted in integrating the School of Dentistry,
 which was returned alone in UoA3 in REF2014, with the new Schools of Nursing (est. 2014) and
 Pharmacy (est. 2012), facilitating an organic concentration of critical mass and expertise and
 stimulating cross-discipline collaborations.




                        Figure 1.3. Remodelling of CMDS (UoA1/2 in grey).

 This approach offered a number of advantages including ensuring a primary focus on research;
 as well as increased opportunity for smaller, nimble research groups and clusters to respond
 rapidly and effectively to national and international opportunities. ICS is the largest, most complex
 and diverse institute, with over 200 staff,139 with academic contracts.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.3 Research groups Each UoA3 School addresses distinct discipline-related research
 challenges, but our scholarship has a common focus on benefiting human health, wellbeing and
 welfare. Our research is demonstrably interdisciplinary, spanning the full translational spectrum
 from discovery science through to measurable impacts upon health and social care delivery
 (Section 4). Our strategy for growth, innovation and impact (Section 1.5-1.8) is inclusive and
 embeds significant investment in interdisciplinary research that brings benefit to patients/citizens
 and the respective disciplines. We created critical mass by focusing on four main themes (Figure
 1.4) that interact within and across the three UoA3 schools and across 10 other UoAs, creating a
 dynamic and innovative research culture. Our research draws upon a large (>6.0 million) socially
 and ethnically diverse West Midlands population, and engages global collaborations addressing
 the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We work closely with care providers, commissioners and
 global policy-makers to facilitate translation of our work into practice. Our themes provide a
 responsive working culture, concentration of research facilities, sharing of expertise within a highly
 collaborative environment and create a rich training environment for early career researchers.

 The research activities characterising the groups (Figure 1.4) include:

 1.3.1 Dentistry: Research in Dentistry aims to develop and promote excellence in basic and
 clinical science to benefit oral and general health. It has re-focused since REF2014 with a clear
 translational pipeline, emerging from our basic discovery science, delivered through strong basic-
 clinical science partnerships and evidenced by 18 patents and our spin-out company ‘Oral Health
 Innovations’. Dentistry leverage funding from a broad portfolio including UKRI, national medical
 charities (e.g. DEBRA), UK government (e.g. MoD), industry and the EU. Research bridges the
 biological and physical sciences enabling innovation at the interface of several disciplines. The
 periodontal and clinical trials teams collaborate with the Institute of Translational Medicine,
 exploiting joint medical-dental cohorts in chronic kidney disease, rheumatoid arthritis, and chronic
 pulmonary disease, in a stratified medicine approach to unravelling disease mechanisms and
 developing early predictors and diagnostics. Impact was recognised through an NHSE
 Commissioning Standard on dental health in diabetes (2019) and two active EU grants (RAPiD,
 TRIGGER) during the REF period. Laboratory and clinical research infrastructure is housed within
 a purpose built new Dental Hospital/School (opened March 2016, para 3.2), highlighting the
 sustainability of dental research in Birmingham. In the 2019 QS world rankings, Dentistry rose to
 13th, 1st in the UK for citations per output, metrics that are mirrored in SciVal.

 1.3.2 Nursing: Nursing has one over-arching research theme of Advancing Nursing Science.
 Within this are two programmes: Risk, Abuse and Violence (RAV) and End of Life Care (EoLC).
 RAV focuses on child protection and gender-based violence in particular and has a thriving
 portfolio of studies, ECRs and PGRs and associate membership from across the University, the
 NHS and third sector organisations (e.g. NSPCC and Women’s Aid). RAV has international reach,
 impact and significance (e.g. the gender based violence learning resource for healthcare students
 is actively used across the Universitas21 network). RAV researchers are highly active in the UoB
 Institute for Global Innovation (REF5a: 2.3). EoLC has been recognised for its partnership working
 with hospices and the wider EoLC community (e.g. House of Lords launches) and has been
 instrumental in the design of services to meet patients’ needs nationally and internationally (e.g.
 leading a three country research project to investigate terminal weaning/extubation in ICU).




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.3 Pharmacy: Research in Pharmacy has one over-arching theme: Drug Discovery, Delivery
 and Medicines Optimisation. Within this are groups focusing on Medicinal Chemistry,
 Pharmacology & Drug Discovery; Formulation & Nanopharmaceutics and Therapeutic
 Optimisation. Research is highly collaborative and interdisciplinary with strong partnerships with
 the Schools of Chemistry, Biosciences and Chemical Engineering, multiple institutes within
 CMDS, and NHS clinicians, providing a broad knowledge base enabling translational outputs,
 exemplified by our spinout company Celentyx Ltd (section 4.4) and the recent recognition of our
 initiative on drug allergy and intolerance as a World Health Organization Centre of Excellence.
 Pharmacy’s research portfolio includes both established and emerging research areas that reflect
 the staffing profile. Established research includes neuropharmacology; hypertension diagnosis
 and monitoring; optimising prescribing and patient safety through the flagship SCRIPT eLearning
 programme. Emerging areas include for example smart drug delivery, drug discovery, therapeutic
 adherence and health management in homeless populations.




 1.4 Collaborative Interdisciplinary Context: Whilst our three disciplines are different, the
 collaborative context of our research within the UoA is crucial (Section 4). Our particular shared
 strength is our research governance, mentorship and career development. Dentistry has a track
 record in research delivery and impact that has hugely influenced our strategic growth, e.g. oral-
 systemic disease research has led to a global impact with joint international guidelines between
 the European Federation of Periodontology and the International Diabetes and World Heart
 Federations (2019 & 2020). Nursing brings methodological, qualitative and theoretical expertise
 that has visibly benefited research inquiry across the UoA, particularly through research reviews
 and grant clinics. Pharmacy has a concentration of ECRs who are supported in their career
 development, and emerging themes which open new avenues for interdisciplinary research.

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Key UoB partnerships provide an important strategic and physical infrastructure and stimulus for
 research in UoA3 (Section 3.2). Three in particular are crucial for our work: the Institute for
 Translational Medicine (ITM) (REF5a: 4.2.3); the Inflammation Research Facility (IRF) and the
 GCRF/University funded Institute for Global Innovation (IGI) (REF5a: 2.3).

 1.5 Research Strategy REF2014: Our strategy in 2014 (submitting only Dentistry), was to
 maximise the development and use of our resources and expertise to continue to be world-leading
 in original and distinctive research areas. We said we would strive to provide a dynamic and vibrant
 research environment to attract, retain and develop the best researchers for whom we provide
 world-class infrastructure, resources and training.

 Following the Life Sciences Strategic restructure (2015; Figure 1.2), we worked together to build
 on the REF2014 strategy and develop a new integrated plan (goals outlined in Section 1.7). This
 expounded our new research vision in UoA3 of ‘delivering innovation and excellence through
 research undertaken at the interface of healthcare disciplines, and translating discovery
 science to health and social care’.

 The restructure provided a unique opportunity to combine health and social care research from
 bench-to-bedside, and further into society through expertise in nursing and community pharmacy
 practices (see collaborative outputs across all three schools). The overriding passion and vision
 in UoA3 is to undertake high quality innovative research within and across the respective
 disciplines. Our main achievements have been: establishing high quality research within the
 two newer schools (Nursing, Pharmacy); building a new Dental School with state-of-the-art
 laboratory and clinical trials areas; enhancing our track record and research leadership through
 strategic staff replacements and appointments at junior and senior levels, including a
 ‘Birmingham Fellow’; working together to exploit opportunities for integration, collaboration and
 growth in career development, capacity and capability building and increasingly methodology
 or theory. For example, we engage as a matter of course in cross-school mentorship, grant clinics
 and publication scrutiny. Our revised strategic goals have been met as demonstrated below.

  Goal                                   Evidence of Achievement
  Recruit senior research staff          Key appointments were made to strengthen our
  strategically aligned to existing      research portfolio, e.g. Kebschull, Kroeger (Omics of
  themes, with a clear vision to lead    human diseases).
  new areas of investigation.
  Recruit and develop high quality       Nine ECR appointments were made (e.g. Kuehne,
  ECRs toward a sustained research       Poveda). Hirschfeld and Yonel have already secured
  culture.                               Academy of Medical Science & NIHR personal
                                         Fellowships, respectively. Supportive annual research
                                         development reviews (section 2).

  Initiate new local, national and       In this REF period staff have co-authored over 700
  international collaborations with      outputs with 550 different institutions across all six
  world-leading scientists.              continents of the world.
  Build capacity in clinical and non-    Compulsory grant clinics and mock interview panels.
  clinical pre- and post-doctoral        Joint ECR/experienced academic staff supervision of
  researcher communities.                PhD students (section 2).

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Exploit the synergies of new           Competetive cycle       for   pump-priming   collaborative
  organisational structures, shared      projects (section 4).
  facilities and interdisciplinary
  working.
  Make the translational potential of    Section 4.4, some examples include:
  our research a reality and ensure it    International Guidelines in: Diabetes/Periodontal
  impacts on national and                   Disease; Cardiovascular/Periodontal Disease.
  international policy, practice and      World Classification system for Periodontal
                                            Diseases.
  training.                               Advice to PHE and Minister for Health on dental
                                            neglect and fluoridation in children.
                                          NHSE Comissioning Standards in Dental care in
                                            people with Diabetes and in Restorative Dentistry.
                                          NHS England guidance on trauma informed care in
                                            the perinatal period.
                                          Evidence to All Party Parliamentary Inquiry on
                                            harmful practices related to faith and belief.
                                          PHE commissioned report on healthcare issues
                                            within homeless populations.
                                          SCRIPT is used by 18/42 UK medical schools and
                                            by all HEE Foundations programmes.

                                         We have excellent representation at the Universitas21
                                         Health Sciences Group and a track record of success in
                                         multi-country U21 grants to support international
                                         collaboration.
  Enhance research infrastructure        Section 3.
  and investigator support
  mechanisms

 1.6 Future strategic plans We will continue to build upon our excellent collaborations to sustain
 and enhance our standing as a leading international university for Dentistry, Nursing and
 Pharmacy. Our approach is to continue to support our existing research themes, but alongside
 these develop cross-cutting research themes at the interface of our disciplines, to enrich scope
 and enhance innovation. Many of our research areas have already secured funding beyond
 REF2021. Sustaining future research capacity and capability building will be ensured by delivering
 on the following eight initiatives:

  Goal                                             Example strategic activities
  Expanding research intensive undergraduate       Talent-spotting, research electives.
  education to build the future pipeline.
  Partnership and joint appointments with          Clinical academic appointments.
  healthcare partners.
  Securing growing numbers of funding council      Target fellowships against those with potential
  and charity funded training fellowships.         to achieve; formal support scheme.

  Providing leadership to the West Midlands pre- Secure growing numbers of funded training
  and postdoctoral clinical academic capacity fellowships      and   Doctoral    Training
                                                 Programmes.
  building scheme.

  Enhancing support for good research conduct. All staff complete GCP and EDI training.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                     Mental Health First Aid awareness training
                                                     PERCAT (Section 2.4).

  Regular focused training.                          Delivered through seminars and online
                                                     platforms, for e.g: grantsmanship, PPI, public
                                                     engagement.

  Expanding open access strategy, beyond             Encouraging    effective   sharing        and
  mere compliance.                                   management of research data.
  Achieving a more diverse and international         Target setting, regular income reports to
  portfolio of funding, with further growth in our   Research Committees, annual review and
                                                     bespoke training (2.3, 2.4).
  share of competitively awarded NIHR and EU
  grants whilst sustaining research council,
  government, charity and industrial funding.

 Our plans continued and adapted during- and post-pandemic. We moved flexibly to new
 arrangements and developed an emphasis on Covid-19 research. Given the diverse population in
 Birmingham we developed a particular focus on grant submissions around the impact on BAME
 populations; and we published research, commentary and editorials about the impact of Covid-19
 on a range of phenomena, including domestic violence, child maltreatment, ethnicity, and care
 home services. We shared data pre-publication from our COVDENT serology/salivology
 longitudinal study of 1,530 dental team members with the Department of Health and Social Care
 to inform the strategic planning of dental service provision nationally. Laboratories were quickly
 back up and running post-first lockdown and weekly timetables ensure all PGRs gain laboratory
 access they need to study in a Covid-secure environment.

 1.7 Impact Strategy
 Our impact strategy aims to sustain and grow our high levels of impact and involves (i) supporting
 staff with respect to impact awareness and pathways of development, and (ii) ensuring
 prominence of impact within grant applications. Our current and future strategy is to focus on
 benefitting patients and traditionally under-represented communities. All researchers are directed
 to University support mechanisms prior and subsequent to application to maximise impact and
 dissemination of findings via the press office and traditional (e.g. BBC1) and contemporary (e.g.
 YouTube) media channels. We have a dedicated impact team in Professional Services to help
 maximise impact, working with academic impact leads in each school, ensuring 10 year visions
 for individual programmes and impact tracking through the PURE data information system.

 This approach is exemplified by three of our current impact cases benefitting from the support of
 University of Birmingham Enterprise (1.2.1) [Oral Health Innovations (Chapple); SCRIPT (Marriott,
 Pontefract); Celentyx (Barnes)] and a further case (periodontitis-systemic interactions) benefitting
 from public and policy-maker engagement at national and international levels.

 Examples of new and emerging impact include: work with the National Rheumatoid Arthritis
 Society to engage South Asian patients in disease management (Apni Jung pages of the National
 Rheumatoid Arthritis Society) (Kumar); work with: disabled women and sexual violence survivors
 (Bradbury-Jones and Taylor); Syrian refugees (Guo); homeless patients (Paudyal); ethnicity and
 medication adherence (Paudyal and Jalal). We support a range of PGR projects focused on
 LGTBQ people, the Windrush Generation, and forced migrants. We led an interdisciplinary project



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 producing guidelines for ethical good practice in gender based violence research in LMICs (our
 Engage report is here) with ongoing dialogue with UKRI regarding promotion in UK research.

 1.8 Towards an Open Research Environment [REF5a: 2.2]
 The College has a designated lead to implement key principles of open science, in line with current
 recommendations from research funders and regulators. The University is a signatory to the San
 Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) and will join the European Open
 Science Cloud (EOSC). As such we place emphasis on the primary quality of research content,
 and use this to inform assessment and recruitment decisions. Researchers in ICS maintain an
 ORCID ID to ensure outputs are easily traceable and linked with their PURE account.

 Open access publications: Staff upload research papers to the PURE data management system
 within three months of acceptance with support and reminders provided by ICS administration.
 University-managed UKRI funds and a University pot support GOLD open access publications
 and publication in fully open access journals. Publications, particularly pre-prints, are also made
 available as appropriate through (for e.g.) ResearchGate, MedRxiv.

 Open Data: We are committed to making our data Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and
 Reusable (FAIR) and these principles are included in our research data policy. We have dedicated
 free storage facilities for research data that is archived for 20 years. The University has a strong
 digital infrastructure and all researchers have 4TB free memory to store research data.

 1.9 Research integrity is enshrined in Codes of Practice for Research and Ethics for all
 research active staff and follows a national framework for good research conduct and governance
 [REF5a: 2.2]. In our UoA the Clinical Research Compliance Team delivers expert support to
 researchers involving human participants and is subject to external regulatory standards. The
 team develop and maintain University-wide standard operating procedures, deliver training
 programmes to staff, undertake audits of clinical research projects, and our HTA licensed and
 ethically approved Dental Tissue Resaerch Biobank, and provide expert advice and guidance to
 researchers. The team ensures that the University's responsibilities under the NHS Research
 Governance Framework are undertaken effectively and efficiently, and that research has ethical
 review.

 New staff and PGR students complete our Online Research Integrity Training programme
 supported by face-to-face sessions. We provide staff and students with a supportive environment
 that promotes a culture of freedom and creativity and conveys the importance of personal and
 academic integrity. We hold regular ‘learning reviews’ to understand where ‘near misses’ could
 occur. Where potential allegations of breaches of integrity occur, the College has a rigorous
 process for timely and transparent investigations. We have had no documented breaches over the
 last five years. Dentistry holds a Human Tissue Authority (HTA) license (no. 12313) and has a
 Designated Individual on the University’s HTA Steering Group. In 2016, the HTA inspected the
 new Dental School and all applicable HTA standards were deemed “fully met”.


 2. People
 2.1 Overview and recruitment strategy: In our UoA3 return 21/48 are women and 12/48 BAME.
 The Institute Executive Committee has 21 members, 10 of whom are female. Since REF2014 we



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have made 30.00 FTE academic appoints against 14.0 FTE leavers. During the REF period we
 received the Athena Swan Silver Award.

 Our changing staff profile over the assessment period due to retirement of several senior staff and
 the establishment of the Schools of Pharmacy (2012) and Nursing (2014) has enabled us to recruit
 ECRs with the potential to be future international leaders in their field (e.g. Poologasundarampillai;
 Kumar; Romero-Canelon). Our Cat A submitted staff have increased from 15.9 in 2014 to 45.3 in
 this REF return. This strategic approach has facilitated planning and evolution of our research
 direction and enabled us to exploit new opportunities for growth (often in collaboration), including
 new research programmes in: oral cancer with Cancer Sciences, cleft lip and palate with
 Birmingham Children’s Hospital; sexual violence in East Africa with Psychology and NGOs in
 Nairobi; polypharmacology and periodontal and systemic non-communicable diseases with
 Medicine; drug repurposing and reformulation. These areas are driven by international needs, and
 are being further supported and developed by recruitment of key personnel (e.g. Kebschull,
 Taylor). We have also seen internal promotions based on research performance (four to SL, three
 to Reader, three to Chair).

 2.2 Staffing strategy
 Our philosophy is to develop all staff to their maximum potential whilst enabling them to work
 flexibly to suit caring and other responsibilities. Our overall staffing profile reflects the strategic
 recruitment and needs of the Schools in order to strengthen and develop key research areas whilst
 maintaining the personnel necessary to deliver our educational and NHS service portfolios.
 Specific measures include:
  Identifying ’rising stars’ among our ECRs to whom we provide mentorship and tailored
     support for fellowship applications (e.g. Hirschfield [AMS]; Sharma, Yonel [NIHR]).
  Having a process to review training and career progression needs of all staff on an annual
     basis and proactively support applicants for promotion with CV reviews and mock interviews.
  Undertaking annual Research Development Reviews (RDRs) for research contracted staff.
  Facilitating networking and interdisciplinary working through regular seminars across
     Schools.
  Mandatory training on EDI for selection panels.
  Appointed an Institute EDI and career development lead and internal EDI champions, who
     ensure that issues are addressed and policies implemented.
  Staff are encouraged to apply for EDI awards (e.g. Kumar, Mary Seacole Award).
  Maintaining a balance between senior staff and ECRs, and basic and clinical scientists,
     preparing our next generation of research leaders and teams.
  Effective research support mechanisms and mentoring for ECRs.
  A focus on key clinical challenges and questions in order to drive relevant research in health
     and social care. For example:
              o developing novel photomodulatory approaches to wound healing
              o developing intelligent biomaterials for the delivery of regenerative medicine
              o the increased international focus on domestic violence.
  Regular equality impact assessments are undertaken across appointments to ensure we
     target under-represented groups.
  A focus on recruiting research fellows on external grant funding.

 Our staffing strategy aims to maintain a vibrant mix of clinical and methodological researchers at
 different career stages, facilitating close interactions that are instrumental for achieving our

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategic aims. We have proactively enabled these interactions through initiatives such as the
 Birmingham Fellows Scheme (REF5a: 3.4.1) and our external recruitment strategy. We offer mid-
 career and professorial staff incentives (band increases, additional payments, retention packages)
 to develop and retain our best researchers.

 2.3 Staff development
 There is strong support for academic promotions including ongoing career development, CV
 review, advice from senior academics, and practice interviews where relevant. Our research
 culture, combined with career development support, aims to increase the likelihood that
 promotions, rewards and progression are equitable and transparent. This approach also aims to
 ensure retention of key staff aligned to our future research aspirations.

 Integration of new, especially international, staff members is actively supported by specifically
 tailored induction, regular meetings and follow-up support. An internal staff ‘buddying system’ has
 been introduced which provides local support in relation to working life at UoB, and practical
 matters such as help with accommodation and social activity. A comprehensive face-to-face
 induction process and checklist has been developed. We offer a 3-month check-in process to the
 line manager of new staff to ensure all aspects of induction have been supported to completion.

 The professional development review (PDR) provides an opportunity for individuals to have a
 structured, constructive conversation about their performance and development needs, to agree
 stretching (but achievable) objectives for the review period to ensure their development.
 Additionally, staff who have reached the top of their grade are actively flagged to line managers
 to discuss opportunities for career progression, such as re-grading or promotion. As a
 consequence since 2014 13 staff put forward applications for promotion of which 10 were
 successful (6 women). Achieving research impact and encouraging exchanges with business,
 industry or third sector bodies are important areas covered in PDRs, alongside our research-
 focussed annual RDRs.

 Our dynamic and popular weekly seminar series includes internal and high-profile external
 speakers and considers speaker gender balance to ensure visibility of role models. Examples
 include the alumni lecture series in dentistry and the drug discovery series in Pharmacy. Research
 groups have implemented successful monthly meetings as informal open sessions to network and
 share research ideas on their research activity with colleagues. Programme timings are changed
 at intervals to ensure all staff can attend.

 2.4 Support for ECRs
 We are fully committed to developing our research staff, through the principles of the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers, with a comprehensive system of support
 both at ICS and College level:




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




   Fig 2.1. Overview of early-mid career development support structures within CMDS supporting
                                                UoA3

 Post-doctoral/ECR development And Training (PERCAT) provides a wide variety of training
 and support opportunities for ECRs, driven by their active involvement, providing an ideal
 opportunity for UoA3 postdoctoral staff to integrate with peers from UoAs 1 and 2. The latest
 biannual Vitae survey provided evidence of positive ECR engagement within UoA3. Dedicated
 professional careers advice is provided via bespoke PGR career advisory and PERCAT-
 coordinated external consultants. Hadis (Lecturer in Biomaterials), Sharma, Yonel, Hirschfeld,
 Batt, Virdee (Clinical Lecturer’s in Restorative Dentistry) provide excellent examples of ECRs
 developed via PERCAT training.

 Fellowship and Grants Academy (FGA) initiative is open to all taking their first steps towards
 academic independence, offering tailored training, interview skills training and mock interview
 panels in support of fellows shortlisted for interview. Two female successes benefitted from this in
 the past year (Yonel, Hirschfeld).

 Since inception our Integrated Academic Training Programme MDS has been awarded 155
 NIHR ACF posts and 73 NIHR ACLs, with increasing successes within ICS. Birmingham is in the
 top 25% of institutions for NIHR-funded training posts. This initiative has supported 5 ACLs and
 11 ACFs in Dentistry, three Research Fellows in Nursing and a further five fellowships in ICS in
 the current REF period, through a portfolio of training programmes. All trainees are provided with
 a consumables budget additional to NIHR support.

 Development of individuals seeking a combined clinical and research career is a priority. Most
 staff have honorary contracts or clinical passports with local Trusts to ensure evidence is derived
 from and feeds back to clinical practice. The ICAT hub provides intern, pre and post-doctoral
 programmes, the Midlands Hub for the NIHR 70@70 Nurse/Midwife Research Leaders
 Programme and hosts the HEE/NIHR Mentorship Scheme for non-medical clinical academics.
 Taylor and Topping hold joint NHS contracts and funding, providing strategic research leadership
 for non-medical clinical academics in their respective organisations. Clinical researchers (e.g.
 Sharma, Chapple, Dietrich) run trials to translate their discovery science into new care pathways,
 working with funding from the EU, NIHR and national charities (e.g. DEBRA) as well as with
 Industry (e.g. Unilever, GSK, Philips). ICS currently (co-) supports a number of NIHR training


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fellows (3 doctoral, 2 pre-doctoral) and Midlands ARC supported postgraduate students (n=2).
 Pontefract recently gained a Birmingham Health Partner Fellowship. We have an excellent record
 of hosting medical and non-medical doctoral fellows within our training environment.

 The University’s unique Research Leaders Programme (REF5b:3.4.4) provides training and
 experience for more senior members of staff and aims to develop world leading research leaders
 of the future. The prestigious programme has already benefitted several staff in UoA3 (Bradbury-
 Jones; Hewison; Palin) through its intensive workshops and provided further international
 collaboration opportunities due to extended research visits and ongoing collaborations with
 institutions in Australia, China, US and Europe. We also actively promote the Aurora Leadership
 programme for women in Higher Education, with 9 women across all thee Schools benefiting since
 2014.

 We support sabbaticals at international centres of excellence for ECRs (e.g. Ling to Harvard)
 during their training. This enables us to develop research leaders of the future and attract those
 from collaborating centres (e.g. Kebschill, Kroeger & Hirschfeld from Bonn). In order to strengthen
 staff engagement with University and global priorities, champions have been identified from our
 leading academics to support staff in identifying partnerships and funding opportunities in
 European networking, industry engagement and international relations (e.g. Chapple).

 In recognition of the stresses that ECRs may experience, each School has academic wellbeing
 champions and support from trained Mental Health First Aiders. Career development of all
 academic staff is supported by annual PDR, mentorship schemes, leadership development,
 coaching and courses offered by the University’s “People and Organisational Development”.

 Staff are encouraged to participate in a broad range of symposia and conferences nationally and
 internationally, supported by ICS travel funds from which 30% of T&R academics have benefited
 since 2015. All staff are encouraged to engage in active membership of their principal society and
 to participate in other relevant organisations and learned bodies [Section 4].

 2.5 Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) are key members of our research teams and the broader
 research environment and our aim is to attract, develop and retain the best PGRs. Scholarship
 schemes also form an important part of our doctoral student-funding portfolio with CMDS, ICS and
 Schools hosting a number of studentships co-funded by the University with the MRC (e.g. White,
 Roberts) with funded iCASE awards from BBSRC (GSK) and EPSRC (DSTL, Philips). Our
 experiences with iCASE awards have highlighted its merit in providing students with exposure to
 industry and commercial influences on R&D as well as opportunities for generating new
 technologies as evidenced by patent filing (Section 1.9).

 Our collaborative links (Section 4) include cross-College co-supervision of several doctoral
 studentships (e.g. periodontitis with systemic inflammatory diseases; child protection and culture;
 sexual violence in Kenya; drug allergy and intolerance, nanopharmaceutics) and joint publications
 (e.g. periodontal disease with rheumatoid arthritis/renal disease/COPD/ageing). Our cross-
 university collaborations include numerous joint PhD studentships (five with Nursing and the
 College of Social Sciences, seven with the College of Life and Environmental Sciences, five with
 Applied Health, and several cross-College interactions with doctoral training centres between
 Dentistry, Pharmacy, Computer Sciences and Chemical Engineering).



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We also have a vibrant overseas cohort of PhD students who are fully supported across UoB in
 terms of their cultural and learning integration. In this REF period 70.83 PGRs have successfully
 completed their degree. UoA3 currently has 146 PGRs enrolled in the three schools [96 PhD, 50
 MRes or MSc by Research], a number that has grown year on year in the period.

 We are committed to fairness and inclusivity. Our diversity is a highly valued asset and a key
 strength underpinning the exchange of ideas, innovation and debate, helping to facilitate a thriving
 global health research environment. We enrol each PGR on merit and provide flexibility to
 accommodate their wider needs, including reasonable adjustment plans to support disabilities and
 responsibilities. Their circumstances can change during the 2-8 years they might be registered
 with us and we support (appropriate) changes to registration including parental leave, extensions
 and programme transfers. To illustrate we have produced five PGR babies in the last three years.

 We encourage a strong community spirit for our doctoral students with provision of dedicated
 group study rooms and IT facilities, doctoral student representation on the Graduate School
 Committee and a range of social/team/network building activities, inclusive of both staff and
 students. A regular seminar programme facilitates presentation skills training and discussion of
 students research with exposure to other research areas. We provide training sessions on a range
 of research skills (e.g. public engagement with science and research, writing for publication), and
 summer schools, delivered by internal senior academics and external speakers (e.g. BDJ Editor-
 in-chief, industry collaborators). Students are encouraged to join professional societies and we
 support them with applying for funding for conference travel, collaborative visits and fellowships.
 We initiated a Distinguished Lecturer series in 2017 through the Graduate School and welcomed
 world class speakers such as Dame Mandy Fisher, the Rt Honourable Jacqui Smith and Professor
 Sir Marc Feldman.

 2.5.1 PGR Wellbeing
 In the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey, 83% of ICS PGRs were satisfied with
 their research degree experience (sector average 81%). PGR satisfaction with supervision,
 research culture, progression, responsibilities, research skills and professional development
 exceeded sector averages. 63% reported having a good work-life balance and 82% good mental
 health.

 The College wellbeing team run monthly drop-in clinics. In partnership with Forward Thinking
 Birmingham and the Children’s Society, UoB has established the Pause Drop-In Centre for anyone
 experiencing mental health problems and requiring confidential support and signposting. We have
 embedded Mental Health First Aid Awareness in our training for PGR supervisors.

 2.5.2 Monitoring and Review
 All PGRs have a minimum of two supervisors and a personal mentor. Supervisors are appointed
 on the basis of research excellence and the ability to supervise and mentor students. A tailored
 supervisor-training programme (for new and established academics) assures quality of
 supervision and includes EDI training.

 The PGR application and monitoring systems moved to online platforms. This transition has
 helped reduce application processing time, support auditable reporting of PGR progress and rapid
 identification of issues facilitating earlier intervention.



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Full time PGRs meet formally with their supervisors monthly (part time students pro rata) and
 document their progress, future objectives and any issues via an online graduate report system
 (GRS-2). Ad hoc supervisory support is available outside of the formal monitoring processes. Each
 year, PGRs are expected to undertake a development needs analysis using the Vitae UK
 Research Development Framework to identify knowledge gaps and inform future training plans.
 This task forms part of their annual performance review. Any student encountering difficulty is
 supported via regular review by PGR committee members to actively remedy problems.

 2.5.3 Careers support
 Our UoB Careers Centre offers a range of skills and training designed for PGRs looking to find
 their niche in the jobs market. There are practical opportunities to gain an understanding of
 business and develop entrepreneurial flair at our University Enterprise Summer School;
 opportunities to undertake outreach activity; school visits, shadowing and co-developing activities
 and presentations; talking to media; social media awareness and patient and public engagement
 training platforms. PGRs also have access to varied seminar programmes, research festivals and
 away days and a dedicated range of generic and tailored training to equip them to successfully
 undertake their research and enhance their personal development. Our PGRs are an integral part
 of these and report real benefit from the support.

 Notable PGR successes during the current REF period include first author publications in
 leading health and social care journals including Lancet Psychiatry (doi: 10.1016/S2215-
 0366(19)30369-4); Trauma, Violence and Abuse (doi: 10.1177/1524838017726425); J
 Pharmacol Exp Ther (doi: 10.1124/jpet.119.261008), Chemical Communications
 (doi.org/10.1039/C9CC01057B), Nature Reviews Disease Primers (doi.org/10.1038/s41572-020-
 0210-0), setting our global research agenda for the next few years.

 During the REF period, our students’ research excellence was reflected in winning 16 national and
 international prizes, awards and fellowships, e.g Hirschfield, Academy of Medical Sciences
 Fellowship Award; Roberts, Highlighted Trainee Author J Pharm & Exp Therapy; Williams, Best
 Poster, Association of Early Pregnancy Units.

 The majority of our students progress to pursue careers in science and research (e.g. in academia,
 Sharma, clinical lecturer, Isham, research fellow; Ling in healthcare industry; White in scientific
 publishing; Elanheid in clinical trials).

 2.6 Equality and Diversity
 ICS has a proactive EDI culture whereby individuals are valued regardless of age, disability,
 gender identity, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy or paternity/maternity status, race,
 religion or belief and/or sexual orientation. This is integral to our vision, is embedded within our
 working practice, and championed by the Institute Career Development and Equality Lead (Coney)
 to ensure a fair and accessible environment. The EDI lead provides a confidential contact point
 for advice on EDI-related matters, and represents the Institute on the College EDI Committee
 which includes representatives from Professional Services and EDI-related University networks
 such as the Parents and Carers Network, BAME Network, Rainbow and Women’s Networks. EDI
 training is mandatory for all staff. Staff involved in recruitment and promotions panels undergo
 additional mandatory unconscious bias training. ICS has adopted a scheme run by the BAME staff
 network which trains volunteers who wish to participate in the University’s Interview Panel Register
 aimed at increasing the diversity of shortlisting and interview panels.

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The ex-Deputy PVC for Equalities (Martin) chairs the Women in Medicine group which advises
 women about promotions; offers support where funding for maternity leave is complex; and
 provides women with pre-promotion interview experience. Martin’s term as Deputy PVC ended
 in 2019 when she was appointed Dean of the Medical School in CMDS - the first female Dean in
 100 years of training doctors in Birmingham. Hill became the first ever female Head of the
 School of Dentistry in its 140 year history in 2020.

 There is active promotion of the academic and parenting network to raise awareness of assistance
 to staff with childcare costs, coupled with flexible working arrangements for staff with care
 responsibilities across the age spectrum (e.g. Bailey, Batt, Tanday). There is clear support for
 maternity, paternity and adoption leave, with gender-neutral amalgamated policies for all three,
 recognising the importance of co-parenting and differing routes to parenthood. Members of staff
 with a disclosed disability are supported in ensuring reasonable adjustments are made to ensure
 equality in the workplace. As soon as UoB moved to restricted operations due to Covid-19 an
 immediate and supportive University directive went to all staff to confirm full pay, including those
 who could not continue to work normally, reducing stress levels significantly for those who found
 ‘new’ roles as full-time employees, teachers and parents. The LGBTQ+ network is very active in
 CMDS with staff across all grades as visible role models. We were successful in our application
 to the Race Equality Charter in 2020 (REF5b: 3.4.5) and are seeking Stonewall accreditation.

 2.6.1 Output and Impact Case Selection: In preparation for the UoA3 submission, reading
 panels were gender balanced and we undertook calibration exercises across disciplines to check
 for unconscious bias. We followed the Code of Practice on output selection, including EDI training
 for all members of UoA and College panels. We conducted Equality Impact Assessments on
 output selection data at various stages to check that our process did not appear to be
 disadvantaging any groups of staff with protected characteristics. At the CMDS REF Board we
 verified that diversity for UoA3 was balanced. We evaluated ‘significant responsibility for research’
 for ECRs undertaking clinical training pathways. As a result five Dental staff were deemed not
 eligible for submission, but two held concurrent personal fellowships and a further two were not
 engaged on clinical training programmes and were therefore included in our return.

 2.7 Staff Wellbeing is taken extremely seriously with two Wellbeing champions with close links
 to the wider University Wellbeing services. The leafy University campus provides an ideal
 environment to promote activities such as working walks, regularly utilised by UoA3 staff as they
 move between buildings. Many staff take advantage of the University’s new £55M Sports Centre,
 including gym, swimming pool and variety of active lifestyle classes. ICS provides bike racks and
 showers to support cycling and walking to work. We actively promote and support the annual
 CMDS Wellbeing week. We have created a privacy pod in CMDS in response to staff experience
 following return from maternity leave. The pod is a discrete multipurpose room that allows nursing
 mothers to express milk, and also serves as a prayer room or space for quiet reflection and rest.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 ICS staff occupy three buildings, with Nursing and some Pharmacy staff located in the Medical
 School, the Pharmacy block is a five minute walk and at the other side of the campus, the modern
 Dental Hospital is a brisk 15 minute walk. The Medical School is a few minutes walk from two large



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NHS Hospitals Trusts and the University train station, allowing close collaboration with colleagues
 across all UoAs and with clinical partners.

 3.1 Income £16,081,438.00 over the assessment period

 We have taken a proactive and considered approach to the development of a growing funding
 portfolio across our themes., e.g. discussions with UK industry to develop collaborative
 approaches to CASE Awards resulting in several with GSK and Philips. We aim to deliver a
 balanced funding portfolio, from a variety of schemes and funders including NIHR, UKRI, industry
 and Charities. Our RK&T team are pivotal in highlighting relevant calls matched to expertise and
 supporting bid development, including a specialist EU team (3.6). Our research income during the
 REF period is provided by a broad portfolio of funders including RCUK [£3m], EU [£2.1m],
 Government [£5m], charities [£1.8m] and industry [£3.7m] and demonstrates our strategic
 responsiveness to opportunities and initiatives. In the current REF period we have had significant
 funding from NIHR [£1.7m], EPSRC [1.7m] and UK industry [£2.2m]. Our trajectory was
 temporarily impacted by the formation of the new Institute, the move to the new Dental School
 and Covid-19, but we have exceeded target in a difficult year, providing evidence that our strategy
 is working.

 Recently awarded/newly started grants will contribute to sustainability, including an award from
 the College of Policing (£666K vulnerable victims) and £800K NIHR (sexual abuse survivors).

 We have been extremely successful in applications for beamline time at the world leading
 Diamond Light facility at Harwell, associated with EPSRC funded research. This has provided
 £2.29m fully costed research support from this facility (Poologasundarampillai, Landini, Sammons,
 Addison, Shelton). Other benefits in kind include the Central Laser Facility to continue our quest
 of imaging C. difficile spores and in particular trying to elucidate their germination receptor (£32K),
 and £30K through the EPSRC Equipment Loan system.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 Our strategy is to ensure we have in-house facilities that are used to full capacity and capable of
 supporting world-class research. We share or collaboratively access facilities/equipment used less
 frequently or which are of high cost (e.g. we have access to mass spectrometry, MiSeq next
 generation sequencer and we hire out our Micro-CT campus-wide). This fits well with our research
 strategy in building strong collaborations that extend scope, multi-disciplinarity and reach for our
 research programmes (Section 1). We continue to develop state-of-the-art clinical and laboratory
 research facilities and our new Dental School/Hospital is designed with purpose-built facilities for
 research programmes with a translational focus. The laboratories and clinical research
 infrastructure is housed within a state-of-the-art £50M new Dental School, the first in the UK for
 over 40 years. World class clinical areas (914m2) provide two clinical trials suites, an HTA licensed
 (no: 12312) biorepository and 685m2 of state-of-the-art laboratory space valued at £1.5M. There
 is enormous multidisciplinary capacity (e.g. cell, micro and molecular biology, tissue engineering)
 and there has been significant improvement in quality (e.g. computer clusters, library) and capacity
 (1860m2) for PGRs.

 Pharmacy is housed within a central laboratory for dedicated pharmaceutics research and
 includes space within Chemistry for drug discovery science. PGRs have a new write-up room and
 recently refurbished laboratories to create fully equipped facilities dedicated to cell culture. Recent

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategic investment in capital equipment (e.g. £0.9M NIHR RCF funding) keeps us at the cutting-
 edge of research capabilities, with recent new equipment acquisitions supporting the development
 of innovative delivery systems and their pharmacological evaluation; imaging (e.g. confocal
 microscopy), calorimetry for biomaterials science and useful for both Dentistry and Pharmacy;
 pharmaceutical manufacture (tablet press, coater, granulator) and cell/molecular biology (e.g.
 £80K Illumina DNA sequencer). These facilities are complemented institutionally by the CMDS
 Technology Hub with its extensive range of state-of-the-art medical research equipment e.g.
 Birmingham Advanced Light Microscopy (Batt), other University central service facilities, e.g. mass
 spectrometry (Grant), the development of cutting-edge bioinformatics (e.g. Balacco in Dentistry),
 the Human Biomaterials Resource Centre and a central asset register for facilities/equipment
 available within the University. We also benefit from access to equipment at other institutions –
 e.g. Synchrotron beam time (Oxford, Grenoble, Chicago – Addison, Landini,
 Poologasundarampillai), and the EPSRC equipment loan scheme (Walmsley). Nursing PGRs are
 provided with a large recently refurbished write-up room (80m2) with plans for expansion as
 numbers grow.

 3.3 Clinical research is enhanced due to our co-location in Birmingham Dental Hospital and the
 proximity to the new Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Birmingham Women’s and Children’s Hospitals,
 Community Trusts, hospices and care homes. Access to a mixed and diverse population and
 excellent clinical facilities are also important. Martin leads the hypertension service at University
 Hospitals Birmingham, researching pharmacological interactions and patient monitoring. Our joint
 appointments with Birmingham Women’s and Children’s NHS Foundation Trust and University
 Hospitals Birmingham enable close working in applied health subjects and access to NHS
 libraries, office and meeting space. We are also embedded within the £10M Inflammation
 Research Facility (IRF) and the ITM at Queen Elizabeth Hospital for research exploring links
 between periodontal and systemic diseases (underpinning our NIHR ACF/ACL research). The IRF
 houses six clinics where patient cohorts from five different specialties are collaboratively studied,
 and provides resources for disease specific assessment. Excellent infrastructure for the conduct
 of clinical trials exists within the ITM and the Dental Hospital, with support provided by Birmingham
 Clinical Trials Unit (amongst the largest such provision in Europe), bringing expertise from across
 the University and three large, well-established, UKCRC fully-registered CTUs. All research
 benefits from early advice through the regional NIHR West Midlands Research Design Service.

 3.4 Infrastructure for impact A significant proportion of our infrastructure, facilities and expertise
 focus on delivering impact. This enables us to drive a joined-up approach across stakeholders
 such as the NHS, industry, policymakers and most importantly our patients and communities. A
 key example is the Institute of Translational Medicine (ITM), established in 2016 as a £24m
 research facility that acts as a central hub for interaction between basic scientists, academic
 clinicians, clinical informatics, biostatisticians, bioengineers and trial design experts (3.3), to
 accelerate the development of drugs and devices.

 Our collaboration with Birmingham Community Healthcare Trust in 2017 increased NIHR
 portfolio accruals by 542% and ranked first of Community Trusts nationally and first from 15 Local
 Clinical Research Networks for Oral and Dental Research Portfolio accruals.

 For industry, we have established a number of CMDS facilities supporting potential UoA3 impact:
 BioHub Birmingham is a £9m bioincubator opened in 2015 to house and support diagnostic spin-
 outs from the University and across the region. Spin-out companies such as Celentyx have used

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 this space to build their service offerings and acess international markets. Birmingham Health
 Innovation Campus will establish unique innovation facilities and high-quality commercial grow-
 on space (REF5a: 4.2.2) that will give us access to Small to Medium-sized Enterprises with
 competence in areas synergistic to our basic-clinical translational work.

 For policy, a dedicated Public Affairs team facilitates significant interactions at regional and
 national levels with MPs, ministers and government bodies. We have hosted a range of
 government delegations during the current REF period, including Jeremy Hunt and Baroness
 Blackwood. We are one of only four UK sites to have official MoUs with the Associations of British
 Pharmaceutical Industries and British Healthcare Industries.

 Our Alumni and friends’ response to our Covid-19 emergency appeal means philanthropy has
 enabled research into the incidence of and risk factors for Covid-19 amongst dental care
 practitioners and staff.

 3.5 Infrastructure for public and patients (PPI)
 We have an embedded network of UoA3 public engagement champions, supported by a central
 team who contributed to the receipt of an NCCPE Silver Watermark Award in 2018. The activities
 and their outputs have been used locally, nationally and internationally, e.g. the Oxford Museum
 of the History of Science and the Science Center in Philadelphia (USA); consultations on the future
 of detecting disease in non-medical settings have explored the public acceptability of this work in
 England and Scotland; engagement with children and young adults in local museums and science
 centres (ThinkTank) and through the West Midlands Clinical Research Network Young Persons’
 Steering Group. We have a ‘nurse in residence’ (Nicol) at UoB’s Barber Institute for Fine Arts,
 linking artefacts with end of life care research with the public. On-campus events (e.g. Green Heart
 Festival), have helped shape new research for which published evaluation (e.g. Yonel et al BMC
 Public Health; Grant et al 2018, Research for All, 2:122–130, following primetime BBC1
 documentary on periodontal-systemic health) is at the heart of the public engagement strategy.
 We also had a Channel 4 New Year Special (Jan 2020), ‘Food Unwrapped’. The ‘Open Wide
 Public Engagement Project’ (curated by Grant) exhibits art-science collaborations on research in
 the Dental School and has a permanent location in the foyer of Birmingham Dental Hospital, which
 has a footfall of 120,000 patients per year. Additionally Open Wide attracts visitors for specific
 exhibitions, through local and national advertising. With each exhibition a participatory workshop
 is held to enable dialogue between researchers and patients and visitors to the Dental Hospital
 and directly with school children and home-schooled children outside of the Dental Hospital
 (bdhopenwide.com).

 We have developed deeply engaged forms of PPI, specifically in the field of co-produced research.
 Funded studies (e.g. NIHR HS&DR 18/02/27) have employed lay members as co-researchers,
 demonstrating strong commitment to participation in research. Acknowledging that a significant
 amount of research is conducted in a broader context than health facilities, there are numerous
 examples of Community Engagement and Involvement (CEI), which expands concepts of
 engagement to take account of communities. This is particularly apparent in projects funded
 through the IGI in Low and Middle Income Countries, including a co-developed film on albinism
 See My Life. We have close partnerships with local hospices, charities and Birmingham City
 Council, reflected in joint grant applications (e.g. Bradbury-Jones et al, NIHR sexual abuse
 survivors) and representation on relevant committees (section 4).



                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.6 Operational and scholarly support structures
 The CMDS Strategic Research Committee (SRC) brings together research leads, Institute
 Directors and NHS partners on a monthly basis to discuss collaborative current and emerging
 opportunities, metrics and challenges. SRC reports to the CMDS Research and Knowledge
 Transfer Executive, chaired by Head of College, for approval and action, including release of
 related College-level resources. Equality and diversity are standing agenda items to maintain
 focus across all protected characteristics.

 Research management within the College is based on integrated leadership from Academic and
 Professional Services which oversees a team of 90 staff that work within grant award and
 implementation, regulatory compliance, research integrity, translation and training. They work
 closely with University-level teams covering Business Engagement; Strategic Projects; Charitable
 Funding; Interdisciplinarity (Institute for Global Innovation, incorporating our Institute for Advanced
 Studies); Commercialisation (UoB Enterprise); External Relations (including Public Engagement
 with Research); International Collaboration; and Research Finance. Our team of research
 technicians (HEFCE, NHS & industry funded) oversee the smooth running of our facilities and
 contribute significantly to delivery of high quality research. Research innovation, enterprise and
 knowledge transfer is strategically and operationally supported by Birmingham Enterprise Ltd.,
 with UoA3 staff benefitting through licensing, consultancy contracts, patent filing and development
 of spinout companies, enhancing our global impact.
 To sustain the ambitions of Birmingham 2026 (REF5a: 2.1.4), significant support is provided via
 the central CMDS Research Support & Development Team, dedicated to help investigators to
 secure relevant career development guidance, submit high quality research proposals including
 large, collaborative and strategic programmes of academic endeavour, and to ensure robust and
 efficient research operations such as contractual negotiation, governance and intellectual property
 management. We have a dedicated ICS Research Facilitator (Williams) providing bespoke pre-
 award support to UoA3 researchers in preparation of funding applications. The pre-award support
 team offers one-to-one engagement and guidance in the preparation of winning applications for
 investment from a vast array of national and international charities, public funder organisations
 and commercial partners, and works closely with UoB Enterprise to ensure that all our ideas and
 innovations are identified and protected at an early stage.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration is embedded within our research programmes and has significantly extended the
 scope and interdisciplinarity of our research (of 113 submitted outputs for the period, 48 are
 denoted interdisciplinary). Joint authorships on publications and co-applications on grants with
 collaborators highlight the success of our approach as well as many staff having national and
 international visiting/honorary appointments. Collaborations are at local, national and international
 levels, e.g:

 Locally
  Working with Birmingham safeguarding teams to analyse child abuse reports during the
    pandemic (Taylor), targeting policy makers regarding school closures, particularly in deprived
    communities.

 Nationally



                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Anti-depressants after psychosis, NIHR HTA £2m (Barnes) with Psychology. Part of a wider
     portfolio of projects focusing on pharmacological interventions in psychosis.
    Office for National Statistics on UK dental health: a national consortium working with ONS to
     deliver 10-yearly dental health surveys (Morris, Ravaghi, Hill).
    ‘UltraSurge’: £6-million EPSRC-funded consortium [Universities of Birmingham, Glasgow,
     Edinburgh, Leeds, Southampton] (Walmsley, Scheven, Shelton).

 Internationally
  ‘RAPID’: €4.3M EU-funded consortium on periodontitis and rheumatoid arthritis with £680k to
     UoB (Dietrich et al).
  Representation on the U21 Health Sciences Group nursing forum and leading case studies for
     Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), resulting in joint funding and strategic partnerships
     across the U21 network (Bradbury-Jones).
  SCRIPT, a web-based programme for optimising prescribing safety that has standardised the
     delivery of education on prescribing and therapeutics across the world (Marriott et al).
  Research staff and student exchanges worldwide including Australia, China, India, Brazil,
     USA.

 We nurture basic-clinician science partnerships, which enables our translational pipeline and
 facilitates key clinical questions to be addressed whilst also facilitating clinician-
 scientist/researcher development. We will maximise these strengths in our goal for research
 innovation for patients, healthcare and wellbeing by continuing to target translational funding
 streams (e.g. Innovate UK, NIHR) and grow our portfolio of international studies. For example, the
 Phototherapy group within Dentistry has established cross-cutting themes with UHB, Institute of
 Inflammation and Aging and neurosurgery to develop novel treatments for traumatic brain injury.
 The collaboration has secured pilot funding from the Midland Neuroscience Teaching & Research
 Fund (2018-2019) leading to two patent submissions in 2020, which will underpin a multi-million
 NIHR application to drive translation of this disruptive technology.

 Category C Staff
 We have three category staff C. Dentistry has 1.5 FTE Research Nurses employed on clinical
 trials, and in Nursing, Dr DeBelle (paediatrician), has an honorary contract with the RAV team
 working on child protection.

 4.1 Industry and the health sector
 We have a demonstrable history and diverse engagement with the wider health and industry
 sectors that significantly contributes to the economy and society: £6.3M of our income in the
 assessment period is from the health sector and commerce. Expertise in biomedical materials
 science and stem cell biology provide opportunities to exploit smart new therapeutic solutions
 delivered through medical devices and supported by our 26 Industry partnerships. Between 2012-
 2020, Dentistry filed 18 patents (US, Asia, Europe, UK). Four patents in 2019/20 (US, Europe)
 related to bone augmentation materials and technology for the treatment of traumatic brain injury.
 Eleven patents (US, Asia) were with Philips Eindhoven in saliva diagnostics for periodontal
 diagnosis (two published 2019).Two patents were filed in 2020 (Asia, UK) for
 bioprinting/monolythic gel synthesis and one UK filing for the development of a bioprobe. Our
 spinout company ‘Oral Health Innovations’ has delivered digital risk assessment technology into
 >850 dental practices (>150,000 patients).



                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have captured several iCASE awards (section 2.5) and work with the NIHR Surgical
 Reconstruction & Microbiology Research Centre with support from the MoD to identify novel light-
 therapy approaches for wound repair and disinfection in injured military personnel (Palin, Milward,
 Kuehne, Hadis, Shelton). We also have NIHR-funded interdisciplinary collaborations. For example
 the Photobiomodulation Research Group has worked with industry (Thor Photomedicine) in the
 development of light therapy-based approach for dental tissue repair.

 Several partnerships are long-standing, e.g. Unilever (Chapple) and GSK (Cooper, Milward,
 Chapple) >25 years; and have generated new technologies (e.g. medical devices for treating
 traumatic brain injury, Palin, Milward, Hadis). We have a plethora of current strategic industrial
 research collaborations, including Angelus Dental, Brazil (2019-2021): Alternative Cementitious
 Components to Hydraulic Calcium Silicate Endodontic Materials; Camilleri, Tomson (£327k UoB).
 Our new Business Engagement teams support new and existing Industry collaborations and have
 supported us in filing patents.

 4.2 Third Sector collaborations We have long standing partnerships with non-governmental
 organisations leading to new collaborations in East and Southern Africa, e.g. Source of the Nile
 Union for Persons with Albinism (Taylor, Bradbury-Jones). We have strong links (co-investigators,
 advisory groups, joint publications) with the Third Sector (e.g. Barnardo’s, Women’s Aid) and have
 made leading contributions to the evidence base in working with patients, public and survivors. In
 RAV we aim to include survivors as co-applicants/researchers in all projects and evidence this in
 current grants (NIHR, Burdett). In partnership with the National Rheumatoid Arthritis Society we
 provide tailored support for the UK South Asian population in disease management (Kumar). We
 engage with diverse communities and the public through stakeholder groups and co-research
 models (Section 3.5).

 4.3 Interdisciplinary translational research Our research is underpinned by our broad
 collaborations in multiple areas (e.g. Biology, Engineering, Metallurgy). Its importance is illustrated
 for e.g by our studies on brain implants for oncology (McConville), dental/orthopaedic materials
 (Palin, Shelton, Hofmann). The diversity of these collaborations has been central to much of our
 research strategy and the collegiate structure in Birmingham has greatly facilitated this. Our
 collaborative working has also been promoted through appointment of international honorary
 visiting Professors (e.g. Ferracane, Oregon; Nor, Michigan). We regularly host visiting
 international researchers, in the last year alone from Australia, Brazil, India and the USA, resulting
 in joint publications and grant applications.

 We have 40 strong collaborative links with many research groups across the University, including:

 In CMDS
     Institutes of Inflammation & Ageing; Immunology & Immunotherapy: links between oral,
      chronic & systemic inflammation & ageing immune system (Chapple, Grant, Hirschfield);
      novel phototherapy treatments in neurosurgery (Palin, Milward, Hadis, Davies, Belli); West
      Midlands Allergy and Immunology Centre (Marriott).
     Institute of Applied Health Research: sexual abuse survivors (Bradbury-Jones); ARC
      Maternity Theme (Hewison).
     Institute of Cancer & Genomic Sciences: In oral cancer, Wiench is a joint staff appointment
      with Dentistry and Landini works jointly with the Cancer Research UK Centre.



                                                                                                Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Institute of Metabolism and Systems Research, post-partum haemorrhage and miscarriage
      (Topping).

 With Colleges outside CMDS
     Life and Environmental Sciences: Geography-led Childhood’s Network (Taylor), Ali-Boucetta
      with environmental scientists on nanotoxicology, Barnes with Psychology on
      neuropharmacology; Grant and Chapple with Biosciences (biomarker discovery)
     Institute for Crime, Justice and Policing, evaluating police interventions for families with
      adverse experiences (Bradbury-Jones, Taylor).
     Social Science: researching migrant maternity care (Bradbury-Jones, Taylor)
     Engineering and Physical Sciences: medicinal chemistry and drug discovery (Bottegoni,
      Jones MC., Roper, Jones A., Romero-Canelon).

 Our intra- and inter-university collaborations (demonstrated by publications, grant income,
 Honorary Chairs and PhD co-supervision) have considerably enhanced our research activity and
 success in: i) targeting specific research sponsors (e.g. EU, EPSRC, charitable programmes), and
 ii) attracting joint high-quality appointments (e.g. Hadis biomaterial, Jones, A. med chem and
 Topping, end-of-life care). and doctoral research students.

 4.4 Beyond the University Internal funding enables partnerships which are based on University
 agreements, e.g. Birmingham-Nottingham fund (Milward, Palin); Birmingham-Illinois at Urbana-
 Champaign (Taylor). Funding from the Institute for Advanced Studies (REF5a: 2.3.1) and the
 IGI provide important seed funds for international collaborations (e.g. Bradbury-Jones, Taylor).
 Staff hold honorary chairs at prestigious research intensive universities including Barnes,
 Melbourne; Efstathiou, Ottawa; Bailey, Johns Hopkins.

 Broader institutional strategies for collaborative international research programmes involving
 China, USA, Australia and Brazil (REF5b: 2.1.8) complement our existing international
 collaborations (e.g. overseas research visitors and PhD students). We support a range of
 overseas attachments (e.g. Sharma, Harvard 2018; Yonel, Greifswald 2020) which strengthen our
 research culture. We support staff (e.g. seed funds, sharing networks) in engaging with other
 researchers, organisations and learned societies at international levels e.g. Professor Wong from
 UCLA spent a week with cross-campus researchers collaborating on saliva diagnostics.

 Our researchers undertake national and international leadership roles with involvement at
 various levels, reflecting career stage. Staff in senior leadership roles contribute to 17 nationally
 and internationally recognised scientific groups as either President, Chair, Secretary or Treasurer.
 Most notably: the Secretary General of European Federation of Periodontology (Chapple 2017-
 2019); Chair of the European Academy of Nursing Scientific Committee (Taylor 2012-2016); Chair
 of Multilateral France-Germany-Canada, Epigenomics of Complex Diseases (Barnes); Vice Chair
 Association of Child Protection Professionals (Taylor 2014-2019); British Dental Association
 Scientific Adviser (Walmsley); President of ABOMS (Dietrich – 2018), President of the British
 Society of Periodontology (Chapple – 2014/15), Chair of globally influential European Federation
 of Periodontology (EFP) Workshops (Chapple - 2008-2020); President of the British and Irish
 Hypertension Society (Martin).

 Our staff also contribute to 32 national and international societies, committees and agencies,
 including: Board Member and Chair of Marshall Postdoctoral Award, Academy of Dental Materials

                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Palin); Coordinator of the EFP S3-Level Treatment Guidelines (Kebschull); Councillor for the
 International Society of 5-HT research (Barnes); PRIMA Québec (MC Jones); Grant Commission
 Member for the European Society of Clinical Pharmacy (Paudyal); General Nursing Council
 (Topping), Birmingham and Solihull Women’s Aid Trustee (Bradbury-Jones); and the National
 Research Agency (Romero-Canelon).

 Our researchers also drive agenda and policy change by writing national and international
 guidelines through peer review and standards associations, the most notable of which include
 NHSE/I Commissioning Standard on oral health and diabetes (Chapple co-author); World
 Classification of periodontal and peri-implant diseases (Chapple, co-chair); European treatment
 guidelines in periodontal care (Chapple & Kebschull – co-chairs); Joint medical-dental
 international guidelines on periodontal care and diabetes with International Diabetes Federation
 (Chapple, co-chair); Joint medical-dental recommendations on periodontal and cardiovascular
 diseases with World Heart Federation (Chapple, Dietrich); the House of Lords Adoption Select
 Committee (Taylor); REF2021 panel member (Taylor); Research Grants Council of Hong Kong
 (Camilleri); British Standards Institute and International Standards Organisation for CH/106/1
 (Dental Restorative and Orthodontic Materials) and CH/106/2 (Prosthodontic Materials) (Palin);
 EPSRC Panels and Reviews (Poologasundarampillai, Palin, A Jones, MC Jones, McConville,
 Romero-Canelon); the ERC (Bottegoni); and the Newton Fund (A Jones).

 Our strong business engagement strategy involves numerous staff who provide expert advice
 and consultancy to industry, influencing their R&D programmes (evidenced in impact case studies)
 such as, representation on Advisory Boards of GSK, Unilever, Philips Oral Healthcare, Johnson
 & Johnson, Mars, Colgate, Attenborough Dental, Septodont, 3M, Ivoclar, Voco, FKG (Chapple;
 Walmsley; Tomson; Camilleri, Khambay, Palin). Grant has received £15K from the Arts Council
 UK to establish a public engagement initiative within dentistry (Section 3.5). Barnes is the
 Principal Founder of Celentyx Ltd, a venture capital funded pharmaceutical research and
 development company focusing on diseases of the immune system and immuno-oncology.

 Our research excellence is also evident through senior editorial positions. Editors-in-Chief
 include: Dental Update (Burke); European J Prosthodontics and Restorative Dentistry (Palin); J
 Clinical Periodontology Digest (Chapple). Many of our staff act as Associate or Guest Editors
 of international high impact journals including J Clinical Periodontology (Chapple);
 Periodontology 2000 (Chapple); Frontiers in Immunology (Kebschull); MDPI Molecules (guest
 Editor A Jones); Child Abuse Review (Taylor, Bradbury-Jones).

 Our research contribution towards scientific communication amongst peers is further highlighted
 with numerous staff that serve 44 editorial boards of leading journals in their specific fields
 of expertise including J Dental Research (Dietrich,); Dental Materials (Palin); J Clinical
 Periodontology (Chapple, Kebschull); J Dentistry (Palin, Addison, Walmsley); Neuropharmacology
 (Barnes); J Advanced Nursing (Taylor); Rheumatology (Kumar), J Clinical Nursing (Bradbury-
 Jones); Int J of Social Research Methods (Bradbury-Jones); and J of Nursing Management
 (Hewison).

 Our researchers continue to be recognised at the highest levels internationally as reflected in
 prestigious awards and Fellows of Learned Societies, most notably, Distinguished Scientist in
 Periodontal Research, International Association of Dental Research (IADR) (Chapple, 2018);
 Sigmund S Socransky Young Investigator Award, IADR (Kebschull, 2017); Top 3- IChemE Global

                                                                                         Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Awards (Barnes, 2017); Distinguished Young Investigator Award, IADR (Addison, 2016); Lyndsay
 Memorial Distinguished Lecturer, British Dental Association (BDA) (Chapple, 2016); John Tomes
 Medal, BDA (Walmsley, 2016); William J Gies Award, IADR (Kebschull, 2015); American
 Academy of Periodontology special citation award (Chapple, 2016); Inaugural fellow British-Irish
 Hypertension Society (Martin); DCF Prize for Medicinal Chemistry (Italy) (Bottegoni); EMFC
 (Young Medicinal Chemist in Industry) runner-up (Bottegoni); Fellow of the Royal College of
 Nursing (Taylor) and Winston Churchill Foundation Fellowship (Bradbury-Jones).

 The internationally-leading profiles of our researchers have led to numerous invited keynote
 lectures at (inter)national conferences, society meetings and other Universities. For example
 Barnes has been invited to speak about P2x7 receptor antagonism in numerous universities
 around the world, including Melbourne, Malaysia and Washington. Our discipline leadership is
 evidenced by our involvement in the scientific organisation of conferences and symposia (e.g.
 BSODR Birmingham 2021; RCN Birmingham 2018).




                                                                                         Page 24
