Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Westminster

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research in English takes place within the School of Humanities, in the College of Liberal Arts
 and Sciences, and supports literary, linguistic and cultural analysis across a historical range that
 spans the medieval to the contemporary. Planning and monitoring of research is directly
 overseen by the School Research Committee (SRC), which has responsibility for shaping
 research strategy and ensuring the sustainability of excellence across the unit, under the
 leadership of the Head of School (Warwick) and two Research Directors (Beck, Sylvester).
 English also plays a central role in research management at University level: Linn is Pro-Vice-
 Chancellor for Research, as well as Head of College, Cunningham is University REF Director,
 Wilson is Director of the University Graduate School. All three sit on the University Research
 Committee, chaired by Linn, which has responsibility for developing and monitoring the
 University’s overall research policy and strategy. As of July 2020, the subject area comprised 32
 permanent staff (28.8FTE), all of whom are active in research and teaching, with 10 new
 appointments since 2014, a Visiting Professor in Historical Linguistics, a Leverhulme-funded
 Research Associate and 15 PGRs. English Language and Linguistics have shared a common
 research management structure since 2008 and are hence entered here (as in REF2014) as
 part of a single Unit of Assessment.

 1.1 Research Strategy

 Our strategy is to promote a vital, distinctive and inclusive research culture that supports all staff
 to produce exceptional, high-quality research, as well as to foster internal and external
 collaboration, extending our position as a leading department in theoretically-innovative and
 interdisciplinary English Studies. With the majority of QR funding (c.88%) since 2015 returned
 directly to the subject area, English has been enabled to realise the key strategic aims of our
 REF2014 submission and to demonstrate our commitment to research through annual
 sabbatical leave and remission from other duties, student scholarships, and support for
 conference attendance and training available to all staff and student researchers, as well as
 regular symposia, awaydays, project seed-funding and other activities to facilitate the research
 culture. This has been strongly assisted by new University investment in dedicated staff to
 identify external funding opportunities and facilitate and manage applications within the central
 Research and Knowledge Exchange Office (RKEO), as well as in enhanced support for PGRs
 through the Westminster Graduate School, and has helped us to secure a range of internal and
 external investment in our key areas of research.

 Following our very encouraging result in REF2014, in which our GPA of 3.11 (34% 4* and 45%
 3*) placed us within the top third of English departments and the top 20 for outputs, we have
 sought to:

    (i)     further broaden and internationalise our research activity through new collaborations
            with other HEIs and external institutions, so enhancing our research environment;
    (ii)    deepen and expand our impact activities through the maintenance and development
            of strategic areas with strong potential for public engagement and impacts on
            educators, practitioners, cultural institutions and creative industries;
    (iii)   maintain our record of grant capture in key areas of language and linguistics, while
            steadily diversifying the range and type of awards across the unit, including non-
            reportable income such as Arts Council grants;
    (iv)    increase, in sustainable fashion, our number of doctoral registrations and
            completions;
    (v)     consolidate and extend our existing areas of strengths in multilingualism, modern and
            contemporary literature, and critical theory, while developing new initiatives in early
            modern literature, sociolinguistics and theatre studies.

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The success of our strategy is evident in various key indicators, including: further expansion of
 our staff base through new appointments (8.8fte); 100% Category A eligible staff submission into
 REF2021; new participation in the AHRC Techne Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP); more
 than tripling our annual number of doctoral completions; and our range of external partnerships
 both inside and outside academia, including new collaborations with European and U.S.
 universities and major London-based cultural institutions.

 Earmarked financial and administrative support has been made available for both impact-related
 activities and writing of substantial funding bids (see sections 2 and 3). Support for the
 production of major research outputs, identified as a priority in REF2014, has been achieved
 through targeted blocks of time administered and monitored by the SRC (which includes, in line
 with our inclusive ethos, elected ECR and PGR representation). Funding of one-semester
 sabbaticals, open to all researchers and awarded according to clearly-articulated criteria, has
 allowed staff to complete significant projects, including books by Bond, Charles, Colby, Geric,
 Germanà, Ihemere, McEvoy, Nath, Shaw and Syea. The UoA has produced 44 books
 (including 21 monographs) over the course of the current REF period.

 1.2 Structure

 While our policy continues to be to support excellent research in whatever field it might be
 located, our specific commitment to transdisciplinarity and support for both internal and external
 collaboration is focused through two research centres, each of which have expanded
 significantly during the current REF period and in which the majority of our staff working within
 the fields of post-1800 literature and culture or English language and linguistics are active
 participants. In our submission to REF2014 we identified ‘the initiation of networks able to
 promote our visibility as a centre of research excellence and to ensure future sustainability’ as
 crucial to our future strategy to become ‘a recognised international centre for theoretically-
 informed and cross-disciplinary work’. It is the cultivation of and participation in such networks
 that has subsequently allowed us to assume a vanguard role in shaping some of the major
 expanded disciplinary futures of English Studies at both a national and international level, and
 which will be at the centre of our future research strategy.

 The cross-disciplinary Institute for Modern and Contemporary Culture (IMCC) was first
 established, with the support of the University, in late 2008, and is now directed by Beck, with
 Cunningham as Deputy Director. The Institute, which also houses four researchers in Visual
 Culture (submitted UoA32) and which maintains its own independent website, provides a base
 for a number of key research initiatives within the School, as well as running a regular
 international fellowship programme which has hosted several doctoral and postdoctoral visiting
 researchers, including e.g. from the German National Academic Foundation and Boston College.
 The IMCC is designed to act as a focal point for cutting-edge collaboration both between
 colleagues across the University (including PGRs) and with other universities and outside
 cultural institutions. In this way it has facilitated various cross-disciplinary projects since 2014,
 with a particular focus on relations between visual and textual cultures, modernisms and
 experimentalisms across the arts, and critical and cultural theory. These include projects funded
 by Arts Council England, the British Academy and Leverhulme Trust and international
 collaborations with Université Paris 8, the Smithsonian Institution and Dartmouth College,
 among others (see sections 3 and 4).

 The Westminster Forum for Language and Linguistics (WFLL), established in 2017 and directed
 by Sylvester, has a particular focus on sociolinguistics, multilingual research (both historical and
 contemporary), and linguistic diversity, extending Westminster’s long-standing international
 reputation in the theoretical and historical study of creoles, language mixing and code-switching.
 Alongside those staff listed in REF1, Richard Ingham has been Visiting Professor in Historical
 Linguistics since 2016, including acting as PI and Co-I on two Leverhulme Trust-funded projects
 based within the unit. The Forum was also host for a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow
 working on translanguaging and refugees during the census period. As well as running an active

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 blog, annual lecture and linguistics research day, the Forum is home to the London Linguistics
 Calendar, coordinated by Shaw, which promotes research events for London-based and visiting
 academics while fostering connections between London universities. Among other collaborative
 enterprises, the Forum has been instrumental in the establishment of a new Special Interest
 Group on Multilingualism within the British Association for Applied Linguistics (with an inaugural
 event at Westminster in 2019), while members of the group are also on the steering committee
 of the Cross London Sociolinguistics Seminar (with colleagues at Birkbeck, Kings, QMUL and
 UCL) and hosted the 5th CLSS at Westminster in 2020.

 The unit further incorporates several distinctive, more specialised research clusters:

 •    Research into the intersections between Literature and Science (Avery, Beck, Geric,
      Warwick, Wilson) remains a key area of strength, as reflected in Geric’s ground-breaking
      2017 monograph on geology and nineteenth-century poetry, Beck’s Duke UP book on art
      and technology labs (2020) and Warwick’s work on archaeology and the literary
      imagination. The unit established the open access Journal of Literature and Science
      website in 2013, and has had among its visiting fellows e.g. Dr Tommi Kakko (Tampere),
      funded by the Alfred Kordelin Foundation to work on his study of hallucinations in early
      modern texts.
 •    Our Gothic Studies group (Germanà, McEvoy, Warwick, Witchard) continues to
      collaborate on various events and publications. Both McEvoy and Warwick are, for
      instance, contributors to the new Cambridge History of the Gothic, in a period which also
      saw the publication of McEvoy’s Gothic Tourism (2015) and Germanà’s Scottish Gothic: An
      Edinburgh Companion (2017). The group has also supervised several doctoral projects in
      the School.
 •    The Queer London Research Forum, founded in late 2013 and co-directed by Avery and
      Graham, has produced the important collection Sex, Time and Place: Queer Histories of
      London (2016), and, among its many events, co-organised the 2016 three-day LGBTQ+
      Archives, Libraries, Museums and Special Collections Conference, in collaboration with the
      Bishopsgate Institute and London Metropolitan Archives, and (with our Early Modern
      cluster) the 2017 conference, ‘The Queer, the Early Modern and the Now’.
 •    The Contemporary Small Press project (Wilson, Colby, Marczewska) has played a key
      role in the recent resurgence of interest in non-mainstream literary publishing in the UK and
      worked with more than 50 presses (and c.40 more through its influential website directory)
      since 2015, as well as producing the collection The Contemporary Small Press: Making
      Publishing Visible (2020). It was a founding partner in the Republic of Consciousness Prize
      for Small Presses in 2017.
  •   Finally, following the appointments of Jones in 2014 and Graham in 2016, alongside
      existing colleagues Frampton, Mapp, Morrison and Wyver (who works across Theatre
      and Screen Studies, with colleagues in UoA32), we have also begun to establish vibrant,
      overlapping research clusters in Early Modern Literature and Theatre Studies, reflected in
      Jones’s prize-winning Shakespeare’s Storms, Morrison’s history of the Soho Poly Theatre
      and Wyver’s research on screen adaptations and high-profile work as Director, Screen
      Productions for the Royal Shakespeare Company.

 1.3 Support for interdisciplinary research and open access

 As is apparent throughout this submission, inter- and transdisciplinary research is at the heart of
 the major part of our activity in English Studies and is specifically manifested in the mission and
 configuration of both our major research centres: the IMCC and WFLL. Such support is reflected
 in the number of important outputs published by staff associated with the IMCC in fields that
 cross art history and theory (Beck, Colby, Cunningham, Witchard), history of science (Avery,
 Geric, Warwick) and philosophy (Charles, Cunningham, Mapp), as well as in the multilingual
 approach that underpins our research in both historical and contemporary linguistics (Denroche,
 Ihemere, Karatsareas, Linn, Pagan, Syea, Sylvester). Internally, the IMCC has long been a
 focal point for collaboration with colleagues in Art & Design at Westminster. This is exemplified
 by Beck’s co-leadership with Professor Neal White (UoA32) of the Proving Grounds project, a

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 series of workshops and events including the ‘Earth Lab’ symposium in September 2017 and
 public lecture by Kathelin Gray, founder of Biosphere 2, as well as, for instance, by the 2014
 ‘Photography and Abstraction’ conference that resulted in a 2016 special issue of the Routledge
 journal Photographies edited by Beck and Cunningham. Institutionally, both within and beyond
 the School of Humanities, interdisciplinary exchange has also been facilitated through co-
 supervision of postgraduate researchers, with staff in English acting as supervisors for PhDs in
 Art and Design, Chinese Studies, French, History and Law.

 University policy and support for open access, along with procedures for meeting (and going
 beyond) the essential UKRI and REF open access requirements, are described in REF5a.
 Locally, the unit has co-hosted the open access Journal of Literature and Science, established
 by our former colleague Martin Willis, and was instrumental in the construction of The Bilingual
 Thesaurus of Everyday Life in Medieval England, edited by Sylvester and Ingham, a
 Leverhulme Trust-funded online, freely accessible thesaurus of Middle English and Anglo-
 French words. Our commitment to open research is demonstrated, too, in individual staff
 contributions. For example: as one of its longest-serving editors, Cunningham oversaw the
 relaunch of Radical Philosophy as an open access publication in 2018 and is regularly invited to
 speak on radical publishing (e.g. at a 2019 Tate Modern workshop).

 1.4 Impact Strategy

 Our different research centres and groups frame the various types of impact generation within
 the unit, supported locally through specific hours for impact-related activities incorporated into
 staff workload allocation and pump-priming of public engagement events to encourage and
 incentivise impact activities. As part of the unit’s annual research interview system, all
 researchers are now expected to consider the potential impact of their research at the stage of
 conception and design.

 Located in the heart of London, the unit actively seeks to create pathways to impact through co-
 production of activities with external partners, as well as through strategic utilisation of
 Westminster’s own historic building on Regent Street – founded as the Polytechnic Institution in
 1838, with the aim of demonstrating new technologies to the public – to engage diverse
 audiences in the capital. This has included collaborations with several major public institutions
 and charities, including the National Archives, Chaucer Heritage Trust (Sylvester), British
 Library (Wilson), Royal Shakespeare Company, Donmar Warehouse and BBC (Wyver), and
 Asylum Aid (Colby). The resulting impact is diverse but coalesces around research that is of
 benefit to users in public education, secondary schooling, political activism, creative industries
 and economy, and tourism and heritage.

 Impact activities are supported at University level by both a dedicated Impact Officer and full-
 time Research Development Partner (RDP) attached to the School, who has responsibility for
 horizon scanning and bid preparation for impact-related funding, as well as a full-time College
 Events Officer who assists in the organisation of major public events. Strategic success in this
 area is reflected in Sylvester’s AHRC funding (£79k) for a project with the National Archives,
 specifically to generate impact from her research on the medieval vocabulary of cloth and
 clothing (2015), as well as, for example, Karatsareas’ 2017 British Academy Rising Star
 Engagement Award, which included a ‘Developing Pathways to Impact’ workshop and
 symposium with the Cyprus Education Mission in the UK providing training for teachers on how
 to include the Cypriot Greek dialect in the teaching of the Greek language in London’s diaspora.
 Internally, the unit has been fortunate, too, in being able to benefit from c.£32k in targeted
 central funding since 2018 specifically earmarked for impact-related activities.

 Each of our submitted case studies strongly aligns with the work of our research centres and
 groups (Witchard: IMCC; Sylvester: WFLL; Wyver: Early Modern and Theatre Studies) and
 was selected on its ability to demonstrate the strong cultural, educational and economic impact
 of our areas of research strength through activities with different communities and stakeholders
 in London and beyond. These case studies represent, however, only a part of our work and

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 achievements. The many examples of collaborative activities and impacts on UK literary culture,
 creative industries and policymakers in Section 4 indicate just how embedded the generation of
 impact is within our overall research culture.

 1.5 Future Research Strategy

 Our aims for the next five years are to generate world-leading research in all our key areas and
 to maintain and augment the supportive, inclusive and collegial character of our research
 culture, with an emphasis on building new (and strengthening existing) partnerships for larger-
 scale collaboration through our two research centres. In 2021-26, we will:

    •   grow sensibly and sustainably our number of PGRs through the securing of funding for
        high-quality doctoral projects, including via the AHRC Techne consortium and DTP
        collaborative studentships, led by Wilson;
    •   increase and further diversify grant applications across the full range of our research, and
        work to translate existing success into effective bids for larger cross-disciplinary projects,
        led by Sylvester;
    •   ensure diversity and equal opportunities in all aspects of research support, coordinated
        by Graham as chair of our School EDI Working Group;
    •   support the further development of emerging strengths in early modern literature, theatre
        studies and sociolinguistics, as well as expanding our creative writing research;
    •   continue to build our capacity to deliver impact through mentoring of colleagues by staff
        with an existing track record of externally-facing work.

 These aims are achievable ones and grow out of the very successful and ambitious
 development of research in English at Westminster over the last decade. Between RAE2008
 and REF2014, we transformed ourselves, with the support of the University, from a department
 with no 4* outputs and no external income to one with over 32% of our outputs and 50% of our
 impact rated 4*. Since 2014, we have expanded further so as to now be submitting 32 staff,
 producing research of an exceptional range, in a unit that only submitted 13 (10.2fte) individuals
 in 2008 and 20 (17.7fte) in 2014, and inaugurating the new WFLL for the promotion and
 facilitation of our internationally-admired work in language and linguistics. The depth and
 maturity of the unit’s research culture is reflected in the fact that we are one of only two UoAs at
 Westminster, a post-1992 university, submitting 100% Category A eligible staff to REF2021.
 Building upon this record, our aim over the next five years is thus to maintain our present size,
 and thriving, inclusive research culture, in what is a difficult environment for the humanities, and
 in a fashion that continues to be underpinned by our historic commitments to multilingualism and
 innovative, cross-disciplinary research.

 2. People

 2.1 Staff

 All 32 Category A eligible staff within the unit have significant responsibility for research as part
 of their workload and 100% are on permanent teaching and research contracts. No staff are
 employed as teaching fellows or on fixed-term contracts, other than postdocs or RAs (including
 one current Leverhulme-funded RA who does not qualify as research independent). We strongly
 believe that it is our responsibility to nurture and support the research ambitions of all colleagues
 joining the School.

 Regular and consistent time to pursue research is made available to all staff (full-time and
 fractional) at a level directly tied to the completion of exceptional high-quality outputs. This has
 been strengthened since 2014 through the strategic implementation of the University’s
 transparent workload allocation model (WAM), in which research hours are directly incorporated
 into staff timetables as a part of overall workload. The use of WAM ensures fairness in the
 allocation of hours and clearly specifies the expectations for different levels of research activity.
 Hours for independent research and scholarship are allocated according to three tariffs (not

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including additional hours for research administration, bid preparation or supervision), amounting
 to 39%, 34% or 27% of overall workload. 93% of staff in English have more than a third of their
 overall workload devoted to research and scholarship. Staff are entitled to apply for a one-
 semester sabbatical after three years, open to all researchers and awarded by SRC according to
 clearly-articulated criteria. At least two such sabbaticals are funded within the unit each year.
 Individual research funding, including access to conference funding and other research
 expenses (up to £1.5k per person per annum), is awarded via a biannual bidding process
 administered by the SRC, which includes elected ECR and SL representation. This is open on
 exactly the same basis to all staff, including fractional staff, and subject to clearly articulated
 published criteria which ensure equal opportunities for our diverse staff team.

 All staff have individual research interviews annually, at which research plans for the year
 corresponding to workload allocations are agreed, supplemented by additional meetings to
 discuss and support activities such as grant applications. This has allowed for close integration
 of individual research plans and line management objectives, while also allowing the School
 Research Directors to better coordinate grant planning and prioritisation with the central RKEO.
 As part of this system, junior staff and ECRs are formally paired with an experienced mentor
 able to advise them on the development of their research career, with regular scheduled
 meetings, in line with the key principles of the Vitae Researcher Development Concordat. This is
 supplemented by College Mentoring Circles, where 8-10 mentees meet to discuss professional
 experiences and challenges in a supportive peer group led by two experienced academics, of
 which Sylvester is one. New staff and ECRs are further supported through a lightened teaching
 load during the first year of employment (equivalent to two fewer seminar classes per week
 across their timetable). Our wider commitment to such career development across the sector is
 also reflected in events such as the 2017 workshop for ECRs in Bi-/Multilingualism funded as
 part of Karatsareas’ British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award.

 As a research-intensive unit, our staff base has continued to expand considerably since 2008,
 with ten (8.8fte) new appointments, three of which were replacement posts, and three of which
 were appointments of former postdoctoral fellows to permanent positions. Of these, seven have
 been ECRs taking up their first permanent jobs, pointing to a vibrant and sustainable future.
 Each appointment has been made in line with strategic priorities identified in relation to our
 research centres and groupings. In particular, the unit identified linguistics and early modern
 studies as two key areas for expansion. With the 2016 appointment of Linn as Dean of Faculty
 (now Head of College) and Professor of Language, History and Society, who joined us from
 Sheffield, the University has made a strong commitment to supporting research leadership in
 English Studies. This was complemented by the appointments of Karatsareas (2015) in
 dialectology and historical linguistics, Shaw (2016) in sociolinguistics, and Pagan (2017)
 working on projects in historical multilingualism. The appointment of Jones (2014) and Graham
 (2016) reflected our support for the development of emerging, dynamic research strengths in
 early modern and theatre studies, while that of Copley (2019) reiterated our support for poetry
 and creative writing research.

 The unit’s commitment to developing the next generation of researchers is reflected in its
 funding in 2015-17 of two two-year Postdoctoral Fellowships attached to the IMCC
 (Marczewska, Taylor), each of whom were subsequently appointed to permanent positions at
 Coventry and at Westminster, respectively. Such strong support for career progression is further
 exemplified by the fact that both internally-funded postdocs returned in REF2014, Bond and
 Charles, now hold permanent posts within the School.

 Career pathways for researchers at all stages are clearly set out at University level, supported
 by a range of workshops and courses run by the RKEO, which also provides specialist training in
 impact and bid writing. The Graduate School provides further training in postgraduate
 supervision, which is mandatory for all new researchers, who are also routinely included on
 supervisory teams to build experience. This is supplemented by regular day-long bid writing
 clinics with external consultants (including experts from the Missenden Centre), and residential
 writing retreats at the Abbey Sutton Courtenay open and free to all staff. The overall success of

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our staff development strategy is reflected in a strong record of promotion, including two
 researchers promoted to a Professorship (Sylvester, Wilson) and four to Readerships
 (Cunningham, Germanà, Syea, Witchard) since 2014.

 During the pandemic, the unit has strongly supported University policy that all work, including
 research, should be conducted remotely. Clear research ethics guidance for both PGRs and
 staff was issued on all matters relating to research activity during the lockdown. Both the
 University and School have sought to ensure a supportive and compassionate environment
 through regular communications and online fora (including research-focused events), by making
 sure that all staff have the necessary equipment (laptops, cameras, specialised software, library
 resources, etc) to carry out their work remotely, and by providing continued access to mental
 health support.

 2.2 Students

 In 2012 Westminster established the university-wide Graduate School (GS), for which Wilson is
 now Director, with an explicit mission to enhance student experience and progress and to
 provide research training across the University. The GS coordinates the Doctoral Researcher
 Development Programme (DRDP) based on the Vitae framework, as well as a series of regular
 symposia and workshops on postdoctoral careers and employability, with speakers from
 academia, business, UKRI and London First. Further details, including on financial support,
 annual progress, research ethics and integrity, and supervisory arrangements and expectations,
 are provided in REF5a.

 Doctoral students are an integral part of our research community. The unit had 18 completions
 over the REF period (14 more than in REF2014) and has 15 students currently enrolled, of
 whom 6 have fully-funded studentships; evidence of our carefully planned expansion since 2014.
 In line with our strategy outlined above, scholarships and bursaries have been used to attract
 excellent students to our areas of research strength, so nurturing the future of our discipline.
 Since 2018, Westminster has been one of nine universities that make up the AHRC-funded
 Techne DTP. As well as financial support, Techne offers a developmental framework for
 researchers across the collaborating institutions, with training, supportive community networks
 and engagement opportunities. In 2019-20 (the first year we could apply), English was awarded
 three PhD scholarships (of which two were taken up) from Subject Group L: Languages and
 Literatures; the maximum number allowed per University in any subject group. The unit also co-
 organised the annual three-day Techne Congress, hosted online by the University in July 2020.

 Internally, English was awarded full competitive studentships from central University funds in
 both 2015 and 2017. We additionally established in 2015 two full studentships and two bursaries
 (totalling £186k for three years) funded through QR income, followed by two further full
 studentships starting in 2019-20 (c.£132k); a significant investment since the previous REF
 period. All scholarships were advertised and awarded following interviews with shortlisted
 candidates, subject to equal opportunities procedures monitored by the Research Committees
 and GS. In 2018 the unit further established the University’s first international cotutelle doctorate
 for a student jointly enrolled with the Sorbonne.

 Complementing the various events and training programmes organised by the GS, the SRC
 (which includes PGR representation) oversees the programming of regular events to support a
 more ‘local’ sense of community. Research students take a leading role in organising events in
 which staff also participate, including two thriving fortnightly research seminar series with invited
 speakers in Literature and in Language and Linguistics. The School further organises, in
 collaboration with its PGRs, special workshops with visiting academics specifically directed
 towards doctoral researchers, including, for example, a masterclass with Christian Bök on
 conceptual writing as part of our Experimental Writing series organised with the Carroll-Fletcher
 Gallery. The College hosts an annual residential PhD away weekend which fosters relations
 between students across disciplines, and which is free to attend. PhD students are represented
 on both College and School Research Committees. Students can also gain teaching experience

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on the BAs and MAs in the School and undertake training through the Postgraduate Certificate
 of Special Study in Supporting Learning and dedicated sessions on the DRDP, as well as
 researcher experience in working on School-based projects (such as Willow’s and Brammer’s
 contributions to the Contemporary Small Press project).

 Our commitment to innovative forms of doctoral training is reflected in the role played by the unit
 as a partner in the London Cultural Memory Consortium and Mnemonics: Network for Memory
 Studies, a collaborative initiative for graduate education in memory studies. Organised by Bond,
 Westminster co-hosted the Mnemonics summer school for doctoral students from around the
 world in September 2015, and has contributed to further summer schools in Urbana-Champaign,
 Frankfurt, Leuven, Utrecht and Stockholm. Sylvester helped secure a grant from the Society for
 the Study of Medieval Languages and Literature specifically to fund PGR attendance at the
 AHRC-funded 'Medieval English in a Multilingual Context' network events held at Westminster,
 Bristol and Seville. Wilson was PI for a £46k grant from the OfS/Research England Catalyst
 Fund for PGR Mental Health (with matched funding from Westminster) for the project ‘Wellbeing
 When Writing’, which ran from May 2018 to December 2019. This focused on providing PGRs
 across the university with workshops to improve their confidence as academic writers by using
 the pedagogic insights of creative writing and involved contributions from Wilson, Morrison and
 Nath. Our former PhD student Sally-Shakti Willow led a fortnightly online Writing & Thriving
 Doctoral Thesis Surgery during the pandemic, which followed from the Wellbeing project. The
 School moved its PhD work-in-progress seminars online from April 2020, and mandated weekly
 ‘checking up’ meetings with all PGRs during the lockdown. Third- and fourth-year students on
 scholarships were able to apply for six-month extensions to their funding and extended
 registration periods, and all self-funded students granted partial fee waivers.

 Students in the School are invited each year to bid for funding of expenses incurred through their
 research projects. Funds are awarded on a competitive basis (in the same way as for staff) and
 support students in organising and presenting at national and international conferences,
 travelling to archives and attending training events. In this way, the unit has been able to fund
 several important archival visits for doctoral researchers, including to the Anais Nin papers at
 UCLA, Virginia Woolf Collection at the NY Public Library, and Theresa Hak Kyung Cha archives
 at Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive. At the same time, the strength of PG research
 in English at Westminster has been recognised externally through awards won by PGRs,
 including a Fellowship at the Harry Ransom Center, place on the British Library placement
 scheme for the Evolving English Voicebank project, and IAFOR conference scholarship to attend
 The Asian Conference on Literature, Japan. Recent PhDs have gone on, for instance, to a
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship at Keele, and published in journals including Dickens
 Quarterly, Film Quarterly and Textual Practice.

 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 As a School, we are strongly committed to equal opportunities, with a diverse staff and student
 body drawn from a range of different social and national backgrounds. Staff in the unit actively
 participate in various grassroots networks, including Women of Westminster and the LGBTQ+
 network, which work to support colleagues traditionally under-represented in research. Our new
 School EDI Working Group, chaired by Graham, specifically includes research within its remit
 and the SRC is collaborating with other Schools to identify and systematically audit the critical
 decision points where EDI in research can be positively affected, including career progression,
 mentoring and sabbaticals, and to ensure suitable support (e.g. identity-specific mentoring from
 other Schools where necessary). Colleagues with caring responsibilities have been able to
 access part-time/flexible working hours, as agreed with the Head of School. Staff who need to
 take extended parental leave (of which there have been five in the current period) or leave for
 health reasons are contacted before their return by the Head and individualised plans are
 implemented to enable them to pick up their research and teaching with appropriate support.

 The University requires all procedures to meet the standards of the Athena Swan charter (see
 REF5a), and all appointment panels within the School are gender-balanced. All members of

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interview panels are required to undertake recruitment training, which has an emphasis on EDI
 issues. This is the case, too, for promotion procedures. Three-fifths of our Professors, including
 the Head of School, are women. Two-thirds of promotions to Reader or Professor since 2014
 have been women and one-sixth ‘BME’. The staff group is very diverse in terms of sexual
 orientation, class and international background, but we are aware of the need to improve further
 Black and Asian representation, which is just under 10% at present. Given the diversity of our
 student body, this will be a consideration in future recruitment planning. The School inaugurated
 the University’s first full PhD studentship specifically for ‘BME’ applicants in 2020.

 UoA Leads and internal readers received training on all relevant EDI aspects related to
 REF2021. As University REF Director, Cunningham had principal responsibility for writing the
 University’s REF2021 Code of Practice, as well as for overseeing, with HR colleagues, the
 mandatory E&D and unconscious bias training for staff involved in REF decision-making. An
 additional workshop was run specifically for English setting out the E&D requirements in the
 CoP. UoA Leads met regularly with staff to ensure as much transparency as possible throughout
 the process of constructing the submission. Following University policy, outputs were selected
 by taking the minimum one output per researcher selected on a quality basis, with the remaining
 pieces comprising the highest-rated pieces in the available output pool, as graded by a minimum
 of two internal reviewers. To further ensure fairness and consistency, evaluation was also
 guided by two independent external advisors, one of whom is a former REF2014 English sub-
 panel member. Where assessment resulted in the same grade, representation of staff with
 protected characteristics and different research areas across the submission was taken into
 consideration in the final decision on which outputs to submit.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 All researchers benefit from a full-time Research Development Partner attached to the School,
 who identifies external funding opportunities and facilitates applications, and a specialised Post-
 Award Project Manager in the RKEO, to ensure support both pre- and post-award. The
 emphasis is on submitting applications only of the highest quality, underpinned by considerably
 improved support at University, College and School level. This is ensured through two-stage
 review and approval of each application by the School research leads, as well as College-level
 peer review by current and former members of UKRI Peer Review Colleges, and is
 complemented by seed-corn funding to pump prime projects seeking external funding. Further
 support has been provided since 2019 through the allocation of dedicated hours within overall
 workload for staff preparing major bids (between 30 and 125 hours per bid depending on size
 and complexity).

 Such processes have begun to increase both the quantity and quality of applications, and the
 unit has consequently received funding from a diverse range of sources, of which c.80%
 (c.£370k) has come within the last three years (see REF4b). These include two major grants
 from the Leverhulme Trust: The Bilingual Thesaurus of Everyday Life in Medieval England
 (£108k; PI: Ingham, Co-I: Sylvester) and ‘Technical Language and Semantic shift in Middle
 English’ (£176k; PI: Sylvester, Co-I: Ingham). Sylvester was also Co-I (with former colleague,
 Pons-Sanz) on an AHRC network grant for 'Medieval English in a Multilingual Context' (c.£30k).
 Karatsareas was recipient of a British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award for his
 ‘Transforming Heritage Language Education’ project (2017). He was awarded a further grant
 from the flexible funding pot of the ‘Cross-Language Dynamics’ AHRC-funded OWRI programme
 (£11.5k) to contribute towards the building of a network of experts and stakeholders who work
 with different community languages, including the organisation of a 2019 symposium at
 Westminster on developing a new strategy for language maintenance.

 Among smaller collaborative grants, in the IMCC Bond was Co-I on the British Academy-funded
 project ‘Processing Memory’. Colby was PI on the BA/Leverhulme project, ‘Feminist
 Representations’, with Université Paris 8 and Asylum Aid. Marczewska was PI, while at

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Westminster, on a BA/Leverhulme grant for the ‘Critical Digital Humanities’ project with
 Dartmouth College. The Contemporary Small Press project received £13k funding from Arts
 Council England for its series of ‘Reading and Being Read’ events in Birmingham, Manchester
 and Newcastle. Lichtenstein’s curation of the Shorelines Literature Festival (2016) was similarly
 supported by a substantial grant from Arts Council England, along with awards from the Heritage
 Lottery Fund, Wellcome Trust, Jerwood Foundation and various local government bodies. She
 was also Project Leader for the 2016-17 Heritage Lottery-funded Histories of the Hoo Peninsula
 while at Westminster. Among other small (but productive) awards, further grants (£500-£5000)
 were obtained from e.g., the AHRC/British Academy ‘Being Human’ Festival; Author’s Society;
 David M Rubenstein Rare Book and Manuscript Library; Getty Library; Harry Ransom Center;
 Jewish Historical Society of England; Lilly Library, Indiana; Society for the Study of Medieval
 Languages and Literature; Sterling and Francine Clark Institute; and Universities’ China
 Committee in London.

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 Incorporating the full range of undergraduate and postgraduate teaching (including six MAs run
 within the unit), doctoral programmes and research, English Studies has benefitted from
 considerable autonomy to define, plan and implement our own research agenda, directly
 overseen by the SRC and Head of School, with input from staff at all levels. Particular emphasis
 since 2014 has been given to ensuring robust, inclusive and consistent organizational structures
 across the unit and its two research centres. This has been essential to facilitate flexible and
 effective intellectual exchange and collaboration, and to make sure that such organizational
 infrastructures are effectively coordinated with the necessary operational infrastructure provided
 for research and impact by the RKEO, Impact Officer, School RDP and other dedicated support
 staff. All staff (including postdoctoral and visiting fellows) have individual office space in the
 University’s historic headquarters at 309 Regent Street, to which English relocated in summer
 2019. The School also provides a designated common room and office space, with up-to-date
 computing and other equipment, for all doctoral researchers.

 The University library has made major investments in both refurbishment of its estate (see
 REF5a) and in the extension of electronic library packages and other resources, which include
 BoB, Drama Online, ECCO, EEBO, JSTOR, LION, Project Muse. This internal scholarly
 infrastructure is further enhanced by easy access to major collections in central London, such as
 the British Library, BFI, Globe, Warburg and Wellcome Library. As demonstrated by the work of
 the Literature and Science group and Morrison’s research into the history of the Soho Poly
 Theatre, the unit also works closely with the unique archive of the Royal Polytechnic Institution
 (part of what is now the University of Westminster), which is located in bespoke archival rooms
 in our library at Little Titchfield Street, and which is of global significance in Victorian studies,
 history of science, performance studies, photography and media.

 The unit-led reopening of the Soho Poly Theatre basement space in Riding House Street in
 2017 (one of London’s most important alternative venues during the 1970s and 1980s and
 ‘rediscovered’ by Morrison as part of his research in the early 2010s) has provided us with a
 rare central London venue in which to host a series of innovative performance and workshop
 events run by the unit, including readings of seldom-performed Pam Gems and Barry Keefe
 plays, recorded interviews with actors and directors, and a reading of the first ever Soho Theatre
 production, Dürrenmatt's One Autumn Evening, directed by the theatre’s founder Fred Proud.
 Among other events, the space has also hosted workshops on music zines, led by Copley
 (November 2019), and contemporary queer theatre, led by Graham (March 2020). The Theatre
 is currently the subject of a bid to the National Lottery Heritage Fund for £200k+ to bring it back
 into regular public use. Responding to COVID-19, the development of an online platform for the
 Soho Poly was also kickstarted, initially to run a series of online creative writing workshops, in
 collaboration with the charity Open Age, to break isolation for those who were shielding. The
 platform further hosted a special recorded performance of Morrison’s play Dance, featured on
 the BBC’s Culture in Quarantine site, which was made freely available to watch in summer 2020.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The £6.1 million 2015 restoration of the University’s historic Regent Street Cinema (with support
 from the Heritage Lottery Fund and Garfield Weston Foundation), often cited as the ‘birthplace of
 British cinema’, has similarly benefitted the unit, allowing us, for instance, to organise the 2016
 UK premiere of Mark Amerika’s Immobitlite and host events including a public screening of
 Goldfinger to accompany a discussion of Germanà’s 2019 book Bond Girls.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations and major contributions to the research base

 Collaboration has been of major importance to the work of the unit, placing English Studies at
 Westminster at the core of various cross-disciplinary projects, both nationally and internationally.
 This includes partnerships with a range of non-academic institutions, as well as various
 collaborations associated with our research centres and groups.

 Members of the Westminster Forum for Language and Linguistics hosted the 5th Cross London
 Sociolinguistics Seminar (2020) and organised the Historical Linguistics Seminar at Senate
 House, London. The Forum organises an annual public lecture with speakers including Deborah
 Cameron and John Vice, Editor of Debates of Hansard in the House of Lords. It was due to host
 both the 13th annual BAAL Language, Gender and Sexuality Special Interest Group event and
 Henry Sweet Society Colloquium in 2020, which had to be postponed because of the pandemic.
 The Forum has also worked extensively with the University’s partner institution, the Westminster
 International University in Tashkent, including developing its language policy in 2018. Linn
 secured GCRF funding to host a workshop on ‘The Changing Reality of English in Central Asia’
 at Westminster in July 2019, including presentations on the situation in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,
 Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Mongolia, from which a special issue of World Englishes will appear
 in 2021. As a result of this workshop, Linn was further invited by the British Council to tender for
 a project (carried out in 2019-20) to investigate English-medium instruction in the South
 Caucasus in order to offer policy advice to the ministries of education in Armenia, Azerbaijan
 and Georgia.

 The Institute for Modern and Contemporary Culture was explicitly established to act as a focal
 point for collaboration, facilitating various projects with partners inside and outside of academia.
 Since 2014, this has included particularly important contributions to the shaping of scholarship
 and practice in the fields of experimental writing and theatre, transnational modernisms, radical
 publishing and philosophical engagements with literature. Alongside ground-breaking recent
 collaborative research outputs on e.g. Reading Experimental Writing, The Contemporary Small
 Press, Cold War legacies in art and theory, and transdisciplinarity (see REF2), 2016’s
 Experimental Writing series of events organised with the Carroll-Fletcher Gallery, for example,
 involved participants including Caroline Bergvall and Marina Warner. Related symposia were
 held in collaboration with the Parasol Unit Foundation for Contemporary Art (2016) and at the
 ICA and Photographers Gallery (2014), with speakers including Laura Mulvey and Patrick
 Keiller. Colby organised the series of SALON–LONDON events dedicated to experimental
 women’s writing, hosted by the IMCC in collaboration with the Centre for Poetry at QMUL.
 Beck’s British Art Schools project with artist Matthew Cornford, initially documented in the 2014
 book The Art School and the Culture Shed (described by Art Monthly as ‘utterly essential’), has
 resulted in exhibitions at the Bury Art Museum and Bluecoat in Liverpool. The 2019 series of
 public lectures on Philosophy, Politics and Culture was hosted in collaboration with the Centre
 for Research in Modern European Philosophy at Kingston, with contributors including Étienne
 Balibar and Catherine Malabou; the first of a planned series of annual collaborations.
 Cunningham undertook a series of collaborations with the Fotomuseum Winterthur, including
 hosting its former Director, Duncan Forbes (now Director of Photography at the V&A), as Visiting
 Research Fellow in the IMCC from 2016-18. The Contemporary Small Press project organised
 several symposia and book fairs at Westminster (including the London Indie Book Fair 2019,
 attended by >500 people), as well as hosting events co-funded by the British Library and at
 Manchester City Library, Newcastle City Library and Ikon Gallery, Birmingham, funded through
 Arts Council England. It was also a founding partner in the Republic of Consciousness Small

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Press Prize in 2017, the first UK prize specifically for small press fiction (widely covered in The
 Guardian and other media, and co-funded by the TLS and Arts Council England), and hosted the
 first two award ceremonies at Westminster.

 Led by Bond, English has been a key partner in the Natural History of Memory project, with
 colleagues at Goldsmiths and King’s, including conferences organized in association with the
 School of Advanced Study, Ghent University, Maastricht University, and Natural History
 Museum. More recently, the same collaboration has led, for instance, to the ‘Environmental
 Racism in the United States’ event hosted by the British Academy in February 2020 as part of
 their Sustainable Futures series. Funded by the School during her sabbatical in 2019, and
 drawing on Westminster’s long association with the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, DC,
 we were also able to support Bond to take up an exciting position as the first ever Visiting
 Research Fellow at the National Museum of African American History and Culture (NMAAHC),
 sponsored by the Associate Director for Curatorial Affairs, as part of her ongoing research
 project on race and memory in the American South. She has subsequently organised, among
 other fruits of this collaboration, a panel at the Royal Anthropological Institute’s conference at the
 British Museum/SOAS with Aaron Bryant, Social Movements Curator at NMAAHC.

 Further high-profile conferences and symposia have included, among others, collaborations with
 colleagues at the National Centre for Contemporary Art, Moscow, supported by the Marie Curie
 Foundation; University of Oxford China Centre; Imperial War Museum; Merve publishers, Berlin;
 Smithsonian Institution; Thomas Fisher Rare Books Library, University of Toronto; and the
 Whitechapel Gallery.

 4.2 Professional service, reviewing and editorial positions

 Contribution to Research Councils and other academic bodies has provided opportunities to
 shape national and international research agendas. For example: Charles is an invited member
 of the British Academy Teaching-Research Nexus Project working group. Linn is an elected
 member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters and strategic reviewer for the AHRC.
 Shaw is a Senior Member of the ESRC Peer Review College. Witchard has been a Member of
 the AHRC China Focus Group. Karatsareas was one of the contributors to the British
 Academy’s Shape the Future initiative launched in May 2020 to bring insights from the social
 sciences and humanities to understand how we can shape a positive future post-pandemic.

 The international recognition of our research is reflected in various colleagues acting as referees
 for grants and appointments and for promotions at other HEIs, including for the AHRC; British
 Academy; ESRC; Leverhulme; Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research; Social
 Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada; King’s College, Cambridge; Hunter
 College, CUNY; KU Leuven; NYU Gallatin School; University of Helsinki Collegium of Advanced
 Studies. Staff have acted as external examiners for over 40 PhDs since 2014, including at
 Cambridge, Leeds, Newcastle, Oxford, UCL, etc, and internationally in Australia, Belgium,
 Ireland and Norway.

 Our service for various subject associations and societies includes Linn’s position as President
 of the UK Society for the History of Linguistics (Henry Sweet Society). Avery was a Committee
 Member of the Browning Society. Bond is a member of the British Association of American
 Studies Public Engagement and Impact Awards Panel. Germanà is Executive Secretary of the
 International Gothic Association. Shaw is Treasurer of the BAAL Special Interest Group on
 Language, Gender and Sexuality. Sylvester is Trustee and member of the Council of the
 Philological Society, Trustee of the Chaucer Heritage Trust, and member of the OED
 Researchers Advisory Group and Historical Thesaurus Advisory Board. Taylor is on the
 Executive Committee of the Raymond Williams Society.

 Staff serve as editors for various leading journals, including Journal of Literature and Science
 (Geric, reviews editor), Language and History (Linn), New Formations (Colby, reviews editor)
 and Radical Philosophy (Cunningham), as well as on the editorial boards of, among others,

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cultural Politics, English for Specific Purposes, Gothic Studies, Historiographia Linguistica,
 Journal of Visual Culture, Keywords, Memory Studies, Stand Magazine and Victorian Review.
 Book series edited by staff within the unit include Bloomsbury’s Decades of British Fiction
 (Wilson) and Palgrave’s New Approaches to English Historical Linguistics (Sylvester), while
 other staff serve on the editorial boards of e.g. Peter Lang’s Historical Sociolinguistics (Linn),
 the open access Risking Education series with Punctum Books (Charles) and Royal Asiatic
 Society China series with Hong Kong University Press (Witchard). Staff have also acted as
 editors for several journal special issues, including Boundary 2 (Charles), New Formations
 (Colby) and Textual Practice (Bond). More than 80% of staff have acted as peer reviewers for
 well over 50 different international journals and presses.

 4.3 Impact, dissemination and contributions to culture, economy and society

 Researchers in the UoA receive numerous invitations to present at academic conferences and
 seminars, including keynotes in Austria, Canada, Croatia, Germany, Ireland and the UK, among
 too many to list. The success of our commitment to public engagement and dissemination of our
 research is similarly reflected in many invitations to deliver public talks and in contributions to
 national and international media. These include talks at galleries, museums and libraries such as
 the British Library, ICA, Tate Modern and V&A; cultural institutions including Asia House,
 Bishopsgate Institute, Shakespeare’s Globe and Royal Asiatic Society, Shanghai; and festivals
 including the London Literary Festival at the South Bank, Cheltenham Festival, Port Eliot
 Festival, Transmediale, Berlin, Paris Photo Week, Shoreditch Shakespeare Festival, and
 Whitstable Biennale. Cunningham, Germanà, Ihemere, Karatsareas, Shaw, Sylvester and
 Witchard have all been interviewed by BBC Radio on their research.

 The success of our strategy to support the generation of impact from research has led to a range
 of collaborations and advisory work with non-academic institutions in the creative, legal and
 government sectors beyond those detailed in our case studies. For instance: Pagan, along with
 Ingham, was a translation and voice coach advisor for The Master of York (dir. Kieron Quirke),
 winner of the 2017 Pears Short Film Fund Award. Witchard provided historical consultancy for
 the Showtime/Sky TV series Penny Dreadful (2014-16), as well as for BBC2’s Who Should We
 Let In? Ian Hislop on the First Great Immigration Row (2017). Wilson is advisor and curator for
 Spiracle Audiobooks, which is producing new audiobooks for UK small press publishers of
 literary fiction who would otherwise lack the resources to enter this market. Karatsareas was
 able to draw on his expertise in Greek Cypriot language as a consultant and contributor to
 BBC1’s Murder, Mystery and My Family, revisiting the story of Styllou Christofi, the penultimate
 woman to be executed in Britain. Ihemere has worked as a forensic consultant on Nigerian
 Pidgin English and Igbo language for J P French Associates, Forensic Speech and Acoustic
 Laboratory, York, phonetically transcribing and forensically analysing audio files to identify
 speech patterns and idiosyncrasies that relate to a particular ethnic identity. Through this
 involvement he was able to assist Swiss authorities in the resolution of an international criminal
 case where correctly identifying the ethnicity of the accused was an issue.

 The IMCC’s organisation of the June 2016 one-day symposium ‘Sexual Violence Against
 Women: Voice and Representation’, held at Kings Place, London, with Sir Keir Starmer, MP, and
 Jacqueline Rose, led to Colby’s invitation to write a report for Women’s Asylum News, and a
 subsequent request by the coordinator at Ending Violence against Women and Girls Programme
 at the World Future Council to contribute to a new research project with the UN Women German
 Committee and Filia Women’s Foundation on refugee women and children. This led, in turn, to
 the successful application to the British Academy/Leverhulme Trust for the ‘Sexual Violence
 Against Women, Asylum and Testimony’ project, in collaboration with Université Paris 8 and
 Asylum Aid, which has as its objective to open avenues of expression for women when relaying
 their testimonies and the impact of sexual violence. The project examines case studies of
 asylum seekers’ testimonies to reveal the issues of translation women confront when voicing
 their narratives, with participants including Rashida Manjoo, former UN Special Rapporteur for
 Violence Against Women. The unit’s support for such impactful research is further illustrated,
 among other activities, by Shaw’s invitation to be a member of The Advisory Group on Sexual

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Harassment in Parliament set up by The Cross Party Working Group on an Independent
 Complaints and Grievance Policy. This group advised on the first-ever policy for addressing
 sexual harassment in parliament, resulting in the drafting and passing of the policy in July 2018.
 Shaw is also an Expert Advisor to both the National Assembly of Wales and the Scottish
 Parliament on equal opportunities.

 4.4 Awards and Prizes

 Copley was the winner of both the 2019 NCLA Newcastle Poetry Festival Prize and 2018 York
 Literature Festival / YorkMix Poetry Prize. She was also shortlisted for the Faber New Poets
 Prize (2015-16) and Hippocrates Prize (2017). Jones’s Shakespeare’s Storms was winner of the
 prestigious biennial Shakespeare’s Globe Book Award 2016. Pagan’s edition of multilingual
 annotations in Ælfric’s Glossary was winner of the 2019 Catherine Innes-Parker Memorial Prize
 from the journal Early Middle English. Germanà’s book Bond Girls was runner-up, PCA/ACA
 Emily Toth Award for Best Single Work in Women’s Studies (2020). Her Scottish Gothic: An
 Edinburgh Companion was shortlisted for the 2019 International Gothic Association’s Allan Lloyd
 Smith Prize. The two-volume Selected Writings of Andrew Lang, co-edited by Warwick and
 Wilson, was shortlisted for the Folklore Society’s 2015 Katharine Briggs Award. Morrison’s A
 Collection of Small Choices, a site-specific audio-theatre installation created with Hannah Bruce
 and Company for Hoxton Hall in London, was nominated in the Innovation category for the
 Museums and Heritage Awards 2017.




                                                                                            Page 14
