Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 For Institution: University of Liverpool


 Unit of Assessment: 13 Architecture


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 1.1 Context and Structure
 Our research in the Liverpool School of Architecture (LSA) generates new insights, understanding
 and opportunities for the architectural, engineering, creative and cultural industries, and supports
 community needs, all of which provide pathways to impact. We have an established, inclusive
 research culture and have built on our strong performance in the last REF by refining our structure
 into six overlapping, interdisciplinary research groups:


 Architectural and Urban History investigate historic and contemporary architecture, in relation
 to cities and urban situations. (Calder, Crompton, Iuliano, I. Jackson, N. Jackson (Lead), Kei,
 Kronenburg, Lawrence, Malathouni, Pepper, Ray, Swenarton, Schmiedeknecht, Zamarian)


 Heritage carry out research on architectural and urban heritage and incorporate the Centre for
 the Study of Architecture and Cultural Heritage of India, Arabia and the Maghreb (ArCHIAM) which
 aims to provide an interdisciplinary research platform for historical and contemporary cultural
 developments across three interconnected global regions. (Alsalloum, Bandyopadhyay (Lead),
 Calder, N. Jackson, I. Jackson, Koeck, Kronenburg, Malathouni, Shepperson, Quattrone, Webb)


 Urban Form and Social Space conduct research on the formation and transformation of urban
 forms in cities with an emphasis on social, political, design and planning implications.
 (Antonopoulou, F. Chen (Lead), Kei, Piazzoni, Xi)


 Centre for Architecture and the Visual Arts (CAVA) carry out cross-disciplinary, practice-based
 research at the intersection of architecture and digital arts/media combining three interlocking
 knowledge domains: space, media and culture. (Antonopoulou, Iuliano, Koeck (Lead))


 Acoustics Research Unit (ARU) conduct research into the measurement, prediction and
 subjective evaluation of sound and vibration in the built environment. (H-M. Chen, Gibbs, Hopkins
 (Lead), Lee, Seiffert)


 Environment, Sustainability and Technology in Architecture (ESTA) investigate low carbon
 building performance, architectural resilience to future climate change, life cycle analysis of


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sustainability strategies and advanced construction and digital technologies. (Agkathidis, H-M.
 Chen, Chow, Du, Finnegan, Lawrence, Mohammadpourkarbasi, Quattrone, Sharples (Lead),
 Urbano Gutiérrez).


 These groupings have allowed us to expand research activity with targeted staff recruitment, and
 attract a high-calibre PGR cohort that engage with our areas of expertise. A degree of overlap in
 group membership has aided cross-fertilisation of ideas through the overarching LSA Research
 and Knowledge Exchange committee. We consolidated our groupings by increasing from 22.2
 Category A FTE submitted in REF 2014 to 31.1 now*. By providing a rewarding and stimulating
 research environment, 74%* of Category A staff submitted in REF 2014 are submitted in REF
 2021. Investment since REF 2014 has increased the number of Category A submitted staff by
 57%*. This has supported our strategy to increase diversity, resulting in a 140%* increase in
 female staff, an 80%* increase in ECRs and a 122%* increase in international staff. One-third of
 our Category A submitted staff are female, up from one-fifth in REF 2014*. Since REF 2014, our
 PGR cohort has increased in size by 91%** and grant income has increased by 67%*** due to
 collaborations with industry, institutions and government (home and overseas) that have enriched
 our research environment and provided new sources of funding.


 * Details in Section 2.1. ** Details in Section 2.4.1. *** Details in Section 3.1.


 1.2 Achievement of strategic aims during the assessment period

 To sustain our world leading research and impact we have invested in staff recruitment to diversify
 and strengthen the group structure, focussing on improving gender balance. Groupings have been
 honed to respond to imperatives and collaborative links outside the LSA and to promote our
 research strengths to PGR students. With a broad range of research, the vitality stems from the
 range of historical, technical, commercial, cultural and social impacts on the built environment,
 professional disciplines and associated industries, building users, communities of residents,
 consumers and city visitors. This has been supported by a more diverse and open dissemination
 strategy for outputs, along with research impact being embedded in the aims of the School through
 mentoring and individual research group meetings to support and identify pathways to impact.


 1.2.1 Strengthening and enhancing our research groupings
 The Heritage grouping is aligned with the institutional research theme on the same topic and LSA
 has been fundamental in extending its capacity and recognition. Bandyopadhyay specialises in
 the architecture of the Middle East and South Asia, and re-joined in 2015, bringing the established
 ArCHIAM Centre with him. Starting as a PDRA in ArCHIAM, Quattrone carries out research on
 traditional Omani architecture and heritage management and was promoted to a lectureship in


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2017. Alsalloum was recruited (2017) to complement the work in ArCHIAM with her research on
 world heritage policies and associated values, particularly heritage-led post conflict reconstruction
 and rehabilitation processes. To broaden the research capability to include architectural heritage
 of pre-Islamic periods back into pre-history, Shepperson was recruited as a lecturer (2020) after
 joining ArCHIAM as a PDRA in 2018. Her archaeological background expands the scope to
 include archaeologically recovered structures and sites where standing architecture is entangled
 with archaeological remains. Research on twentieth-century architectural heritage is led by Calder
 on brutalist architecture, Malathouni who specialises in twentieth century architectural heritage,
 and Kronenburg on interdisciplinary investigations of live popular music venues for the
 preservation and retention of historic buildings for cultural and economic reasons based around
 tourism.


 At the intersection of heritage and architectural history, Webb was recruited (2014) with
 expertise in digital tools and techniques that enhance our understanding of architectural heritage.
 His leadership on heritage and digital technologies in the Centre for Digital Humanities and Social
 Sciences at Liverpool resulted in interdisciplinary collaborations with History and Sociology, Social
 Policy and Criminology. Webb has aided research in criminology using digital modelling to re-
 analyse Bentham’s Panopticon prison (the original design was never built) and virtual reality to
 walk through the scheme. In the ‘Tracing the Past’ project, a 3D laser scanner has been used to
 investigate the design and construction of medieval vaults inside churches and cathedrals; the
 geometrical data are then shared with site architects to help them in structural modifications, such
 as installing disabled access lifts at Gloucester Cathedral. To promote heritage using digital
 approaches to storytelling, Koeck developed a mixed reality visitor experience (2018) for St
 Georges Hall (Liverpool), a Grade 1 listed building and UNESCO heritage site with 250,000
 visitors p/a. Two systems were developed: a ground-breaking volumetrically filmed (hologram)
 experience using HoloLens headsets and a simpler, more affordable version using wall projections
 for the final installation. With Jadavpur University (India), I. Jackson and colleagues launched an
 augmented reality app for Kolkata using vintage photographs from the British Library (2015); a
 subsequent iteration has been tested through the AHRC-supported project in Chandannagar
 (India).


 To extend the remit of the Architectural and Urban History grouping into research on the history
 of architectural education, Zamarian was recruited as a lecturer (2018) following his PhD in the
 LSA on the post-war period (1945–65) of the Architectural Association School of Architecture and
 a fixed-term teaching appointment. Zamarian’s research on architectural competitions
 complements that of Schmiedeknecht. Calder’s research on Brutalism, culminating in a widely-
 acclaimed monograph (2016), has enhanced public understanding of its architectural value,
 helped custodians of several Brutalist buildings to manage and celebrate them, and changed the


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 way in which architecture critics and journalists think and write about Brutalism. This links to
 Malathouni’s research into Preston Bus Station which has changed the course of a fifteen-year
 heritage campaign, creating a landmark case in post-war concrete architectural heritage and
 providing heritage professionals nationally and internationally with a new exemplar about the
 retention of Brutalist buildings. To broaden historical perspectives, Kei was appointed as a lecturer
 (2020) for her work on New Brutalism, particularly in 1970s buildings in the UK and Hong Kong.
 Impact on the architectural profession is evident in Swenarton’s research on high-density, low-
 rise, street-based housing developed by architects at the London Borough of Camden in the 1960s
 and 1970s (most famously Neave Brown's Alexandra Road) leading to the monograph ‘Cook's
 Camden: The Making of Modern Housing’ (2017). This research (funded by RIBA, BA, Leverhulme
 Trust and the Paul Mellon Centre for Studies of British Art) contributed to the re-evaluation of the
 work of Neave Brown, including the award to him of the 2018 RIBA Royal Gold Medal, with the
 research forming the basis for the citation.


 The new grouping on Urban Form and Social Space builds on the research of F. Chen with three
 new lecturer appointments. Xi and Piazzoni (2019) strengthen the study of contemporary
 architecture and urbanism, with Antonopoulou (2018) examining the role and agency of digital
 mediation and representation in the perception of urban space which also complements research
 in CAVA. The group’s expertise covers urban morphology, spatial representation, urban
 regeneration, critical heritage, everyday urbanism, and transit-oriented urban developments; their
 research aligning with the interdisciplinary Faculty research theme, ‘Sustainable and Resilient
 Cities’.


 Five lecturer appointments have been made to expand the research covered within Environment,
 Sustainability and Technology in Architecture (ESTA). Finnegan (2016) for his work on whole
 life sustainability and the financial aspects of sustainable design, Mohammadpourkarbasi (2018)
 for thermal simulation modelling, post-occupancy evaluation and life-cycle assessment for energy-
 efficient, cost-effective sustainable buildings, and H-M. Chen (2020) for circular economy and
 sustainability (her work on finite element modelling of heavyweight buildings also feeds into ARU
 research on structural dynamics). Du’s appointment (2019) strengthened ESTA’s capability on
 daylighting, with Lawrence (2020) providing an interface between environmental performance and
 history. To increase collaborative links with architects, artists and industry, Urbano Gutiérrez
 founded the Environmental Ceramics for Architecture Laboratory (ECALab) to develop new forms
 and production processes (2011).


 The research capability of the Acoustics Research Unit (ARU) was extended through the
 recruitment of Lee as a lecturer (2014) whose expertise is in subjective and psychophysiological
 evaluation in building acoustics as well as urban soundscapes. Lee collaborates with


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 psychologists on noise in hospitals and the Institute of Ageing and Chronic Disease at Liverpool.
 Research on the measurement and prediction of sound transmission in buildings has driven new
 developments in International and European standards on building acoustics. Fulfilling a key
 initiative flagged in REF 2014, Gibbs and Hopkins developed new measurement methods to
 predict machinery noise in timber-frame multi-occupancy buildings. Impacts on society, creativity
 and education derive from their research on using safe levels of vibration to facilitate musical
 performance for deaf children and adults which stems from the group’s expertise on vibration in
 buildings. For people who are d/Deaf, there are barriers to music education and participation in
 music-making. Hopkins and collaborators transformed the way that music is taught at a school for
 the d/Deaf where it has given children an understanding of pitch, enabled group musical
 performances, significantly improved engagement in music lessons and helped protect the
 teacher’s hearing by reducing sound levels in the classroom.


 1.2.2 Role of non-academic sectors
 We have achieved our strategic aim from REF 2014 to increase the role of non-academic sectors
 in steering our research directions, activities and impact.


 National and foreign governments help shape our research directions as evidenced by ARU
 researchers being invited to carry out funded research for the UK government to improve the
 assessment of speech security and for the Korean government on the prediction and evaluation
 of impact sound insulation in buildings due to heavy impacts. The latter topic had a high profile
 with Korean politicians and media due to many neighbour disputes in apartment buildings. The
 outcome was a prediction model to allow the Korean construction industry to estimate impact
 sound insulation; this was implemented in open access software. ArCHIAM’s research activity
 influences, and is influenced by the government of Oman, in particular, the Ministry of Tourism
 and the Ministry of Heritage and Culture. Non-governmental international organisations, such as
 the Qatar National Library, National Museum (Oman), The Aga Khan Trust for Culture (Geneva)
 and The Barakat Trust (UK) have also supported ArCHIAM’s work, making possible cross-cultural
 comparisons of Islamic vernacular heritage.


 In the cultural and creative sectors, CAVA’s activities have moved into digital architectural
 heritage and immersive experiences. CAVA has successfully built on existing collaborations with
 local partners (e.g. FACT, National Museums Liverpool, Tate Liverpool) to significantly and
 strategically expand their reach into cultural industries. The opening of RIBA North allowed CAVA
 to apply its digital expertise on practice-based, live R&D projects with creative industry SMEs in
 Liverpool and London (e.g. Draw & Code, Dimension) as well as global partners (e.g. Microsoft,
 JCDecaux). Using internal pump priming, CAVA partnered with Liverpool City Council to build a
 prototype around the concept of ‘digital placemaking’ using Microsoft Hololens and this led to a

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 series of local collaborations including with the Mayor’s Office and Culture Liverpool. Expanding
 into China, Koeck has partnered with Aardman Animations and Shanghai Theatre Academy to
 introduce a mixed reality cinema experience in Shanghai. This aims to give sustained economic,
 cultural and intellectual benefits for the UK and China through the AHRC UK-China Creative
 Industry Network Grant by transforming the delivery of Aardman's high-end animation work from
 a linear and pre-rendered TV/cinema or screen-based product into a non-linear, real-time,
 responsive, spatially immersive experience.


 Industrial research drivers on the production of high-performance, environmentally-friendly
 ceramics in modern architecture from the Spanish Association of Ceramic Tile Manufacturers
 (ASCER) have steered research by Urbano Gutiérrez towards using flat and modular tiles to create
 complex surfaces and recycling tiles with minor defects. Morgan Industries have directed industrial
 research in the ARU by funding the development of new measurement systems to assess the
 acoustic performance of ceramic fibre blankets up to high temperatures (800C) because standard
 test rigs used in architectural acoustics could not be used. This opened up new design applications
 for sound absorbing materials in power generation processes such as heat recovery steam
 generators. Primasonics Ltd carried out a KTP with the ARU on the acoustic cleaning of ship holds
 which was a new business opportunity. Interdisciplinary research between the ARU and the
 medical engineering group at Liverpool has demonstrated the efficacy of acoustic cleaning for
 porous metal implants used in the human body.


 1.2.3 Dissemination and open access
 Our research is disseminated in traditional academic formats with 42 books, 50 book chapters and
 over 200 journal articles published during this REF period. To reach audiences outside academia
 we increased the number of publicly accessible exhibitions, artefacts, designs and internet
 publications to make up 12% of our outputs. While open access journals are less common in some
 of our research areas, 15% of our journal articles were published as gold or green open access.
 Open access publishing has been supported by the Library’s Research Support Team who
 advises on publisher and funder policies and manages the University fund to help staff publish
 gold open access where external funding is not available. To ensure credit and recognition for our
 researchers’ outputs, all staff have an ORCID identifier.


 Presentations at national and international conferences are facilitated by School of the Arts
 funding for registration, travel and subsistence. During this REF period our staff and their PGR
 students delivered over 370 national and international conference presentations. Internally, staff
 share their latest research with colleagues and students at the Staff Research Symposium. All
 research outputs are registered on the intranet to help researchers capture, collate and showcase



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 their research and impact activity as well as to comply with REF open access requirements and
 the University policy that all journal articles and conference proceedings should be available from
 the Institutional Repository. The Liverpool Data Catalogue allows our researchers to create a
 record of their research data in a secure online environment, recognising that data are a key asset
 that continue to yield benefits after the conclusion of a project. One example is ARU research on
 speech security for the UK government which resulted in an open access, creative commons,
 database of anechoic speech recordings (currently the University’s 9th most downloaded dataset).


 1.3 Future strategy, aims and goals
 Our ambition for the future is to build on the successes, opportunities and capacity developed
 during the current REF cycle. The major strength of LSA has always been the broad portfolio of
 research expertise with significant geographical reach, combining solo researchers and research
 clusters spanning humanities, science and engineering, a characteristic we aim to maintain. Our
 aim is to provide world-leading research to understand, analyse and improve the built
 environment, and make impact by engaging with the community and the architectural, engineering
 and cultural professions.


 We will continue to work across the humanities, sciences and engineering using cross-disciplinary
 academic appointments and interdisciplinary funding opportunities. Specialist groupings in the
 humanities – Heritage, Urban Form and Social Space, CAVA, but also emergent areas such as
 health and well-being – all sit at the intersection of disciplinary boundaries and provide the basis
 for future senior research leadership appointments. Our capacity in digital humanities will be used
 to underpin and enhance our outputs, demonstrate our outreach commitment through exhibitions,
 films and digital media productions and use digital fabrication to address environmental
 sustainability.


 Even before the arrival of COVID-19, we were planning to grow our research on health and well-
 being and its effects on the design and sustainability of the built environment. Over the coming
 years, the pandemic will be a driver of new research directions and funding. In this respect, our
 research groups are well-placed to set the agenda, and deliver high-quality research through our
 technical expertise, historical perspectives and analysis of the state-of-the-art. Research areas
 are expected to include the future of housing design and refurbishment, portable architecture, and
 the interplay between ventilation, energy usage, lighting and sound insulation for home working
 and in the offices, hospitals and schools of the future.


 Our future research directions are reinforced by links to institutional research themes including
 Heritage, Digital, Infectious Diseases and Advanced Materials. The climate emergency provides
 the impetus to intensify our activity on zero carbon developments (including carbon positive and

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 zero carbon cities), whole life impact of modern methods of construction and the recycling of
 construction materials, linking to the new cross University Climate Futures theme. This will be
 complemented by an increased focus on influencing policy at local, national and international
 levels. Recent collaborations with heritage, museum and cultural sectors will allow us to expand
 our research in a post-pandemic era using digital techniques and tools including virtual,
 augmented and mixed realities (VAM realities), laser scanning, remote sensing and large-scale
 digital repositories. Worldwide, the form and usage of the urban environment is likely to change
 and we are in a strong position to lead this research into urban morphology, regeneration and
 future forms of transit-oriented urban developments.


 Much of our research impact stems from its cross-disciplinary nature, ranging from digital
 storytelling of cultural heritage to the role of mechanical vibration in facilitating musical
 performance for the d/Deaf. During this REF period all our research groups have significantly
 increased their interaction with museums and the cultural sector. Our intention is to build on
 existing pathways to impact that have combined humanities- and environment-based research
 with emergent digital opportunities offered through laser scanning, VAM realities, digital archiving
 and artificial intelligence. We will consolidate this form of impact in the coming years with support
 from University pump priming funds, UKRI, Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund, Overseas
 Development Assistance (ODA) and the Global Challenges Research Fund. This will allow us to
 cultivate cross-disciplinary research across the humanities and social sciences (archaeology,
 cultures, history, music), and science and engineering (building physics, climate, computing and
 environmental science).


 To ensure diversity and sustain research excellence and leadership, we will recruit staff at lecturer
 level and replace retiring senior staff. Recent recruitments have introduced wider disciplinary and
 cross-disciplinary interests alongside greater geographical coverage. This enhances our ability to
 address global challenges faced by the UK, developing countries and diasporic communities.
 Current staff expertise is mapped against the key global challenges that we aim to address in the
 future so that we can strategically focus on recruiting personnel that offer global leadership through
 cross-disciplinary approaches. This will allow us to continue attracting a wider range of national
 and international funding sources by fostering new collaborations between research groups and
 industry.


 To sustain vitality in the PGR cohort and research groups our aim is for each FTE to have a
 minimum of two PGR students at any time, increase the number of post-doctoral researchers
 through external grants, and increase usage of open access research outlets using internal
 funding.



                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To support our ambitions, the University is investing in a £23M extension of the current premises
 to be completed in 2023. This new building will house LSA teaching and research staff and
 enhance the research environment for PGR students and PDRAs by locating research labs at the
 heart of the building. We will gain a significant enhancement of the research infrastructure and
 accommodation along with extended physical workshops and digital laboratories. Each research
 grouping will benefit from dedicated workspaces to support their activities and PGRs. The new
 extension will provide greater visibility for our research output, with opportunities for outward-
 facing galleries that facilitate public engagement and impact.



 2. People


 2.1 Staff profile
 Our strategy for growth and diversity has led to an increase in our return from 22.2 Category A
 FTE submitted in REF 2014 (with 26.2 Category A FTE eligible) to 31.1 Category A FTE submitted
 in REF 2021.


 LSA has seven Professors, four Professorial Fellows, four Readers, five Senior Lecturers, and 15
 Lecturers with a responsibility for research. Our rewarding research environment has led to the
 retention of 74% Category A staff from REF 2014 (Agkathidis, Calder, F. Chen, Crompton, Gibbs,
 Hopkins, I. Jackson, Iuliano, Pepper, Schmiedeknecht, Sharples, Swenarton, N. Jackson, Koeck,
 Kronenburg, Malathouni, Urbano Gutiérrez). To maintain vitality and to increase the range of
 expertise we recruited more Lecturers to expand from six in REF 2014 to 15 now. This has
 increased the number of Category A submitted ECRs to nine (seven female) from five (three
 female) in REF 2014 (80% increase). Architecture has benefited from seven new Teaching and
 Research (T&R) posts and three replacement T&R posts. The majority of staff are full-time with
 seven staff on part-time contracts.


 Gender balance has significantly improved during this REF period with an increase from five
 female Category A submitted staff in REF 2014 to 12 now (140% increase); this corresponds to
 an improvement in the female:male Category A submitted FTE ratio from 1:3.4 to 1:1.7. Through
 our planned staff expansion we now have a staff gender split that is more representative of our
 PGR cohort which, on average, has been 1:2.0 (female:male) over this REF period. This
 achievement has been aided by training for all staff with modules on Diversity and Equality and
 Unconscious Bias since 2014 alongside the University recruitment policies that ensure fairness
 with gender-balanced appointment panels. We continue this process to ensure a diverse and
 representative group of staff and maintain our active role in the School’s Athena SWAN self-
 assessment group.


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 With 25% of current Category A submitted staff identifying as BAME, the expansion of LSA has
 allowed us to increase diversity across grades from Lecturer to Professor. We have a rich mix of
 international staff with 56% of Category A submitted staff from countries including China,
 Germany, Greece, India, Iran, Italy, South Korea, Spain, Switzerland and Syria; an increase of
 122% since REF 2014. This has extended the geographical reach of the School, added new
 research perspectives, diversified the audiences engaging with our research beyond academia
 and resulted in overseas grant capture and collaborations.


 2.2 Staffing strategy
 Recruitment strategies have been guided by the development of key thematic areas of research
 and impact (acoustics; architectural and urban history; architecture and the visual arts;
 environment and sustainability; heritage), with positive action to improve the gender balance and
 support research-led curriculum development. This has been supported by a drive to expand the
 number of lecturers whilst maintaining a similar number of senior staff, allowing us to introduce
 vitality alongside stability.


 As an external appointment, Bandyopadhyay’s appointment to the Sir James Stirling Chair (2015)
 strengthened heritage research leadership, especially in the Middle Eastern and Indian
 Subcontinental regions. Lecturer appointments in building science and technology areas have
 expanded the capability of ESTA and the ARU (Lee, 2014 - promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2019;
 Finnegan, 2016; Mohammadpourkarbasi, 2018; Du, 2019; Lawrence, 2020; H-M. Chen, 2020).
 Lecturer appointments in the humanities topics have strengthened the Heritage group (Alsalloum,
 2017; Quattrone, 2017; Shepperson, 2020), Architectural and Urban History (Zamarian, 2018; Kei,
 2020) and established a new grouping, Urban Form and Social Space (Antonopoulou, 2018; Xi,
 2019; Piazzoni, 2019). Eight of the thirteen Lecturer appointments are female which should lead
 to improved gender balance across senior staff grades in the future.


 There were promotions for 19% of Category A submitted staff during this REF period, these were:
 Personal Chair for I. Jackson (2017) in recognition of his research investigating architecture and
 planning in ’tropical’ climates; Readerships for Crompton (2015), Urbano-Gutierrez (2019), Iuliano
 (2019), Schmiedeknecht (2019); and Senior Lecturer roles for F. Chen (2015) and Lee (2019).


 Four Professorial Fellows have been employed on fractional contracts allowing three of these
 (Pepper, Swenarton and Gibbs) to act as mentors to other staff and offer advice on impact,
 publications and grant applications.




                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Five postdoctoral researchers (three female) have been employed during the REF period that
 have extended our research capability: two in ArCHIAM, one in the ARU, one in Architectural and
 Urban History, and one in Heritage. These were funded by Ministry of Heritage and Culture
 (Oman), UK government, Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship and AHRC respectively.



 2.3 Staff development

 2.3.1 Time commitment to research and impact
 All staff on teaching and research contracts are guaranteed at least one day every week to
 dedicate to research and/or impact, and typically have two days. They can also apply for research
 and impact leave after completion of at least five semesters of teaching and administration. Staff
 applying for leave give clear aims and deliverables, such as outputs, impact and grant applications.
 In this REF period, 12 members of staff were awarded research leave from six to 12 months or
 allocated lightened teaching and administrative loads for completion of research projects or
 developing new research initiatives. This is a notable increase from only five in REF 2014.


 2.3.2 Internal funding support for research activity
 The School of the Arts provides competitive funds (£130k annually) for pilot studies, conference
 attendance and pump-priming for international collaborative research initiatives; since 2014, the
 majority of LSA staff have been recipients of this funding.


 Since 2017, LSA has benefited from its own David Foster Wicks endowment fund (£330k total).
 To-date there have been 12 successful projects which have enabled staff to apply for specific
 resources including equipment and travel funding to facilitate their research and impact projects.


 We have had considerable success in winning internal funding: eight projects in the Knowledge
 Exchange, Impact and Public Engagement Scheme (up to £10k each) to develop relationships
 between academia and industry, five ODA-related projects (up to £13.7k) addressing challenges
 in economic development and wellbeing faced by developing countries, four projects to support
 the development of impact (up to £9.3k), three projects on developing research partnerships with
 India (up to £10k), one project for ECR funding (£2k), and one project from the internal Industrial
 Strategy Challenge Fund (£25k).


 2.3.3 Mentoring, training, advice and peer review
 Research group meetings give opportunities for staff to discuss and develop their own research
 and impact ambitions with colleagues working in similar areas. As a focal point for these groups,
 the LSA Research and Knowledge Exchange committee shares recent research successes,


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 upcoming events, information on upcoming calls for research grants, REF preparations and PGR
 development. Research groups provide support to staff through partnerships and by sharing
 research strategies, methodologies, successful grant proposals and experiences. The lunchtime
 LSA research seminar series allows staff to share their research with other groups and benefit
 from peer review in an informal setting.


 All staff have a research mentor from the professoriate who can give advice on publications, grant
 applications and research and impact strategies. Mentoring has helped develop the research
 profiles of ECRs by reviewing draft research publications and advising on publication strategies,
 grant applications and potential collaborations. Due to potentially long lead-in periods for impact,
 staff are encouraged to log evolving evidence on the intranet (Elements). This facilitates the
 mentoring of impact case study authors and identifies aspects that would benefit from funding,
 such as HEIF impact support.


 Procedures are in place to maintain and improve the quality of external grant applications with
 formal reading and review programmes. Grant proposals are peer-reviewed at departmental level
 and also by senior staff from other departments prior to submission. Several staff members are
 peer-reviewers for external grant awarding organisations (e.g. AHRC, EPSRC). Their experience
 is brought back into the University through internal review boards and is valuable in developing
 applications from early-career researchers. This has helped us increase the number and value of
 successful grants.


 Our staff have access to University networks which provide career support and foster equality and
 diversity on campus; these include BAME, LGBT, Carers, Parents, Women in Science and
 Engineering and Female ECR networks. Our Faculty has established an HSS ECR Network for
 new lecturers, postdoctoral researchers and PGR students with a series of events on funding,
 policy, consultancy work and impact. For ECRs there is a dedicated intranet site and newsletter
 providing information on training, funding opportunities and events.


 The University provides postgraduate supervision workshops for new staff, which they attend
 within one year of appointment. ECRs are encouraged to become secondary supervisors for PhD
 students to gain the experience needed to become primary supervisors once they have seen a
 student through to successful completion in their secondary supervisor role. As a result of these
 support processes, the majority of staff have supervised PGRs during this REF period. For
 supervisors at all levels of experience, the PGR Supervisors Network provides training and
 development opportunities.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Head of Department has overarching responsibility for REF preparation at a strategic level
 with the REF lead overseeing preparation at operational level on outputs and the environment,
 and a REF Impact lead overseeing preparation of the impact case studies. REF committees have
 representation from at least one ECR. The REF lead runs the rolling reading programme to
 formally evaluate research outputs that are submitted by staff. This evaluation is carried out by
 two senior members of staff (using a third reader where needed), to give a single rating and review
 that is fed back to staff with transparency as to who carried out the review. The REF Impact lead
 convenes a separate group that assesses the impact case studies and provides feedback from at
 least four reviewers within LSA as well as considering reviews provided at Faculty level.


 2.3.4 Professional qualifications
 We continue to recruit research staff who are professionally qualified with over 57% of our staff
 being trained architects or chartered engineers (e.g. RIBA/ARB and CEng). This supports our
 strategy of increasing research relevance and impact through shared good practice and
 professional engagement as well as facilitating research-led teaching. Existing staff are
 encouraged to seek professional qualifications where it benefits their personal development and
 research.


 2.3.5 Research ethics
 Staff undergo compulsory research ethics training and LSA staff are active in assessment
 committees and as reviewers at University level and in the School of the Arts. Staff and PGR
 students have access to drop-in sessions to discuss aspects of their research ethics applications.


 2.4 Postgraduate researchers

 2.4.1 Expansion of PhD cohort
 The increase in staff numbers and expansion of research expertise has allowed us to increase the
 size of our PhD cohort by 91% from 35 students at the point of submission in REF 2014 to 67 at
 the end of this REF period (average over this REF period was 58 students). PhD completions
 per Category A submitted FTE have increased by 45% from 1.19 in REF 2014 to 1.72 now.


 At the beginning of this REF period, we started co-supervising PhD students with staff at Xi'an
 Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU) in China (the partnership between the University of
 Liverpool and Xi'an Jiaotong University). This has steadily built up, such that in 2020 we have 18
 registered students. Their PhD research topics align with the LSA research groups, and during
 their study they spend up to three months at Liverpool to integrate with the Liverpool cohort.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Over this REF period, our cohort comprised (on average) 68% international students (Canada,
 China, Egypt, Germany, Greece, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Malaysia, Mexico,
 Morocco, Nigeria, Oman, Portugal, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Korea, Spain, Thailand, Turkey)
 and 32% home/EU students. The female:male ratio has been (on average) 1:2.0 which is similar
 to the ratio of our Category A submitted FTE which is 1:1.7.


 As part of our strategy to develop and support the next generation of interdisciplinary researchers,
 interdisciplinary research topics are encouraged through shared supervision across different
 departments in the University, as well as with XJLTU. In this REF period we have had joint
 supervisory arrangements with Civic Design, Communications and Media, Computing Science,
 English, Engineering, Geography, Management and Psychology.


 2.4.2 Environment
 PGR students are represented in our discussions and decisions on Departmental and School
 matters. At Department level, they have representation in the Staff/Student Liaison Committees.
 These are chaired by a student member and include student representatives from all Levels
 (undergraduate and postgraduate). The Head of LSA is a standing member and all staff involved
 in postgraduate research supervision and the Director of Postgraduate Research attend
 Committee meetings. Meetings are held three times a year and a postgraduate student represents
 all postgraduate students in LSA.


 The School of the Arts Postgraduate Research Committee oversees the management of PGR
 students, ensuring that its discussions are informed by consultation with the students themselves.
 The Committee is chaired by the School Director of Postgraduate Research and members include
 Departmental Directors of Postgraduate Research from each Department and student
 representatives from the five Departments in the School.


 2.4.3 Research opportunities and outcomes
 Research groups arrange presentations by PhD students of their research to other students
 working in similar research fields (including those in the MA and MSc) and to staff. This gives our
 students experience of presenting in a conference style with questions and feedback. Each year
 there is a PGR conference where all students give a progress presentation as part of the
 evaluation process.


 To promote the research of doctoral students outside the University, all PGRs are encouraged to
 apply to the School PGR Support Fund for research expenses that support presentations at
 conferences and workshops. These funds can also be used for fieldwork, archival work, and


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research materials that cannot be funded from other University sources. Full-time students can
 apply for up to £300 per annum (pro rota for part-time students) for their expenses.


 PGRs can apply for financial support in organising workshops, symposia or small conferences
 with an academic staff member acting as a sponsor. Full-time students can apply as a collective
 or as an individual with the maximum value of a single bid being £1k (pro-rota for part-time
 students) for the reimbursement of expenses.


 To give PGRs the opportunity to establish themselves as researchers, and hone the writing skills
 needed for a research career, supervisors support and encourage their students in the submission
 of conference and journal publications during, or at the end of their research period. This resulted
 in our PGR cohort producing an average of 17 conference papers and 9 journal papers per year.


 2.4.4 PGR development and training
 Each year our PGR students make a professional and personal development plan (Development
 Needs Analysis) to advance their research progress and meet longer-term personal and
 professional ambitions. This is formulated in consultation with students’ supervisors and considers
 communication skills, research methods, impact, ethic, employability and entrepreneurship. Within
 three months of registration, students are encouraged to reflect and review their abilities and to
 plan the acquisition of new skills and professional competences. This plan is used by students
 and supervisors to identify priorities for development and training. To inform this discussion, the
 student considers the training and development opportunities in the School of the Arts, Faculty
 and Liverpool Doctoral College. The student and supervisory team agree a programme of
 professional development which is reviewed annually. Within the University, students can choose
 from development themes ranging from communications skills, personal resilience, research
 productivity, creative and critical thinking, public engagement, leadership skills and career
 planning. Students record developmental activities in an online Portfolio of Activity.


 LSA has seven PhD students registered through formalised doctoral training routes. These include
 four in the AHRC North West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership, one in the EPSRC and
 ESRC Centre for Doctoral Training on Quantification and Management of Risk and Uncertainty in
 Complex Systems and Environments, and two in an EU Marie Curie Innovative Training Network.
 These provide additional training opportunities (ranging from general workshops on thesis writing
 or entrepreneurial skills to specific training on sustainable materials); this training is also available
 to our PGR cohort. Koeck is the institutional lead for Transformation NW, a doctoral training
 programme applying design and creative techniques to enhance growth and prosperity for
 businesses in the North West in which he supervises two students.



                                                                                                  Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Advanced interdisciplinary and innovative methodological training is provided for PGR students
 from the ESRC North West Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership and the AHRC North
 West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership. engage@liverpool represents the University of
 Liverpool’s contribution to ‘Methods NorthWest’, a research and methods collaboration involving
 a range of institutions across the North West of England; for our students working on social science
 this has involved an initiative to pioneer theoretical and methodological innovation.


 During this REF period, we have had four funded PhD studentships from Low Carbon Eco-
 Innovatory (LECI) and one with Eco-I NW where our students work alongside businesses (Urban
 Splash, Fifth Sector, Knowsley Safari, Base Energy, Fielden Clegg Bradley Studios) to reduce
 energy consumption, reduce carbon emissions and produce sustainable building solutions. This
 provides their research with ecological validity along with the benefit of vocational experience.


 2.4.5 Employability and skills development
 To enhance the employability of our PGR students (and delivering on the Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers), they are given the opportunity to take a 15-day
 placement outside academia (public, private and charity sectors) for which a £500 bursary is
 available from the Liverpool Doctoral College. Our students have taken this opportunity to gain
 experience and new skills with Arup, Bluecoat, Crowberry Consulting, Drome Architects, FACT,
 National Museums Liverpool, Open Eye Gallery, Red Ninja, 20th Century Society and RIBA North-
 West.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.1 Research income
 We have increased our research income by 67% from £1,397,675 in REF 2014 to £2,344,738 in
 REF 2021. This has been achieved by building upon previous funding streams, the strategic
 creation of our Heritage group and through the expertise and international standing of our staff
 that has expanded the range of funding sources. Staff are supported in all aspects of preparing
 grant proposals at Department, School and Faculty levels in terms of costing, peer-review and
 advice on embedding impact. The research groups targeted different National and International
 funding sources as indicated below.


 Architectural and Urban History
 This group targeted Leverhulme Trust funding to allow expansion with postdoctoral researchers
 and to consolidate their research strengths. Shasore won a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship
 on ‘Architecture, Civic Design and the Municipal Project in Britain, 1919–1979’ (2017–2020: £87k).


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This project fits exceptionally well with our 20th century expertise, particularly the ‘Architecture and
 Welfare State’ project instigated by Swenarton, and the work undertaken by Pepper, Richmond,
 and Dunne. Building on the research undertaken in Ghana and Nigeria as part of the ‘Fry and
 Drew Project’ (2011–2014 Leverhulme Trust), I. Jackson won funding from the British Academy
 on ‘Architecture and Planning in the Tropics: From Imperial Gold Coast to Tropical Ghana’ (2015:
 £30k). His most recent grant success with the Leverhulme Trust will investigate the architecture
 of the United Africa Company. Working in collaboration with archivists at Unilever, the project will
 focus on the buildings, plans, and mercantile projects in West Africa, 1872–1960. This will fund
 2.5 postdoctoral research positions for two years (2020–2022: £298k).


 In this REF period we have sought funding for major monographs. Calder’s earlier research and
 funding on Brutalism and Concrete was critical in developing his ideas on energy and architectural
 history, and was pivotal in securing a British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship Scheme on ‘Energy
 in the History of Architecture’ (2018: £103k) for his latest monograph ‘Architecture and Energy:
 From pre-history to climate crisis’. N. Jackson’s substantial monograph (235,000 words, 200
 illustrations) ‘Japan and the West: An Architectural Dialogue’ also benefitted from Getty Research
 Institute (2014: £11k) and Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation (2017: £3k) grants.


 Centre for Architecture and the Visual Arts (CAVA)
 Building on trans-disciplinary design principles developed in CAVA, Koeck won funding from
 Innovate UK (Design Foundations competition) with Spark Compass UK to develop intelligent,
 real-time, hyper-local screen-based Out-of-Home (OoH) marketing innovation (2017–2018: £30k).
 Koeck’s links with China led to three UKRI/AHRC UK-China Creative Industry Partnerships
 projects (2019: £25k, 2020–2022: £253k, 2020–2021: £75k) with Aardman Animations, Shanghai
 Theatre Academy and the Shanghai Media Industry Association. These break new ground by
 dissolving traditional boundaries between cinema screen and audience, creating a responsive and
 immersive environment with real-time content driven by games technology and AI.


 Heritage
 A major grant won by Bandyopadhyay was from the Qatar National Library (with Alsalloum and
 Quattrone) to establish the world’s largest digital archive for Gulf architecture and urbanism (The
 Gulf Architecture Project, GAP, 2019–2020: £737k). Bandyopadhyay, with Quattrone, won funding
 for researching and developing management strategies for vernacular heritage sites in Oman from
 the Ministry of Heritage and Culture, Oman (2015–2018: £83k), as well as from a private
 benefactor for the rehabilitation and restoration of an 18th century merchant house (2016–2017:
 £31k), which have allowed them to continue research and impact work on oasis settlements and
 architecture in the Arabian Peninsula. These projects resulted in enhanced understanding of the



                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cultural landscape of the southern Arabian Peninsula, and its relationship with the Western Indian
 Ocean region.


 Expanding on digital surveying methodologies that Webb used in his PhD at Liverpool, and
 expertise in medieval history (Buchanan, History), a number of small grants (Lambarde fund, Paul
 Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art) were used to develop the proof-of-concept needed to win
 an AHRC Early Career Grant proposal (Webb (PI) jointly with Buchanan (History, Co I)), ‘Tracing
 the past: analysing the design and construction of English medieval vaults using digital techniques’
 (2018–2020: £199k).


 Environment, Sustainability and Technology in Architecture (ESTA)
 To bring research on new ceramic materials into practice, Urbano Gutiérrez won funding from the
 Spanish Association of Ceramic Tile Manufacturers (ASCER) (2014–2019: £44k).


 Acoustics Research Unit (ARU)
 The combined experience of Hopkins and Lee on the measurement, prediction and subjective
 evaluation of impact sound insulation in heavyweight buildings that are common in Korea led to
 research funding from the Korean government and the Korean Institute of Civil Engineering and
 Building Technology (Hopkins and Lee, 2014–2018: £222k). This led to further funding for Lee
 from the Korean Institute of Civil Engineering and Building Technology on perceptual modelling of
 floor impact sound (2014–2015: £44.9k); psycho-physiological assessment of floor impact sound
 (2015–2016: £35k); development of guidelines for dealing with noise complaints (2016–2017:
 £30k); and the perceived stress due to noise exposure inside buildings (2017–2018: £24k). These
 projects provided an ideal platform to research the European context where lightweight buildings
 often provide poor insulation against heavy impacts; this was funded within an EU Marie Curie
 ITN project ‘ACOUTECT’ in a consortium of five academic and five industry participants across
 Europe (Hopkins and Lee, 2017–2019: £372k).


 Sustained links with an SME (Primasonics) through consultancy work led to KTP funding from the
 Technology Strategy Board on the acoustic cleaning of cargo ship holds (Seiffert and Hopkins,
 2014–2016: £92k). Previous UK government funding on speech security in buildings during REF
 2014 led Hopkins to develop further projects with other government department on maintaining
 the confidentiality of speech (2016–2019: £157k).


 3.2 Doctoral training income
 Full scholarship funding has been won for PhD students (2014–2020: ≈£347k) through AHRC,
 EPSRC and ESRC centres for doctoral training and the ERDF Low Carbon Eco-Innovatory fund.
 Success with the latter has led to further funding for five studentships (2020–2023: ≈£254k).

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 3.3 Consultancy and CPD income
 Consultancy      allows     increased     interaction     between      our     researchers      and
 industrial/commercial/government sectors for which the University provides administrative support
 to staff. Income from ArCHIAM, ARU, CAVA and ESTA was £135k.


 Provision of CPD by the ARU has bought in £160k from courses on acoustics for industry and the
 UK Institute of Acoustics. This facilitates knowledge exchange with practitioners and provides a
 dissemination route for research.


 3.4 Infrastructure
 A significant enhancement to our existing accommodation will be the new £23M extension to the
 existing Leverhulme Building. Reflecting the vitality and sustainability in LSA, it will accommodate
 staff and researchers along with laboratory and workshop facilities. The extension will be fully
 accessible with all mobility issues in mind. An international competition was won by Architects
 O’Donnell+Tuomey in 2019 with staff and students fully-involved in the early selection stages.
 Research centres will have designated areas and every individual researcher will have their own
 office space.


 LSA were involved in the University of Liverpool in London (2014–2020) which enhanced and
 expanded the range of professional and industry links for staff that we now maintain from
 Liverpool.


 3.5 Facilities
 In 2017/18 Architecture used a significant part of its endowment funding (David Foster Wicks) to
 enhance AV facilities in the Leverhulme Building for research and teaching. This resulted in the
 installation of new PCs, visualisers, projectors, speakers, webcams, microphones, screens, and
 lecture-capture equipment. Endowment and LSA funds supported the purchase of an Unmanned
 Aerial Vehicle (UAV) and 3D laser scanning equipment (£53k) to enable field research and impact
 generation in the Heritage group, software licenses, immersive technologies for research and
 research-led teaching, a heliodon (£18k) to investigate solar impact on buildings and
 neighbourhoods, a robotic arm (£23k) to support new research on automated fabrication and
 refurbishment of the semi-anechoic acoustic chamber (£8k). These initiatives are linked to a
 broader development strategy for digital and cross-disciplinary research and allied curriculum
 development. To support research into digital architecture there has been an investment into
 equipment and software (£350k over a three-year period).



                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For research and dissemination that requires models for exhibitions and conferences, our
 workshop facilities have significantly improved since 2014 with new, replacement or updated
 equipment. LSA now has two fully-equipped workshops with four new laser cutters, a new AXYZ
 machine and two assembly rooms. This was complemented by a commensurate increase in
 technical support staff with ten dedicated production resource staff.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Collaborations with academics, architects, planners, government and industry help us identify new
 research areas which satisfy the needs of practitioners. International perspectives are provided by
 our research collaborations on outputs and grants involving academics in 52 universities
 in 26 countries.


 4.1.1 Advisory roles
 Our staff expertise has led to advisory roles at international, national and local levels.


 International: Collaborations on urban morphology with Southeast University in China led to
 Yangzhou municipal government (China) inviting F. Chen to join a judging panel for a new town
 master plan (2014). Bandyopadhyay is heritage advisor to the Ministry of Tourism, the Ministry of
 Heritage and Culture in Oman, helping them to develop regional heritage strategies, and two
 museums in Oman, to build their permanent collections and exhibits (2014-present). For the
 National Museum in Oman, Quattrone designed two bilingual educational workshop booklets in
 child-friendly formats. ArCHIAM’s collaboration with the Qatar National Library is now helping them
 build a major digital archive.


 National: Koeck presented CAVA’s Open Planning demonstrator app at the Houses of
 Parliament, having been chosen as a best practice project by the All-Party Parliamentary Design
 and Innovation Group (2015). Developed with public and private sector partners, it allows instant
 access to planning updates in a specified area to ensure a fairer, accessible and democratic public
 planning process. Finnegan is an invited academic on the University forum of the UK Green
 Building Council which reviews relevant government policies.


 Local: Liverpool council have declared a climate emergency and set a zero-carbon deadline for
 the city. To help achieve this, Finnegan is working with National Museums Liverpool (who own
 and operate seven museums/galleries) and the Everyman & Playhouse Theatre to create action
 plans to achieve Net Zero Carbon status. Finnegan’s industrial links in sustainability in


                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 construction and operation enabled three PhD studentships with the ERDF Low Carbon Eco-
 Innovatory fund that were financially supported by Egg Homes, Urban Splash and Knowsley Safari
 Park. The latter linked to Finnegan’s research to help Knowsley become the world’s first zero
 carbon safari park at zero cost with an advisory role to Lord Derby on establishing a ground-
 mounted solar PV array for the estate. This led to collaborations with Sensor City (University
 Enterprise Zone, Liverpool) to implement a new prototype WiFi that allows energy data to be
 collected across the entire zone.


 Support for academic publishing is evidenced by staff holding ten editorial roles in academic
 journals, book series editor (Historic England and Liverpool University Press) and the majority of
 staff have reviewer roles for academic journals and publishers.


 4.1.2 Networks
 Networking with other researchers provides us with new routes for dissemination, research
 collaborations and joint PhD supervision.


 Gibbs heads up the EPSRC-funded Special Interest Group on Vibro-acoustics in the UK Acoustics
 Network (2018-2020) with over 170 members; this brings together researchers from different
 areas of acoustics, providing a focus for collaboration and innovation, as well as promoting the
 impact of acoustics research.


 To bring together research from engineering, physical and life sciences, management, and social
 sciences, Sharples and Hopkins belong to the Liverpool Institute for Risk and Uncertainty, a unique
 interdisciplinary national centre. This led to joint PhD supervision with other disciplines in the
 University.


 Triggered by a mobility grant to research modern Ghanaian architecture, I. Jackson has developed
 strong links with the University of Legon and KNUST (Ghana). With colleagues at the University
 of Manchester and Manchester Metropolitan University, he subsequently founded the research
 network, West African Rapid Urbanisation and Heritage, with colleagues in Ghana, Nigeria and
 Togo. I. Jackson established the Transnational Architecture Group blog as a forum for scholars
 investigating the export of architectural ideas and forms between regions; since 2014 this has
 attracted over 46,000 visitors from 120 countries.


 4.1.3 Team working
 Collaborating with colleagues from Archaeology, Classics and Egyptology and Modern Languages
 and Cultures, Bandyopadhyay has been Co-I on two AHRC Newton fund projects: ‘Dhiban:


                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Valuing sites through valuable stories’ and ‘Hugli river of cultures’. The latter resulted in
 collaborations with historians, history of literature specialists, anthropologists, social historians,
 museum experts, filmmakers and local volunteer researchers to develop an integrated
 understanding of the changing nature and role of the erstwhile colonial house within a wider civic
 and urban setting. The resulting management plan combined research findings with strategic
 directions for the West Bengal Heritage Commission.


 The Heritage group have five visiting International fellowships to collaborate with researchers
 based at targeted institutions in Syria, India, Iraq and Ghana. Our staff provide mentoring around
 key heritage themes and facilitate collaboration, networking, and grant bids, with a view to
 developing joint future projects and outputs.


 Lee collaborated with workplace and wellbeing analysts at Mitie, the UK’s leading facilities
 management and professional services company to assess speech privacy in their portfolio of
 open-plan offices and help them develop a strategy to achieve privacy through innovative
 workplace design.


 Koeck produced an award-winning documentary with researchers from the University of
 Cambridge on their hospital ventilation strategies to reduce the concentration of SARS-CoV-2 (the
 virus causing COVID-19). This film won the 2020 Impact DOCS Award and the 2020 TVE
 Global Sustainability Award for the use of digital innovation and AI, and was presented to WHO
 and health authorities worldwide.


 4.1.4 Training
 Our research expertise provides a strong basis for the provision of training courses for
 professionals and specialists. F. Chen was invited by the China Ministry of Housing and Rural
 Development to give a training programme for Chinese civil servants on urban morphology,
 drawing on her research on Chinese urban design (2014). Bandyopadhyay, Alsalloum and
 Quattrone developed a ten-lecture series funded by the Aga Khan Trust for Culture on an
 alternative approach to Islamic architectural history. This is freely available via the MIT website
 (archnet.org) to reach a wide audience (including academics and professionals). In addition, the
 Getty Conservation Institute (Bandyopadhyay) and the Barakat Trust (Quattrone, Alsalloum)
 financially supported the training of heritage and conservation professionals from 12 countries in
 urban heritage management.




                                                                                               Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2 Professional bodies and recognition
 Support for the professions is evident in the majority of staff belonging to one or more professional
 bodies relating to architecture, building industry or engineering (usually with Chartered status).
 Our standing in these bodies is evidenced by N. Jackson being President of the Society of
 Architectural Historians of Great Britain (2017–2020) and Gibbs being President of the Institute of
 Acoustics (2018–2020) which has a membership of ≈3000. Recognition of research excellence by
 the profession is evidenced by the medals awarded by the UK Institute of Acoustics (IoA) to Gibbs
 (R.W.B. Stephens medal, 2015) and Hopkins (IoA Engineering medal, 2016).



 4.3 Consultancy
 Consultancy opens up opportunities for increased interaction with industry, commercial and
 government sectors which facilitates impact and brings in new research ideas and opportunities.
 ArCHIAM research on the Wilayat Al Hamra Project (Oman) led to them being sub-contracted to
 supervise a Muscat-based company (Architectural Wall Systems) to ensure the design scheme
 developed in the research was faithfully executed. ARU were commissioned by museums in
 Birmingham and Liverpool to assess the effect of vibration on exhibits caused by the proposed
 HS2 route and a pop concert inside a museum. The latter resulted in a successful concert with no
 exhibits damaged, and attracted interest in the museum sector for a viable new income stream.
 Morgan Industries approached the ARU to carry out sound absorption measurements which led
 to research funding on the acoustic performance of their ceramic fibre blankets at high
 temperatures. For Liverpool City Council, CAVA produced the official RIBA Heritage Tour of
 Liverpool with a bespoke content management system that drives a progressive web app walking
 tour and an Augmented Reality installation at RIBA North.


 4.4 Exhibitions
 In this REF period, staff produced 11 exhibitions that engaged a broader cross-section of the
 public and facilitated conversations between researchers, practitioners and the public.


 International events include Iuliano’s co-curation of the exhibition “Eternal City. Roma nella
 collezione fotografica del Royal Institute of British Architects” in Rome (2018). With over 110,000
 visitors, this brought together carefully selected images from RIBA of Rome, from its landscape to
 close archaeological detail, through the intermediate scale of architecture. Bandyopadhyay
 curated “Architecture on the Fringes: Cultural Topography of Oman” at the Aga Khan
 Documentation Centre at MIT (Cambridge, Massachusetts) (2016). I. Jackson’s research on Nek
 Chand was shown at the Kohler Arts Center (USA) with his drawings now forming part of the
 permanent collection (2017).



                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nationally, our exhibitions at RIBA North have included Swenarton’s exhibition on “Cook's
 Camden” (2018–19) and Schmiedeknecht on the representation of modern architecture in
 children’s books in the UK (2019), and the ECAlab exhibition Cerámica at RIBA North (2017–18)
 featuring full-scale prototypes of light-diffusing facades and ceilings attracting over 14,000 visitors.
 We celebrated the 30th Anniversary of Tate Liverpool (designed by Stirling, Wilford & Partners)
 with Iuliano’s workshop “Tate Architecture Studio – From James Stirling to public engagement:
 Circa 1958 – Beyond 2018” (2018). Urbano Gutiérrez’s research on the production of sustainable
 building components led to the exhibition PlatFORM (2018) at Tate Liverpool with over 8,000
 visitors, and a workshop bringing together architects, artists, engineers and researchers to discuss
 the future of ceramics. This led to an invitation to be part of the “Hand Held to Super Scale
 Exhibition” at The Building Centre in London (2019–20) with over 40,000 visitors.


 4.5 Design
 Our digital research translates into creative design. Agkathidis applied algorithmic modelling
 techniques to represent, design and fabricate gravitational lens effects (astrophysical theory of
 dark matter) in the form of a garden pavilion for the Royal Horticultural Society's Chelsea Flower
 Show. This was awarded the gold medal for ‘Best Fresh Garden’ (2015).


 CAVA led a team of local creative industry partners to develop a ground-breaking participatory
 and immersive mixed reality experience at St George’s Hall in Liverpool (2019). Based around the
 famous court case of Florence Maybrick (accused of poisoning her husband), the immersive mixed
 reality experience allows participants to experience the Victorian prison and justice system. With
 the support of Microsoft's Mixed Reality team (USA), this became the world's first volumetrically
 filmed (3D holograms) UNESCO heritage experience using the HoloLens system.


 4.6 Media
 Engagement with the media allows our researchers to reach a wider audience. N. Jackson was
 interviewed on BBC1 Breakfast (2016) on the restoration of the Elizabeth (clock) Tower at the
 Palace of Westminster with an estimated audience of 8.5 million viewers. Regional aspects of our
 research such as Kronenburg’s co-authored book ‘Liverpool’s Musical Landscapes’ has led to two
 appearances on BBC Radio Merseyside (2018, 2019). Social media also plays a role, with Calder
 promoting his research on Brutalism through Twitter with over 8,800 followers. Shepperson
 worked as an archaeology blogger for The Guardian on the Science Blog Network series, The
 Past and the Curious, publishing 13 articles on archaeology, history and cultural heritage
 protection.




                                                                                                 Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 By establishing a broad, dynamic research base that has benefitted from continued investment
 over the REF period, we have actively contributed to the development and impact of the discipline,
 locally, nationally and internationally.




                                                                                           Page 25
