Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Kingston University

 Unit of Assessment: 3 – Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit Context and Structure

Kingston University’s (KU’s) UoA3 research encompasses fundamental biomedical science,
biology of health and disease, sport and nutrition, drug delivery, diagnostics and pharmaceutics,
through to the implementation/evaluation of novel health, social care and patient care delivery. Our
research is conducted within two Centres:

1) The Interdisciplinary Hub for the Study of Health and Age-Related Conditions (IhSHA; 61
   staff, 60 FTE), based in the Faculty of Science, Engineering and Computing (SEC). IhSHA
   addresses fundamental and applied biomedical and technological questions towards the
   maintenance of health, disease processes and diagnosis, and therapeutic interventions. The
   Centre benefits from wide-ranging external collaborations and its close proximity to
   internationally recognized organisations such as GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and Laboratory of the
   Government Chemist (LGC) Ltd.

2) The Centre for Applied Health and Social Care Research (CAHSCR; 31 staff, 25.7 FTE),
   based in the Faculty of Health, Social Care and Education (HSCE), a joint venture between
   Kingston University and St George’s, University of London (SGUL). CAHSCR addresses
   questions generated by the practice of nursing, midwifery, paramedic and rehabilitation, on
   health promotion, treatment and care for patients with long-term conditions (including musculo-
   skeletal conditions, stroke, dementia and mental illness), and associated workforce
   development. The Centre benefits from co-location with St George’s Hospital, and
   collaborations with a large network of health and social care providers, the South London
   Academic Health Science Network, and the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR)
   Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) - now Applied
   Research Collaboration (ARC) for South London.

Researchers working within the two Centres are grouped into nine non-exclusive research areas
(Themes; Table 1).

Table 1. Staff research areas (Themes) with new* (post-REF2014) staff appointments and early
career researchersECR (post-August 2016) indicated.
                 Research Theme       Staff
 IhSHA           Diabetes and         Hill (Lead), Arrigoni, Buxton*, Mackenzie*ECR, Snabaitis,
 (led by         Cardiovascular       Stolinski.
 Naughton)       Pathologies (DCP)
                 Cancer Research      Modjtahedi (Lead), Ashrafi, Chioni*, Dorak*,
                 (CR)                 Elbediwy*ECR, Gaymes*, Khelwatty*ECR, Seddon.
                 Infection and        Walker and Fielder (Leads), Garrido Mesa*, Jones L,
                 Immunity (I&I)       Karlyshev, Kelly, Kirk, Lawton, Snyder.
                 Drug Discovery,      Alany and Kayyali (Leads), Aldabbagh (Al-Dabbagh)*,
                 Delivery and Patient Al-Kinani*, Barker, Beadham*, Bear*ECR, Buonocore*ECR,
                 Care (DDDPC)         Busquets*, Calabrese, Crilly*, El Nabhani (Nabhani-
                                      Gebara), Elshaer*, Khoder*, Le Gresley, Morgan A*,
                                      Perera*ECR, Peron*ECR, Polycarpou*, Rooney*ECR,
                                      Shearman*, Thatti*ECR, Vangala, Wren*.
                 Sport, Exercise,     Moir (Lead), Allgrove, Brouner, Morgan H, Naughton,
                 Nutrition and Public Opara, Owusu-Sekyere*ECR, Petróczi (Petroczi),
                 Health (SENPH)       Pummel, Richards* (formerly Manning), Schwikkard,
                                      Spendiff, Swann, Yarandi*ECR.

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CAHSCR         Emergency,             Quinn (Lead)*, Halter*, Kulnik*, Lear*ECR, McKeever*,
 (led by        Cardiovascular and     Mellinghoff*ECR, Wang*.
 Harries)       Critical Care
                (ECCC)
                Inclusive Health and   Coxon* & Nikoletou (Leads), Calestani*, Hallett*,
                Wellbeing (IHW)        McRae*.
                Implementation and     Boaz & Jones F (Leads), Collins*, Drennan, Gale,
                Improvement            Harries*, Hurley, O’Shea*, Price*, Taylor E*ECR.
                (I&IMP)
                Psychological and      Chambers (Lead), Bacon*, Brearley, Cronin-Davis*,
                Cognitive              Giatras*, Mein, Taylor F*, Thomson, Tuffrey-Wijne.
                Conditions (PCC)

Although the two Centres largely operate independently due to differing expertise, faculty location
and research streams - with IhSHA focusing mainly on the fundamental and applied sciences and
CAHSCR on implementation/evaluation research in health and social care services - we have
developed a series of shared mechanisms, highlighted throughout this document, to achieve our
overarching aims.

1.2 Unit Research

Our research spans a wide range of sub-topics across the biosciences, pharmacy, nutrition, sport
science, health and social care, and medicine. Our strategy has been to concentrate on complex
biomedical, health and wellbeing questions particularly those concerning ageing populations, long-
term (chronic) conditions and public health, from the laboratory through to clinical and service level
application. Our basic and applied research into health and disease has resulted in improvements
to disease prevention and therapy, delivering associated impact, and we have ensured that our
research reaches a wide global audience.

We have made significant gains in research excellence over the last two decades, improving
from a 3A rating in RAE2001 (15.25 FTE), to 4/3/2/1* profiles of 5/20/40/25% in RAE2008 (28.30
FTE) and 10/64/25/0% in REF2014 (17.22 FTE). In the current period, we have prioritised our
research towards delivering on our REF2014 stated goals, while re-evaluating and
modifying focus as required to align with UK and global research priorities to ensure
continued sustainability. We have developed mechanisms to enhance research income,
promote interdisciplinary research, and grow research student and research-active staff numbers
to achieve greater competitiveness. Our overarching approach has been to deepen existing areas
of strength while embracing new opportunities, enhance research quality, and expand in terms of
infrastructure and research active staff and students.

1.2.1 Significant Research Developments and Achievements since REF2014

i) New structures to enhance research
Basic and applied research, including that which is interdisciplinary in nature, has been bolstered
within the Unit since REF2014. IhSHA was formed as a Centre (August 2013) to stimulate
crosscutting research and has facilitated the development of new synergies and collaborations
between academics, research fellows/assistants and between PhD and MSc by Research (MScR)
students, which have been further supported by the completion of the new ~£2M Integrated
Research Laboratory (Section 3). The merger (2015) of Life Sciences with Pharmacy and
Chemistry to form the new School of Life Sciences, Pharmacy and Chemistry, providing a
unified research and educational environment, has enhanced the sharing of expertise and facilities.
These structures have also enabled the strengthening of interdisciplinary research within the Unit,
and with researchers from other Units (e.g. Engineering (UoA12) and Computer Science (UoA11)).
Examples of our interdisciplinary work include studies by Alany (Wu et al, 2014, J. Control.
Release; output 03-001-633), Bear (Patrick et al, 2020, Biomaterials; output 03-021-1851),
Busquets (Viet Nguyen et al, 2016, Chem. Eng. J.; output 03-034-737), Buxton (Couto Alves et


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
al, 2019, Sci. Adv.; output 03-040-753), El Nabhani (Fawaz et al, 2020, Drug Design Develop.
Therap.; output 03-064-1399), Fielder (Jamrozy et al, 2014, J Antimicrob Chemother.; output 03-
072-848) Kayyali (Kayyali et al, 2016, BMJ. Open; output 03-115-942), Naughton (Karras et al,
2018, Endocrine; output 03-146-1098), Polycarpou (Ryan et al, 2017, Brit. J. Pharm.; output 03-
161-462) and Walker (Hirst et al, 2020, PLoS NTD.; output 03-202-1333). These works illustrate
interactions between physicists, biochemists, molecular biologists, sports and social scientists,
microbiologists, vets, clinicians, geneticists, epidemiologists, engineers, pharmacists, chemists,
environmental scientists, and computer scientists, both within KU and externally. Within CAHSCR,
cross cutting research groups pursue interdisciplinary work in expert-led fields of research.
Research groups (Themes; Table 1) have been established to enhance synergies, productivity,
impact, and significance and reach of research in health and social care. Partnerships with
CAHSCR are further developed through the NIHR ~£9M Applied Research Collaboration (ARC)
award (2019-2024); KU joins as a full partner HEI and holds Executive level, theme level and
collaborator roles cross five themes: Patient and Public Involvement Research, Maternity and
Perinatal Mental Health, Capacity Building, Implementation Research and Children and Young
People.

ii) Growth
The strength of our Unit and facilities and the positive financial health of the University/faculties
have enabled us to capitalise upon our REF2014 position. Since 2014, the Unit has benefited
from the appointment of 48 Category A staff (Table 1) with expertise across the Themes in
pharmaceutics, genetics, disease mechanisms, basic biomedical science, and applied health
research and practice. Therefore, our REF2021 submission includes 92 (85.7 FTE) Category A
academic staff with significant responsibility for research, with 61 from IhSHA and 31 from
CAHSCR. This contrasts 17.22 FTE in our REF2014 submission from the same Centres. While we
have grown in terms of attracting new research active Category A staff, a number of existing staff
have also been supported to enhance their research profiles and generate higher quality research
outputs. Therefore, the total increase in submitted staff and outputs since REF2014, enables a
fuller range of our UoA3 research to be assessed. Since 2014, 163 research grants totalling
~£7.01M have been secured. This translates to income of ~£5.65M and compares favourably to
the ~£1.28M captured for REF2014 by this Unit. Thus, in the current period, income is ~4.3
times that achieved in the entire REF2014 cycle. We have also more than doubled doctoral
activity with 93 completions (plus 10 by publication and 5 wholly overseas), contrasting 40
completions for REF2014.

iii) Investment
Since 2014, the Unit has benefited from over ~£9M investment by the University through
various initiatives, many of which were competitively won. These include: i) 18 (15 fully-funded, 3
part-funded) postgraduate research studentships; ii) ten awards (first grant scheme; total £69K) to
recently appointed staff to pump prime innovative research; iii) research transformation funding to
support specialist research grant writing workshops, appointment of ECRs and a senior external
mentor; iv) provision of Research Operations Managers and Business Development Managers
(BDMs, two staff members) to interface with UoA3 research; v) funding for the Outreach
Centre/‘Labs in Lorries’ reflecting our principles of impact and public outreach; vi) funding to build
an Integrated Research Laboratory for IhSHA research; and vii) monies to support the acquisition
of new equipment including facilities for imaging and cell biology research. In addition, CAHSCR,
specifically, has invested in six postdoctoral researchers and eight PhD studentships and has
supported National Institute of Health Research (NIHR)/Health Education England (HEE)-funded
programmes designed to develop clinical academic careers, including three rounds of
competitively won NIHR funding for the Masters in Clinical Research (MResClin) (2014-2018), now
superseded by the Pre-Doctoral and Doctoral Clinical Academic Fellowship Programmes
(PCAF/DCAF). We are one of two London institutions selected (2019/20) to host the initial rounds
of the prestigious Internship and Pre-doctoral bridging Scheme programmes, designed to provide
steppingstones for clinicians into research and onwards.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
iv) Knowledge and impact
We continue to make a significant positive contribution to health and wellbeing, with associated
benefit to the economy, through our research and impact activities. To represent the strength of
our research we have selected 214 research outputs (from a total pool of over 1020 peer-reviewed
papers by returned staff published in the period), together with seven impact case studies (ICS) to
highlight the translation of our research into policy and practice. In total ~86% of the research
publications submitted have been published in upper-quartile (Q1; Scimago tracked, 2019)
journals, many of which are leading (top 5-10%) in their field (e.g. Nature Communications, Cell,
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, Development, The Lancet, New England
Journal of Medicine, British Journal of Surgery, Journal of Clinical Endocrinology and Metabolism,
Journal of Infectious Diseases, Heart, Palliative Medicine, Journal of Cell Science, American
Journal of Epidemiology, EMBO Molecular Medicine, PLoS Medicine). Research by Quinn,
Hurley, Jones F and Drennan has featured in four published NIHR themed research reviews
(Care at the Scene - Research for ambulance services; Physiotherapy for Musculoskeletal Health
and Wellbeing; Organisation and Quality of Stroke Services; Staffing in Hospital Wards). We
continue to make significant advances with the generation of impactful research and have evolved
a flexible strategy to support the development of emerging and new impact (see Section 1.3).

1.2.2 Examples of Research Activity since REF2014

The research areas (Themes) within the Unit are identified in Table 1. While researchers are
associated with a core Theme, they often work collaboratively across two or more Themes due to
cross cutting expertise. In REF2014 we highlighted the importance of focusing on our core
research activities and enhancing national and international collaboration, including that with health
and social care providers within the NHS and industrial partners, to bolster research capacity,
excellence and funding. Here we outline a number of research relationships within the Unit to
illustrate the nature and breadth of activity achieved within this REF period (values shown relate to
research grant awards):

Within IhSHA
(i)    Hill (DCP Theme) leads on two projects that aim to develop a decellurised pancreas matrix
       for islet bioengineering and diabetes therapy, work that involves collaborations with stem
       cell and beta cell experts at the University of Nottingham and King’s College London (KCL).
       Initially supported by the Novo Nordisk Research Foundation, the work has now received
       Diabetes UK Project Grant funding (£247K).
(ii)   Snabaitis (DCP Theme) leads a research programme with collaborators from Vanderbilt
       University and KCL, a link which has resulted in a British Heart Foundation (BHF) PhD
       studentship, and BHF Project Grant (£271K) to study the regulation of cardiac apoptosis
       and heart failure by type 2A protein phosphatase regulatory proteins (e.g. Eleftheriadou et
       al, 2017, Basic Res. Cardiol.; output 03-182-1224).
(iii)  Naughton (SENPH Theme) has led and built a long-term collaboration with GSK in oral
       health with several projects funded (£272K) in the period. This interaction has also resulted
       in two BBSRC-CASE awards with GSK (£240K) focusing on oral odour and biofilm
       generation. He also has significant research and policy activities in the area of food safety
       (see ICSUoA03Naughton6).
(iv)   Petróczi (SENPH Theme) has led a research programme linking with the World Anti-
       Doping Agency (WADA) which has proven highly successful (see ICSUoA03Petroczi7).
       The collaborative partnerships that she has nurtured have resulted in significant awards
       (£404K e.g. from the EU/International Olympic Committee (IOC)) to support research in
       anti-doping and drug-related research (e.g. Ulrich et al, 2018, Sports Med.; output 03-157-
       1148).
(v)    Snyder (I&I Theme) has established collaboration with Alany (DDDPC), a drug delivery
       expert, to work towards combating blindness in new-borns caused by gonorrhoea infection,
       a project supported (£91K) by the Children’s Research Charity SPARKS (Churchward et al,
       2020, Sci Reports; output 03-187-1250).
(vi)   Walker and Lawton (I&I Theme) collaborated with researchers across the globe to deliver
       the first annotated molluscan genome, that for the freshwater gastropod snail Biomphalaria

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         glabrata, the natural intermediate snail host for the human parasite Schistosoma mansoni
         which causes schistosomiasis in ~260M people worldwide (Adema et al, 2017, Nat. Comm;
         output 03-126-1407).
(vii)    Modjtahedi (CR Theme) has led research with oncologists at SGUL and Royal Surrey
         County Hospital, and Khelwatty and Seddon (CR) on novel biomarkers and antibody
         therapies for colorectal and pancreatic cancers. This work has principally been funded
         through the BRIGHT charity and the Ralph Bates Pancreatic Cancer Research Fund
         (£237K total) (e.g. Arias-Pinilla et al, 2020, Sci. Rep., output 03-140-1036; Khelwatty et al,
         2019, Oncotarget, output 03-117-1878).
(viii)   Research conducted by several of our recently appointed staff members including Chioni
         (CR Theme; e.g. Coleman et al, 2014, EMBO Mol. Med.; output 03-050-776), Elbediwy
         (CR; e.g. Elbediwy et al, 2016, Development, output 03-066-804; Fletcher et al, 2015,
         EMBO J.; output 03-068-803), Mackenzie (DCP; Wiszniak et al, 2015, Proc. Natl. Acad.
         Sci.; output 03-131-996) into the fundamental cellular biology of disease mechanisms is
         continuing at KU, usually in collaboration with other IhSHA staff and sometimes prior
         institutions (e.g. Chioni with Queen Mary, University of London (QMUL); Elbediwy with
         The Francis Crick Institute). Such appointments have strengthened our expertise in
         mechanistic cellular biology.
(ix)     Within the DDPC Theme, Le Gresley has developed collaborations with researchers at
         GSK, LGC, and other companies, which aims to deliver improvements to the procedures,
         capabilities and effectiveness of these companies through knowledge exchange in
         developing advanced analytical techniques (£354K, including PhD studentship support)
         (e.g. Percival et al, 2020, Nutrients; output 03-127-1883); his expertise has enabled him to
         also secure funding from Innovate UK (£49K; with Fielder, I&I, and Clarity Biosolutions) to
         develop a rapid point of care screening system for Staphylococcus aureus).
(x)      In the area of healthcare improvement and service delivery, Kayyali and El-Nabhani
         (DDDPC Theme) have established a Technology Strategy Board (TSB)/Innovate UK
         funded partnership (£197K) with Exus Ltd and Croydon Healthcare NHS Trust to launch
         OPTIMAL. The project will deliver an integrated decision support tool for the NHS which will
         optimise patients’ follow-up processes, particularly during the first month after discharge.
         OPTIMAL aims to reduce readmissions by 5% in the first year of installation. They have
         also recently been awarded a Horizon 2020 grant (£323K) entitled “A Multimodal AI-based
         Toolbox and an Interoperable Health Imaging Repository for the Empowerment of Imaging
         Analysis Relating to the Diagnosis, Prediction and Follow-up of Cancer” as part of a
         (€9.9M) project spanning 25 project partners.
(xi)     Furthermore, El Nabhani (DDDPC Theme) is an investigator on an EU FP7-funded
         collaborative project (WELCOME; ~£527K), which spans nine countries. The project will
         create a smart sensing vest which measures and monitors patient indicators and other
         information to benefit the integrated care and self-management of individuals suffering from
         chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and associated conditions including chronic heart
         failure, diabetes, anxiety and depression (e.g. Kayyali et al., 2016, BMJ Open; output 03-
         115-942).

Within CAHSCR
(i)    Hurley (I&IMP Theme) developed “Enabling Self-management and Coping for Arthritic Pain
       using Exercise (ESCAPE-pain)” to help older people with knee, hip and back pain. Overall,
       this programme has attracted over ~£1.4M in grant funding and ~£2.2M in other
       investment, is endorsed by NHS England, Public Health England, charity and professional
       bodies, and is currently being rolled out across the UK in 200 clinical and community
       venues (see ICSUoA03Hurley1).
(ii)   Research on caring for the elderly including those with dementia, and their carers, is
       undertaken within the I&IMP Theme. Hurley led research entitled “Active Care Homes –
       Increasing Physical Activity, Health and Wellbeing in Care Home Residents”, funded by the
       Physiotherapy Research Foundation (£300K). Drennan led a ground-breaking investigation
       into the stigmatised issue of promoting continence and managing incontinence at home for
       people with dementia and their carers as part of an NIHR programme grant (£2M) (Iliffe et
       al., 2015, Southampton (UK), NIHR J. Lib., April; output 03-060-1841). The programme,

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         investigating all aspects from diagnosis to palliative care in care homes, involved national
         dementia charities as did the NIHR HTA-funded (£150K) realist study of the management
         of faecal incontinence in care homes (Goodman et al., 2017, Health Technol. Assess.;
         output 03-212-1860).
(iii)    Jones F’s (I&IMP Theme) innovative model of stroke self-management has led to work on
         other complex conditions such as brain injury and progressive neurological conditions
         resulting in collaborations with Imperial, University College London (UCL), and international
         projects with Otago and Karolinska-Institute. Her work on patient-centred methodologies
         has been funded through NIHR and other awards (£487K in the period) and supports a
         successful spin-out social enterprise Bridges Self-Management Limited (see
         ICSUoA03Jones3).
(iv)     Drennan (I&IMP Theme) and Halter (ECCC) developed a research programme with NHS
         managers and HEE into innovation in the workforce, including NIHR-funded investigations
         into Physician Associates in primary care, leading to policy change (see
         ICSUoA03Drennan2) and, more recently, secondary care (£484K) (e.g. Drennan et al,
         2015, Brit. J. Gen. Pract.; output 03-212-1860). Her other workforce research, including
         studies into new Advanced Clinical Practitioners roles and new approaches to retain nurses
         in the NHS acute hospital workforce has attracted significant funding (£448K) from HEE
         and other sources.
(v)      Quinn (ECCC Theme) has developed collaborations with NHS ambulance services,
         working, for example, on two major NIHR HTA-funded trials in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest
         (PARAMEDIC, PARAMEDIC-2) with Warwick Clinical Trials Unit. He leads a BHF-funded
         study (~£107K) with Halter (ECCC) exploring the use and impact of the prehospital
         electrocardiogram in heart attack patients (PHECG2), with three UK ambulance services.
         He is a member of the National Ambulance Research Strategy Group.
(vi)     Boaz (I&IMP Theme) has made significant contributions to applying social science in
         healthcare policy and research and became a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences in
         2017; she has research collaborations across the UK and internationally, exploring how to
         engage stakeholders in healthcare research including in end-of-life care and tobacco
         control programmes (e.g. Boaz et al., 2016, J. Health Serv. Res. Pol.; output 03-024-27;
         MRC grant “Stakeholder engagement in EQUIPT for Impact”, £84K). She was awarded an
         ESRC/Government Office for Science Fellowship (£81K) enabling her to apply her research
         to stakeholder engagement across UK government.
(vii)    Chambers (PCC Theme), working with NHS England, mental health trusts and
         national/international organisations led the development and implementation of the
         Therapeutic Engagement Questionnaire (TEQ; £58K Department of Health and Burdett
         Trust) designed to measure the importance of therapeutic engagement and its impact on
         mental health service user recovery (see ICSUoA03Chambers5). The TEQ tools have been
         translated into five languages (e.g. Chambers et al, 2019, BMC Psychiatry; output 03-048-
         55). Chambers also leads the Patient and Public Involvement Research Theme in the
         South London CLARHC and ARC (£157K) and was commissioned by the Health and Care
         Professions Council to evaluate their standards of education training in relation to newly
         qualified professionals’ fitness to practice (£60K).
(viii)   Tuffrey-Wijne (PCC Theme) leads research into palliative care and people with learning
         disabilities in collaboration with charities and third sector organisations. Her research on
         death-related communication has influenced practice globally and has contributed to
         national policy (see ICSUoA03TuffreyWijne4). She established and leads the Taskforce on
         Intellectual Disability of the European Association of Palliative Care and is coordinating an
         international investigation of end-of-life care provision with researchers across 10 countries.
         She is co-investigator (£234K) on an £0.9M NIHR research project with Oxford University
         developing support measures to help older people with intellectual disabilities living at
         home with elderly carers, and their families, to plan ahead for times of transition and end-of-
         life.
(ix)     Harries (I&IMP Theme) leads research on clinical decision making. Her study of expert
         peer reviewers’ decisions on health grant applications was one (Co-PI, ~£175K, 2019,
         returned under KU UoA17) of four inaugural awards from the Wellcome Trust’s Research
         on Research Institute. She recently completed Marie Curie funded research with UCL, as

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       collaborator, on experts’ ability to identify the end-of-life stage, including work
       demonstrating that the expert decision approach could improve medical students’ ability to
       recognise when a person is dying (e.g. White et al., 2019, Palliative Med.; output 03-092-
       252). Her research in other areas includes referral prioritisation and studies of mobility
       management.
(x)    Our response to national priorities/needs is highlighted by the rapid-response research and
       engagement conducted by Centre staff on Covid-19. For example, Tuffrey-Wijne (PCC
       Theme) developed a guide entitled “When someone dies from coronavirus: a guide for
       families and carers” (now included in Government guidance) and an online resource “How
       do you talk about Covid-19 to people with intellectual disabilities?”. Mellinghoff (ECCC)
       investigated the importance of personal protective equipment in intensive care units:
       “Personal protective equipment and intensive care unit healthcare worker safety in the
       Covid-19 era (PPE_SAFE): an international study” (Tabah et al, 2020, J Critical Care, 59,
       70-75; output 03-138-1006). Other projects include those by Nikoletou (IHW), “The impact
       of Covid-19 when living with fibrotic lung conditions” and Boaz (I&IMP) “Adoption of
       innovations in the ICU in response to Covid-19”.

1.2.3 Future Research Plans and Mechanisms to Achieve Goals

Over the next six years we plan to deepen our basic and applied research within the life and
health sciences. We shall maintain a focus on our research strengths which encompass
diagnostics, disease mechanisms and infection, drug development for disease, healthcare,
nursing, paramedics and rehabilitation. However, we will also embrace new opportunities as
they emerge. We plan to further increase our PhD student numbers, as well as our externally
funded research, increasing funding particularly from the major charities, NIHR, and RCUK.

The mechanisms by which we aim to achieve these strategic goals are broadly founded upon
our existing strategies that have proven successful in the current REF period. Where possible,
appointment of replacement academic staff (Section 2) will be focused in areas of strength to build
capacity. We plan to continue to provide postdoctoral funding (Section 2), allocated competitively
to projects demonstrating high chance of success and potential to deliver outstanding research
outputs/impact. Staff development opportunities (Section 2) will enable emerging researchers to
develop into independent research leaders. Sabbatical leave funding offered usually on an annual
basis, will continue to be deployed to help staff achieve research goals, and PhD bursaries
provided to support areas of strength. We have attracted increased funding from sources that are
highly competitive (e.g. BHF, NIHR, Diabetes UK, BBSRC/CASE, MRC, and EU) for both
postdoctoral and postgraduate research and as Principal and Co-Investigators. Bidding for
research funding through third-stream activities such as Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs)
will continue. To further enhance research income, our researchers are encouraged to submit
more high-quality applications per annum, with time allocated via appraisal and outcomes
monitored; funded sabbaticals will support grant writing and we will continue to fund grant writing
workshops. An internal Peer Review College was formed in 2014 to strengthen grant writing skills.
Together with fostered collaboration, these approaches aim to increase award success; the
increased funding since 2014 demonstrates that our strategy is working.

Networking and collaboration are also important to our success. We aim to enhance internal
links through existing mechanisms including networking events and research days, our RISE
Academic Leadership Academy encompassing invited speakers and action learning sets,
interdisciplinary research seminar series led by the research Themes, and pump-priming monies
targeted to foster interaction. Furthermore, collaboration across the disciplines between Unit
researchers, engineers, mathematicians and computer scientists is and will continue to be enabled
through the following mechanisms: (i) consideration of interdisciplinary activities when allocating
QR monies to studentships and development funding; (ii) integration of research days between
UoAs/diverse research Centres; (iii) management of research (e.g. Research Committee/Funding
Committee) at an interdisciplinary level; (iv) co-ordinated events to bring postdoctoral and
postgraduate researchers together from across the disciplines; and (v) further integration of
equipment resource to foster interaction. Collectively, these strategies aim to heighten blue skies

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and applied research to increase impact and capacity.

IhSHA has excellent links with many external partners and universities (see ICSs, Section 1.3
and Section 4) and these will continue to be fostered through existing mechanisms. For example,
staff development funds will support collaboration to facilitate innovative, high-quality research with
investigators at hospitals, companies, universities, and research institutes nationally and
internationally that aim to promote impact. CAHSCR has been successfully engaging in
interdisciplinary research for many years through development of research involving health
professional disciplines (e.g. medicine, nursing, physiotherapy, paramedics) and social sciences
(sociology, health economics, psychology). This work has included a focus on implementation and
improvement science and interprofessional/integration research. Collaboration has involved
industry and universities across South London, with others in applied nursing and therapy research
facilitated through the NIHR CLAHRC/ARC. CAHSCR aims to build on these collaborations to
develop new networks, particularly with NHS partners and other researchers. The Unit’s research
Themes have established local, national and international links and will be the engines to drive
future collaborations. Funding for collaboration between University partners in the London area has
been achieved through pump-priming partnership grants for joint studentships (e.g. two training
partnerships with Brunel University London). Similar funding will continue to provide interactive
projects between partners. Collectively, such interactions and structures across the Unit, together
with those existing and in development with external organisations will drive further blue skies
research/research with impact over the coming decade.

Facility upgrade has been well-supported by the University through a sustained re-build and
investment programme (Section 3). To support UoA3, available monies will be further channeled
into facilities to support leading experimental and applied work in biomedicine, nutrition,
pharmaceutics, and health improvement. Public engagement is an important part of our activities
(Section 4) and we aim to build on existing strengths. The Centre for Public Engagement, based in
CAHSCR, is a recognized leader in public/patient involvement in nursing and health research and
provides a range of support, including access to patient expertise to guide research design and
conduct through the Patient Experience Network. IhSHA contributes considerably to public
understanding of science through open days and ‘Café Scientifique’ meetings and events in the
new Science Outreach Centre and off site using our innovative ‘Labs in Lorries’ (Section 4).
Collectively, we are well placed to build on our public engagement agenda through the further use
of these facilities.

1.2.4 Open Research and Ethical/Regulatory Frameworks

The Unit complies with our institutional open access policy, ensuring that outputs are freely
accessible in line with HEFCE policy, funder, and REF guidelines. Monitoring also ensures
compliance with funder requirements. Making outputs widely available reflects our commitment to
producing research with the potential to drive significant economic, social and cultural impact. All
outputs are available through the University’s Research Repository to achieve a Green open
access environment as a minimum. Additionally, University (including via RCUK) and QR funds
are used to support Gold open access for papers accepted for publication in online journals
when it is a funding requirement, and also when Gold access is deemed to bring additional benefit
but is not necessarily a requirement; applications for the latter are reviewed by a funding panel on
a case-by-case basis. Examples of Gold open access publications feature throughout this
submission (34%, 72 out of 214 submitted outputs). The Unit complies with the University’s policy
on data sharing and management, which aligns with that of RCUK; data are also made available
as supplementary files to manuscripts wherever possible or through other databases. Collectively,
these mechanisms aim to promote a culture within the Unit which supports transparency of
research and replication of data in research.

Through ongoing training and KU’s subscription to a wide range of resources, academic staff and
other researchers are actively supported in the many aspects of research ethics, the reproducibility
of research, research integrity, intellectual property, regulatory procedures for working with human
tissue, health and safety, and researcher supervision and development. These frameworks, which

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
enable and support a rigorous and integrity-driven research culture, are considered further
under ‘People’ (Section 2).

1.3 Unit Impact

Research conducted within the Unit is diverse and multidisciplinary. Our needs-based research
has led to extensive impactful interactions with policy makers, regulatory bodies, government
agencies, professional bodies, practising healthcare professionals and third-stream partners (see
also Section 4 and ICSs). Our strategy has been to develop and nurture associations
facilitating long-term, productive, relationships, which extend well beyond initial research-
based interactions, to enable us to more effectively translate our research to business,
professional practice and policy.

Our agenda to build future impact is underpinned by an emphasis on, and growing appreciation for,
the value and routes to impact, alongside the widening of our research base and the continued
development of impact support structures. These structures are provided by Research, Impact and
Business Development Managers from the Research, Business and Innovation Directorate, and by
local Impact Champions (Naughton and Tuffrey-Wijne). Examples of procedures to enhance
impact development and evaluation include: (i) competitive allocation of internal funds (e.g.
studentships, first grants scheme); (ii) peer review of all grant proposals; (iii) routine collation and
monitoring of research activities including impact (including use of impact tracking software); and
(iv) impact training and 1:1 staff support.

Impactful research will continue to be driven forward by responding to sector needs and
opportunities within the basic sciences and healthcare. These include commercialisation and
licensing of intellectual property (IP) (the University has a Contracts Coordinator and retains the
services of Marks & Clerk and UCL Business as IP advisors), pursuing Knowledge Transfer
Partnership (KTP) projects, and grants to facilitate the translation of research to the commercial
and healthcare sectors. Impact strategies are considered for all new grant applications. All
substantial internal investment decisions (e.g. studentships, PDRAs, facilities and sabbaticals) also
involve consideration of routes to impact. In parallel, our collaborative research activities with
government and non-government bodies (Section 4) help enable increased impact through
involvement in policy/process change.

As well as enabling the capture of impact through the identification and tracking of potential IP
exploitation opportunities, sustained contact with stakeholders will continue to be achieved by on-
going interaction between academic researchers and partners, augmented by business
development managers acting as conduits following meetings and networking events. The Unit
provides seed funding that staff and research partners can deploy to test and develop products
and services emerging from the research.

In addition, we have a longstanding programme for public engagement and enhancement of
the awareness of science, which arose from our applied research in healthcare and medical
sciences. We have recently (2016) built a new Science Outreach Centre and have taken delivery
of two state-of-the-art portable laboratories (‘Labs in Lorries’) (total ~£3M), which collectively
enable us to engage the public, schools and colleges in our STEM-based research and education,
both on- and off-site (Section 4). Furthermore, our Centre for Public Engagement (led by
Chambers) was established in 2013 to develop excellence in public and patient involvement and
engagement in health, social care and education, disseminating this work through an annual
conference.

1.3.1 Relationship between the Unit’s approach to impact and the submitted case studies

The collaborative route, through which successful research proposals are developed into long-term
relationships, has led to several ICSs within the Unit, across both Centres. Additionally, in
CAHSCR, our extensive collaboration with practising health professionals, professional bodies,
NHS organisations and government agencies has led to substantial impact on professional

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
practice and health services. Here the relationship between each of our submitted ICSs and our
approach to impact is summarised:

(i)     Petróczi, working in collaboration with WADA through her lead role on the Expert Group on
        Doping Prevalence, has further developed needs-based research into transformational
        changes to reduce doping in elite sports. The development of a novel, cost effective survey-
        based tool, a set of recommendations for recording and reporting doping prevalence to
        improve data quality, and a new multi-method framework for synthesis of evidence for
        doping behaviour have positively impacted on WADA’s policies and practices, and indirectly
        impacted data recording and reporting practices in the global anti-doping community
        [ICSUoA03Petroczi7; Protecting Sport by Improving the World Anti-Doping Agency’s
        Capability for Assessing Doping Prevalence].
(ii)    A further illustration of impact derived through collaborative projects, in part, arose from
        Naughton’s role as Academic Policy Advisor on the Government Chemist Programme
        Expert Group as part of the National Measurement Office of the Department for Business,
        Innovation and Skills. These research and policy activities in food safety led to his
        appointment as Chair of the External Review Working Group of the European Food Safety
        Authority (EFSA). This group (2009-2015) audited the scientific activities of EFSA leading
        to significant changes in procedures and the quality of scientific outputs
        [ICSUoA03Naughton6; Improvements to the procedures, capabilities and practices of
        the European Food Safety Authority and the UK Government Chemist Programme].
(iii)   Jones F’s long-term collaborations with HEE (East of England, London), NHS
        organisations (e.g. UCL Hospitals, St Georges’ Hospital, King’s College Hospital), Welsh
        government and Northern Ireland Health and Social Care Trust has enabled the spread and
        reach of Bridges self-management beyond stroke to become an approach now used across
        multiple healthcare settings, reaching patients with complex acute and long-term conditions
        such as neuromuscular disease, brain injury and major trauma. As demonstrated in the
        ICS, more than 5,000 NHS staff have received training and demonstrated changes in how
        they support self-management [ICSUoA03Jones3; Bridges: advancing the spread of
        self-management support across acute and long-term healthcare settings].
(iv)    A desire to help ameliorate chronic joint pain led Hurley to evaluate the clinical and cost
        benefits of exercise, patient education and self-management strategies to support
        rehabilitation. As with other submitted ICSs, the programme has a component centred on
        patient education whereby people learn about the problem, what might cause it, why they
        experience pain, and simple ways to cope and self-manage their condition. This further
        example, illustrating CAHSCRs patient-centred approach to research, led to wide uptake of
        Hurley’s innovative rehabilitation programme for chronic joint pain among Health Science
        Networks; it is now recognised in the NHS Long-Term Plan (2019) [ICSUoA03Hurley1;
        Enabling people to ESCAPE-pain from Osteoarthritis].
(v)     The patient-centred approach was also utilised by Chambers in research enabling
        healthcare professionals to improve lives of mental health patients. Initially stimulated by a
        KU Enterprise Award, the research developed a validated Therapeutic Engagement
        Questionnaire enabling robust monitoring of registered nursing activity both in terms of
        quality and quantity. This directly led to: (i) improved quality of care and the use of
        technology; (ii) achieving parity of esteem between mental and physical health; and (iii)
        improved outcomes for people with mental health problems through high quality services
        that are accessible to all [ICSUoA03Chambers5; The Therapeutic Engagement
        Questionnaire: a tool to quantify and give recognition to registered mental health
        nursing therapeutic engagement activity].
(vi)    In-depth research into the healthcare needs of people with intellectual disabilities,
        especially for palliative care, led Tuffrey-Wijne to effect changes in: (i) policy; (ii) practice
        of bodies providing palliative care; and (iii) practice of educators in this field. The overall
        holistic approach has benefited end users, family and carers in addition to the recipient of
        palliative care [ICSUoA03TuffreyWijne4; Transforming policy and practice in palliative
        and end-of-life care of people with intellectual disabilities].
(vii)   Finally, close engagement with NHS general practitioners, managers and workforce
        development agencies led Drennan to investigate the value to the NHS of employing

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Physician Associates in primary care and then secondary care. This research,
       demonstrating their clinical safety and cost effectiveness, has been used by the UK
       government, Health Education England, Health Education and Improvement Wales and
       NHS employers to increase the education and employment of Physician Associates
       resulting in increased numbers of Physician Associates to address medical shortages,
       increased income to universities, as well as maintaining good patient experience
       [ICSUoA03Drennan2; Addressing the UK doctor shortage: Evidencing the clinical
       safety and effectiveness of physician associates leads to increased numbers in the
       NHS to address UK doctor shortages].

 2. People

The People Strategy of the Unit is guided by its commitment to equality and diversity and
inclusion (EDI) for both staff and research students. KU was one of the first of only 15
institutions to be awarded (2015, renewed 2019) a Bronze Race Equality Charter. In 2014 the
University won The Guardian Award for Diversity Initiative for a project that aimed to
mainstream EDI into academic career progression. In addition, the School of Life Science
Pharmacy and Chemistry, home to IhSHA staff, has achieved an Athena Swan Bronze
Departmental Award (2018) in recognition of its commitment to advancement of gender equality
in academia. SGUL, the partner institution for our HSCE faculty and home of CAHSCR holds an
Athena Swan Silver Award. A diverse staff base within the Unit is supported through recruitment
and promotion mechanisms that are informed by diversity data and progress/target alignment is
monitored by the EDI unit. To ensure that EDI is embedded within the Unit structures, EDI
Champions also exist within each Faculty.

2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

We aim to continually develop an inclusive and supportive environment to nurture and
attract future research leaders. Our approach serves to ensure the vitality and sustainability of
our research and impact base through recruitment, retention, and development of high calibre
academic staff. Planning ensures retirements/resignations do not disrupt existing operations while
also offering scope for quality enhancement and renewed research thrust. Since 2014, the Unit
has benefited from appointment of 48 new Category A staff, many strategically selected for
their research profiles thus increasing research capacity and sustainability within the Unit. New
staff include, in IhSHA (Table 1): Prof Aldabbagh (DDDPC Theme; previously Senior Lecturer,
NUI Galway), and Prof Dorak (CR; previously Head of Health Sciences, Liverpool Hope University)
who was appointed to lead the new School of Life Sciences, Pharmacy and Chemistry, and Dr’s
Bear (DDDPC; previously Ramsay Memorial Research Fellow, UCL), Buxton (DCP; previously
Senior Research Associate, UCL), Chioni (CR; previously Research Fellow, QMUL), Elbediwy
(previously Researcher, Francis Crick Institute), Gaymes (CR; previously Lead Investigator, KCL),
Mackenzie (DCP; previously Research Fellow, UCL), and Morgan A (DDDPC; previously
Research Associate, KCL). In CAHSCR (Table 1) new staff include: Prof Harries (I&IMP;
Associate Dean Research; previously Head of Clinical Sciences, Brunel University London), Prof
Quinn (ECCR; previously Associate Dean for Health & Medical Strategy, University of Surrey), and
Coxon (IHW; previously Senior Lecturer, King’s College London (KCL)). Collectively the new
research-focused appointments have bolstered expertise and capacity and sustainability across
the research Themes in areas including pharmaceutics, genetics, basic biomedical science,
disease mechanisms, and applied health research and practice.

We have built and sustained a critical mass of academic staff in areas of strength as
reflected in this submission. The Unit ensures that it has a sustainable mix of senior and junior
staff and that the career development of all staff is supported through personal development
plans. To illustrate the staffing mix, this submission comprises 19 Professors, 21 Associate
Professors, 34 Senior Lecturers, 12 Lecturers and 6 independent Research
Fellows/Associates. The submission comprises 40 male (43%) and 52 female (57%) academics,
considerably above the STEMM benchmark for females (41%); 21% of staff are black and minority
ethnic and 57% of staff are age 50 or younger. In addition, during the review period the Unit has

                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
hosted and additional 36 Research Fellows/Research Assistants as well as a vibrant pool of
PhD and MScR/MRes students (below). We currently have 14 (post-01/08/16) early career
researchers (ECRs). Often, previous staff members retain Unit collaborations and Emeritus
Professors continue to build their research in the Unit providing expertise and mentorship for junior
staff.

The priorities when appointing new research-focused academic staff are international quality of
their published research, fit to research foci, and (if appropriate to grade) evidence of success in
attracting competitive research grants. Most new staff arrive with significant research expertise and
are afforded time to enable research development. This is also the case for ECRs (e.g. Bear,
Buxton, Elbediwy, Lear, Mackenzie, Mellinghoff) who are important to the Unit’s
development and sustainability. Our ECRs meet monthly and are assigned to a designated
senior researcher to support their integration into the Unit and their development as scientists. All
new staff members are aligned with a research area (Theme), provided an academic mentor,
REF QR monies for consumables and small equipment items, and free access to all facilities
including centralized resources such as laser scanning confocal microscopy, instrumentation and
NMR suites. ECRs are also supported to apply to the University’s (~£10K) first grants scheme. In
addition, within CAHSCR, staff are provided free access to the SGUL Medical School Library and
the Clinical Research Facility. All staff are supported to apply for research grants, and ECRs are
considered favorably when studentships/bursaries are allocated. The University provides training
for project management and compulsory training for postgraduate student supervision.
Furthermore, comprehensive research and enterprise training exists for staff with topics
covered in the period including: KTP funding, Horizon 2020 briefing, the Global Challenges
Research Fund, fast track impact, GDPR & research data, legal contracts & negotiations,
Intellectual Property Rights protection, research management, ethics and publication
masterclasses. Staff are further supported in the development of impact by the Impact Champions
and the mechanisms detailed in the impact strategy (Section 1), which include seed funding to
test and develop products and services emerging from the research. Specific training is delivered
for compliance with the Human Tissues Act, HRA processes and ICH Good Clinical Practice as
appropriate. Within CAHSCR, staff can also access the RISE Clinical Academic Research
Leadership Academy led by Harries as well as appropriate training through SGUL and the
CLAHRC/ARC to augment KU’s provision. Collectively, these approaches help integrate new
staff and encourage research excellence at an early stage.

Several specific schemes further serve to promote EDI within the Unit; these include the Beyond
Barriers Mentoring Scheme for BME staff and female staff (12 mentees and 14 mentors in the
Unit within this REF period), which aims to maximise potential, resilience, astuteness and
confidence within these groups. In addition, six female staff within the Unit have attended the
Aurora Programme, Advance HE’s leadership development initiative for women. Additional
examples of where EDI is embedded within Unit activities are: (i) flexible working; all academic
staff within the Unit can work flexibly/remotely for at least one day per week, and for longer
durations by arrangement with their Head of Department; (ii) evaluation and reduction of teaching
workloads for staff with health issues to enable them to remain productive in research; (iii) equal
career/promotion opportunities; (iv) funding for conferences/sabbaticals, and (v) access to internal
funds to support research and impact, irrespective of staff FTE fraction. Importantly, staff that are
involved in EDI-related decision making are required to undergo unconscious bias training. For the
construction of this submission, the UoA co-ordinator (Walker and other staff involved in the
selection of research outputs and ICSs were fully versed in the University’s Code of Practice, and
completed Equality Essentials and Unconscious Bias Training workshops (the latter part of specific
REF training).

Research progress/career development is appraised against agreed targets. External
activities (e.g. grant/journal reviewing, editing, policy committee work; Section 4) are considered
vital to engagement with the broader research/impact base and are encouraged. All staff can apply
for sabbaticals with priority given to those with demonstrable research outcomes. Promotion to
Associate Professor or Professor is considered annually and is supported by international peer
review with international research excellence the key criterion; since 2014 the Unit has seen

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
several staff promoted at all levels, including nine current staff members to Associate Professor
(Ashrafi, El Nabhani, Elshaer, Halter, Hill, Le Gresley, Moir, Nikoletou, Snabaitis) and five to
Professor (Boaz, Jones F, Kayyali, Price, Tuffrey-Wijne). These mechanisms, together with
appropriate recruitment of new staff ensures that the profile of the Unit is fit for purpose, particularly
with respect to succession planning for research leadership and research management.

The University actively engages the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers and performs Gap Analysis and Action Planning to ensure its successful
deployment. Research Assistants are represented on the University’s Researcher Career
Development Group, participate in a Researchers Forum, participate in career development
activities and are integrated into the academic framework to broaden their expertise. When
academic appointments arise, researchers are encouraged to apply; several of our researchers
have been successful in obtaining their first academic positions at the University (e.g. Al-Kinani,
Calestani, Polycarpou) with others securing permanent research positions (e.g., Brearley,
O’Shea, Taylor F).

2.2 Research Students

Since 2013/14, 93 students within the Unit have been awarded doctoral degrees (plus 10 PhD
by publication and 5 wholly overseas). In addition, 50 MScR/MPhil degrees have been awarded,
together with a further 49 Masters in Research (MRes) in Clinical Practice within CAHSCR, part of
the NIHR programme for integrated clinical academic careers until 2018, which have further
supported research. Currently, 101 doctoral students and 16 MScR students are registered in the
Unit across the two research Centres.

The Unit aims to provide an exemplary training, support and learning environment for its
research students. Doctoral students are supported through externally funded industrial,
charitable and RCUK research contracts (e.g. BHF studentships, Polycystic Kidney Disease
Charity, GSK, NIHR and BBSRC-CASE awards) and competitively awarded internal funding.
Eighteen KU PhD studentships (including four Doctoral Training Alliance (DTA)
studentships) and 37 internal PhD/MScR/MRes starter bursaries have also been awarded
during the review period, together with additional completion bursaries; continuing students who
wish to self-fund their research degree are awarded a 10% reduction in tuition fee. The Applied
Biosciences for Health DTA PhD studentships, funded by University Alliance, fall under the
umbrella theme of “understanding and promoting healthy ageing” and connect researchers across
the network of Alliance Universities. The Unit attracts self-funded PhD/MScR students and
students who obtain funding directly from sources including their national governments e.g. USA,
Nigeria, Denmark, Portugal, and The Czech Republic. The over-riding criterion used to appoint
research students is academic strength. Students are supported through effective and structured
training, informed by Research Council/QAA guidelines, that ensures their continued professional
development.

Each research student has a first supervisor plus one or more other supervisors and support from
the Director of Postgraduate Research Studies, Barker for IhSHA and Coxon for CAHSCR;
Coxon is also the Training Lead for the South London NIHR (CL)AHRC, and McRae and Coxon
are both NIHR training advocates for clinical academic careers. The University’s Graduate
Research School (GRS) operates a Code of Practice that closely aligns with that of the QAA that
includes annual progression reporting/mapping and substantial report/viva at the end of year
one. Students in the Unit are aligned to Themes (Table 1), are integral to one of the two
Centres, and must actively engage in Centre/research area activities that include focus group
meetings, journal clubs, internal/external research seminars/talks, and Unit/University Research
Days where they must present their research. Students are also encouraged to engage in
initiatives such as Vitae’s ‘Three Minute Thesis’ (3MT) competition. The GRS provides
compulsory training in core multidisciplinary/ transferable skills (e.g. ethics, intellectual property,
personal development portfolio planning, thesis writing skills) and acts as a central point for further
support. Additional online research training is provided via the Epigeum suite of training courses.
Students can also demonstrate in undergraduate laboratory classes and training is provided.

                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Collective training/personal development is assessed during Annual Monitoring using the Vitae
Researcher Development Framework. Research students are also financially supported
through Unit and University funding streams to present at national/international conferences. Unit
research students attend the collaborative doctoral summer school held between KU, SGUL and
Roehampton University. In addition to this in-house training environment, many students receive
further support/training through collaboration with hospitals, companies, universities, and other
institutes (Section 4). In addition to these structures/ processes, on-site support is also available for
CAHSCR-based students from the Joint Research and Enterprise Office at SGUL/ St George’s
University Hospital NHS Foundation Trust. A Unit member sits on the University Research Ethics
Committee, which provides guidance on student development for ethics procedures. In terms of
EDI, research students gain (i) equal opportunity for bursary support; (ii) equal access to internal
conference funding and Gold open access funding for PhD students irrespective of status (part-
time, full-time, or otherwise); and (iii) registration extension to support research students
experiencing health difficulties (evaluated through the Research Degrees Committees).

Research students are provided dedicated laboratory space within clusters of laboratories
or large designated collaborative research spaces (e.g. within the new Integrated Research
Laboratory or Clinical Research Facility) and individual workstations in communal postgraduate
research rooms/suites to foster interaction, collaboration and discussion. The new Town
House Project (completed 2020) incorporates extensive library and seminar facilities and provides
further research-orientated space; in addition, students based in CAHSCR have direct access to
the Medical School library at SGUL.

The need to do research that is internationally competitive and impactful is instilled through
student support/training. This serves to deliver successful completions and publications, enabling
students to move on to prestigious research posts thereafter (e.g. postdoctoral positions at Imperial
College, University College London, University of Oxford, University of Sheffield). Our research
students have been successful in achieving prestigious awards such as: the Geoffrey Phillips
Analytical Science Award (2014), 3MT semi-finalist (2017); National Cancer Research Institute
Award (2015); International Graduate Student Award from American Association of Pharmaceutical
Scientists, Scholarships from the British Federation of Women Graduates (2017), Pharmacy
Practice Research UK, and Royal Society of Chemistry.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research Income

There has been a steady rise in research income to the Unit over the period with income at
~£5.65M. This represents a ‘like-for-like’ ~4.3-fold uplift in funding compared to ~£1.28M
captured by the Unit in the previous REF period.

Research funding during the assessment period has been captured from highly competitive
sources as detailed in REF4, including: the Royal Society, BBSRC, MRC, EPSRC, NIHR, EU
ERASMUS, EU FP6/FP7, EU H2020, Wellcome Trust, The Royal Society for Chemistry, Diabetes
UK, TSB/Innovate UK, GSK, Boehringer Ingelheim International GmbH, BRIGHT charity, BHF,
WADA, LGC, DSTL (MOD), and Fight for Sight. Unit researchers have secured a total of 14 NIHR
grants in the period. Support in kind includes acquisition of research equipment (e.g. two mass
spectrometers and facilities for oral health research) and services. Beam time access at the ISIS
neutron and Muon Source (UKRI) was £87k (REF4c). As indicated by the awards, our externally
funded research supports both basic research and research with a translational focus, including
those projects (e.g. NIHR, WADA, the IOC, Arthritis Research UK-funded) that have underpinned
our seven ICSs.

The Unit’s strategy for generating research income and diversifying source (as detailed within
Sections 1 and 2) is broadly to: (i) support staff members (especially ECRs) with research grant
applications through mentoring, sabbaticals, grant writing and impact workshops, and pump
priming funds to generate preliminary data; (ii) perform internal peer review to further support the

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
writing of high-quality research applications; (iii) manage staff work-loads to enable the writing of a
greater number of high-quality applications; (iv) build on existing relationships with funders,
including those with whom impact has been generated; (v) build on research and impact
collaborations both nationally and internationally; and (vi) enable staff to successfully deliver on a
research project once funding has been achieved through management of staff time/
responsibilities. The enhanced award capture from diverse income source when compared with
that reported in REF2014 demonstrates that our strategy is working. The approaches will therefore
remain broadly similar for the next REF period. Income generation will be monitored at quarterly
Unit meetings to ensure income generation aligns with sensible targets.

3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

A significant proportion of the University’s infrastructure development continues to be
focused on the health, life and social sciences, with the Unit being a key beneficiary. In total,
Unit research is conducted within four major facilities (buildings) at the two sites.

For IhSHA, one large facility (Eadweard Muybridge building, constructed 2001, £10M) incorporates
research space (~1500 m2) that includes extensive modern synthesis facilities, instrumentation
suites, physiology/biomechanics/blood analysis laboratories, biomedical laboratories, microscopy
suites, and research student offices. A further facility supporting additional IhSHA research (~300
m2) houses separate modern suites for pathogen research, molecular microbiology/GM, tissue
culture, natural products analysis, cell signalling, histology, immunology, and microscopy/image
analysis. A new infrastructure development (2008/9, £20M) comprising 65 lecture/seminar/
conference rooms has enabled other spaces to be re-purposed for research/teaching across the
life/pharmaceutical sciences; these include a biotechnology/ molecular biology suite (2011/2,
~£1.1M), NMR suite (2010, ~£0.5M), several tissue culture facilities and further molecular
laboratories (2009/10; ~£1.5M) totaling an additional ~300 m2 for allied health profession and
pharmaceutics research. A bid for a new ~350 m2 Interdisciplinary Research Laboratory was
successful (2013/14, ~£2M). This new laboratory incorporates extensive tissue culture facilities
(e.g. 10 tissue culture hoods), proteomic and biochemistry laboratories with new equipment, a
sequencing room, a collaborative discussion space and a bioinformatics core. This recent addition
that has expanded research infrastructure, complements pre-existing resource and provides extra
research facilities and collaboration space.

In 2017 CAHSCR moved to new research premises; this move ensured the co-location of
postdoctoral researchers and research students with senior researchers and clinicians. CAHSCR
is located in the middle of a large hospital which brings benefits in terms of clinically related
collaboration. It has facilitated joint learning (seminars and conferences), exchanges such as
visiting appointments (e.g. Jarman from St George’s Emergency Department) and several
research-based collaborations that have helped drive impact (see ICSs).

Thus, funds from HEFCE/University initiatives (totaling over £8M in the last decade) have
enabled sustained improvement of research facilities. Improvements comprising laboratory
refurbishment and new build (above) housing major equipment include among other
instrumentation 400 and 600 MHz NMR Bruker spectrometers, ICP-MS, ICP-AES, 3 x LC-MS/MS,
2 x GC-MS, laser infrared microscope, laser Raman spectrophotometer, X-ray diffractometer, high-
resolution SEM (Zeiss), 2 x CLSM (including new Zeiss 800 LSM), flow cytometers/FACS,
BodPod, protein synthesis equipment, and Ion-Torrent sequencer (equipment acquisitions
totaling in excess of ~£2.5M). Equipment donations over the same duration valued at ~£0.5M
include LC-MS/MS, MS/MS, incubators, microscopes, PCR and other instrumentation. All smaller
items of equipment (e.g. nanodrops, fluorescence/luminescence plate readers, LiCor Odyssey
Imaging system, Floid imaging systems) are state-of-the-art and are replaced on a rolling capital
equipment programme. Importantly, all academic research staff and other researchers have full
access to the above facilities. There are no access charges for the use of large items of equipment
(e.g. SEM/CLSM) unless specific project funding is held, enabling cutting edge research to take
place even in the absence of a project grant.


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Substantial additional laboratory space and computational/engineering equipment exist elsewhere
in the University and these are being developed to foster diverse and interdisciplinary work
including that between Allied Health researchers, engineers, mathematicians and computer
scientists. Unit members can also use the newly refurbished (2015) Clinical Research Facility
(480 m2) incorporating six examination/treatment rooms and a sample processing laboratory,
which benefits our clinically orientated research. Thus, considerable infrastructure exists to further
expand research, collaboration, and impact. Unit scientists also have access to wide-ranging
complementary state-of the-art equipment at SGUL, through reciprocal research equipment
arrangements.

In addition to the above core research facilities that support directly our research and impact (see
ICSs) through enabling our basic and translational science, we have also built a new Science
Outreach Centre and have taken delivery of two state-of-the-art portable laboratories (‘Labs
in Lorries’) (total ~£3M). The mobile laboratories are equipped with interactive resources such as
patient simulator robots, electrocardiogram, a range of microscopes and portable analytical
instruments for studies in nutrition, forensic science and health sciences. These facilities, together
with the Centre for Public Engagement based in CAHSCR, enable us to engage the public, schools
and colleges in our research and education, both on- and off-site.

Governance and planning for research infrastructure and facilities is conducted through
equipment user and planning groups. Within the Unit, core facilities are operated wherever
possible to enable broad usage. Cohesion in the Unit’s research and research Centres makes
structured facilities planning viable, so that maximum benefit is gained from facilities and
infrastructure resource. Finally, the University’s New Town House project (~£50M, completed
2020) and adjacent to existing IhSHA facilities provide world class library and seminar space for
researchers to work and collaborate.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Because research can be actively enhanced through interaction, collaboration remains
important to the Unit’s strategy. Thus, we work to maintain and develop strong partnerships that
underpin collaborative research. Specific mechanisms to achieve this are detailed elsewhere as
they underpin our research strategy and are also relevant to staff development (Sections 1 and 2).
Unit arrangements to facilitate the development of research projects with academic colleagues in
other institutions, both in the UK and overseas include: (i) deployment of QR funds to support Unit
staff attendance at research conferences, workshops and collaborative meetings; (ii) allocation of
short research sabbaticals to support periods of collaborative work where required, particularly to
pump prime novel ideas; (iii) time allocated to build and generate collaborative grant applications;
(iv) monies for collaborative PhD studentships; and (iv) monies to support potential collaborators to
attend the University for short visits, often as part of a seminar series.

4.1 External Collaborations within the Unit

A high proportion (91%) of outputs submitted for review include external collaborations.
Collectively, these collaborations, which span all research Themes, serve to enhance the Unit’s
research by drawing on specific academic expertise, both nationally and internationally, to benefit
defined research projects. This in turn promotes an external-facing collaborative research
environment which advances opportunities for all Unit staff and associated research students.




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Table 2. Co-authorships within the total pool of submitted outputs highlighting collaboration with
UK universities and other research institutes (top 30 shown, excluding companies, hospitals
and NHS Trusts) by IhSHA and CAHSCR staff. The number of collaborations shown is at the level
of the organisation and not with individual research groups.
 Total number of separate collaborations (counted per university/institutes): 330
 University                                 No.    University                               No.
 King’s College London                      44     Royal Holloway University of London      6
 University College London                  29     University of Cardiff                    6
 University of Oxford                       17     Natural History Museum London            5
 Imperial College                           15     University of Leicester                  5
 Brunel University London                   12     University of York                       5
 University of Southampton                  11     Heriot-Watt University                   4
 St George’s University of London           9      University of Liverpool                  4
 University of Surrey                       9      University of Manchester                 4
 London School Hygiene & Trop Med           8      University of Nottingham                 4
 Queen Mary University of London            8      Loughborough University                  3
 University of Cambridge                    8      Queens University Belfast                3
 University of Leeds                        8      Swansea University                       3
 University of Birmingham                   7      University of Brighton                   3
 University of Warwick                      7      University of Bristol                    3
 City University                            6      University of Hertfordshire              3
                                                   Others (51 universities/institutes)      71

Table 3. Co-authorships identified within the total pool of submitted outputs highlighting
international collaboration (top 20 countries shown) by IhSHA and CAHSCR staff. The number
of collaborations shown is at the level of country and not research organisation.
 Total number of separate collaborations (counted per Institution): 356 in 46 countries
 Country            No. Example Institutions
 USA                81 Howard Hughes Medical Institute; US Dept Agriculture; Universities:
                          Oregon State, Harvard, Illinois at Chicago, Washington, Texas A&M
 Australia          27 La Trobe University; Monash University; University of Queensland
 Germany            26 University of Tubingen; Ludwig-Maximillians University Munich
 The                24 Leiden University; Utrecht University; Vrije University
 Netherlands
 Finland            22 University of Helsinki; University of Turku; University of Oulu
 Spain              22 University of Grenada; Bellvitge Biomedical Research Institute
 Sweden             22 Karolinska Institute; University of Lund; Uppsala University
 France             17 University of Angers; University of Perpignan; Paris Descartes
                          University
 Italy              16 University Hospital Genoa; University of Turin; University of Pisa
 Denmark            11 University of Copenhagen; Aarhus University
 Canada             7     University of Toronto; University of Western Ontario
 China              7     Zhejiang University; Nanjing University; Wuhan Institute of Virology
 Greece             7     Aristotle University; University of Thessaloniki
 Ireland            7     NUI Galway; University Hospital Dublin; University College Dublin
 New Zealand        7     University of Canterbury Christchurch; University of Auckland
 Egypt              6     Cairo University; Minya University
 Norway             5     Norwegian Institute of Public Health; Molde University College
 Singapore          4     National University of Singapore, Agency for Science & Technology
 Turkey             4     Istanbul University; Koc University
 Switzerland        3     Geneva University Hospital
 Others (26 other 31 University of Graz (Austria); University of Lisbon (Portugal); Kyoto
 countries)               University (Japan); Ghent University Hospital (Belgium)



                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
These academic collaborations are particularly strong with 15 universities proximal to KU in the
South East of England, and a further 15 country-wide (Table 2). In total, the submitted outputs
highlight 330 output-specific collaborations across 76 UK universities and five other research
institutions such as the Wellcome Sanger Institute and Natural History Museum London.

Wide-ranging international collaborations are also evidenced through the submitted
research outputs. These are represented by 356 separate output-specific collaborations
(measured at the institutional level) across 46 different countries (Table 3).

In addition, several Unit members have Honorary posts (e.g. visiting Professorial/research
appointments) to facilitate national/international research collaborations in the basic and applied
health sciences. These include those with universities in Australia (Drennan, Hurley), New
Zealand (Alany, Jones F), Ireland and France (Aldabbagh), China (Drennan), Sweden, Germany
(Petróczi), the USA (Dorak), Norway and the Netherlands (Chambers, Hurley), Brazil
(Chambers) and the UK (Busquets, Walker, Lawton).

4.2 Relationship with Industry, the Public Sector, Economy and Society

The relationship of the Unit’s research with industry, the economy, and the public sector is
strong and is fostered through active research collaboration and translational research
activities (Section 1, research outputs, and ICSs). As evident in the outputs submitted, 49 links
with NHS partners exist, augmented through additional work with medical schools. There are
collaborations with NHS institutions and clinicians in 28 different NHS Foundation Trusts
across the UK as well as primary care and care homes, including with St George’s Hospital
Trust, particularly through CAHSCR, and others including Kingston Hospital (Arrigoni, Ashrafi,
Modjtahedi), Croydon University Hospital (El Nabhani, Kayyali), Barts (Harries), Royal Marsden
and Royal Surrey County Hospitals (El Nabhani; Modjtahedi), New Victoria Hospital (Kingston)
(Ashrafi), the Royal London (Chioni), St Mary’s, and Guys and St Thomas’s (Coxon).
Collaborations exist with NHS mental health, community and ambulance trusts, primary care and
third sector health and social care organisations (e.g. care homes) in diverse research areas
including dementia care, out of hospital urgent and emergency care, cardiac care, health and
social care of people with learning disabilities, health and social care of older adults living at home,
workforce development, and patient attitude (between staff including Drennan, Chambers, Jones
F, Quinn, and Tuffrey-Wijne). Collectively these relationships have and continue to enable
researchers to access patients/patient samples and work with clinicians, linking needs-based
applied research to outcomes that benefit society. For example, work with the Croydon University
Hospital includes an Innovate UK-funded project (OPTIMAL; £197K) linked with Exus Ltd (Section
1), and collaborations with several NHS ambulance services, include two major NIHR HTA-funded
trials in out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (PARAMEDIC, PARAMEDIC-2) and a BHF funded study
(~£107K) exploring use/impact of the prehospital electrocardiogram in heart attack patients
(PHECG2).

Relationships with other national/international government organisations and agencies are
wide-ranging and include, for example, links with the Royal College of Midwives and
BirthChoiceUK (Coxon), AHVLA (Fielder), WADA (Petróczi), UK Sport (Petróczi), EFSA
(Naughton), LGC Ltd (Le Gresley, Naughton), DSTL Porton Down (Karlyshev), MRC Clinical
Sciences Centre (Hammersmith) (Arrigoni), NHS England (Tuffrey-Wijne, Chambers, Quinn,
Drennan) and the Institute for Cancer Research Sutton (Chioni, Modjtahedi). Collaboration with
industry is also strong, particularly within IhSHA (e.g. Alany, Aldabbagh, Ashrafi, Barker,
Busquets, El Nabhani, Fielder, Karlyshev, Kayyali, Le Gresley, Moir, Modjtahedi, Naughton,
Petróczi), spanning many sectors, to support innovation, especially that which aims to deliver
impact. Examples of collaborative projects/advisory work done in the period within industry
and/or continuing within the Unit include those with UCB Manufacturing (drug development),
Vantix Ltd, TwistDX (microbial detection), GSK (oral health/drug development), Exus Ltd
(innovation management), Boehringer-Ingelheim (cancer therapeutics), Tottenham Hotspur
Football Club (post-match recovery), Profeet Sports Lab (gait and foot analysis for injury patterns),
LGC Ltd (analytics and standards), Observia (personalized medicines), Mast Carbon International,

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Alleva Animal Heath and Immodulon Therapeutics (immunotherapy). Collectively, these valuable
interactions serve to increase the vitality, reach and impact of our research on business and
broader society.

4.3 Peer Review, Advisory Roles, and Public Engagement

Unit staff are recognised for their scientific expertise and peer review for over 70 funding bodies
that include: National Science Foundation (USA), CRUK, The Grant Agency of the Czech
Republic, Wellcome Trust, Leverhulme Trust, The Nuffield Foundation, BHF, Stroke Association,
Arthritis Research UK, NIHR, BBSRC, EPSRC, MRC, and the EU. Furthermore, staff have served
on 47 funding committees/panels (Table 4) within this REF period. Prominent examples include:
Aldabbagh, member of the EPSRC Associated College; Hurley, Chair of Arthritis Research UK
Fellowship Committee; Walker, expert panel member (Seeding Drug Discovery), Wellcome Trust;
Boaz and Drennan, members of the NIHR Health Services and Research Delivery Board, NIHR
research for Patient Benefit (London) panel and NIHR Programme grants for applied research;
Harries, member of the NIHR Prioritisation Committee C and NIHR/HEE Clinical Doctoral
Research Fellowships Panel; and Petrózci, Assessor/Advisory Board Member for the
Commonwealth Scholarship Commission. Harries and Chambers have also been appointed
REF2021 sub-panel members for UoA3.

Table 4. Summary statistics for contribution to the research base, economy and society.
 Awards and Roles
 Prizes / Honours            41       Funding Panel Membership                       47
 Fellow of Learned or        37       Advisory (e.g. Professional and regulatory,    77
 Professional Society                 NHS, Government, NGO)

 Journal Editorship          19       Conference            Plenary/invited          245

 Journal Editorial Board     64       Talks                 Other                    305
 Membership

Staff members with advisory Committee Roles (77 roles in total; Table 4) have made/continue to
make substantial contributions to the discipline in the review period. The more prominent
contributions include: President of the Malacological Society of London (Walker); President of the
Society for Applied Microbiology, Member of the Scientific Advisory Committee for Responsible
Use of Medicines in Agriculture, Advisor to the Clinical and Laboratory Sciences Institute, and
Member of the Parliamentary and Scientific Committee UK Antimicrobial Resistance Diagnostic
Collaborative Task and Finish Group (Fielder); Chair of the WADA Expert Group on Doping
Prevalence (Petróczi); World Health Organization European Advisory Committee on Health
Research (Boaz); Clinical Director of NHS Health Innovation Network (South London AHSN)
(Hurley); Vice Chair of Council and Chair of R&D Board Royal College of Occupational Therapists
(Harries); Chair of the External Working Review Group of the European Food Standards Agency
(EFSA), Scientific Expert for EFSA, and Member of the Government Chemist Programme Expert
Group (Naughton); Steering Committee Member at the Environmental Protection Agency, Ireland
(Busquets).

Members of the Unit have also been involved in the organisation of over 40 conferences in the
review period and have been invited to speak/give plenary talks at 550 conferences and
symposia in the UK and overseas (Table 4).

Unit members hold 19 editorships and 64 editorial board positions on a range of international
journals highlighting the Unit’s expertise across the discipline. Examples include: Parasites &
Vectors (Walker, Section Editor/Board); Pharmaceutical Development and Technology (Alany,
Editor-in-Chief); Current Drug Delivery (Alany, Board); Journal of Molluscan Studies (Walker,
Associate Editor); Frontiers Journals (Dorak, Associate Editor); Genes and Immunity (Dorak,

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Board); Chemistry Central Journal (Barker and Naughton, Founding Editors/Board); Evidence &
Policy (Boaz, Founding Editor); Health Expectations (Chambers, Associate Editor); Molecular
Genetics, Microbiology and Virology (Karlyshev, Board); European Heart Journal (Quinn, Board);
Journal of Advanced Nursing (Drennan, Board) International Journal of Oncology (Modjtahedi,
Board); Oncology Reports (Modjtahedi, Board); Molecules (Naughton, Section Editor);
Biomarkers, Psychology of Sport and Exercise (Petróczi, Board); and Microorganisms (Snyder;
Board). All Unit staff members undertake peer-review for acclaimed international journals.

The above advisory positions have enabled Unit members to influence funding decisions, policy
agendas, strategic priorities and development in a broad range of organisations in diverse sectors
that include charities, government agencies, learned societies and other professional bodies, and
industry. They also serve to highlight the diverse communities with which we interact. They provide
for a rich sustainable research environment which addresses societal challenges, particularly those
relating to complex issues pertaining to the improvement of health and wellbeing.

We actively engage the public and enhance the awareness of science and have built and
developed enabling facilities that include a dedicated Outreach Centre, two ‘Labs in a Lorry’ and
the Centre for Public Engagement (Sections 1.3 and 3.2). To date the ‘Labs in a lorry’ have
attended over 100 individual events (e.g. Big Bang Fair, Festival of science, New Scientist Live),
reaching well over 10,000 individuals, and the Outreach Centre supports numerous school events,
Society events (e.g. Royal Society of Chemistry Schools analyst competition) and the Annual Civic
reception (typically 13 talks, 40 stands, exhibitions and displays; ~400 attendees). We also run a
monthly ‘Café Scientifique’. Additional activities have included the Royal Society of Chemistry
‘Spectroscopy in a Suit Case’ and the National Science and Engineering Saturday Club. The
Saturday Club, which gives young people aged 14-16 the opportunity to study science and
engineering in a fun, informal, university environment was inaugurated at KU and has been running
for four years in partnership with The Sorrell Foundation. Our experts are often interviewed by the
media (e.g. BBC, Sky News), especially Fielder, a leading public speaker on infectious disease
with longstanding research in zoonosis, hospital infections, and antibiotic resistance, who
frequently contributes to print/broadcast on these topics, and more recently on Covid-19 (80
interviews/Q&A sessions on Covid-19 related topics done in the period). Other engagement
examples include a behaviour study to impart healthy lifestyles and anti-doping educational
programmes which helped to reduce smoking rates (involving 1,445 students) funded by the UK
National Prevention Research Initiative (NPRI) and an anti-doping ‘Safe You’ project (funded by
ERASMUS+) - delivered across five nations via a pan-European consortium - designed to reach
the public raising awareness through online videos and is flagged by the European Commission as
a ‘success story’ and a ‘good practice example’ (Petróczi).

Finally, Medals, Awards, and Honours (41 within the review period, Table 4) received by Unit
researchers include The Queen’s Honours MBE (Drennan, Jones F), International Trial of the
Year Award (Society for Clinical Trials, Quinn), Royal Society of Chemistry Exceptional Service
Award (Barker), Fujitsu Award for Outstanding Research Impact on Health and Wellbeing (Quinn),
and the Royal Society of Public Health Award, NHS England National Innovation Accelerator
Fellowship for ESCAPE-pain and Joint Pain programmes, and British Society of Rheumatology
Best Practice Award (Hurley).




                                                                                          Page 20
