Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University

 Unit of Assessment: Sociology

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 Sociology is a long-standing subject area, located in the School of Geography, Politics and
 Sociology at Newcastle University, the second largest School in the Faculty of Humanities and
 Social Sciences (HaSS). We constitute a group of 25 Teaching and Research (T&R) colleagues
 (compared with 19 at REF2014), alongside seven Research Associates/Assistants, three
 Teaching and Scholarship (T&S) colleagues and 27 professional services staff working across
 the School. We host a Research Centre, Policy, Ethics and Life Sciences (PEALS), which
 marked its 20th year in 2019. Across the REF period we have explored core sociological areas of
 contemporary importance, while embracing the benefits of interdisciplinarity through investing in
 expertise in areas such as social anthropology and bioethics. Our research agenda is influenced
 by the School’s and University’s prioritisation of research aimed at addressing inequality,
 disadvantage, exclusion and social injustice. Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) shape our
 research priorities, as well as how we manage and develop unit activity including recruitment,
 colleague development, progression, workload allocation and REF planning.

 The School provides a critical mass of infrastructure and professional services support, while as
 a subject area we have autonomy to direct our research priorities. We are guided by our
 principal objective articulated in REF2014: to enhance our sustainability in carrying out high
 quality, internationally recognised research with significant impact that contributes to the vitality
 of Sociology. This has been pursued in a period of change - in the context of the retirement of
 senior staff - by primarily investing in early career academics, which has expanded our
 international profile and supported key areas of research prioritisation. Half of our research staff
 joined us during this REF period and the profile of seniority to early career has been deliberately
 geared to sustainability. In REF2014, Chairs and Readers made up half our submission; in this
 submission the majority of colleagues are SLs, Lecturers and Fellows. As a result of our
 recruitment approach our current profile is more international (40% of our research staff
 compared with 25% REF 2014) and female (72% compared with 63% REF2014).

 We have over 50 research relationships with non-academic groups across the policy, practice,
 NGO, and civil society spheres. Regional relationships are a particular emphasis, in keeping with
 the University’s Place and Engagement strategy. Longstanding research partnerships with the
 Newcastle Hospitals Foundation Trust are particularly important to our scope of influence and
 impact. At the same time, we have global reach through our collaborations with groups such as
 Plan International, and the International Rare Disease Research Consortium. Within the
 university we are important to initiatives shaping research strategy and EDI initiatives. Reflecting
 our longstanding work with the NHS, we are centrally involved in the approved NUCoRE
 (Newcastle University Centres of Research Excellence) (ILES 2.2.1) for Rare Diseases, which is
 a collaboration with clinical researchers based at the Newcastle Hospitals Foundation Trust. We
 have been awarded two Newcastle University Academic Career Track (NUAcT) Fellows (highly
 competitive fellowships with five years of research time, research funding and a PhD
 studentship, followed by an open-ended lectureship (ILES 3.2.4)) - one of the very few Units
 across the University to receive two. We participate in Faculty initiatives enabling
 interdisciplinary collaboration across the social sciences and arts and humanities. We are
 particularly central to the work of the Institute of Social Sciences, leading on events and activities
 that progress interdisciplinary work with a strong social purpose. The University became a Gold
 supporter of the Campaign for Social Sciences in 2020 due to our advocacy. We also have a
 role in cross subject research groups, including Cultures of Memory, Medical Humanities, and
 Gender.

 Important University EDI initiatives (internally and externally directed) benefit from our expertise.
 Two colleagues (Campbell and Verma) led the development of a University BAME staff network

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in 2017, while another (Scully), previously chaired the University Disability Interest Group.
 McAreavey and Shildrick are members of the University Social Justice Advisory Group and
 helped organise the University Listening Campaign for the Real Living Wage (now
 implemented). Blell is participating in the implementation of the Wellcome Trust Reimagine
 Research Culture Initiative (2020-).

 Research Strategy
 The UoA went through a transition period following REF2014 to review our research thematic
 focus and revise our structures for providing research support, culture and direction, and to plan
 for the Unit’s long-term sustainability. The process involved all staff and PGR students.

 We:
   (1) Confirmed which existing research themes to retain as important and relevant to us, to
       School and University priorities, to funders and to areas of societal concern.
   (2) Identified research areas to expand to guide staff recruitment.
   (3) Agreed to maintain research clusters as a vehicle for expressing our research strengths
       externally and also as spaces for providing research support and culture within our group
       for both staff and PGRs.
   (4) Identified specific activities and support mechanisms to be led by research leadership
       roles, which sit alongside School, Faculty and University mechanisms.

 Through this process we identified three distinct research clusters that encapsulate our shared
 research excellence and expertise, including that of PEALS as a Research Centre. Due to the
 involvement of all colleagues in shaping the clusters and the strategy of recruiting to each, all
 colleagues have a home within them. Staff and PGRs, including those in PEALS, selected which
 cluster they primarily identified with, but were also encouraged to join activities and see their
 research interests reflected in other clusters. Through the clusters we meet regularly to develop
 research topics and work and pursue collective activities such as workshops, seminars and joint
 writing and bid development.

 Research Clusters and PEALS

 Identities, Embodiments and Selves
 Reflecting the depth of our work in identities, sexualities and embodiment, as acknowledged by
 the REF panel in 2014, we have retained and updated this cluster. Projects funded by
 Leverhulme, NIHR, EU and Wellcome Trust are enabling research to explore: 1) How
 marginalised sexual identities emerge within and through contests over rights and citizenship,
 work which is both internationally recognised and located (Casey, Richardson, Seely [new
 appointment], Sifaki [new appointment]). Areas of work include post-trafficking in Nepal,
 sexuality politics in the Global South, and sexualities and nationalism in Greece. 2) How modes
 of embodiment and embodied relations are re-shaped by innovations in medicine (Graham,
 McLaughlin, Rees [new appointment], Tarr [new appointment]). Areas of work include: the
 relationship between patient experiences and identities and medical practices and innovations,
 health professional identities and organisational settings, innovative creative and participatory
 methodologies for studying chronic illness and different embodiments.

 Power, Inequalities and Citizenship
 This cluster was revised in 2014 (from social change and transformation) as a result of
 committing to research that engages with the social problems created by growing inequalities
 and injustice. Projects funded by ESRC are enabling research to explore: 1) Contemporary
 inequalities and the material factors that contribute to their continuity in areas such as education,
 childhood and intergenerational poverty, migration and rural life (McAreavey [new appointment],
 Pasztor and Shildrick [new appointment]). 2) Ethnicity and religious dynamics of recognition/mis-
 recognition and belonging/non-belonging as a citizen in the UK, Europe and the Middle East
 (Dobbernack, Harries and Pasquetti [all new appointments]). In 2019 the North East Child
 Poverty Commission (NECPC) moved after a competitive tender to the Unit and Cluster. The
 Commission brings together regional local authorities, the voluntary sector and Government

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 agencies to advocate for action to improve the lives of children growing up in poverty in the
 North East of England. It is funded by the Millfield House Foundation (2019-2022) and Shildrick
 is its academic lead.

 Imagining Pasts and Futures
 This cluster is a result of the 2014 internal review and reflects our unit’s interdisciplinary
 strengths in social anthropology, science and technology studies and cultural studies. It
 examines constructions of pasts and futures contained in individual, collective and state
 imaginaries and practices. Projects funded by AHRC, Leverhulme and EPSRC are enabling
 research to explore: 1) How personhood emerges through the interaction of the everyday with
 broader narrative imaginaries and material possibilities, in contexts such as ageing, youth
 transition, and socio-political change (Degnen, Gafijczuk, Gallinat, Winkler-Reid [new
 appointment]). 2) Interdisciplinary examinations of past, present and future relationships to
 nature, in both fictional representations and in contestations over the climate emergency
 (Garforth, Verma [new appointment]). 3) Reinventions of societal institutions and spaces through
 new technologies and cultural movements in fields such as policing, smart cities and cultural
 industries (Campbell, Hollands).

 Policy, Ethics and Life Sciences Research Centre (PEALS)
 PEALS, which was founded in 1999, has an international reputation for interdisciplinary
 research into and with the life sciences and for its contributions to responsible research and
 innovation. It collaborates with scientists, clinicians, patients and wider publics to sociologically
 and ethically evaluate the implications of developments in the life sciences. It first became
 known for its research on the impact of new reproductive and genomic technologies and new
 treatment and research approaches to rare diseases. This work has continued in this REF cycle
 through projects funded by Wellcome Trust and the EU on mitochondrial research egg providers,
 contests over the legitimate uses of reproductive technologies and involvement in scientific
 projects working on muscular dystrophy (Haimes, McCormack [new appointment]). These
 existing areas of interest have been expanded by funding from EPSRC, Wellcome, ESRC and
 MRC to look at newer areas of life science innovation, including synthetic biology and the
 management of patient data in international clinical research trials (Blell [new appointment],
 Woods).

 Impact Strategy
 Our impact and research strategies are by necessity closely connected: we prioritise research
 that has policy, practitioner and social and cultural purpose geared towards tackling inequality,
 disadvantage, exclusion and social injustice. This prioritisation is echoed in the School Impact
 Manifesto (2020), and the University’s 2021 Vision of One University without Walls. Our fit with
 institutional strategy provides the infrastructural support, including access to funding, that
 sustains our impact commitment.

 Three strategic foci encapsulate the overarching strategy, the ICSs submitted are examples of
 the ways in which we pursue and succeed in creating impact in these areas:

    •   Impacts on creativity, culture and society. Hollands’ case study on the role of
        alternative night life and festivals in European cities exemplifies our commitment to
        supporting cultural initiatives, which look beyond commercial success to sustain societal
        solidarity and vitality.
    •   Impacts on public policy, law and services. McLaughlin’s case study of working with
        disability and carer organisations to successfully advocate for local authorities to improve
        accessible public toilet provision exemplifies our commitment to working collaboratively
        with marginalised groups to improve public services.
    •   Impacts on practitioners and delivery of professional services, enhanced
        performance or ethical practice. Woods' and McCormack's case study from PEALS
        highlight’s their long-term work with patient groups to shape the direction and approach
        of rare genetic diseases research exemplifies our commitment to use social science
        research as a tool for improving practitioner and policy making decision making.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Open Research and Research Integrity
 We encourage the wide dissemination of both research outputs and data, while also containing
 distinctive expertise in the ethical challenges of open sharing. Colleagues are supported to
 develop data management plans for research proposals, including making use of the
 University’s Research Data Repository. We are actively planning for Plan S. The Unit is
 fortunate to have a specialist in research integrity: Woods is University Convenor for Research
 Integrity and Ethics (2020-), UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN) institutional representative, and
 University Research Ethics Committee Member (2018-), as well as having been the Deputy
 Chair (2016-2020) of the HaSS Faculty Ethics Committee. He is also a key figure within the NHS
 Health Research Authority (see Section 4).

 Research and Impact Strategy going forward
 Our strategy over the next five years is to: sustain and develop a research environment that
 nurtures research of the highest quality, values diverse forms of excellence, has social impact
 locally and globally and which makes a substantial mark in both sociology and interdisciplinary
 exchanges.

 As part of this strategy we are currently reviewing two areas of possible research collaboration in
 areas of urgent social concern:

    •   The significance of stigma to the lives of people experiencing crime, disability, poverty
        and sexual exploitation (Casey, McLaughlin, Richardson, Shildrick).
    •   The long-term implications of Brexit and Covid-19 for the those located in marginalised
        communities (Degnen, Harries, McAreavey).

 We have established a series of research and impact objectives and identified how we will
 implement them.

  Objectives                                     Areas of Implementation (2021-2026)
  Strengthen research expertise and activity     1) Increase our involvement in
  in areas of inequality, disadvantage,             interdisciplinary collaborative and rapid
  exclusion and social injustice.                   response calls.
                                                 2) Appoint a Lecturer in Sociology of
                                                    Crime who will develop work on stigma
                                                    and inequality (post approved and
                                                    advertised November 2020).
                                                 3) Professorial appointment with
                                                    significant experience of collaborative,
                                                    interdisciplinary research income
                                                    capture (post approved, advertised
                                                    February 2021).
  Expand our partnerships with community,        1) Use the presence of the NECPC to
  cultural, and public sector organisations at      extend our policy and practice
  the regional, national and international          partnerships.
  levels to embed co-production and impact       2) Ensure colleagues take up impact
  in the lifecycle of our research.                 training opportunities the university
                                                    provides such as the Policy, Skills,
                                                    Enterprise and Global Challenges
                                                    Academies.
  Develop more internal and external             1) Map the current impact activities of
  collaborative approaches to impact                colleagues to identify synergies and
  development and activity.                         thematics to support.
                                                 2) Create events, opportunities and
                                                    dialogue with current and future impact
                                                    collaborators.


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Objectives                                     Areas of Implementation (2021-2026)
  Review the future direction and structure      1) Undertake an external review of
  of PEALS in light of changes in life science      PEALS to examine its research
  innovation.                                       strategies and priorities.
                                                 2) PEALS colleagues to continue to
                                                    engage with NUCoREs, building on
                                                    their leading involvement in the Rare
                                                    Diseases NUCoRE.
  Continue to make a leading contribution to     1) Continue to be involved in NUCoRE
  the research values and priorities                developments such as proposals for
  articulated in the University’s 2021 Vision.      ones in the areas of Children, Young
                                                    People and Families, the Rural
                                                    Economy, and Innovation and Work.
                                                 2) Participate in university research
                                                    initiatives such as the National
                                                    Innovation Centre for Rural Enterprise
                                                    and the Institute of Social Science
                                                    2021 work on poverty.


 2. People

 People Profile
 At the census date our unit comprised 25 (24.5FTE) T&R colleagues, alongside seven Research
 Associates and three T&S colleagues. During the REF period we have had six retirements
 (Castro, Haimes, Outhwaite, Payne, Phillimore, Vail) and five colleagues have left to take up
 positions elsewhere (Lawler, Scully, Moreno Figueroa, Murtagh, Wessels). Our expansion is a
 result of:

    a. Institutional investment in the subject area; including £658,000 in PEALS which led to the
       appointment of one Chair (Murtagh, who has since departed as part of a major
       investment in data science at Glasgow University, but is being replaced at Chair level),
       one Senior Lecturer (McCormack) and a fixed term research associate (Wienroth, now a
       Vice-Chancellor’s Senior Fellow at Northumbria University), and the award of two NUAcT
       Fellows (Blell and Seely).

    b. Successful mentoring of early career researchers to win externally-funded fellowships
       (Sifaki and Verma).

 Our staffing profile going forward provides vitality and sustainability via lectureship appointments
 and NUAcT Fellowships, as well as leadership via senior appointments and promotions.

 Recruitment Processes
 EDI considerations shape recruitment processes, alongside research and impact priorities and
 ensuring innovative teaching provision. For all posts, applicants are asked to address how their
 work contributes to cluster/PEALS research expertise, as well as their approach to impact.
 Lectureship/SL level posts highlight specific areas of research focus (for example social
 inequalities and race and ethnicity have been the focus of the last three appointments).
 Reader/Chair posts have a strong focus on capacity for income generation and research
 leadership skills. Application information and language stresses our commitment to EDI and
 career progression. Recruitment committees for open contract posts across the REF period
 have all contained a mix of gender and career seniority. Short-listed candidates (we have had no
 all-male short lists) provide a presentation to all colleagues, including PGRs, and feedback is
 incorporated into the selection panel considerations. The NUAcT recruitment process includes a
 first phase short listing that is anonymised to avoid explicit and implicit bias.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We are actively committed to minimising short-term contracts and ensuring those on them
 (currently only Research Associates and Fellows) are provided with career development
 opportunities. Two colleagues on rolling one-year fixed-term teaching contracts were converted
 to open ended T&S contracts in 2018 and a third in 2020. Within our REF submission only
 Verma and Sifaki, who are funded by external fellowships, are fixed-term.

 We have a number of colleagues linked to research project funding who are fully integrated into
 the subject area. During the REF period we have had 21 postdoctoral RAs in total; at the census
 date we had one Senior Research Associate (Minion), 6 research associates (Baily, Holland,
 Machirori, Mulrine, Roberts, Wesser, Wilde) and one University funded fixed term Research
 Excellence Academy Fellow (Steggals). Several RAs have been supported to move to career
 enhancing positions here or elsewhere. For example, McCormack has moved from being a fixed
 term SRA to an open contract SL. The University is one of the first of 31 organisations in the UK
 to become signatories of the new Researcher Development Concordat, launched in September
 2019. We are contributing to the University’s commitment to it by designing training on research
 ethics and research integrity within the new Skills Academy (ILES 2.2.5). The Director of
 Research ensures PI’s fulfil their responsibilities within the concordat, for example, RAs have 10
 days pro rata for career development outwith the projects to which they are attached.

 Induction, Career Development and Promotions
 As part of induction, all new colleagues are provided with a mentor for their first two years (which
 coincides with the probationary period for all grades below Chair); they are also introduced to
 staff EDI networks they can join that relate to contexts such as gender, sexualities, disability,
 race and ethnicity, and caring responsibilities. New T&R colleagues, particularly ECRs, have
 reduced teaching and administrative roles for at least their first year. Each year our Head of
 Subject and Director of Research undertake Personal Research Plan (PRPs) meetings with
 each colleague (mandatory for T&R colleagues, but also offered to RAs and T&S). This meeting
 provides informal mentoring, focusing on strategic advice on research and impact plans and
 identifying areas for support. Everyone also undertakes an annual Performance Development
 Review (PDR), which is a broader and more formal exploration of activities, and – where
 relevant – probation is managed. All T&R colleagues are eligible for a semester of study leave
 after six semesters. Those who have carried senior administrative roles (Lead Degree
 Programme Director and Head of Subject) receive two semesters of leave. During the REF
 period we have had 18 periods of single semester leave and five periods of year-long
 sabbaticals amongst the colleagues submitted.

 We support colleagues’ research through a range of mechanisms, recently revised in light of
 ongoing EDI work. We have a transparent workload model for T&R and T&S colleagues, which
 is proactively used to allocate all research, teaching and administrative tasks. Colleagues
 undertaking substantial impact activities, including - but not only - those working on ICSs, are
 given additional hours in the workload model (200 hours in the final stages of REF preparation
 for ICS authors and 80 hours for people developing impact activity). Over the REF period the
 level of Individual Research Support Allowance allocated to all colleagues (including T&S posts
 and RAs) per year has grown: in 2019-20 it stood at £2,300, which was not pro-rated for part-
 time colleagues. The activities people can use these funds for has expanded. For example, it
 can be used to make conference and networking activity more feasible for people with caring
 responsibilities or disabilities, or for alternative research support such as training or equipment.
 The School has funded the development of an Early Career Network launched in 2015, an
 initiative led by a Sociology appointment (Winkler-Reid) for its first three years, which brings
 together self-defined early career T&R, T&S staff, contract researchers, and research fellows.
 Initiatives include promotions workshops and writing retreats. The University Returners Support
 Programme provides additional research support for people returning from parental leave,
 bereavement leave, or a career break due to caring responsibilities and has been used by two
 colleagues at different stages of their careers.

 Women have been in the key roles of Head of Sociology and Director of Research/REF
 Coordinator for the whole REF period. Timing of research meetings, training events, and

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 seminars is primarily scheduled within core hours of 9:30am – 3pm. Some seminars and social
 activities do occur after 3pm in recognition that not all care responsibilities revolve around the
 school day, and due to feedback from early career colleagues that some evening social
 interaction is welcomed.

 Promotion processes are overseen by the Head of School and Head of Subject. Senior staff
 provide one-to-one advice, including on draft applications. People Services provide briefings,
 and the Faculty introduced a mentoring scheme in 2018 for women applying to gain advice from
 senior female colleagues (including colleagues from our Unit). A series of promotions occurred
 during the REF period: (McCormack to SRA; Wienroth to SRA; Pasquetti and Winkler-Reid from
 Grade F to G, Garforth to SL; Gallinat and McAreavey to Reader and Degnen and Shildrick to
 Chair). In addition, three promotions (Harries to SL, Verma to SRA and Woods to Chair) were
 awarded in 2020. We have a success rate of 82% on promotion applications across the REF
 period. Promotions are monitored through the EDI data available to us and do not indicate
 gendered barriers to progression; however we recognise the data does not capture all possible
 issues, or other protected characteristics within our staff profile.

 Phased retirements are possible for colleagues, with the Head of Subject working with People
 Services and the colleague to identify the phasing approach appropriate to them – both in terms
 of timescale and the responsibilities to continue during the period. After retirement people can
 remain connected to us either through visiting positions (Payne, Phillimore, Selman and Vail) or
 Emeritus Professor status (Castro, Haimes and Outhwaite).

 PGR Colleagues
 PGR students are integral to our research community. We have been able to retain a strong
 community with 24 (no research-based professional doctorates) completing during the REF
 period, while 20 continuing and new PGR students are with us as the 2020/21 academic year
 begins, including three funded via the ESRC Northern Ireland and North East Doctoral Training
 Partnership (NINE DTP) and one via AHRC Northern Bridge DTP. The NINE DTP (£14m 2017-
 2021), successor to the North East Doctoral Training Partnership (NEDTC), is our main source
 of UKRI PGR studentships. Since 2018 it also hosts a Postdoctoral Fellowship scheme. We are
 part of the Sociology, Social Policy and Social Work pathway, plus three further interdisciplinary
 Pathways: Child, Youth and Family, Health, Wellbeing and Society and Human Geography.
 Across NEDTC and NINE DTP we have won 20 studentships. We also participate in other UKRI
 postgraduate training partnerships, which attract PhD students and extend the interdisciplinarity
 reach of our work. We co-supervise within the EPSRC Digital Civics CDT located in Computer
 Science (three students). We also have a steady presence of international students, both self-
 funded and funded via University scholarships from a range of countries including China, Ghana,
 India, Italy and Iran.

 PGRs all have a minimum of two supervisors, with ECRs matched with experienced supervisors.
 To be lead supervisor, a colleague must have supervised two PGRs to successful completion. A
 Learning Agreement is signed by new students and supervisors. All PGRs have a minimum of
 10 formal supervisions each year, which are minuted on E-Portfolio. Annual Progress Review
 meetings monitor progress, held by two other colleagues from the subject area. We follow HaSS
 policy for managing changes in supervision appropriately and we have a close working
 relationship with the Graduate School to manage Interruption of Studies, changes in registration,
 and problems in supervisory relationships. A key role for the PGR Director is the development
 and maintenance of the PGR research community. Career building workshops, co-developed
 with PGRs, are run every year, looking at topics such as: giving your first conference
 presentation, publishing and peer review, careers outside academia and fellowship funding
 possibilities.

 Postgraduate research training is primarily organised via the HASS Postgraduate Training
 Programme. Our colleague Tarr is Degree Programme Director for the HaSS Postgraduate
 Certificate in Research Training, which provides a formal teaching qualification to PGR students.
 Several colleagues also teach in the programme. We provide specialist ethics training, alongside

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sessions on ethnographic research and quantitative and qualitative analysis. Colleagues have
 worked with Durham University Anthropologists since 2005 to run an intensive interdisciplinary
 workshop Writing Across Boundaries for post-fieldwork PGRs, which improves participants’ skills
 in analysing and writing up ethnographic data for publication. Degnen now co-leads the
 programme, which is open to PGRs from across the UK and internationally. PGRs also have
 access to training through the various Academies at the University.

 PGRs run their own workshops enhancing their research skills and building their research
 networks. PGRs collaborated with visiting Greek PGRs students to run a workshop on Migration,
 Ethics and Research Methods in 2019 to explore the challenges of undertaking research in this
 complex area of key social concern in both countries. To increase the visibility of their work and
 employment options within a competitive job market, PGRs are strongly encouraged to
 participate in external workshops, conferences and professional associations. The School
 provides conference funds to self-funded PGR students, as well as hardship funds up to £1,000
 per student in any calendar year. PGRs are encouraged and supported to pursue publication
 activities, including co-authoring with supervisors. Papers published include in the Journal of
 Rural Studies and BMC Women’s Health. Gaining publication experience and building networks
 is also encouraged through writing book chapters, conference proceedings and public facing
 opportunities such as blogs and pieces in Conversation and Discover Society. PGRs have also
 developed their own blog site. During both the Covid-19 pandemic and the Black Lives Matters
 protests, it became an important vehicle for intervening in vital societal debates.

 Post Completion Destinations
 Our PGRs have gone on to a range of academic posts. Five are in lectureship positions at: the
 University of Business and Integrated Development Studies, Ghana; Liverpool Hope (x two);
 Oxford; and Newcastle; and three are SLs at Portsmouth, Northumbria and University of East
 London. One was awarded an ESRC Post-Doctoral Fellowship in 19/20 at Durham University,
 while another will re-join us in January 2021 through that scheme.

 Responding to Covid-19 impacts
 People’s research activities have been affected by the physical limitations created by
 government restrictions, as well as the significant work involved in the shift to teaching and
 assessing online and working from home while managing caring responsibilities, particularly
 home schooling. A number of practical initiatives have been implemented to support colleagues
 with these challenges. In April central University funds were released to enable three-month
 extensions for fixed term contract colleagues whose contracts were due to end before 31 st of
 July, benefiting two RAs in Sociology. Locally we have also used FEC funds and other income
 channels to extend contracts. After emergency funding by UKRI, both final year NINE DTP
 PGRs and UKRI grants in their final year were provided with three month costed extensions. The
 process is now underway to look at similar support for PGRs and projects in earlier stages. A
 productive Planning Day in July 2020 allowed us collectively to agree a programme of research
 support, including an online external seminar programme and online research dialogues for
 people to present developing writing and proposal activities. All these activities are open to
 PGRs. During much of the period, PGR supervisors have met with students fortnightly online
 and the PGR Director has had a weekly online get together with students, which has been an
 opportunity to share news on university initiatives and foster social interaction.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Our School was one of the first in HaSS to be awarded Athena Swan Bronze in October 2017.
 Throughout we have committed to this as a process that goes beyond gender to all protected
 characteristics and that it should be about more than numbers, but rather an ongoing process of
 cultural change. One legacy was the setting up of the School EDI Committee. The committee
 monitors progress on the objectives laid out in the Swan application, including ensuring diversity
 in leadership/recruitment and identifying and taking forward immediate priorities. The School has
 an annual EDI day (the most recent reviewing University and School Dignity and Respect
 procedures) and the EDI Committee Chair sits on all School committees to ensure EDI factors
 are considered in all decisions. Since March the EDI Committee has been monitoring EDI

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 implications of Covid-19 and is engaging with HaSS and the University Executive responses.
 EDI training has been undertaken by all colleagues, with extra training provided for people
 involved in selection panels and REF processes. An annual EDI staff survey is undertaken,
 examining different priority areas that agenda set the EDI Committee for the subsequent year.
 The current Chair is from Sociology (Close, a T&S colleague), as are four Committee members
 selected for their research expertise in EDI issues, one of whom is also the Unit’s EDI lead.

 Developing the REF submission included important EDI considerations. To guard against
 unconscious bias in the topics or authors of papers submitted, each piece was internally and
 externally reviewed by four people. At all stages the selection process was transparent and
 decisions communicated to colleagues. We have, where data allows, monitored selected
 publications against the profile of our colleagues. The gender profile of our group guards against
 gender bias; while there is a smaller percentage of submissions coming from Lecturers and
 Fellows on fixed term contracts, these categories also overlap with those early in their career
 with fewer pieces in the public domain by the census date.


                               Presence in Submission        Presence in outputs in
                                                             submission
  Female colleagues            72%                           83%
  Reader and above             36%                           57%
  Senior Lecturer and below    64%                           43%
  Staff on fixed term          8%                            3%
  contracts

 The environment statement was shared with all colleagues at a research away day (and before
 final submission) with time given to extensive group discussion.

 Future EDI priorities
 72% of the UoA are female, including the majority of Chair and leadership roles, but we are a
 predominantly white (86%), non-disabled group of colleagues. Given the prominence of equality
 issues in our research, including in the fields of race and ethnicity and disability, this is
 something we need proactively to respond to. Our EDI strategy commits us to review and
 improve our recruitment processes and documentation and to expand the networks we use to
 reach people. We need to continue to work on EDI University initiatives, including the newly
 launched Inclusive Newcastle Knowledge Centre, and the work of the HaSS Faculty Dean of
 Diversity and the University Dean of Equality.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income
 In this REF period, Sociology has been awarded £3.26 million research income across 36
 awards, representing a 49% increase from the last REF (£2.18 million REF 2014). The total
 research grant spend sits at £3.47 million - 35% of that coming from RCUK - making us the 4th
 (out of 15) most successful UoA in HaSS on this indicator. Our continued success in achieving
 grant income underpins the depth and quality of much of our submitted outputs (24 of 54), while
 recognising the quality and value of scholarship produced independently of external funding. Our
 continued award success has been made possible by the strategic approaches we have taken to
 recruitment and the interdisciplinarity strengths in the Unit. While remaining successful with
 existing funders (the ESRC, Wellcome Trust, the EU and Leverhulme), we have increased our
 success with the AHRC (last REF the award level was £20,796, this time it is £1,048,561). We
 are particularly pleased to have maintained an above average success rate (41%) with UKRI.
 Our PI/CI density amongst colleagues is strong due to the quality and research interests of our
 new appointments - of our 13 appointments, 11 have generated external research income – and
 the supportive environment we have created that enables them to succeed.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our interdisciplinary strength has enabled us to increase our award success with the EPSRC
 (REF2014 £150,557, this REF £217,693) and MRC (last REF £25,404, this REF £132,067).
 Degnen’s Co-I role in the Creative Fuse North East AHRC project is an excellent example
 involving collaboration across five North East universities, researchers from across digital
 sciences, design, social sciences, and arts and humanities and creative industries with the aim
 of boosting innovation and creating jobs in the region. A key benefit to such interdisciplinary
 collaborations is the direct opportunities they generate for societal benefit. For example, Woods
 provides the responsible innovation (RI) work package to the EPSRC project: Synthetic
 Portabolomics (2016-2022), an interdisciplinary project that crosses all Newcastle Faculties,
 involving computing science, cell and molecular biosciences and bioethics, as well as partners at
 other universities and life science and data science companies. Woods’ role is to develop
 standards for RI within the project and the broader synthetic biology research landscape. He has
 developed systems for managing RI, educated early career scientists in its importance and
 shared his expertise in regulatory structures in this emerging field with the Parliamentary Office
 of Science and technology (POST) and the Head of Agriculture and Technology at UK Trade
 and Agriculture.

 We have grown in research capacity thanks to University investment (£1.5m in total), this has
 occurred because of the close synergy of our research priorities and strategies with the
 University. Investment includes:

    •   £658,000 granted to PEALS (see Section 2) due to the Centre’s strong overlap with the
        University’s prioritisation of the life sciences in its research strategy.
    •   £154,000 from the University’s Research Excellence Academy (2014-2019) for a
        postdoctoral Fellowship (Steggals) and a PhD studentship (awarded to Pasquetti).
    •   Appointment of two highly competitive NUAcT Fellows (Blell and Seely).
    •   £44,865 to support hosting conferences.
    •   £29,162 from central Social Justice Funds, which has supported partnership projects in
        the region.

 HaSS also provide pump-priming funds for research and impact activity. The Bid Preparation
 Fund offers up to £10k to support funding applications and has helped the unit to develop six
 external research funding applications. The Faculty Research Fund offers up to £4K to support
 new research projects and publication costs. HaSS supports impact activity via the ESRC
 Impact Accelerator Account and internal funds: £102,458 has been won from these sources and
 has been particularly significant to the development of McLaughlin’s ICS. We have also
 successfully bid for funds from Faculty Institutes: in total we have received £25,000 from the
 Newcastle University Institute for Social Renewal (now the Institute for Social Sciences) and the
 Newcastle University Institute for Creative Practice.

 Looking ahead 11 funded projects will continue or begin post July 2020, with projected spend
 associated with them for the next REF of approximately £500,000. Notable new grants include
 an ESRC Post-Doctoral Fellowship (Cummings, The Self-Understandings and Everyday Lives of
 Gay Men in Hainan, 2021-2022) and Degnen’s UKRI Covid-19 Rapid Response funding to
 examine Identity, Inequality, and the Media in Brexit-COVID-19-Britain (2020-2021). At the
 census date, 14 applications were submitted, including six to UKRI, with a total application value
 of £1,608,497.

 Infrastructure for Enabling Research and Pursuing Impact
 Our capacity to pursue research and impact activity is enhanced by resources and support
 structures at the Unit, School, HaSS and central university levels.

 Subject Area
 Sociology’s Director of Research works with the Head of Sociology, Sociology Impact
 Champion, Research Cluster Leads and our PGR Director to monitor our work against research
 objectives and respond to research opportunities. Impact development is led by the Subject Area
 Impact Champion who ensures impact resources are appropriately allocated to match our

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact strategy, provides training and development opportunities, mentors early career
 researchers, maps and facilitates impact pathways emerging across the work of colleagues and
 attends Faculty Impact meetings. Impact is integrated into our research support mechanisms,
 including annual research away day and sociology research committee meetings.

 PEALS has its own administrative support and physical space in Sociology and develops its
 research culture and strategic development via a management group, an external advisory
 group, annual planning cycles, regular research activity such as informal reading groups, and
 mentoring of research associates who are integrated into the running of the centre. PEALS FEC
 and other overhead and consultancy income is retained to support its strategic development and
 responsibilities under the Research Concordat.

 School
 The School benefits from a full-time professional services research support team of 5FTE:
 Research Manager, Research Officer, pre-award grant officer, and two post-award grant
 officers. PEALS is also supported by a Research Centre Manager (0.5FTE) and administrator
 (0.5FTE). The team provides information on grant opportunities across different funding bodies,
 grant costings, specialist advice (including an EU Section), contracts and negotiations, impact
 statement mentoring, administer award spends, and co-ordinate research-related events and
 visitors. The School’s Research Committee develops and implements the School’s research
 strategy, fund research, and support and monitor research activity.

 The School maintains a research income policy to enable PIs to receive funds directly from their
 grants to support their research activity. 70% of directly allocated Investigator (DA) salary is
 returned to the individual’s research account, since 2013-14 in Sociology this has enabled full or
 partial teaching relief for either one semester or a full year for eight colleagues. The unit further
 supports time for research by using part of its own 15% top slice of DA investigator time to part-
 fund replacement lecturer costs and the additional costs of more experienced research staff for
 grant awards, to provide additional support for PIs to deliver on project requirements. The
 School provides dedicated impact funds to the subject area (£15,000 per year 14/15-17/18,
 £18,000 per year 18/19-19/20). These funds have been used to both support ICS activity and to
 enhance impact development work in the Unit.

 HaSS/University
 HaSS and university research support structures are crucial to our capacity to obtain research
 income and fulfil the goals of our projects. HaSS R&I team has two Research Funding
 Development Managers, two Business Development Managers, three Impact Support Officers,
 one Research Manager and one Research and Projects Officer, as well as clerical support. The
 HaSS Grants and Contracts Team aids the financial and legal aspects of grant management.
 The Unit also benefits from University-wide research services such as the Research Data
 Service, IT services (for example, a three-year rolling programme of computer upgrades; IT
 support has been central to our continued capacity to function during the peak of Covid-19
 disruption), Library Provision (including specialist archive access, open access funds and the
 supply of e-books, which has been particularly important during the pandemic disruption), the
 Engagement Team, the Press Office and People Services. The University’s ePrints repository
 ensures research outputs are made Green Open Access, while School and Faculty funds
 support Gold Open Access. 15 articles have been made Gold Open Access via these funds.

 Facilities
 Sociology will move into a new estates space in summer 2021. The £58m refurbishment of the
 Henry Daysh Building will co-locate the Unit with social scientists from across the Faculty, and
 will help foster cross pollination of ideas. It will provide high quality single occupation offices for
 T&R and T&S colleagues, an open plan School PGR space, new seminar rooms, social spaces
 for staff/student/public interactions, high-end computing suite, and video-conferencing facilities.
 EDI considerations have been built into the development of the Daysh refurbishment. Of
 particular importance was the commitment to respond to longstanding accessibility issues. All
 floors will be accessible to wheelchair users; the building also hosts one of the three Changing

                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Places Toilets on campus, as well as increasing inclusive toilet facilities for transgender students
 and staff, baby changing facilities and ‘well-being rooms’ where women can express milk or
 breastfeed on return from maternity leave, and colleagues can pray.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Guided by the School Impact Manifesto, collaboration and partnership is at the heart of our
 strategies and activities. It informs the research we do, how we do it and how it can make a
 difference to the broad range of users - whether academics or publics - of our work.

 Collaboration and Contributions to Society
 It is through collaboration that we purposively contribute to:

    1) Informing policy and practice. This sits at the heart of PEALS research. Haimes’
       Wellcome Trust project (2013-2016) examined the experiences of women who volunteer
       to provide eggs for mitochondrial research for payment. It was a partnership with
       Newcastle University’s Wellcome Trust Centre for Mitochondrial Research and the
       Newcastle Fertility Centre and has influenced the regulatory framework for this new area
       of genomic medicine in the UK. Since 2009 Woods has been an appointed member of
       the Ethics Advisors’ Panel of the NHS Health Research Authority, now in his 3 rd term.
       PEALS colleagues work closely with the Nuffield Council on Bioethics (NcOB), a national
       independent body, which informs policy and public debate about the ethical questions
       raised by biological and medical research. Haimes was a member of its Council (2013-
       2019), while Scully was a member of its Working Group on Ethics of Genome Editing and
       Human Reproduction (2017-2018).

        Policy change is the key goal of the North East Child Poverty Commission. Currently it is
        responding to the risk that Covid-19 will increase child poverty in the North East and
        elsewhere. For example, it made a submission to Government ahead of the 2020
        Spending Review and is regularly engaging with the region’s MPs. Graham’s
        participation in NIHR projects has led to outputs directed to policy change in healthcare
        and practitioner journals such as the NIHR Health Technology Assessment Journal. Her
        research on pregnancy loss is also included in a REF Impact Case Study being
        submitted to UoA3 from Newcastle. Richardson’s ESRC Sexualities Equalities project
        (2007-2010) has continued to feed into policy in the UK and in the EU during this REF
        period. Its research methodology was adapted for a major policy survey of public officials
        in 19 countries by the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights, in order to better understand
        and enforce EU equalities legislation. With Surya Monro (Huddersfield University),
        Richardson was contracted to produce an overview report of the country studies for the
        Centre for European Policy Studies. This Report was launched at the European
        Parliament in May 2016.

    2) Research partnerships with marginalised groups that enable their perspectives
        and expertise to be shared with decision makers and other powerful groups. Due
        to the prominence of marginalised groups in the research we undertake we bring their
        perspectives into dialogue with others. In 2018 Shildrick was part of Newcastle
        University’s written submission to the high-profile UK visit of Philip Alston, the UN Special
        Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty and Human Rights. As a result, Newcastle was one of
        the few universities he visited. Degnen and Pasquetti are working with the West End
        Refugee Service (WERS) to mobilise awareness of its role in social justice possibilities in
        Newcastle. As part of this they have connected WERS to the International Coalition of
        Sites of Conscience. This work is feeding into the University’s goal of becoming a
        University of Sanctuary. Richardson’s ESRC project on Post-Trafficking in Nepal (2009-
        2012) has continued to support research capacity building in Shakti, the Nepalis anti-
        trafficking organisation who were research partners in the project. Shakti developed their
        own research pilot project (2014-15) and report, Life After Moving to Legal Process:
        Social Impact on Women in Post Trafficking Situations (2016), as well as co-authoring a

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        paper in Development in Practice (2015). The Trafficking research findings were also
        cited in the World Bank report Violence against Women. Lessons from South Asia
        (2015). Winkler-Reid’s Girl-Kind project (2017-), funded by ESRC Impact Accelerator
        funding, has worked with over 300 girls and 13 schools across the North East to
        challenge narratives about their lives and celebrate their capacity to identify solutions.
        The virtual launch of the project’s report Hearing Girls’ Voices (2020) was attended by
        people in senior positions across the region in private, public, education and charity
        sectors.

    3) Provide research tools to non-governmental organisations. Colleagues use their
       research skills to work with organisations on their strategic planning. Degnen worked with
       Tyneside Cinema on their Dementia Friendly Programme. McAreavey works with
       Riverside Community Health Project to co-produce their communication strategy and The
       People’s Kitchen to shape their Strategic Priorities. McLaughlin is working with the Great
       North Children’s Hospital to develop comic-based information materials for children
       receiving medical treatment such as MRI scans. Verma is working with Not Coul (a UK
       community group) and Save Coul Links Conservation Coalition (coalition of UK
       environmental organisations) to support work challenging planning applications in
       environmentally sensitive locations. Winkler-Reid is a member of Plan International’s
       Academic Advisory Board for the State of Girls Rights 2019 Report.

 PGR Contributions
 PGR students are encouraged to pursue engagement and impact. McVittie undertook a DTP
 Nine Policy Placement with the Oswin Project in 2019, a Northumberland Charity for Ex-
 Offenders. He produced the New Beginnings at the Oswin Project Report and is now a Trustee.
 Darling used her NINE DTP Policy Placement in 2018 to work with Culture Bridge, a North East
 arts organisation who support arts projects in schools. PhD graduates have taken up important
 policy and practice positions, for example CEO of Disability North (Armstrong) and Senior Land
 Policy Advisor for the international gender and development NGO, LANDESA (Uvuza).

 Collaborations and Contributions to the Research Base
 Three of the Unit’s major grants involve international collaboration, and six involve national
 collaborations. In several cases the collaborations also involve commercial and public sector
 partners. Woods’ (CI) Synthetic Portabolomics project (2016-2022) is a partnership between
 multiple UK and European Universities and digital and genomics companies, including CERN
 Switzerland, Microsoft UK and Ingenza UK. Gallinat’s Knowing the Secret Police AHRC project
 (2018-2021) includes partnerships with BStU Stasi Archive in Berlin, the BpB Federal Agency for
 Civic Education and the Roncalli-Haus Magdeburg: an education centre of the Catholic Church.

 Sociology colleagues are involved in a number of international research networks that advance
 academic knowledge and applied activity. Several colleagues were involved in the Network on
 Ethics of Families, funded by the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO, 2014-
 2017). The network produced a key edited collection What About the Family? Practices of
 Responsibility in Care (2019, Oxford University Press). McAreavey is part of an international
 research network for rural research (TARRN). Rees is part of international network funded by a
 Canadian SSHRC Connections Grant (2019 – 2021): Inaccessible Care: An international forum
 on sexual assault services in rural Canada and Scotland.

 Research collaborations are enhanced by external Visiting Fellows we host and by colleagues
 visiting other universities in the UK and overseas. This supports our visibility in academic
 debates and provides opportunities for knowledge exchange. One important benefit of the
 presence of visiting scholars in the Unit is the input they provide to research culture, in particular
 providing mentoring to ECRs, including PGRs, and linking us to their external networks from
 their host universities and countries. External funding, University and School funding support
 these activities, and we approach them in a flexible way to enable people with caring
 responsibilities to attend. For example, people can come for multiple brief visits, rather than one
 long term stay.

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Visitors to the UoA:
            o 9 overseas visitors from Europe and Australasia, including one funded by the
                 Leverhulme Trust (Vartabadien, 2013-2015).
            o 3 Visiting posts for UK colleagues, including Professor Sue Scott, who has been
                 actively contributing to our research culture since May 2019 and a long-term
                 visiting post for John Viet-Wilson until his death in 2020.
            o Visits from Middle-East colleagues linked to Phillimore’s RESCAP-MED project in
                 2014.
    •   3 Visiting positions at UK Universities (Haimes, Cambridge University, 2013-; Harries,
        Manchester University, 2019-; Shildrick, Visiting Chair, Leicester University, 2017-)
    •   8 Visiting Positions overseas, including 3 funded competitively awarded positions
        (Pasquetti, Princeton University 2017-2018; Richardson, Columbia University, 2015;
        Winkler-Reid, Bergen University 2019).

 All colleagues are committed to supporting external collegiate activities that enhance intellectual
 debate and ensure sustainable high quality peer review processes.

   1) Organisation of high-profile academic conferences and workshops. 47 events or
      special sessions at conferences have been organised by colleagues,15 of which were in
      Newcastle. In March 2017 we hosted an international conference on Citizenship in an Era
      of Fragility. Speakers included the then President of the American Sociological
      Association (Michelle Lamont). Our PGR students were closely involved, presenting their
      work and shaping the conference’s focus. PEALS run an annual symposium which brings
      leading ethicists, sociologists and clinical researchers and practitioners together to debate
      critical issues in the life sciences. A small sample of the conferences we have hosted
      include: 2016 Youth Matters Conference co-organised by Winkler-Reid; the Merit or
      Meritocracy Symposium in 2018 organised by Gallinat, Payne, Garforth and Graham; the
      Police Custody Nursing: Ethical, Social, Policy and Professional Challenges Workshop
      2016 organised by Rees; the Visual Insights Conference in 2014 organised by Campbell.
      Colleagues are involved in leading international conferences, such as: Shildrick co-
      organised the Journal of Youth Studies Conference in Australia in 2019; McAreavey is
      heavily involved in the European Society for Rural Sociology biennial conferences (2019
      and 2022); McLaughlin is one of the organisers of the Annual British Sociological
      Association Conference; Scott led the organisation of the European Sociological
      Conference in 2019. Phillimore’s European Commission funded RESCAP-MED involved
      important Research Symposia in the Middle East; in 2014 he organised the Socio-Political
      Challenges in the Mediterranean Region: Implications for Non-Communicable Disease
      Prevent and Control Conference in Beirut, Lebanon.

   2) Editorial roles in leading academic journals: Shildrick is Co-Editor in Chief of the
      Journal of Youth Studies (2017-). Woods was an editor of BMC Medical Ethics (2013-18).
      McLaughlin is Co-Editor (2017-2021) of the Scandinavian Journal of Disability Research.
      McAreavey is Co-Editor of Sociological Ruralis (2020-). Graham is Co-editor in Chief
      (2019 -) and Rees a Co-Editor of Social Theory and Health (2020-). Other colleagues sit
      on 14 editorial boards including Sociology (Harries), Ethnography (Hollands), Ageing &
      Society (Degnen), British Journal of Education (Pasztor), and British Journal of
      Criminology (Campbell). Three colleagues are also Book Series Editors: Shildrick
      (Routledge’s Youth and Young Adulthood Series), Richardson (Palgrave Macmillan’s
      Gender and Sexualities in the Social Sciences) and Sifaki (Routledge’s Teaching with
      Gender Series).

   3) Editorial roles in special issues for journals: 10 special issues were led or co-led by
      colleagues in this REF period, with almost all involving collaboration with international
      colleagues. Journals include: Journal of Youth Studies, International Society, City, the
      Sociological Review Monograph, the Journal of Rural Studies and Journal of Teaching in
      the Social Sciences.

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   4) Leadership roles in disciplinary associations. Colleagues are members of over 27
      professional associations. McLaughlin is an elected member of the BSA Board of Trustees
      (2016-2021), and Seddon (2018-2020) was a PGR Forum convenor. Other professional
      association memberships include: the Royal Anthropological Institute’s Publication
      Committee (Degnen), the Executive Committee of the Association of Social
      Anthropologists of the UK and Commonwealth (Degnen), the International Girls Studies
      Association (Winkler-Reid), the Utopian Studies Society (Garforth), the AtGender
      European network (Sifaki) and the European Society for Rural Sociology (McAreavey).

   5) Research proposal peer review activity for key research funders (21 in total), including
      membership of the ESRC peer review college (12 colleagues) and formal roles for funders
      such as: EU Innovative Medicines Initiative Assessment, Carnegie Trust, Swedish
      Research Council, the Marie Skodowska Curie Fellowships and the Wellcome Trust.

 The range of awards colleagues have been given and external roles undertaken speak to the
 external esteem their contributions to sociology and associated disciplines are held in.

    •   A number of PGRs have been recognised for research excellence and innovation.
        Nicholls was short listed for the BSA Philip Abrams Memorial Prize. Palladino produced a
        short documentary as part of her PhD on the experiences of older Italian migrants in the
        North East, which has been shown and been given honourable mentions at film festivals
        across Europe, including the 2019 Mediterranean Film Festival.
    •   Colleagues have given 164 keynotes.
    •   Richardson was awarded the 2018 SAGE Prize for Innovation and Excellence, which is
        given to the paper judged to be the most innovative and exceptional from all published by
        Sociology during the previous year.
    •   Shildrick was awarded Sociological Review’s best paper of the year in 2014.
    •   Harries’ monograph was nominated for the BSA Philip Abrahams Prize in 2018.
    •   In this period five colleagues were made Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences
        (Haimes, Hollands, McLaughlin, Richardson and Scully).
    •   Haimes was awarded an OBE in 2017 for services to social sciences.

 The broad range of collaborations we have built, particularly with the users of our research, are
 the bedrock for our research ambitions for the future. Through these collaborations, the new
 colleagues we have appointed, the strategic vision that underpins all our decisions and activities,
 and the institutional infrastructures that sustain us, we will develop much needed and innovative
 research that responds to the growing number of sociological challenges around us.




                                                                                            Page 15
