Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
University of Essex
Unit of Assessment:
26 – Modern Languages and Linguistics
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview

The Department of Language and Linguistics’ international reputation for linguistic research
(ranked 13th in QS World University Rankings by Subject) reflects the variety of perspectives it
adopts for the study of language and the multiplicity of theoretical and methodological approaches
it takes. Our strategy is to foster this approach to linguistic enquiry by appointing excellent
researchers from different linguistic subfields to work together across nine research clusters within
three broad areas: applied linguistics (second language learning and teaching; language policy
and multilingualism; English language teaching), descriptive/theoretical linguistics (linguistic
diversity and theoretical linguistics; African languages; language variation, identity and interaction),
and psycholinguistics (experimental linguistics; early language development; language decline:
attrition, ageing and impairments). Each cluster is responsible not only for undertaking innovative
research, but also for training new researchers through its doctoral courses, with impressive
results: 197.5 PhD students were registered during the REF assessment period. The future
objectives of the UoA are: (1) to exploit synergies between the different theoretical orientations to
gain a better understanding of the human capacity for language; (2) to engage non-academic
populations in the development of its research; and (3) to undertake cross-institutional, multi-
disciplinary projects on language description, development, processing and variation.

Evaluation of 2014 Strategy

The aims of the UoA’s 2014 strategy were:

   (1) to enhance the work of its existing research clusters through collaborative and cross-
       disciplinary projects, informed by the exchange of ideas and methodologies between
       the research clusters and cognate disciplines (psychology, cognitive science, education);
   (2) to make greater use of existing and emerging technologies (reaction-time measurement,
       eye-tracking, EEGs, high density video recording, computerised analysis of corpora);
   (3) to further integrate doctoral students into the UoA’s collaborative research projects; and
   (4) to more fully involve potential users of the UoA’s research findings (parents/carers of
       infants, language teachers, speech and language therapists) in shaping the direction of
       research, and to support this work by attracting external funding.

Several initiatives since 2014 ensured these aims were realised (see achievements below):

   (1) Annual research away days with a specific emphasis on interdisciplinary initiatives
       across the research clusters (e.g. 2014: data sharing and analysis; 2014: developing
       impact; 2015: cross-disciplinary collaboration; 2016: grant proposals; 2018: REF scoring
       impact and outputs);
   (2) Thematic workshops and international conferences organised by the UoA, e.g. 2014:
       Tense-Aspect – multidisciplinary perspectives; 2015: Portuguese as a Global Language:
       challenges and opportunities in teaching and learning; 2016: The learning of foreign
       languages in primary schools in England; 8 events as part of the ESRC Seminar Series on
       Language Attrition, inc. 2016: 3rd International Conference on Language Attrition; 2016: The
       role of interaction in language development and loss throughout the lifespan; 2017:
       Languages in the primary classroom; 2018: 15th Old World Conference in Phonology
       (Jointly with UCL);
   (3) Workshops on emerging technologies and methodologies (e.g. eye-tracking; EEG;
       statistics; CHILDES);
   (4) Creation of the Centre for Research in Language Development throughout the
       Lifespan (LaDeLi) in 2015, driver of several interdisciplinary initiatives (see below),

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       including several of the above conferences;
   (5) Development of the Baby Lab and sharing of experimental facilities and participant
       pools with the Department of Psychology;
   (6) Acquisition of state-of-the-art eye-tracking and EEG labs;
   (7) Regular research group meetings in each cluster to develop collaboration between staff
       and research students, including co-production of research papers and conference
       organisation (16 research articles authored by staff-PGRs were published during the REF
       period, and 11 PGRs worked collaboratively with 6 staff on research projects); and
   (8) Collaboration with research users in the following areas: foreign language learning;
       educational policy (Zambia; Botswana; Tanzania; England); Language Analysis for the
       Determination of Origin; language attrition; language acquisition and bilingualism;
       Conversation Analysis and the study of multimodal interaction.

Achievements

In line with our vision of achieving research excellence in Applied Linguistics, the department has
continued its strategy of appointing excellent researchers. Costley, Gkonou, and Jabbari have
enhanced the expertise in TEFL, pursuing a diverse range of research on multilingual classrooms,
the psychology and emotional labour of language teachers, academic literacies, and technology-
enhanced second language learning. They have joined an established team of researchers
focusing on the teaching and development of language (including attrition/loss) throughout the
lifespan and adopting a variety of theoretical perspectives, including usage-based and generative
frameworks (Gánem-Gutiérrez, Myles, Roehr-Brackin, Schmid). The language policy and
multilingualism cluster focuses on how societal multilingualism is linked to language policy in the
contexts of Zambia, Botswana, and Tanzania (Costley, Gibson, Kula), and on the implementation
of the new requirement to teach foreign languages in primary schools in England in 2014 (Myles).

The Theoretical and Descriptive Linguistics group has maintained the UoA’s long and unique
history of hosting world-class researchers from diverse perspectives and different syntactic
frameworks, thanks to the appointment of several new promising early career researchers
(ECRs) (Cole, Chiu, Gibson, Jeffries, Jerro, Kim). Gibson works within the Dynamic Syntax
framework to analyse the real-time processing of a variety of morpho-syntactic constructions (such
as auxiliaries, inversion constructions, and verb reduplication), whilst Jerro takes a truth-
conditional approach to the semantics of events, verb meaning and argument realisation. Kula
and Kim work in Element Theory/Government Phonology and Optimality Theory, respectively
contrasting representation and constraint-based phonology. Empirically, the department focuses
on a large range of languages, though certain regions are a particular focus. Gibson, Jerro, and
Kula research various aspects of syntax, semantics, morphology, and phonology in several Bantu
languages including Bemba, Kinyarwanda, Swahili, and Chichewa, and have produced important
descriptions and analyses of constructions in these languages such as auxiliary verbs, applicative
morphology, and relative clauses. Kim describes and analyses the phonological and morphological
systems of two endangered Mesoamerican languages: Huave and Amuzgo. The Language
variation, identity, and interaction cluster investigates language from the perspective of linguistic
variation and change, particularly regional varieties of British English and modern Arabic
dialects (Al-Wer; Cole; Jeffries); conversation analysis, particularly grammar and embodiment in
interaction (Clift), and first language attrition (Schmid).

Excellent research has continued within the area of psycholinguistics thanks to the appointment
of up-and-coming ECRs (Chiu, Delle Luche, Jeffries, Lawyer) as well as the ongoing work by
Schmid. The Experimental Linguistics cluster applies cutting-edge methodologies such as eye
tracking, EEG and e-Prime to answering questions about linguistic perception, production, and
representation (Chiu, Delle Luche, Jeffries, Lawyer, Schmid). They investigate how speech is
perceived by adults and children, how sentences are processed in the mind of the reader, how
dialect knowledge is acquired and used in perception, and they quantify language loss in diverse
populations. The Language decline cluster focuses on language development – including
attrition, loss and impairment – as an expression of the human language capacity and an object
of study in their own right (Chiu; Lawyer; Roehr-Brackin, Schmid). Schmid is a world expert on the

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
phenomenon of language attrition, with a recent focus on the effect of personal factors such as age
of migration and working memory.

A central aim of the 2014 strategy was the creation of our new Research Centre, LaDeLi, which
regroups 11 members from the Department working on early language development, second
language learning and teaching, and language decline due to attrition, ageing or impairments.
Two recently appointed members of staff in the School of Health and Social Care working on
language disorders (Joffe; Caute) also contribute to the activities of the Centre, as well as other
colleagues from Psychology. Since its launch in 2015, LaDeLi has been central in many
interdisciplinary initiatives and events involving colleagues in other departments and universities,
nationally and worldwide. For example, it has organised 12 workshops on varied topics, some
sponsored by external bodies (BAAL; EuroSLA; British Academy) as well as internal pump-
priming (e.g. language and dementia; primary school language learning; the role of interaction in
language development and language loss). LaDeLi organises yearly ‘away days’ where members
discuss work in progress and potential synergies for the development of collaborative
projects. These have led directly to two interdisciplinary pilot studies: EAL children and the
learning of foreign languages in primary schools (Costley, Gkonou, Myles, Roehr-Brackin – which
led to a journal article); Link between language learning intensity, loss of accessibility to the native
language, and executive function (Schmid and two PGR students). Away days also led directly to
two interdisciplinary events: Interface of emotion and cognition in language learning and use, a
two-day international workshop – postponed from June 2020 to June 2021 due to COVID-19, and
the Role of interaction event mentioned above. LaDeLi organises an annual Distinguished
Speaker series, open to the public, which has attracted leading international scholars (Crain;
Obler; Munoz; Prevost; De Houwer; Leung) and large audiences. LaDeLi housed a Marie
Skłodowska-Curie fellowship awarded to Hervé on French-English bilinguals' processing of
morphosyntactic structures: the case of cross-linguistic transfer (PI Myles 2017–2019) and its
members were successful in obtaining a range of external funds to support its infrastructure and
research (see section 3). LaDeLi hosts the East of England branch of Bilingualism Matters (set
up by Myles, Hervé, Delle Luche in 2018), offering research-informed resources and advice to
parents, language professionals and teachers. Myles also set up and chairs the national network
Research in Primary Languages (RiPL, http://www.ripl.uk), which provides research-based
information and advice to language professionals and policy makers.

The UoA attracted 6 post-doctoral fellows during the REF period, 5 on externally funded projects
from ELDP (Rinzin), British Academy Newton Grant (Gharibi), British Academy Postdoctoral
Fellowship (Horesh), the ESF Reach High programme (Camilleri), Marie-Skɫodowska-Curie
Fellowship (Hervé), and one as part of a British Academy GCRF Sustainable Development
Scheme (Reilly). These postdocs bring enthusiasm and dynamism to the Department and are a
reflection of the thriving research culture of the UoA, and its attractiveness as a context for young
scholars to develop into independent researchers. The topics investigated reflect the varied
research specializations of staff including; Endangered language documentation and description in
Bhutan (South Asia); Issues in heritage language development in Persian speaking children;
Language and change in urban Palestinian dialects; Negation in Maltese and vernacular Arabic
dialects; Processing of morphosyntactic features in French-English bilinguals; and Sustainable
language policy development in multilingual sub-Saharan Africa. They were mentored by Patrick,
Schmid, Al-Wer, Sadler, Myles and Kula.

All the initiatives outlined above have been crucial for the delivery of our strategy from REF 2014.
They have enabled a range of collaborative interdisciplinary work across all three broad areas of
the Department, as well as engagement with research users. For example, Kula (phonology),
Gibson (syntax) and Costley (applied linguistics) are marrying linguistic theory, learning, and
education policy in their British Academy project Bringing the outside in: Merging local language
and literacy practices to enhance classroom learning and achievement. Jeffries (sociolinguistics)
and Lawyer (psycholinguistics) are collaborating on a BA project Accent the positive: an
investigation into children's implicit attitudes towards different regional accents, making use of
experimental psycholinguistic methods (ERPs) to investigate young children’s perception of
accents. Costley, Gkonou, Myles and Roehr-Brackin collaborated on a project comparing

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
multilingual and monolingual children in the primary-level language classroom, and Jerro and
Lawyer (with two PhD students) use innovative psycholinguistic methods to investigate to what
degree noun classes in Kinyarwanda are semantically categorised (as opposed to being
determined by phonological or morphological factors). Patrick, Schmid and Al Wer have developed
close links with the University’s Human Rights Centre for their work on Linguistic Analysis for the
Determination of Origin (LADO). The appointment of Cole to the Department, initially for 3 years as
a Postdoctoral Research Fellow in the Institute for Analytics and Data Science (2020-23), will
strengthen our links with data scientists, and her interdisciplinary expertise combining data
analytics and sociolinguistics will enhance the work of the Department.

Vision and Strategic Plans

We have maintained the sustainability of the UoA. In particular, the retirement of 6 colleagues
and the departure of another 4 during the REF period led to the appointment of 11 new
colleagues, and the subsequent reconfiguration of the UoA’s research clusters. The UoA’s
vision is to ensure their full potential is realised through collaborative and cross-disciplinary
projects. These projects will be informed by the exchange of ideas and methodologies between
the research clusters and with cognate disciplines (e.g. psychology, cognitive science, education),
building on and stepping up the work already mentioned, as well as developing new areas.
Projects will continue to make greater use of existing and emerging technologies where
appropriate (reaction-time, eye tracking, EEGs, statistical and computerized tools, corpus linguistic
coding and analysis tools etc.). Doctoral students will be further integrated into the research
culture of the Department and University, by collaborating in research projects, co-producing
research papers, and being involved in the organisation of research events. Potential users of the
UoA’s research will play a greater role in shaping the direction of research and in collaborating in
projects (teachers and teacher trainers, parents/carers of young children, speech and language
therapists, health professionals, policy makers, psychologists etc.). To support this work, the UoA
will seek external funds.

Key themes for investigation will be ‘language development and language loss across the
lifespan’, ‘African languages’, ‘language and educational practice and policy’, and ‘the
interface between linguistic knowledge and other sociocognitive systems’.

Developing initiatives that follow from this vision will include:

(i)      a series of research awaydays where members of all the clusters exchange information on
         their ongoing research and develop ideas for collaborative interdisciplinary bids;
(ii)     a series of thematic workshops on specific research topics that bring together Essex and
         external researchers with a view to initiating cross-institutional projects;
(iii)    a series of workshops on emerging technologies and methodologies;
(iv)     the development of current research strengths in the study of African Languages;
(v)      expansion of the work of the Baby Lab (which investigates early language development in
         infants), using a newly constituted shared participants’ pool with the department of
         Psychology;
(vi)     involvement of language teachers in the development of research projects on language
         learning in the classroom, and dissemination of findings to research users (e.g. teachers,
         policy makers);
(vii)    expansion of PGR provision in Translation and Interpreting;
(viii)   using the staff-doctoral student research groups in African Languages, Arabic Linguistics,
         Conversational Analysis, English Language Teaching, Phonology, and Second Language/
         Psycholinguistics, to develop collaborative projects between staff and doctoral
         students;
(ix)     LaDeLi will build on its strengths and continue to develop its collaborative activities. It will
         aim to bid for external funding to obtain Research Centre status, based on its
         development of a multi-disciplinary research agenda on multilingualism across the
         lifespan which involves researchers from a range of fields beyond linguistics, including
         psychology, psychosocial and psychoanalytic studies, computer science, health and

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       social care, and philosophy.

Underpinning these initiatives will be our continuing commitment to the same four strategic aims
that we articulated in 2014: appointing excellent staff; maintaining our international profile in
each of our research clusters; protecting staff time to enable them to produce high quality
research outputs, and to engage in research activities which have impact in the world beyond the
academy.

2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

The recruitment of new staff with high research potential, and support for the research of existing
staff, is crucial to ensuring the UoA’s strategic objectives are met. The ability to contribute to the
UoA’s research culture, and to produce work of the highest international standard (for inclusion in
this and future REF exercises) are stated as essential requirements for academic (with research)
posts in all advertisements, and assessment of research potential is accorded the highest
priority in the selection process. This policy has enabled the appointment of 10 Lecturers and 1
Research Fellow in the Department of Language and Linguistics during the assessment period:
Chiu (PhD from UCL); Cole (from Essex); Costley (from King’s College London); Delle Luche
(from Université Lumière Lyon 2); Gibson (from SOAS); Gkonou (from Essex); Jabbari (from
Texas A&M U.); Jeffries (from U. of York); Jerro (from U. Texas); Kim (from U. of California,
Berkeley); and Lawyer (from UC Davis). Four of them had previously briefly held posts in
Manchester, Plymouth, Hong Kong and SOAS. Additionally, two appointments in Linguistics
were made in the School of Health and Social Care, one lecturer (Caute) and one professor
(Joffe). 35% of the UoA staff are ECRs, and 60% are aged under 45.

New members of staff are mentored by a senior member of staff with whom they meet regularly to
monitor progress and receive advice on research plans. Early career academics who are on
their Pathway to Permanency are given lighter teaching loads to allow them to develop their
research profiles, and they are paired up with established staff for PhD supervision, enabling them
to gain experience at the onset of their career. Together with their Academic Adviser, they set clear
achievable targets for their 3 years of probation, with interim 18-months targets; these form the
basis of regular mentor/mentee stocktaking. They have access to an extensive programme of
personal development activities offered by the University’s Organisational Development team,
including coaching sessions. All staff (both early career and established) participate in a yearly
personal development review programme led by a senior staff member – a substantial part of
which is devoted to research planning and review; advice on research funding and engagement
activities is provided by the University’s Research and Enterprise Office (REO). All research staff
are eligible for one term of research leave after every 6 terms of service, and a total of 41
terms of research leave were taken during the REF period. Impact and engagement activities are
encouraged and form part of discussions of research plans and bids for funding, and are regularly
presented at departmental events, as well as externally (see ICSs). The UoA’s Director of Impact
ensures opportunities for engaging with research users are not missed, and the departmental
workload model allocates time for the pursuit of impact activities, for example to Impact Case
Study authors or colleagues developing their impact agenda. A departmental ‘Research and
Impact Management Committee’ chaired by the UoA’s Director of Research (DoR) monitors the
research plans of each member of research-active staff annually. The committee disburses funds
from the Department’s Research Endowment to support research (all ECRs have benefited from
this fund). Every member of research active staff is given financial support to present work at
conferences and related events of at least £700 per year, with additional funds being added for
submitting grants (£150 for grants over 50,000, and £50 for grants under this amount) and timely
completion of PhD students (£150 for each student who completes within the planned 4 years).

All research staff have a one-to-one meeting with the DoR every year to discuss their research
and funding plans, and to seek advice on outputs and research bids. This is in addition to her
open-door policy, and the holding of ad-hoc one-to-one meetings whenever required by

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
colleagues wishing to discuss their research. Outputs are regularly read and commented on
prior to publication by colleagues in relevant areas, and draft bids are reviewed by the DoR and
colleagues in similar areas as well as the Research Development Managers in the REO, ensuring
ample feedback is provided prior to submission. The departmental Director of Impact holds
regular meetings/workshops to explore impact avenues and give feedback on impact plans and
bids for funding. Career progression is managed through an annual review of members of the
UoA by senior staff in the Department where performance in research, teaching, administration
and knowledge exchange are assessed. The senior staff make recommendations on
progression and promotion to the University’s Staffing Committee. Five members of staff were
promoted during the REF period, two to professorships, one to reader and two to senior lecturer.

The University complies with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, and has developed
the University Code of Good Research Practice, with oversight provided by REO’s Research
Governance and Planning Manager, who ensures compliance with the code as well as other
external legislation and funders’ requirements. The UoA adheres to strict ethical guidelines for all
research involving human participants, whether undertaken by staff or students. The UoA has a
departmental Ethics Officer who supports applications and provides advice on the process, e.g.
holding regular sessions for research students and staff, providing pro forma for informed consent,
information for participants etc.

The UoA firmly believes in its open-door policy with regards to supporting research, and in its
proactive mentoring of junior colleagues. Evidence of the success of our approach can be found
in the impressive number of prizes and accolades UoA members have received during this REF
period. Roehr-Brackin and Tellier (a former PhD student in the Department) won the Albert
Valdman Prize for best paper in the leading journal Studies in Second Language Acquisition, one
of the very top journals in this field (2019). Myles was awarded the European Second Language
Association Distinguished Scholar Award (2020). Gkonou received the English Language
Teaching Research Award from the British Council, and Cole, while a PhD student in the
Department, was awarded the British Association of Academic Phoneticians prize for best
student presentation. Joffe received the International Journal of Language and Communication
Disorders Editors’s 2019 paper prize. Schmid was elected as a member of Academia Europaea
and had the top downloaded paper 2018-19 in the International Journal of Applied Linguistics,
and Myles’ 2017 article in the journal Languages, Society and Policy had 63,000 unique page
views between May 2017 and December 2020, accounting for well over half the total page views
for all articles published by the journal.

Members of the UoA have given 63 keynotes/plenaries during the REF period, and 65 expenses-
paid invited lectures, all over the world.

2.2 PGR Students

An impressive 197.5 PhD students registered in the UoA during the REF period, coming from
many linguistic backgrounds (Arabic, Chinese, English, French, German, Greek, Japanese, Malay,
Swahili, Thai, Turkish, among others). The diversity of our research student community
contributes enormously to the richness and vibrancy of the individual student experience. The
UoA offers seven PhD programmes (Linguistics; Applied Linguistics; Sociolinguistics; English
Language Teaching; Psycholinguistics; Experimental Linguistics; Translation Studies). Following
the success of its suite of five established MA programmes, as well as student demand, the UoA
established a new PhD programme in Translation Studies (Translation, Interpreting and
Subtitling) in 2019.

66 students have received international funding from the Commonwealth and a range of
overseas Embassies or Governments, and a further 44 received funding from a range of
sources such as scholarships. The UoA is also part of a successful consortium of 7 institutions
in the Southeast of England (CHASE) awarded an AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership (worth
£17m) since 2014. It is also a member of the ESRC’s South East Network for Social Sciences
(SeNSS) Doctoral Training Partnership. These two schemes have funded 7 PhD students during

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the REF period. Each doctoral student in the UoA is supervised by at least one supervisor whom
they meet with on a regular basis. Student progress is monitored through twice-yearly
meetings of the student’s supervisory panel which includes two members of staff in addition to
the main supervisor. Each student’s progress against agreed milestones and targets is assessed
at these formal board meetings and recommendations concerning the student’s candidature made
to the Graduate School.

Many of the students who successfully completed during the assessment period are now in
academic posts worldwide, including China, Denmark, Germany, Hong Kong, Israel, Japan,
Jordan, Malaysia, Mexico (2), Saudi Arabia (4), Tanzania, Thailand (2), Turkey, UAE, UK (7).

Research students are a vital component of the research environment, and they are treated as the
future colleagues we expect them to become. Their training needs are assessed by their
supervisor as soon as they arrive, and they are directed to relevant modules from one of the
UoA’s six Masters programmes in Linguistics, as well as other courses they need to attend. They
are assigned a workspace, and have access to PCs, networked printing facilities, photocopying
facilities and a small research library within the Department. The Department runs a weekly
seminar series with invited speakers from all areas of the discipline at which research students
are expected to be present. Here they meet and network with eminent visiting speakers. As
already described in section 1, research staff and research students participate actively in
research groups which meet regularly through the year. Additional weekly or bi-weekly lab
sessions focusing on data handling and analysis are run for all doctoral students working in
experimental psycholinguistics as well as for students researching Conversation Analysis. Doctoral
students benefit from the University’s Proficio programme which allocates them up to £1,000 to
participate in professional development activities. Within the Department students attend a
professional development module which provides workshops on topics such as the use of Praat
(for speech analysis); the use of R (for advanced statistical analysis); the use of ELAN (for audio-
visual data coding); CHILDES tools and Mechanical Turk methods for language acquisition; writing
for publication; conference abstract writing/reviewing; among others.

The Department encourages independent and collaborative thinking by providing doctoral students
with the academic and financial support to organise an international conference, LangUE
(now in its fifteenth year and with its own online proceedings; postponed in 2020 because of the
pandemic), and an internal conference, SociolinguistEssex. Research students are also
actively involved in supporting the organisation and running of workshops, conferences and events
in the Department. Financial support (up to £700 per student) is available from a departmental
budget to help students giving papers at external international conferences. Often, this work is
the product of collaboration with supervisors, and, if published in proceedings or in international
journals, will be jointly authored. Over the REF period, colleagues in the UoA have co-authored 16
research articles with PhD students.

2.3 Equality and Diversity

The Department is committed to the University’s policy on valuing diversity and equality of
opportunity. Existing and prospective staff are assessed solely on the basis of their merits, abilities
and potential regardless of any protected characteristics. The five professors in the UoA are all
female, and two of them are BAME, including one of only 25 female black professors in the
whole of the UK (Rollock, 2019), and who is currently Deputy Dean of Partnerships (Kula). The
staff gender balance is now much more representative of our student body, with 90% of staff
female; these figures contrast sharply with our REF2014 return, when there were only 54% of
female staff, and 7 professors, 4 of whom were male, and none BAME. Out of the thirteen new
appointments during the REF period, eleven are women, one is nonbinary, and four are BAME.
This is a direct result of our commitment to diversity and equality in our appointing, mentoring
and promotion procedures.

This commitment is evident in a range of measures we have in place, such as the appointment of a
departmental Disability Liaison Officer and Inclusivity Lead who ensures that all students,

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
including PGRs, are supported in their studies and get the help they might need. This role has
proved invaluable during the pandemic, where lack of contact has led to an increase in mental
health problems. This role also involves liaising with the institutional Student Well-being and
Inclusivity Service (SWIS), and keeping staff informed of the support available to them and their
students.

Staff in the UoA have been pro-active in taking the diversity and equality agenda forward at the
level of the University. For example, Gibson is the Co-lead of the University’s Tackling Racism
Working Group and she co-chairs the Race Equality Charter Self-Assessment Team. These
groups address a range of personalised and institutional issues relating to inclusion, particularly
racism. Their focus includes learning and teaching, academic staff profiles, as well as student
experiences, award gaps, and student progression (including PhD students). Gibson is also a
member of the Widening Participation in Postgraduate Research Advisory Group whose goal
is to address issues relating to under-representation of certain student groups at the PGR
level (including but not limited to those from BAME communities, students with disabilities, with
caring responsibilities, asylum seekers and refugees, students who are from lower socio-economic
backgrounds and first in family to go to university). Jerro is Chair of the University LGBTQ Staff
Forum and co-creator of the University’s Trans/nonbinary staff training.

The University facilitates flexible working, has developed recommendations to support carers,
has a set of harassment advisers, and trains all staff involved in making appointments in equality
and diversity issues. The Department of Language and Linguistics received an Athena SWAN
Bronze award in 2019. The University also has accreditation for the use of the ‘Disability
Confident Employer’ symbol, which guarantees that applicants meeting the minimum criteria for
a job vacancy will be offered an interview. Mentors and those carrying out appraisals within the
UoA help to ensure that those whose research is interrupted for maternity leave or any other
reason are offered ‘keeping in touch’ days and are fully supported in their return to research
activity. The Organisational Development Manager in the Faculty oversees compliance with the
Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income

The UoA received £2,665,625 in external research funding during the assessment period for a
wide variety of projects of different scope and sizes, involving both senior staff and ECRs, many
collaborative and spread across all the UoA’s clusters. This represents a major step change from
its 2014 REF submission, and is a direct result of our strategic focus on fostering research
collaboration and exchange, and on mentoring and supporting staff.

Large projects have been funded by the Leverhulme Trust, the British Academy, the Royal
Society, the European Commission, the AHRC, and the National Institute for Health
Research, and include: a sociolinguistic exploration of Palestinian Arabic (Al Wer); a study of the
emerging dialect of Amman (Al Wer); Bringing the outside in: Merging local language and literacy
practices to enhance classroom learning and achievement (Kula; Gibson; Costley);
Complementation Patterns in Vernacular Arabic (Sadler); Vulnerable native grammars: the effects
of limited input in native language attrition (Schmid & Gharibi); Issues of Attrition and Transmission
in Heritage Language Development (Schmid); French-English bilinguals' processing of
morphosyntactic structures: the case of cross-linguistic transfer (Myles & Hervé); Research for
Patient Benefit: Evaluating an early social communication intervention for young children with
Down syndrome: a feasibility study (Joffe); Research for Patient Benefit: Evaluating Palin
Stammering Therapy for children: a feasibility study (Joffe).

Smaller projects have been funded by the British Academy, the GCRF, the Experimental
Psychology Society, the British Council, the Endangered Languages Documentation
Programme (ELDP) and the ESRC, and investigated topics as varied as: Religious Affiliation,
Language Variation and National Identity in the Middle East (Al Wer); Communicating through

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
COVID-19 and beyond: a multi-language study of speech perception in adverse listening
conditions (Chiu); Disrupting discourse: establishing a decolonial paradigm for language policy,
pedagogy, and practice (Costley); Phonological representations of regional accents in the child’s
lexicon (Delle Luche); How does phonological distance impact the early bilingual lexicon (Delle
Luche); Dialectology in Bantu Languages: Variation in Bemba across phonology and
morphosyntax (Kula; Gibson); visiting fellowship for Prof Rajendra Chetty from University of
Western Cape (Gibson); Eroding dichotomies: description, analysis and publishing in African
linguistics (Gibson); A Pilot Study on the Effectiveness of a Technology Based Self-Study
Programme for the Development of Academic Writing Skills (Gkonou); A Global Study on EFL
teachers' emotional and social intelligence (Gkonou); Accent the positive: an investigation into
children's implicit attitudes towards different regional accents (Jeffries & Lawyer); Variation in
Sesotho and Setswana as spoken in the Free State (Gibson; Jerro; Kula); Negation in Maltese
(Sadler); Language, Communication and Alzheimer's Disease (Schmid); First Language Attrition
ESRC Seminar Series (Schmid); Enhancing research through capacity-building in Uganda (Kula,
with colleagues at Makerere University).

Some of these awards have been responses to national/international priorities or initiatives,
such as several GCRF projects and a BA Newton Mobility Grant with Mexico City.

Additionally, the UoA received £282,462 from the University to support research, £82,676 to
support impact, and £4,740 for KE.

3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

The UoA can draw on extensive facilities in support of its research. The University’s Albert
Sloman Library has extensive collections in Linguistics and allied disciplines, with 43,535
Linguistics books and 642 Linguistics journals (online and print), and provides access to
numerous databases and datasets, such as Scopus and Web of Science, as well as Linguistics
indexing and abstracting databases such as Linguistics Abstracts Online and MLA International
Bibliography. The Library has long opening hours and offers overnight access to the stacks and
working areas. During the pandemic, it offered a click and collect service, as well as a limited
number of working stations for students living on campus.

Substantial investment has been made in new technical infrastructure in the Department,
especially in two areas of growth: psycholinguistics and translation/interpreting. Successful
bids to extend experimental psycholinguistics facilities have enabled the purchase of an Eyelink
Portable Duo eye-tracker and laptops (£51K) to complement the Eylink 1000 Plus located in the
Linguistics Baby Lab used for eye tracking experiments with infants and adults. This allows
projects to target a wider range of populations: as bilinguals are often widely dispersed throughout
the country, or even across countries, it is important for researchers to be able to take this
equipment to their fieldwork location. The running of online reaction time experiments has been
enhanced by the setting up of a dedicated computer lab equipped with 6 mic-headphones, and
the purchase of 2 Chrono boxes for use with EPrime. A new EEG lab has been set up in the
department (£37K), enabling the investigation of the neural mechanisms for language. The
department now has four dedicated linguistics labs and also has access to facilities in the
University’s EssexLab. These laboratories are being used extensively not only to enable the
research of Chiu, Delle Luche, Jeffries, Lawyer and Schmid in first and bilingual acquisition,
language attrition and linguistic perception, production and representation, but are also used
by many PhD students, and for training in these methodologies the new generation of
postgraduate students (PGR and PGT).

The UoA has also invested over £158K in state-of-the-art facilities for translating and
interpreting during the REF period, with a dedicated conference interpreting suite and the latest
software. To-date, these facilities have been primarily used by PGT students on our 5 MAs in this
field, but they are an integral part of the UoA’s strategic decision to develop this research area, and
provide an excellent environment for the newly launched PhD programme in Translation and
Interpreting.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

Partnerships and Networks

Given its international make-up (linguistics staff originate from 9 different countries), the
international nature of recruitment to its doctoral programmes and the interdisciplinary nature of its
research, the Department is committed to the widest research collaboration. Many members of
the Department have collaborative arrangements, both official and informal, with academics at
other institutions:

Within the UK: Universities of Bedfordshire; Birkbeck; Birmingham City; Cambridge; City U
London; Leicester; Manchester; Michael Palin Centre; Open University; Oxford Brookes; Plymouth;
Queen Mary; Southampton; SOAS; UCL; Worcester; York;

In Europe: Austria (Graz; Vienna); Belgium (Ghent; Royal Museum of Central Africa, Tervuren);
France (INALCO Paris; Nantes; Lille; Toulouse); Finland (Helsinki; Eastern Finland); Germany
(Hamburg; Konstanz; Mannheim; Brauschweig; Humboldt; Frankfurt); the Netherlands
(Groningen; Flemish Institute; Leiden; Amsterdam); Sweden (Gothenburg; Upsala); Switzerland
(Geneva);

In America: Mexico (CIESAS); USA (Ohio University; UCLA; South Florida; Michigan; North
Carolina; Alabama; Texas at Austin; Georgetown; Utah; Missouri; Albany State);

In Asia: Hong Kong (Education University; Poly University; Chinese University; University of
Science and Technology); Japan (Tokyo; Osaka; Sendai); Jordan (Yarmouk University); Pakistan
(LLWAS); South Korea (Hankuk); Sri Lanka (Sri Jayewardenepura);

In Africa: Botswana; Egypt (Cairo); Rwanda; South Africa (Free Sate; UKZN; Cape Town,
Witwatersrand), Tanzania (Dar es Salaam), Uganda (Makerere) and Zambia.

Evidence of the strength of these links is provided by the volume and spread of published
collaborative research arising from all these collaborations. A few examples serve to illustrate their
significance: Schmid’s collaboration with Köpke (Toulouse) on attrition has led to the co-
organisation of two international conferences/workshops, the co-authorship of an
epistemological keynote article, and the co-editorship of the Oxford Handbook of Language
Attrition. Clift’s extensive conversation analysis (CA) networks in the USA, Europe, Australia
and the UK (Colorado, UCLA, Portland, Rutgers, Queensland, Helsinki, Loughborough, York, City
University) have led to the co-editorship of a CUP handbook on research methods in CA, the co-
authorship of 7 articles, and the submission of a large bid to the ESRC (pending). Kula’s
collaboration with colleagues at the University of Makerere, Uganda, led to the construction of a
corpus representing a number of endangered languages, as well as joint training programmes
for ECRs and a successful joint GCRF@Essex bid. Her collaboration with the University of
Zambia similarly led to PhD and ECR training as well as a joint successful funding bid (BA).

Professional subject associations and learned societies

Members of the UoA play an active role supporting the profession by sitting on the executive
committees of many subject associations and learned societies. Myles served as President of
the European Second Language Association (EuroSLA) from 2011-15 and remained on its
executive until 2017. She set up and has chaired the national network RiPL (Research in Primary
Languages) since 2017 (see ICS for details of its work and reach). Costley sits on the executive of
NALDIC (National Association for Language Development in the Curriculum); Gibson is on
both the executives of the Philological Society and of the Linguistics Association of Great
Britain (LAGB) of which Kim is the Treasurer; Gkonou served on the Research SIG of the IATEFL
(International Association for Teaching English as a Foreign Language) from 2014-18;

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Schmid has been a member of the EuroSLA executive throughout the REF period and she sits on
the ISB (International Symposium of Bilingualism) Steering Committee; Al Wer sits on the
executives of AIDA (Association Internationale de Dialectologie Arabe), of USA (Arabic
Linguistics Society), and of CBRL (Council for British Research in the Levant); and Caute is a
member of the British Aphasiology Society executive.

Editorial activity

Joffe is Editor of the journal Child Language Teaching and Therapy, and UoA members have
served on the editorial boards of 33 international journals during the REF period; Al-Arabiyya;
Annual Review of Applied Linguistics; Atlantis; Canadian Journal of Linguistics; Communication
Disorders Quaterly; English Language and Linguistics; English WorldWide; International Journal of
Arabic Linguistics; International Journal of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism; International
Journal of Bilingualism; International Journal of English Studies; International Journal of Learner
Corpus Research; Journal of African Cultural Studies; Journal of Applied Linguistics and
Professional Practice; Journal of English Linguistics; Journal of Evidence-based Communication
Assessment and Intervention; Journal of Language Modelling; Journal of Lexicography and
Terminology; Journal of Linguistics; Journal of Pragmatics; Journal of Social Sciences and
Interdisciplinary Research; Journal of Sociolinguistics; Language Awareness; Language and
sociocultural theory; Language Teaching Research; Lingue e Linguaggio; Linguistic Approaches to
Bilingualism; Marang: Journal of Language and Literature; Revue Française de Linguistique
Appliquée; Second Language Research; South African Journal of Communication Disorders;
Southern African Linguistics and Applied Language Studies; Zambian Journal of Language
Studies.

Additionally, members have held editing roles for a number of book series, as Series editor of
CUP Studies in Interactional Sociolinguistics and of the Brill book series Empirical Foundations of
Theoretical Pragmatics, as general (co)Editor of the Benjamins series Studies in Arabic Linguistics,
and as members of the Advisory Boards of the Encyclopedia of Arabic Language and Linguistics
(online version), and of the EuroSLA Yearbook (John Benjamins).

Cross-institution collaboration and joint publications

Peer review work

UoA staff are members of a range of peer-review colleges for UK Research Councils and similar
international committees, as follows: AHRC Peer review college (Kula); Wellcome Trust (Lawyer);
Community of Experts, European Science Foundation (Myles); Hong Kong Research Grants
Council (Costley); National Research and Development Ministry (Sadler; Linguistics panel,
2015); Luxembourg National Research Fund (Costley); Academy of Finland Research
Council for Culture and Society (Myles); REF2014 sub-panel 28 (Myles).

Additionally, members of the UoA have reviewed grant applications for a large number of
research councils:

In the UK: AHRC; British Academy; British Council; Endangered Languages Documentation
Programme (ELDP); EPSRC; ESRC; Leverhulme Trust; National Institute for Health Research;
UKRI Medical Research Council; Welcome Trust;

In Europe: Brandenburg Research Academy; European Science Foundation (ESF); F.R.S-FNRS
(Belgium); German Research Foundation (DFG); Government of Ireland Postdoctoral fellowships;
Luxembourg National Research Fund; Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (NWO);
Norwegian Academy of Sciences; Prestige Marie Curie post-doctoral fellowships programme;
Research Council of Norway; Research Foundation Flanders (FWO);

In North America: National Science Foundation (NSF; USA); NSF – DEL (Documenting
Endangered Languages); Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council (Canada); Social

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada;

In Africa and Asia: General Research Fund (Hong Kong); National Research Foundation (South
Africa); Research Grants Council (Hong Kong).

Collectively, the UoA reviewed articles for 120 international journals, including all leading
journals. Illustrative examples include:

Applied linguistics: Second Language Research; Studies in Second Language Acquisition;
Language Learning; Bilingualism: Language and Cognition; TESOL Quarterly; Applied Linguistics;
Modern Language Journal; Language Teaching Research; Computer Assisted Language Learning;
Journal of English for Academic Purposes;

Theoretical linguistics: Language; Natural Language and Linguistic Theory; Journal of
Linguistics; Linguistic Inquiry; Glossa: A Journal of General Linguistics; Linguistic Typology;
Transactions of the Philological Society; Journal of Pragmatics; Phonology; Journal of African
Language and Linguistics;

Sociolinguistics: Language Variation and Change; Language in Society; Journal of
Sociolinguistics; Anthropological Linguistics;

Psycholinguistics: Cognition; Language, Cognition and Neuroscience; Developmental
Psychology; Applied Psycholinguistics; Language and Cognition; Frontiers in Psychology; Journal
of Experimental Psychology; Journal of Speech, Language and Hearing Sciences; Child
Language; Brain and Language; Current Biology; Journal of the Acoustical Society of America.

The UoA also reviewed book manuscripts for 13 publishing houses.

Examining doctorates

Members of the UoA have examined 39 PhDs in other institutions in the UK and internationally:
Universities of Afaf Jammu & Kashmir, Muzaffarabad, Pakistan; Anglia Ruskin; Cambridge; Cardiff;
Edinburgh; Exeter; Groningen X2; Heriot Watt; Lancaster; La Trobe; Liverpool; London (Birkbeck,
X2); Madrid; Macquarie; McGill Montreal; Melbourne; Murcia; Newcastle X2; Oxford; Paris 8;
Queen’s University Belfast; Reading; Salford; Southampton X3; Surrey; Toulouse; Victoria
University of Wellington; West Indies; York X3.

Organisation of conferences and scholarly encounters

The UoA organised and/or hosted 22 conferences or workshops during the REF period. Al-Wer
founded and hosted the first conference of the Arabic Linguistics Forum in 2015, held a
workshop on Religion as a sociolinguistic factor in 2019, and organised a 6-hour session at the
Association Internationale de Dialectologie Arabe (AIDA) Conference in Marseilles in 2016.
Costley was Conference Chair for NALDIC's 27th and 28th Annual Conferences in 2019 and
2020. Gkonou organised the IATEFL Research SIG Pre-Conference Workshop in Birmingham in
2016. Kula jointly organised (with UCL) the 15th Old World Conference in Phonology (London
2018) and organised a webinar series on Language and Sustainable Development (2019).
Myles organised a workshop sponsored by EuroSLA on The role of interaction in language
development and loss throughout the lifespan (Essex, 2016); a two-day workshop sponsored
by BAAL/CUP on The learning of foreign languages in primary schools in England: issues
and challenges (Essex, 2016); a two-day workshop on Languages in the Primary Classroom
(Essex, 2017); she organised the Primary Languages Policy Summit (held at British Academy,
2018); and the ESRC funded Primary Languages Policy in England Conference (London, 2019);
Patrick organised a LADO (Language Analysis for the Determination of Origin) training workshop
in Amsterdam in 2019. Roehr-Brackin held a LaDeLi cross-departmental workshop in 2020.
Schmid organised 8 events as part of her ESRC seminar series on First Language Attrition
during the REF period, including the 3rd International Conference on Language Attrition.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

4.2 Relationship with Key Users, Beneficiaries, and Audiences

Various aspects of the UoA’s work involve regular engagement with a range of non-academic
audiences.

Health and well-being

In her work on (conflictual) family interactions, Clift has engaged closely with the Family Unit at the
Tavistock and Portman NHS Foundation Trust, with the Ministry of Parenting, with a local
community interest group; and with a Colchester comprehensive school (Lord Audley). This has
ensured her work and its applicability are firmly grounded in the needs of its beneficiaries, and has
been instrumental in a new collaborative ESRC bid.

Joffe chairs the ‘Clinical Excellent Network for older children and young people with
developmental speech, language and communication needs’, within the context of the RCSLT
(Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists).

Chiu is collaborating with Essex County Council in her work with children returning to school
post- COVID, and with Positive East (a HIV charity) as statistics consultant.

Schmid has contributed to the Pasalo Project on Multilingualism, which provides professional
development for health and social care professionals, and in the context of her ESRC seminar
series on First Language Attrition, she works with 20 collaborators in 6 countries, both academic
and professional. She has interacted with a large number of immigrant and expat organisations
within the context of that work.

Education

Gkonou is expert consultant for Cambridge University Press in a range of areas relating to
stress, anxiety and emotional skills in language learning and exams: young learners; the
Cambridge Framework for Life Competences in Education (CamFLIC); ELT pedagogy framework;
Test anxiety in adults. She is also international member to the external committee of the
Department of Teacher Education at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology in
Trondheim ('Multilingualism and intercultural education: On the path between home, school and
university’, to advise on the social and emotional aspects of learning in multilingual settings).

Myles has collaborated closely with a range of stake-holders (teachers, teacher trainers, policy
makers, DfE, APPG for Modern Languages) in her work on the learning and teaching of
languages in primary schools (see ICS).

Delle Luche, Myles and Costley set up and run Bilingualism Matters @ East of England in 2018,
which involves regular workshops and sessions with parents and teachers of young
multilingual children.

Roehr-Brackin has been consultant for the Esperanto Association of Britain, carrying out
empirical research on the acquisition of Esperanto as a second language.

Human Rights and wider society

Al-Wer, Patrick and Schmid, in their work on LADO, have interacted with lawyers, judges,
commercial linguistic firms, representatives of European governments, asylum bureaux,
doctors, policymakers, police, human rights practitioners, forensic scientists, interpreters,
etc (see ICS).

Jeffries has published in the popular language magazine Babel (2020) and has carried out
consultancy work for the BBC on issues of accent and identity, as well as for Brands2life on

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the use of accents in audiobooks and on accent stereotypes.

Lawyer is on the Advisory Board of Alma Economics; and Al-Wer works closely with Jordan
Heritage, a non-profit civil society organisation.

4.3 Wider Activities and Contributions to the Research Base, Economy, and Society

The UoA attracted funding from the ESRC Impact Accelerator Account to the tune of £43,274 to
support its impact activities, in the areas of Bilingualism (Myles); First language attrition
(Schmid); Language, communication and Alzheimer’s Disease (Schmid); Primary school
language learning and teaching (Myles); Language and the Future (Jerro); Mental well-being
of children returning to school post-COVID (Chiu). Many of these activities have fed into the
Impact Case Studies submitted by the UoA.

Additionally, many UoA members have contributed to the popularisation of research findings
through a range of public and media appearances, as well as many publications in The
Conversation. For example, Clift has acted as consultant in Conversation Analysis to the AI
Foundation, a US-based company building virtual-reality digital humans. Gkonou’s research
findings on language anxiety have been incorporated into English language teaching
coursebooks (and their teacher guides) for young learners by Cambridge University Press. Al
Wer delivered a series of public lectures, TV interviews and social media posts in Jordan in order
to raise awareness of linguistic discrimination, and on the topics of traditional dialects as
cultural heritage, and of education through mother tongue. Chiu’s collaborative work on
children’s mental health post-Covid, in partnership with Essex County Council, will feed into policy
by the local county mental health services. Schmid, Patrick and Myles have all contributed
many interventions aimed at both the general public (media; public lectures) and at practitioners
(professionals; educators; lawyers). Details are provided in the two ICSs.




                                                                                            Page 14
